The present study investigated the pattern of limb malformations induced in mice by methoxyacetic acid (MAA), one of di(2-methoxyethyl) phthalate (DMEP) metabolites. Pregnant Jcl:ICR mice were given orally at gestational day (gd) 10.5, 11.0, or 11.5 (vaginal plug = gd 0) a single dose of MAA 10 mmol/kg of body weight. Fetuses were examined at gd 15.5 for external and skeletal malformations. Limb defects were maximum in frequency and severity after administration at gd 11.5. Forelimbs had greater susceptibility than hindlimbs. Treatment at gd 10.5 produced cutaneous or osseous syndactyly between digits I and II, II and III, and ectrodactyly of digit II or digit I. Intercalary defects in the forelimbs were also detected. No hindlimb malformations were induced. Treatment at gd 11.0 induced ectrodactyly of digit II and digit I in the forelimbs, as well as osseous syndactyly or intercalary defects of the metacarpals or phalanges, and the frequency became increased. Hindlimb malformations were also detected in a small number with syndactyly between digits I and II or ectrodactyly in digit I. Treatment at gd 11.5 induced ectrodactyly in the forelimbs. Half of the forelimbs showed ectrodactyly with four missing digits (digits I, II, III, and V) and the remaining limbs showed ectrodactyly with a similar frequency with one, two, or three missing digits, either in the pre- or postaxial area. In the hindlimbs ectrodactyly with one, two, or three missing digits was the most common malformation observed. Syndactyly between digits I and II was also induced in a small percentage.
Case report about death due to veno-occlusive liver disease following Dacarbazine treatment: 9 years after surgical treatment of malignant melanoma of the trunk a 68-years old patient developed lymph node metastases in the right axilla, which were removed immediately by surgical excision. One month before the patient had undergone surgical treatment of empyema of the gallbladder: Cholecystectomy and appendectomy were performed, postoperative recovery was uncomplicated. On account of the second lymph node metastasis within nine months adjuvant treatment with Dacarbazine was agreed and started one month later. After having performed the first course of treatment without any hints to intolerance the patient suddenly exhibited severe shock symptoms on the fourth day of the second course. Clinically residual myocardial infarct or pulmonary embolism were assumed, but could not be verified. The patient delivered increasing hepatomegaly. A massive increase in transaminase values was noted. Hemostasiologic changes with decreased Quick value occurred. The patient died of cerebral hemorrhage five days after beginning the second Dacarbazine cycle. Autopsy findings were severe liver cell necroses as well as liver vein thromboses, no metastases of melanoma could be found. Hepatotoxicity of Dacarbazine and the mechanism of liver vein thrombosis are discussed with special regards to possible hemostasiologic changes and sensibilisation due to Dacarbazine and/or previous liver cell damage.
Telmisartan and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) are both effective and widely used antihypertensive drugs targeting renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system. The study aimed to estimate the efficacy and tolerability of telmisartan in comparison with different ACEIs as monotherapy in the treatment of hypertension. Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PubMed and Embase were searched for relevant studies. A meta-analysis of all randomized controlled trials fulfilling the predefined criteria was performed. A random-effect model was used to account for heterogeneity among trials. Twenty-eight randomized controlled trials involving 5157 patients were ultimately identified out of 721 studies. Telmisartan had a greater diastolic blood pressure (DBP) reduction than enalapril (weighted mean difference (WMD) 1.82, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.66-2.99), ramipril (WMD 3.09, 95% CI 1.94-4.25) and perindopril (WMD 1.48, 95% CI 0.33-2.62). Telmisartan also showed a greater DBP response rate than enalapril (relative risk (RR) 1.15, 95% CI 1.05-1.26), ramipril (RR 1.34, 95% CI 1.11-1.61) and perindopril (RR 1.22, 95% CI 1.05-1.41). There was no statistical difference in DBP reduction or therapeutic response rate between telmisartan and lisinopril (WMD -0.30, 95% CI -0.65 to 0.05; RR 0.99, 95% CI 0.80-1.23, respectively). Telmisartan had fewer drug-related adverse events than enalapril (RR 0.57, 95% CI 0.44-0.74), ramipril (RR 0.44, 95% CI 0.26-0.75), lisinopril (RR 0.70, 95% CI 0.56-0.89) and perindopril (RR 0.52, 95% CI 0.28-0.98). The meta-analysis indicates that telmisartan provides a superior BP control to ACEIs (enalapril, ramipril and perindopril) and has fewer drug-related adverse events and better tolerability in hypertensive patients.
The perforant path provides the main excitatory input into the hippocampus and has been proposed to play a critical role in the generation of temporal lobe seizures. It has been hypothesized that changes in glutamatergic transmission in this pathway promote the epileptogenic process and seizure generation. We therefore asked whether epileptogenesis is associated with enhanced glutamatergic transmission from the perforant path to dentate granule cells. We used a rat model of temporal lobe epilepsy in which spontaneous seizures occur after an episode of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from dentate granule cells in hippocampal slices from control and epileptic animals 3 wk after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. The paired pulse ratio of perforant path-evoked AMPA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) was reduced in tissue obtained from epileptic rats. This is consistent with an increase in release probability. N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated EPSCs were also prolonged. This prolongation could not be accounted for by decreased activity of glutamate transporters or by a change in NMDA receptor subunit composition in dentate granule cells, implying a change in NMDA receptor kinetics. This change in NMDA receptor kinetics was associated with the emergence of significant synaptic cross-talk, detected as a use-dependent block of receptors activated by medial perforant path synapses after lateral perforant path stimulation in MK-801. Enhanced glutamatergic transmission and the emergence of cross-talk among perforant path-dentate granule cell synapses may contribute to lowering seizure threshold.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma is a ligand-activated transcription factor of nuclear hormone receptor superfamily. Thiazolidinedione rosiglitazone is a potent agonist of PPARgamma which was shown to induce neuroprotection in animal models of focal ischemia and spinal cord injury. We currently evaluated the therapeutic potential of rosiglitazone (6 mg/kg at 5 min, 6 h and 24 h; i.p.) following controlled cortical impact (CCI)-induced traumatic brain injury (TBI) in adult mice. CCI injury increased the cortical PPARgamma mRNA levels which were further elevated by rosiglitazone treatment. In addition, rosiglitazone treatment significantly decreased the cortical lesion volume measured at 7 days compared to vehicle treatment (by 56+/-7%; p<0.05; n=6/group). Following TBI, the spared cortex of the rosiglitazone group showed significantly less numbers of GSI-B4(+) activated microglia/macrophages and ICAM1(+) capillaries, and curtailed induction of pro-inflammatory genes IL6, MCP1 and ICAM1 compared to vehicle group. Rosiglitazone-treated mice also showed significantly less number of TUNEL(+) apoptotic neurons and curtailed induction of caspase-3 and Bax, compared to vehicle control. In addition, rosiglitazone significantly enhanced the post-TBI expression of the neuroprotective chaperones HSP27, HSP70 and HSP32/HO1, and the anti-oxidant enzymes catalase, Cu/Zn-SOD and Mn-SOD, compared to vehicle. Treatment with GW9662 (a specific PPARgamma antagonist) prevented all the above PPARgamma-mediated actions. Thus, PPARgamma activation confers neuroprotection after TBI by anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic and anti-oxidative mechanisms.
Cerebral sinus thrombosis (CST) is known to be related to a number of underlying aetiologies including otitis media, trauma, pregnancy, birth control pills, tumours, malnutrition, dehydration, haematologic disorders and malignancy (Fishman, 2000; Raizer and Abbott, 2000). We present the case of a patient with breast cancer receiving the antioestrogen drug tamoxifen who developed CST. A 40-year-old female presented as an emergency with a 10-day history of headache and left sided weakness. On questioning her past medical history included a diagnosis of breast cancer 3 years ago treated by radical mastectomy and tamoxifen 20 mg daily. At the time of admission, neurologic examination revealed a mild left sided hemiparesis and a present Babinksi sign. Non-contrast enhanced tomography was normal. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed thrombosis in the superior sagittal sinus, right lateral sinus and jugular vein in addition venous infarction in the right temporal lobe was present (Figs 1a and b). Routine haematology and biochemistry was normal. Anticoagulation tests, antithrombin III, protein S and C levels were also found to be normal. She was treated with anticoagulation therapy and her hemiparesis improved within 3 days. Control MRI showed the resorption of the venous infarction and resolution of the thrombosis (Fig. 1c).
The present study was performed to reveal the pathogenesis of limb malformations induced by methoxyacetic acid (MAA) in developing mouse limbs. Pregnant Jcl:ICR mice were orally given at gestational day (gd) 10.5, 11.0, or 11.5 (vaginal plug = gd 0) a single dose of MAA 10 mmol/kg of body weight. Various patterns of cell death in limb buds were observed by vital dye staining with Nile blue A. Under a light microscope and transmission electron microscope, excessive cell death was observed in the mesenchyme as well as in the apical ectodermal ridge (AER) 2 hr after MAA treatment, reaching a maximum after 6 hr. Scanning electron microscopic examinations showed hypoplasia of the AER and small hand plates 24 hr after treatment. Small hand plates and delayed digital ray formation were noted at 48 hr. Neither detachment nor massive necrosis was detected in the periderm covering the limb bud. The distribution of cell death 6 hr after treatment was similar in limb buds treated either at gd 10.5, 11.0 or 11.5, but the final pattern of limb defects was different in fetuses treated at different stages. This study indicates that variations in the pattern of limb defects induced by MAA are due to differences in the amount and distribution of cell death, together with differences in the regenerative capacity of surviving cells.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the toxicity and response efficacy of fixed-dose oral ifosfamide (OI)-mesna (M) in advanced, non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). OI was given in four different fractionated-dose treatment schedules with a total dose per cycle of either 3.0 g/m2, 6.0 g/m2, 7.5 g/m2 or 10 g/m2 (equivalent to a daily dose of either 750 mg, 1000 mg or 1250 mg.) M was given p.o. by drinking ampules. In the 64 patients (pts) included, a total of 305 treatment cycles were administered with no evidence of severe neurotoxicity. Twenty-two pts (37%) developed mild to moderate CNS toxicity. Neither myelosuppression, alopecia, gastrointestinal toxicity nor urotoxicity were clinical problems. On schedule 2 (6 g/m2), 3 of 14 evaluable pts (21%) had partial remissions (PR), and on schedule 3 (7.5 g/m2) 4 pts (25%) showed PRs. The median duration of response was 9 months (mts) for pts on schedule 2, and 8 mts for pts on schedule 3. We conclude that OIM can easily be tolerated in the same dose usually given intravenously (7.5 g/m2/mts), when patients at high risk for developing CNS toxicity have been previously excluded from therapy. In order to reduce CNS toxicity, it is suggested that the total dose per cycle should not exceed 7.5 g/m2 (1000 mg daily) within a fractionated-dose, 14-day treatment schedule. We further conclude that the tumor response efficacy of OIM in NSCLC is comparable to the one achieved by intravenously-administered IM, whereby the total monthly OI dose should not be less than 6.0 g/m2 (750 mg daily).
A 3-year longitudinal prospective study was conducted to compare the incidence of substance use disorders (SUD) and non-substance use disorders (NSUD) among ecstasy users and two control groups: one of cannabis users and the other of non-drug users. The 5-HTTLPR polymorphism related to NSUD was also studied. A total of 94 subjects were included: 37 ecstasy users, 23 cannabis users and 34 non-drug users. SUD and NSUD disorders were diagnosed according to the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Health Disorders criteria using the Psychiatric Research Interview for Substance and Mental Disorders. Incidence Rates (IR) are presented. The 5-HTTLPR polymorphism was analyzed. Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was studied. The results of the study showed that the highest IR of SUD was cannabis abuse/dependence in both the ecstasy (IR: 48.6/100 person-year) and cannabis (IR: 2.5/100 person-year) groups. There were no new cases of SUD in non-drug users at follow-up. The highest IR of NSUD was primary mood disorder in both the ecstasy (IR: 4.2/100 person-year) and in the non-drug (IR: 1.3/100 person-year) groups (P < 0.282). There were no new cases of NSUD in the cannabis group at follow-up. 5-HTTLPR polymorphism was associated with lifetime of primary mood disorders in ecstasy group (P = 0.018). Ecstasy use was associated with a higher rate of cannabis abuse/dependence disorders and mood disorders than cannabis use. In the ecstasy users, 5-HTTLPR polymorphism may result in a high vulnerability to primary mood disorders.
Indications of adipose tissue dysfunction correlate with systemic insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes. It has been suggested that a defect in adipose tissue turnover may be involved in the development of these disorders. Whether this dysfunction causes or exacerbates systemic insulin resistance is not fully understood. OBJECTIVES, PARTICIPANTS, AND MEASURES: We tested whether the expression of members of the mitogenic ErbB family was reduced in adipose tissue of insulin-resistant individuals and whether ErbB1 and ErbB2 were involved in adipogenesis. Thirty-two women covering a wide range of body mass index values and insulin sensitivity participated in the cross-sectional portion of this study. We also studied preadipocytes isolated from 12 insulin-sensitive individuals to evaluate the impact of ErbB1 or ErbB2 inhibition on adipogenesis in vitro. For this purpose, we measured phospho-ErbB1 and phospho-ErbB2 levels using ELISA and the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) and PPARγ-regulated genes by real-time PCR.
Among the ErbB family members, only ErbB1 expression was correlated with insulin sensitivity. Additionally, ErbB1 levels correlated positively with PPARγ and several PPARγ-regulated genes including acyl-coenzyme A synthetase long-chain family member 1 (ACSL1), adiponectin, adipose tissue triacylglycerol lipase (ATGL), diacylglycerol acyl transferase 1 (DGAT1), glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase 1 (GPD1), and lipoprotein lipase (LPL), but negatively with CD36 and fatty acid-binding protein 4 (FABP4). In preadipocyte culture, ErbB1, but not ErbB2, inhibition was associated with a reduction in the expression of all the above-mentioned genes.
These findings demonstrate a key role for ErbB1 in adipogenesis and suggest that lower ErbB1 protein abundance may lead to adipose tissue dysfunction.
A prospective comparative study was undertaken to assess the relative nephrotoxicity of tobramycin and gentamicin. Patients receiving these drugs in the medical and surgical wards of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, over a six-week period were included in the study. There was 33 patients treated with gentamicin and 19 treated with tobramycin (mean age, 52.6 years and 42.9 years respectively). Nine patients (27%) treated with gentamicin and two (10%) treated with tobramycin developed abnormally elevated plasma creatinine levels (greater than 110 mumol/L). Of patients with normal plasma creatinine level at the beginning of therapy, no significant change in the plasma level of creatinine was noted in the group treated with tobramycin, whereas those treated with gentamicin showed a significant increase in plasma creatinine level with time. It was concluded that tobramycin was significantly less nephrotoxic than gentamicin when used in typical clinical setting. With both drugs, monitoring of renal function is essential during therapy, particularly if other drugs excreted by the kidney are administered.
We previously reported that the fixed-dose combination of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine hydrochloride (FDC I/H) significantly decreased the risk of all-cause death and first hospitalization for heart failure (HF) and improved quality of life in patients with New York Heart Association class III or IV heart failure in the African-American Heart Failure Trial (A-HeFT). The current analyses further define the effect of FDC I/H on the timing of event-free survival (mortality or first hospitalization for HF) and time to first hospitalization for HF, as well as effects by subgroups and effects on cause-specific mortality.
Kaplan-Meier analyses of the 1050 A-HeFT patients on standard neurohormonal blockade demonstrated that FDC I/H produced a 37% improvement in event-free survival (P<0.001) and a 39% reduction in the risk for first hospitalization for HF (P<0.001). These benefits appeared to emerge early (at approximately 50 days of treatment) and were sustained through the duration of the trial. Subgroup analyses of treatment effect by age, sex, baseline blood pressure, history of chronic renal insufficiency, presence of diabetes mellitus, cause of HF, and baseline medication usage demonstrated consistent beneficial effect of FDC I/H on the primary composite score and event-free survival across all subgroups. Mortality from pump failure was reduced by 75% (P=0.012).
FDC I/H treatment of black patients with moderate to severe HF who were taking neurohormonal blockers produced early and sustained significant improvement in event-free survival and hospitalization for HF in the A-HeFT cohort, with significant reduction in mortality from cardiovascular and pump failure deaths. The treatment effects on the primary composite end point and event-free survival were consistent across subgroups.
Microcystins (MCs) produced by cyanobacteria and their continuing "blooms" are a worldwide problem owing to the toxicity of microcystin-LR (MC-LR) to plants and animals. In the present study, we investigated membrane transport of MC-LR and its toxic effects on zebrafish embryos using fragmentation of embryos, scanning electron microscope (SEM), fluorescence microscopy, and toxic exposure tests. At a concentration < 0.04 mmol/l, MC-LR was predominantly adsorbed on outer membrane surface of embryos according to Langmuir isotherm. The absorption characteristics of MC-LR within the range from 0.05 to 0.4 mmol/l conformed to Freundlich isotherm model. At concentrations > 0.50 mmol/l MC-LR directly entered the cytoplasm via partition. Thinning and disruption of membranes was confirmed using SEM and fluorescence morphological observations. Exposure to different concentrations of MC-LR resulted in differences in membrane transport and toxicity characteristics. At low concentrations, more than 75% of the adsorbed MC-LR accumulated on the outer membrane surface and resulted in axial malformation, tail curving, and tail twisting. Increasing the concentration of MC-LR to between 0.05 and 0.4 mmol/l improved membrane transport and it was evident in cytoplasm of embryos, resulting in serious pericardial edema, hatching gland edema, hemagglutination, hemorrhage, and vacuolization. At > 0.50 mmol/l, more than 70% of the adsorbed MC-LR entered the cytoplasm and this was lethal to the embryos. The current research outlines a new method and mechanism for the transmembrane transport of large molecular weight organic compounds and could be important for studies concerning molecular toxicology.
Brown Norway (BN) rats given mercuric chloride (HgCl2), gold (Au) salts or D-penicillamine develop a T helper 2 (Th2) cell-mediated autoimmune syndrome. The recent observation of tissue injury within 24 h of HgCl2 treatment suggested the involvement of a non-T cell. We therefore examined the effect of these compounds on rat mast cells in vitro. Incubation of BN rat peritoneal mast cells with HgCl2 enhanced the release of serotonin in response to IgE cross-linking agents. Mast cells from Lewis rats, a strain not susceptible to the autoimmune syndrome in vivo, were affected to a lesser extent. The effect was observed with purified BN mast cells, suggesting a direct action. Similar effects were seen with D-penicillamine in the presence of copper ions, a combination that produces hydrogen peroxide, and Au. HgCl2 caused significant induction of interleukin (IL)-4 mRNA in mast cells from BN, but not Lewis rats. The data demonstrate a novel enhancing effect of a number of compounds on mast cell mediator release, and an inducing effect of HgCl2 on mast cell IL-4, expression. These findings are consistent with our hypotheses that mast cells may contribute to early tissue injury, and also, via production of IL-4, may initiate and/or augment, the Th2 response in the BN rat model of chemical-induced autoimmunity.
1,3-Butadiene (BD) is a common environmental contaminant classified as "carcinogenic to humans." Formation of BD-induced DNA adducts plays a major role in its carcinogenicity. BD is also an epigenotoxic agent (i.e., it affects DNA and histone methylation in the liver). We used a panel of genetically diverse inbred mice (NOD/LtJ, CAST/EiJ, A/J, WSB/EiJ, PWK/PhJ, C57BL/6J, and 129S1/SvImJ) to assess whether BD-induced genotoxic and epigenotoxic events may be subject to interstrain differences. Mice (male, 7 weeks) were exposed via inhalation to 0 or 625 ppm BD for 6 h/day and 5 days/week for 2 weeks and liver BD-DNA adducts, epigenetic alterations, and liver toxicity were assessed. N-7-(2,3,4-trihydroxybut-1-yl)-guanine adducts were detected in all strains after exposure, yet BD-induced DNA damage in CAST/EiJ mice was two to three times lower. Epigenetic effects of BD were most prominent in C57BL/6J mice where loss of global DNA methylation and loss of trimethylation of histone H3 lysine 9, histone H3 lysine 27, and histone H4 lysine 20, accompanied by dysregulation of liver gene expression indicative of hepatotoxicity, were found. Interestingly, we observed an increase in histone methylation in the absence of changes in gene expression and DNA methylation in CAST/EiJ strain. We hypothesized that mitigated genotoxicity of BD in CAST/EiJ mice may be due to chromatin condensation. Indeed, we show that in response to BD exposure, chromatin condensation occurs in CAST/EiJ, whereas the opposite effect is observed in C57BL/6J mice. These findings demonstrate that interstrain susceptibility to genotoxicity by a well-known environmental carcinogen may be due to strain-specific epigenetic events in response to the exposure.
The objective of this study was to assess the effects of lidocaine on the incidence and severity of myoclonic movements induced by etomidate. Sixty patients were randomly assigned to receive either 20 mg lidocaine or saline (n = 30, each), 30 s before administration of etomidate (0.3 mg/kg). One minute after etomidate administration we assessed severity of myoclonus. Pretreatment with lidocaine significantly reduced both the incidence and severity of myoclonic movements. As a conclusion, lidocaine is an effective and safe drug to reduce the etomidate-induced myoclonus without significant side effects.
To investigate possible neuroplastic changes induced by pain in cerebral areas devoted to nociceptive input processing.
CO(2) laser-evoked potentials (LEPs) were recorded from 10 healthy subjects after stimulation of the right and left hand dorsum. Acute pain was obtained by topical application of capsaicin on the skin of right hand dorsum. LEPs were recorded after right and left hand stimulation before capsaicin, at the peak pain and 10-20 min after capsaicin removal. Right hand LEPs were evoked by laser stimuli delivered over the zone of secondary hyperalgesia during capsaicin and on both the zones of primary and secondary hyperalgesia after capsaicin removal.
After right hand stimulation, the vertex LEPs, which are generated in the cingulate cortex, were significantly decreased in amplitude during capsaicin application and after capsaicin removal. Moreover, the topography of these potentials was modified after capsaicin removal, shifting from the central toward the parietal region. Dipolar modelling showed that the dipolar source in the anterior cingulate cortex moved backward after capsaicin removal. All these changes were not observed after stimulation of the left hand, contralateral to the application of capsaicin, thus suggesting that functional changes are selective for the painful skin and the adjacent territories.
Our results suggest that acute cutaneous pain may inhibit the neural activity in regions of central nervous system processing nociceptive inputs and cortical representation of these inputs can be rapidly modified in presence of acute pain.
The aim of the present study was to analyze the in vivo hypoglycaemic effects of both decoction of Smallanthus macroscyphus leaves and pure crystalline polymatin A isolated from its leaves. Phytochemical analysis of the leaf decoction showed that its major constituents were caffeic, chlorogenic and three dicaffeoilquinic acids, together with the sesquiterpene lactone polymatin A. Oral glucose tolerance test in normal rats was performed to evaluate the hypoglycemic activity and to choose the minimum effective dose of the decoction and polymatin A. They have effective hypoglycemic activity at the minimum dose of 140 mg dry extract and 14 mg crystalline powder/kg body weight, respectively, and were selected for the following experiments. Oral administration of a single-dose of decoction produced a moderate lowering effect in fasting glycemia of normal rats, whereas polymatin A had no significant effect. We also assessed the effect of a single-dose on post-prandial blood glucose, resulting in an inhibition of the hyperglycemic peak after sucrose overload. Daily administration of decoction or polymatin A for 4 weeks produced an effective glycemic control in diabetic animals, with a decrease in urinary glucose excretion and a significant reduction in the HbA1c levels. Although there were no significant increases in plasma insulin levels, both treatments improved the fasting blood glucose/insulin ratio. In vivo acute toxicity studies were performed in adult Wistar rats. There were no deaths or signs of toxicity observed after oral administration of decoction or polymatin A at any dose level up to the highest dose tested (14.0 and 2.8 g/kg, respectively). The results presented here strongly support the notion that S. macroscyphus represents a new source of antidiabetic compounds that could help to manage diabetes more efficiently and safely.
Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) play a major role in the development of cardiovascular disorders in diabetic patients. Recent studies evidenced the beneficial role of phytochemicals in reducing the risk of cardiovascular diseases. Hence the present study was framed to investigate the protective role of Gallic acid (GA) on AGEs induced cardiac fibrosis. Rats were infused with in vitro prepared AGEs (50mg/kg BW-intravenous injection) for 30 days. Further, GA (25mg/kgBW) was administered to rats along with AGEs. On infusion of AGEs, induction of fibrotic markers, collagen deposition, oxidative marker NADPH oxidase (NOX-p47 phox subunit), AGE receptor (RAGE) and cytokines expression was evaluated in the heart tissues using RT-PCR, Western blot and immunostaining methods. AGEs infusion significantly (P<0.01) increased the HW/BW ratio and fibrosis (4-fold) with increased expression of matrix genes MMP-2 and -9 (P<0.01, respectively) in the heart tissues. Whereas, administration of GA along with AGEs infusion prevented the fibrosis induced by AGEs. Further, GA treatment effectively prevented the AGEs mediated up-regulation of pro-fibrotic genes and ECM proteins such as TNF-α, TGF-β, MMP-2 and -9 expression. In addition, the increased expression of NOX (P<0.01), RAGE (P<0.01), NF-κB (P<0.01) and ERK 1/2 on AGEs infusion were normalized by GA treatment. Thus the present study shows the protective effect of GA on the fibrotic response and cardiac remodeling process induced by advanced glycation end products from external sources.
This is a single case study of a 22 year old Japanese-Canadian woman who developed schizophrenia, was treated with ECT and several successive neuroleptics and subsequently, three years later, developed a tardive dyskinesia syndrome in association with a behavioral change resembling Gilles de la Tourette disease. This combined syndrome lasted seven months. After neuroleptics were withdrawn, the syndrome diminished in severity and disappeared after four months. Since both tardive dyskinesia and Tourette's disease are thought to be caused by relative overactivity or supersensitivity of the dopamine system, their reversible appearance after long term dopamine receptor blockade by neuroleptics can be expected in susceptible individuals.
We report a 3-year-old girl with fetal hydantoin syndrome (FHS) whose mother had received phenytoin 600 mg/day throughout gestation. She had growth retardation, mental deficiency, craniofacial dysmorphism and iris colomobata specific to FHS. However, the patient did not have the distal phalangeal hypoplasia which is associated with FHS; instead, she had polydactyly of the right foot. This seems to be the first FHS case in the literature with polydactyly.
The tumor suppressor gene p53 is the most frequently mutated gene in human cancers. However, its mutation rate is relatively low in gastric cancer compared with other cancers. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms underlying the antitumor effects of nutlin-3, an inhibitor of human homolog of murine double minute 2 (MDM2). MDM2 is a negative regulator of p53. Four gastric cancer cell lines with wild-type p53 (wt p53) and three with mutant-type p53 (mt p53) were analyzed for MDM2 and MDM4 expression by immunoblotting, and for their gene amplification by quantitative real-time PCR. Moreover, the viability of cells exposed to nutlin-3 was examined by WST-8 assay, and the expression of p53 and its downstream genes was analyzed by immunoblotting. Nutlin-3 stabilized p53 and increased the expression of p21(WAF1) and Noxa, and cleaved poly (ADP)-ribose polymerase regardless of the pre-expression levels of MDM2 and MDM4 in gastric cancer cells with wt p53. Flow cytometry revealed that nutlin-3 arrested the cell cycle in G(1) phase and induced apoptosis in the cell lines. These nutlin-3 effects were not observed in the cell lines with mt p53. Nutlin-3 exerted additive or synergistic cytotoxicity in combination with 5-fluorouracil or cisplatin in most cell lines with wt p53. An in vivo antitumor effect of nutlin-3 alone and its additive augmentation by 5-fluorouracil were confirmed in an MDM2 overexpressed xenograft tumor model. Nutlin-3 showed potent antitumor activity against human gastric cancer cells with wt p53 and shows promise as a single agent and in combination with conventional anticancer drugs.
Cigarette smoking has been strongly associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA), but the components of tobacco smoke involved in AAA have not been identified. Benzo(a)pyrene (BaP) is an important constituent in cigarette smoke capable of induction of alterations strikingly similar to the pathological changes seen during AAA development. We therefore hypothesized that BaP exposure contributes to the development of AAA. In this study, C57/B6J mice were treated with vehicle, angiotensin II (AngII) (0.72 mg/kg/day), BaP (10 mg/kg/week), or the combination of AngII and BaP, for 5 weeks, and then examined for incidence of AAA and pathological changes of the aortic wall. Results showed that incidence of AAA formation in C57/B6J mice treated with BaP and AngII was significantly higher than that in AngII-treated mice (7 of 12 compared to 2 of 12). Further, five mice in the group treated with AngII/BaP and one in the group treated with AngII exhibited AAA rupture and hematoma. BaP caused macrophage infiltration, disarray of elastic lamella, and loss of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). We conclude that BaP aggravates AAA formation and rupture in C57/B6J mice by promoting macrophage infiltration, degeneration of elastic lamella, and loss of VSMCs in the aortic wall.
Several studies have been conducted on the possible health effects for people living close to incinerators and well-conducted reviews are available. Nevertheless, several uncertainties limit the overall interpretation of the findings. We evaluated the health effects of emissions from two incinerators in a pilot cohort study.
The study area was defined as the 3.5 km radius around two incinerators located near Forlì (Italy). People who were residents in 1/1/1990, or subsequently became residents up to 31/12/2003, were enrolled in a longitudinal study (31,347 individuals). All the addresses were geocoded. Follow-up continued until 31/12/2003 by linking the mortality register, cancer registry and hospital admissions databases. Atmospheric Dispersion Model System (ADMS) software was used for exposure assessment; modelled concentration maps of heavy metals (annual average) were considered the indicators of exposure to atmospheric pollution from the incinerators, while concentration maps of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) were considered for exposure to other pollution sources. Age and area-based socioeconomic status adjusted rate ratios and 95% Confidence Intervals were estimated with Poisson regression, using the lowest exposure category to heavy metals as reference.
The mortality and morbidity experience of the whole cohort did not differ from the regional population. In the internal analysis, no association between pollution exposure from the incinerators and all-cause and cause-specific mortality outcomes was observed in men, with the exception of colon cancer. Exposure to the incinerators was associated with cancer mortality among women, in particular for all cancer sites (RR for the highest exposure level = 1.47, 95% CI: 1.09, 1.99), stomach, colon, liver and breast cancer. No clear trend was detected for cancer incidence. No association was found for hospitalizations related to major diseases. NO2 levels, as a proxy from other pollution sources (traffic in particular), did not exert an important confounding role.
No increased risk of mortality and morbidity was found in the entire area. The internal analysis of the cohort based on dispersion modeling found excesses of mortality for some cancer types in the highest exposure categories, especially in women. The interpretation of the findings is limited given the pilot nature of the study.
The androgen receptor (AR), a transcription factor that mediates the action of androgens in target tissues, is expressed in nearly all prostate cancers. Carcinoma of the prostate is the most frequently diagnosed neoplasm in men in industrialized countries. Palliative treatment for non-organ-confined prostate cancer aims to down-regulate the concentration of circulating androgen or to block the transcription activation function of the AR. AR function during endocrine therapy was studied in tumor cells LNCaP subjected to long-term steroid depletion; newly generated sublines could be stimulated by lower concentrations of androgen than parental cells and showed up-regulation of AR expression and activity as well as resistance to apoptosis. Androgenic hormones regulate the expression of key cell cycle regulators, cyclin-dependent kinase 2 and 4, and that of the cell cycle inhibitor p27. Inhibition of AR expression could be achieved by potential chemopreventive agents flufenamic acid, resveratrol, quercetin, polyunsaturated fatty acids and interleukin-1beta, and by the application of AR antisense oligonucleotides. In the clinical situation, AR gene amplification and point mutations were reported in patients with metastatic disease. These mutations generate receptors which could be activated by other steroid hormones and non-steroidal antiandrogens. In the absence of androgen, the AR could be activated by various growth-promoting (growth factors, epidermal growth factor receptor-related oncogene HER-2/neu) and pleiotropic (protein kinase A activators, interleukin-6) compounds as well as by inducers of differentiation (phenylbutyrate). AR function is modulated by a number of coactivators and corepressors. The three coactivators, TIF-2, SRC-1 and RAC3, are up-regulated in relapsed prostate cancer. New experimental therapies for prostate cancer are aimed to down-regulate AR expression and to overcome difficulties which occur because of the acquisition of agonistic properties of commonly used antiandrogens.
We determined the nature and recovery of procedural and declarative memory functioning in a cocaine-abusing cohort in the 45-day period following use.
Thirty-seven cocaine abusers and 27 control subjects were administered the following memory and mood measures: California Verbal Learning Test, recall of the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test, Pursuit Rotor Task, and Profile of Mood States at 4 visits (within 72 hours of admission and at 10, 21, and 45 days following abstinence).
Analysis of performance on the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test revealed that both groups improved in their recall over repeated administrations, though the control group recalled significantly more of the information than cocaine subjects during the 45-day interval. Results for the California Verbal Learning Test indicated improved learning for both subject groups over time, but no group x time interaction. On the Pursuit Rotor Task, cocaine abusers improved their performance at a faster rate than controls at visit 1. At day 45 (visit 4), cocaine abusers again showed improvement on the Pursuit Rotor Task, whereas controls demonstrated a relative plateau in rate of learning.
This study documented a lasting detrimental effect on a sensitive nonverbal declarative memory task in cocaine-dependent subjects following abstinence of 45 days. In contrast, abstinence from cocaine during this 45-day period was associated with sustained improvement on a motor learning test in the cocaine abusers relative to controls.
The activity of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors is critical for neuronal survival in the immature brain. Studies have reported that chronic blockage of these receptors mediates apoptosis in neonatal animals. We investigated the apoptotic effect of a clinically relevant single dose of ketamine, an NMDA receptor antagonist, in the brain of neonatal mice. Seven-day-old ICR mice were injected with ketamine (1.25, 2.5, 5, 10, 20, and 40 mg/kg body weight, subcutaneously in 0.9% NaCl) or with 0.9% NaCl alone as control. Righting reflex testing was performed and mouse brains were examined at 24, 48, and 72 h and 7 days after injection. The number of degenerating neurons was measured using silver staining. Apoptosis was confirmed by DNA fragmentation (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling). We observed in the sensorimotor cortex and cerebellum of ketamine-treated mice extensive apoptosis, which was clearly dose-dependent and present even after a low dose of ketamine (5 mg/kg). The most prominent apoptotic damage was detected 72 h post-injection (P < 0.001 vs control), at doses ranging from 10 to 40 mg/kg. After 7 d the number of neurodegenerative neurons, at doses ranging from 5 to 40 mg/kg, remained significantly high. The brain weight was comparable to that of untreated control mice and no gross neurobehavioral effects in the righting reflex test or alteration in the pattern of behavior was observed. The results indicate that the administration of ketamine in a clinically relevant single dose triggers long-lasting neuronal apoptosis in certain brain areas of neonatal mice.
The administration of ketamine in a clinically relevant single dose to 7-d-old mice induced apoptosis in the sensorimotor cortex and cerebellum. This effect was dose-dependent and long lasting.
To assess the response rate, survival, and toxicity of Taxol (paclitaxel) as 1-h infusion plus doxorubicin as first-line treatment for patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
Seventy-six patients with untreated MBC were recruited. All of them had measurable disease and were evaluable for toxicity. Fifty-five percent of the patients had visceral involvement. The dose of doxorubicin was fixed at 50 mg/m2 as a short intravenous infusion, followed by 200 mg/m2 of Taxol as a 1-h intravenous infusion. Doxorubicin was administered during the first seven cycles, continuing with Taxol only up to a maximum of ten cycles.
Neutropenia was the most important toxicity: 30% grade 3 and 18% grade 4. Only 2 patients showed a decrease in the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) which caused discontinuing the treatment. No clinical congestive heart failure (CHF) was observed. Seventy-four patients were eligible for response evaluation: 10 (14%) achieved complete response (CR) and 46 (62%) achieved partial response (PR). The mean duration of response was 13.47+/-1.35 months (95% confidence interval (CI): 10.82; 16.12) and the mean survival was 21.50+/-1.42 months (95% CI: 18.72; 24.29).
The overall response (OR) rate was 76%. No CHF was assessed and 2 patients stopped treatment due to LVEF decrease. Although doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 followed by Taxol 200 mg/m2 in 1-h intravenous infusion presents a toxicity profile which demands a close follow-up, it represents a convenient outpatient schedule with similar activity rate compared to longer Taxol infusions.
Maintaining the integrity of arterial elastin is vital for the prevention of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) development. We hypothesized that in vivo stabilization of aortic elastin with pentagalloyl glucose (PGG), an elastin-binding polyphenol, would interfere with AAA development.
Safety and efficacy of PGG treatment were first tested in vitro using cytotoxicity, elastin stability, and PGG-elastin interaction assays. For in vivo studies, the efficacy of PGG was evaluated within a well-established AAA model in rats on the basis of CaCl2-mediated aortic injury. With this model, PGG was delivered periadventitially at 2 separate time points during the course of AAA development; aortic diameter, elastin integrity, and other pathological aspects were monitored and evaluated in PGG-treated aortas compared with saline-treated control aortas. Our results show that a one-time periadventitial delivery of noncytotoxic levels of PGG inhibits elastin degeneration, attenuates aneurysmal expansion, and hinders AAA development in rats without interfering with the pathogenic mechanisms typical of this model, namely inflammation, calcification, and high metalloproteinase activities. PGG binds specifically to arterial elastin and, in doing so, preserves the integrity of elastic lamellae despite the presence of high levels of proteinases derived from inflammatory cells.
Periadventitial administration of PGG hinders the development of AAA in a clinically relevant animal model. Stabilization of aortic elastin in aneurysm-prone arterial segments offers great potential toward the development of safe and effective therapies for AAAs.
