We report the case of a 63-year-old man who presented to the Emergency Department (ED) with a 1-week history of sore throat, hoarseness and dysphagia. During his ED workup, the patient experienced an acute delirium 25 min after being given 2 mg of Lorazepam. The patient's mentation returned to normal within 1-2 min of being given 1 mg of Flumazenil. We discuss the various behavioral side effects of benzodiazepines and the indications for the use of Flumazenil.
We report on a 50-year-old woman who presented with hypertension. She was given simvastatin for hypercholesterolaemia. The creatine kinase level was 3180 U/L at the 3-month follow-up visit, which was thought to be due to simvastatin treatment. Although treatment was discontinued, the creatine kinase level 4 months later remained higher than 3000 U/L. Echocardiography revealed mild pericardial effusion and normal left ventricular function; the electromyogram was also normal. The patient subsequently showed signs and symptoms suggestive of hypothyroidism, which was confirmed by measurements of the concentration of thyroid-stimulating hormone (>100 mU/L) and free thyroxine (<2 pmol/L). Thyroxine replacement therapy normalised the creatine kinase and cholesterol levels. This case illustrates the importance of excluding underlying causes of hypercholesterolaemia before contemplating lipid-lowering therapy.
Cocaine abuse is associated with a variety of severe acute neurologic complications typically occurring in the abusers themselves. These include ischemic stroke, subarachnoid and intraparenchymal hemorrhage, headaches, syncope, seizures, and death. Sixteen pediatric patients with presumed cocaine-related seizures secondary to maternal consumption are reported. They were evaluated only because of requests for neurologic consultation. All were seen during the 1987 calendar year at the King/Drew Medical Center and Urban Comprehensive Epilepsy Program of Los Angeles. The cohort had similar maternal pregnancy histories and uniformly presented with postdelivery tremulousness, irritability, and excessive startle responses. Shortly after birth, each patient began having stereotypic episodes with ictal electroencephalographic confirmation in seven. Eight of these neonates continued to have seizures after the initial month of life.
Cyanobacteria-derived microcystin-leucine-arginine (MCLR), commonly characterized as a hepatotoxin, has recently been found to show neurotoxicity, but the exact mechanism is still unknown. To further our understanding of the neurotoxic effects of MCLR and the mechanisms behind it, we used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry analysis to identify global protein profiles associated with MCLR-induced neurotoxicity. MCLR-treated hippocampi showed alterations in proteins involved in cytoskeleton, neurodegenerative disease, oxidative stress, apoptosis, and energy metabolism. After validation by Western blot and quantitative real-time PCR, the expressions of three proteins related to neurodegenerative disease, septin 5, α-internexin, and α-synuclein, were identified to be altered by MCLR exposure. Based on our proteomic analysis that MCLR toxicity might be linked to neurodegeneration, we examined the activity of serine/threonine-specific protein phosphatases (PPs), which are markers of neurodegenerative disease. MCLR was found to induce inhibition of PPs and abnormal hyperphosphorylation of the neuronal microtubule-associated protein tau. This was found to lead to impairment of learning and memory, accompanied by severe histological damage and neuronal apoptosis in the hippocampal CA1 regions of rats. Our results support the hypothesis that MCLR could induce neurotoxic effects, the reason for which could be attributed to the disruption of the cytoskeleton, oxidative stress, and inhibition of PPs in the hippocampus. Moreover, MCLR was found to induce tau hyperphosphorylation, spatial memory impairment, neuronal degenerative changes, and apoptosis, suggesting that this cyanotoxin may contribute to Alzheimer's disease in humans.
Current regimens for treatment of distant metastases of soft tissues sarcomas result in response rates of about 25%. Therefore the search for active drugs remains a task for investigational groups. Taxoids offer a new class of cytostatic drugs. Docetaxel has been studied as a second line chemotherapy in advanced soft tissue sarcomas of the adult.
In a multi-center non-randomized phase II study docetaxel was administered at a dose of 100 mg/m2 in a 1-hour i.v. infusion q 3 weeks.
Twenty-nine patients (pts), median age 52 yr, performance status WHO 0: 16 pts, WHO 1: 11 pts, WHO 2: 2 pts, were eligible. One patient had early death due to malignant disease, 1 patient died due to toxicity and progression, 1 pt refused after 1 course. Five partial responses (5/29 = 17%, C.I. 6%-36%) have been observed. Grade > or = 3 leucopenia occurred in 76% of patients and grade > or = 3 thrombopenia did not occur. Median nadir of neutrophils was 0.23 x 10(9)/l. Episodes of fever and documented infection have been observed in 10 and 5 pts respectively. Anaphylactoid type reactions occurred in 5 patients: ranging from flushing in 5 pts to cardiovascular symptoms in 1 pt. Sensory neurotoxicity was observed in 14 pts grade 1: 10 pts, grade 2: 3 pts, grade 3: 1 pt). Grade 1 motor neurotoxicity was experienced by 3 pts. Skin reactions (pruritus, erythema, urticaria, exfoliation grade 1: 11 pts, grade 2: 7 pts, grade 3: 1 pt, grade 4: 1 pt) in 20 pts, among them 9 patients with nail changes. Peripheral edema and fluid retention has been observed in 12 pts.
Taxotere has activity in adult soft tissue sarcoma in second line, warranting studies on first line efficacy.
Complications of chemotherapy for a synovial sarcoma in an eight-year old boy included cisplatinum nephrotoxicity and adriamycin cardiotoxicity. The resultant renal failure and fluid overload necessitated peritoneal dialysis. Intractable hypomagnesemia was also a prominent feature.
Docetaxel, a semisynthetic analog of paclitaxel, made for the needles of the European yew, Taxus baccata, is a potentially important chemotherapeutic agent for the treatment of cancer.
In a phase II study patients with advanced and/or metastatic breast cancer and bidimensionally measurable disease, were treated with docetaxel 100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks as a 1 hour infusion without any premedication. Treatment was evaluated after 2 courses and every 2 subsequent courses.
Thirty-nine patients were entered, 32 were eligible. The eligible patients had a median age of 51 years (range 30-73) and a performance status WHO 1 median, (range 0-2). Twenty-eight patients had been treated with surgery, 24 with radiation. Hormonal treatment was previously given in 23, chemotherapy in 32. Of 24 patients treated as second line strategy, 13 achieved a partial remission, 1 a complete remission (overall response rate 58% (95% CI 37%-78%)). Eight patients treated as first line: 2 PR's, 1 CR. The median overall response duration was 38 weeks. The main toxicity consisted of transient grade 4 neutropenia in 149 of 167 evaluable courses (89%). However, the related infection rate was low. Re-treatment at 3 weeks, as scheduled, was nearly always possible. Other toxicities consisted of skin reactions (81%) and nail changes (41%), neurosensory toxicity (59%) and occasionally hypersensitivity reactions (16%). Fluid retention was a toxicity of major concern, observed in 59% of patients.
Docetaxel is a very active drug against breast cancer. Further studies are required to alleviate the non-hematological toxicities.
Hydronephrosis induced in the kidney of neonatal mice exposed to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) via lactation is a sensitive and characteristic hallmark of TCDD teratogenicity. We previously found that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) activity induced in mouse neonate kidneys by lactational TCDD exposure is required for this toxicity. COX-2 is an inducible form of cyclooxygenase and is responsible for producing prostaglandins (PGs) and thromboxane. PGE(2), a prostaglandin, is elevated in TCDD-exposed mouse pups. In this study, we investigated the role of microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1), an inducible form of PGE(2) synthase, in TCDD-induced hydronephrosis. A dose of 10 μg TCDD/kg to dams increased mPGES-1 messenger RNA abundance, urinary PGE(2) levels, and the incidence of hydronephrosis in mPGES-1 wild-type pups. In homozygous mPGES-1 knockout (KO) mice, in contrast, TCDD-induced hydronephrosis was suppressed, demonstrating an essential role of mPGES-1 in the response. Lack of the mPGES-1 gene also suppressed urinary PGE(2) level to near the basal level in TCDD-exposed pups. In conclusion, mPGES-1 upregulation upon lactational TCDD exposure is a causal factor for TCDD-induced hydronephrosis in mouse neonates.
The association of the tumor necrosis factor β (TNF-β) Nco1 genetic polymorphism with susceptibility to sepsis was evaluated in 60 consecutive patients diagnosed with sepsis and in 148 healthy blood donors. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood cells and a 782 base-pair fragment of the TNF-β gene was amplified by PCR. The PCR products were subjected to Nco1 restriction digestion and analysed by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. Tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and the C-reactive protein (CRP) serum levels were also determined by ELISA and nephelometry, respectively. Among the septic patients, the allelic frequencies of TNFB1 and TNFB2 were 0.2833 and 0.7166, respectively, and they differed from those observed in the blood donors (p=0.0282). The TNFB2 allele frequency was higher in the septic patients than in the blood donors [odds ratio=1.65 (CI 95% 1.02-2.69), p=0.0315]. The TNF-α and CRP serum levels and the APACHE II and SOFA clinical scores did not differ in the patients with the TNFB1 or TNFB2 alleles (p>0.05). The results suggest that the TNFB2 allele is associated with susceptibility to sepsis, but it was not found to be associated with the immunological and clinical biomarkers of the disease.
p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA), a BH3-only member of the Bcl-2 protein family, is required for p53-dependent and -independent forms of apoptosis. PUMA localizes to mitochondria and interacts with antiapoptotic Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L) or proapoptotic Bax in response to death stimuli. Although studies have shown that PUMA is associated with pathomechanisms of cerebral ischemia, clearly defined roles for PUMA in ischemic neuronal death remain unclear. The purpose of this study was to determine potential roles for PUMA in cerebral ischemia.
Five minutes of transient global cerebral ischemia (tGCI) were induced by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion combined with hypotension.
PUMA was upregulated in vulnerable hippocampal CA1 neurons after tGCI as shown by immunohistochemistry. In Western blot and coimmunoprecipitation analyses, PUMA localized to mitochondria and was bound to Bcl-X(L) and Bax in the hippocampal CA1 subregion after tGCI. PUMA upregulation was inhibited by pifithrin-alpha, a specific inhibitor of p53, suggesting that PUMA is partly controlled by the p53 transcriptional pathway after tGCI. Furthermore, reduction in oxidative stress by overexpression of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase, which is known to be protective of vulnerable ischemic hippocampal neurons, inhibited PUMA upregulation and subsequent hippocampal CA1 neuronal death after tGCI.
These results imply a potential role for PUMA in delayed CA1 neuronal death after tGCI and that it could be a molecular target for therapy.
We have developed an experimental model of iron-induced oxidative nephrotoxicity and renal cancer. Using this model, the effect of vitamin E, a known antioxidant, was investigated. Three-week-old male Wistar rats were fed with vitamin E-sufficient (control) and vitamin E-supplemented diets throughout the experiment. After 1 month of feeding, iron-induced tissue lipid peroxidation, apoptosis, and formation of 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine, a known DNA oxidative modification, were observed by cold Schiff staining, in situ labeling method (staining by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling), and high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection system, respectively, in the groups of rats treated with ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA; Fe, 10 mg/kg body weight). For the vitamin E intervention study on Fe-NTA-induced renal carcinogenesis, two groups of rats fed vitamin E-sufficient and vitamin E-supplemented diets (30 and 20 rats, respectively) were treated with Fe-NTA (Fe, 7.5 mg/kg body weight once or twice a week) i.p. for 3 months and observed for 9 additional months. Five of the vitamin E-sufficient rats died during the first 3-month period. The results showed that vitamin E could inhibit tissue lipid peroxidation, apoptosis, 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine formation, and the development of cancer [11 of 25 rats (44%) for vitamin E-sufficient versus 1 of 20 rats (5%) for vitamin E-supplemented rats, respectively]. These studies strongly suggest that in Fe-NTA-induced renal cancer, as with certain other types of cancer, oxidative stress plays an important role in carcinogenesis, and an antioxidant is an effective chemopreventive measure.
We retrospectively analyzed a series of 151 cases of cutaneous leishmaniasis treated between 1967 and 1982. One-hundred-and-thirty-nine (92%) patients presented with active lesions and were treated with daily doses of meglumine antimoniate: 81 adults received a 5-ml vial IM and 58 children received 1 to 5 ml. Forty-five (32.4%) patients underwent continuous treatment with meglumine antimoniate for 25 to 116 days without rest intervals, and 94 (67.6%) intermittent treatment with 2 to 5 series of meglumine antimoniate. Intermittent series could include schedules of daily IM applications for 10 to 25 days each and intervals varying from 10 to 60 days. Antimony dose was calculated for 66 (47.5%) patients and ranged from 3.9 to 28.7 Sb5+/kg/day. Of these, 35 patients received > or =10 mg and 31 patients < 10 mg Sb5+/kg/day. Median time of healing was longer for lesions on the legs and feet -- 67.5 days versus 48.7 days (p < 0.001) for other sites. However, there were no significant differences in the median time of healing between adults and children, intermittent and continuous regimens or high and low antimony doses. Fifty-one patients were reassessed 5 to 14 years after treatment and showed no evidence of disease. These results support further investigation (clinical trials) on treatment using low doses of antimony.
Patients with familial adenomatous polyposis develop colorectal cancers if left untreated. As indicated in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis, prophylactic colectomy has been recommended even in a milder colonic phenotype referred to as attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis. However, therapeutic strategies in attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis are still controversial.
We report a patient with attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis who has been treated with sulindac for five years. During the period of observation, she has been carefully followed up by chromoscopic and radiographic surveillance. Immunohistochemical study for cyclooxygenase-2 and genetic analysis in the adenomatous polyposis coli gene was also performed.
Continuous administration of sulindac resulted in obvious regression of both colorectal adenomatous polyps and gastric fundic gland polyps, and no cancers developed during the observation period. Immunohistochemical study showed the decrease of cyclooxygenase-2-positive epithelial cells in colorectal polyps by the treatment. The genetic analysis revealed a C to A substitution at nucleotide 481 of her germline adenomatous polyposis coli gene, which resulted in a nonsense mutation at codon 161.
Our case suggests that treatment with sulindac accompanied by intensive colonoscopic surveillance may be a choice of management for attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis.
Intracerebral hemorrhage, induced by recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) in ischemic stroke, is attributable to the increased activity of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). Patients with acute infarct benefit from the neuroprotective drug edaravone, a free radical scavenger. We examined the mechanisms by which edaravone may help to suppress rtPA-induced brain hemorrhage.
Male Wistar rats weighing 250 to 280 g were subjected to 3-hour transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and divided randomly into 3 groups. Immediately after reperfusion, 1 group was intravenously injected with 10 mg/kg rtPA, another with rtPA plus 3 mg/kg edaravone, and the 3rd group received no treatment. We assessed the hemorrhage volume and the activity of MMP-9 in the brain 24 hours postischemia. We also studied the activity of MMP-9, its mRNA expression, and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) activity in rtPA-stimulated human microvascular endothelial cells (HBECs).
The degree of hemorrhage and the level of endothelial cell-derived MMP-9 were elevated in rats treated with rtPA alone and attenuated in rats treated with rtPA plus edaravone. In rtPA-stimulated HBECs, edaravone suppressed the activity and mRNA expression of MMP-9 in a dose-dependent manner. Edaravone also inhibited NF-kappaB activation.
We demonstrate that edaravone inhibits rtPA-induced cerebral hemorrhage in the ischemic brain of rats via the inhibition of MMP-9 expression in vivo, which is substantiated by inhibition of MMP-9 expression and NF-kappaB activation in HBECs. Edaravone may render thrombolytic therapy safer for the administration of rtPA in patients with ischemic stroke.
A recent report has indicated that cadmium-induced testicular damage in CF-1 mice can be prevented by pretreatment with calmodulin inhibitors such as chlorpromazine (CPZ), trifluoperazine, or N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalene sulfonamide (W-7). However, the basis of this tolerance to cadmium is unclear and has not been demonstrated in any species other than mice. Thus, we examined the effects of the calmodulin inhibitor CPZ on cadmium toxicity in male Wistar (WF/NCr) rats. A single sc injection of 25 mumol CdCl2/kg proved nonlethal over 24 h but caused the typical spectrum of testicular lesions and increases in hemoglobin content (as assessed by hemoglobin absorbance in testicular supernatant). Pretreatment with 40 mumol CPZ/kg had no effect on cadmium-induced testicular lesions but did reduce testicular hemoglobin content, while 120 mumol CPZ/kg moderately reduced the severity of testicular lesions and hemoglobin contents. CPZ pretreatment in some cases increased cadmium content in liver and reduced testicular content but had no effect on renal levels. Cadmium treatment markedly increased hepatic and renal metallothionein (MT), a metal-binding protein often associated with tolerance to cadmium. CPZ alone likewise increased hepatic MT and MT mRNA, but did not modify renal MT, renal MT mRNA, or testicular MT mRNA. In contrast to liver and kidney, testicular cadmium-binding protein (TCBP) decreased in rats exposed only to cadmium or to CPZ, while CPZ pretreatment had no further effect on cadmium-induced reductions in TCBP levels. These results indicate that, like mice, CPZ in rats can reduce the testicular toxicity of cadmium as indicated by CPZ-induced reductions in testicular vascular lesions and hemoglobin contents. However, in rats CPZ has a less dramatic effect on such cadmium-induced lesions than in mice. The CPZ-induced stimulation of hepatic MT gene expression or modification of toxicokinetics may both play roles in this acquired tolerance to cadmium.
Fosinopril sodium, a phosphinic acid derivative is an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, which had been employed for the treatment of hypertension and congestive heart failure; long tem use of ACE inhibitor often result in stress ulcers due to which H(2) receptor antagonists are also concurrently prescribed. The later compete with histamine for H(2) receptors and block gastric acid secretion and some cardiovascular effects of histamine. Our studies are focused on the in vitro availability of fosinopril in presence of commonly used H(2) receptor antagonists. Derivative spectroscopy has been employed for the quantitation of fosinopril and H(2) receptor antagonists followed by linear regression analysis. These studies were carried out in buffers of pH 7.4 and 9 at 37, 48 and 60( masculine)C. Stability constant and thermodynamic function had also been calculated in order to evaluate the reaction mechanism. Commonly prescribed H(2) receptor antagonists like cimetidine, ranitidine and famotidine were used in these studies. Present study clearly indicated that most of the H(2) receptor antagonists studied decreased the availability of fosinopril which conclude that availability of fosinopril can be affected by the concurrent administration of H(2) receptor antagonists.
It is not known if there is a relationship between input rate and incidence of bupropion-induced seizures. This is important, since different controlled release formulations of bupropion release the active drug at different rates.
We investigated the effect of varying the intraperitoneal infusion rates of bupropion HCl 120 mg/kg, a known convulsive dose 50 (CD50), on the incidence and severity of bupropion-induced convulsions in the Swiss albino mice. A total of 69 mice, approximately 7 weeks of age, and weighing 21.0 to 29.1 g were randomly assigned to bupropion HCl 120 mg/kg treatment by intraperitoneal (IP) administration in 7 groups (9 to 10 animals per group). Bupropion HCl was infused through a surgically implanted IP dosing catheter with infusions in each group of 0 min, 15 min, 30 min, 60 min, 90 min, 120 min, and 240 min. The number, time of onset, duration and the intensity of the convulsions or absence of convulsions were recorded.
The results showed that IP administration of bupropion HCl 120 mg/kg by bolus injection induced convulsions in 6 out of 10 mice (60% of convulsing mice) in group 1. Logistic regression analysis revealed that infusion time was significant (p = 0.0004; odds ratio = 0.974) and increasing the IP infusion time of bupropion HCl 120 mg/kg was associated with a 91% reduced odds of convulsions at infusion times of 15 to 90 min compared to bolus injection. Further increase in infusion time resulted in further reduction in the odds of convulsions to 99.8% reduction at 240 min.
In conclusion, the demonstration of an inverse relationship between infusion time of a fixed and convulsive dose of bupropion and the risk of convulsions in a prospective study is novel.
Isradipine, a 1,4 dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonist, is a potent coronary artery dilator that increases coronary blood flow with little effect on cardiac contractility. Isradipine is an approved antihypertensive agent, but its antianginal effects have not been well documented. In this placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group design study we evaluated the duration of effects and safety of isradipine 10 mg bid in male patients with chronic stable angina pectoris. Seventy-two patients experiencing moderately severe angina between 3 and 7.5 minutes during a standard Bruce exercise test received placebo in a single-blind manner for 8-14 days. Sixty-one of these patients had reproducible treadmill exercise test results on three consecutive occasions and underwent further exercise tests at 3, 8, and 12 hours after a placebo period. Patients were then randomized (double blind) to either placebo or isradipine 10 mg bid for 2 weeks. Symptom-limited exercise tests were repeated predose and at 3, 8, and 12 hours after the 0800 hour dose dosing. Exercise duration increased significantly from baseline (last qualifying test during the single-blind placebo therapy, i.e., 0800 hours predose at visit 4) in the isradipine group compared to the placebo group prior to the administration of the 0800 hour dose (i.e., 12 hours after the 2000 hour dose) by 51 vs. 18 seconds, p = 0.04; and after the administration of the 0800 hour dose at 3 hours by 78 vs. 29 seconds, p = 0.005; and at 8 hours by 54 vs. 18 seconds, p = 0.04. Similarly, statistical significance was achieved when exercise data were analyzed using visit 4 (single-blind placebo therapy) corresponding time points as baseline. At 12 hours after the 0800 hour dose, exercise tolerance did not increase significantly after isradipine compared to placebo. Time to 1-mm ST-segment depression increased significantly after isradipine at 3 hours post 0800 hour dose compared to placebo (87 vs. 7 seconds, p < 0.01) but not at the 0, 8, or 12-hour postdose time points, regardless of which baseline was used. Isradipine therapy did not affect the rate-pressure double product. A significant correlation between the mean increase in total exercise time and mean plasma isradipine concentration was also present (p = 0.0295). During double-blind treatment, drug-related adverse events were experienced by four patients in the isradipine group and two patients in the placebo group. None of the patients experienced ischemic complications during the study.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The purpose of this study was to perform a comprehensive analysis of hepatic gene expression in a standard model of an alcohol-induced fatty liver using the cDNA microarray analysis. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into two groups and were given either an ethanol diet (ED), or a control diet (CD) for eight weeks. The ED rats showed significantly elevated levels of plasma total and HDL cholesterol as well as hepatic cholesterol and triglyceride compared to the pair-fed control rats. Among the 5185 genes on the rat cDNA microarray used in the current study, 74 genes were up-regulated and 108 genes were down-regulated greater than 2.0-fold in the liver of ED rats compared with those in the CD rats. The microarray results were verified by conducting real-time RT-PCR on the fourteen selected genes with varied expression ratios. After clustering the regulated genes based on their biological function, it was found that chronic ethanol consumption regulated mainly the genes implicated in the processes of signal transduction, transcription, immune response, and protein/amino acid metabolism. The microarray results obtained in this study revealed, for the first time, that several genes, including beta-glucuronidase, UDP-glycosyltransferase 1, UDP-glucose dehydrogenase, apoC-III, and gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor, were regulated by chronic ethanol exposure in the rat liver.
We have demonstrated that a 40% restriction of dietary energy consumption virtually abolishes the development of prolactin (PRL)-producing pituitary tumors in Fischer 344 (F344) rats treated chronically with estrogen, apparently by inhibiting the ability of estrogen to enhance survival within a rapidly proliferating lactotroph population. The purpose of the study reported here was to determine whether energy restriction exerts a similar antitumorigenic action in another rat strain, August x Copenhagen-Irish (ACI), in which PRL-producing pituitary tumors develop in response to estrogen treatment. Ovariectomized female ACI rats were either allowed to consume a control diet ad libitum or were fed a modified diet that restricted energy consumption by 40% relative to the amount of energy consumed by animals fed the control diet. We also examined the ability of 17beta-estradiol (E2) administered for 20 wk via subcutaneous Silastic implants to induce development of PRL-producing pituitary tumors. Treatment with E2 increased pituitary weight as well as the pituitary weight-to-body weight ratio and induced gross hyperprolactinemia to the same extent in ACI rats fed either the control or the energy-restricted diet. Moreover, dietary energy restriction did not affect the ability of E2 to induce pituitary cell proliferation or inhibit apoptosis, as evidenced by quantification of two surrogate markers. These data provide compelling evidence that a 40% restriction of energy consumption does not inhibit the ability of E2 to induce pituitary tumor development in the ACI rat. In conjunction with our published studies of the F344 rat strain, the data presented herein indicate that the inhibitory effects of dietary energy restriction on estrogen-induced pituitary tumor development are rat-strain specific and suggest that sensitivity to specific antitumorigenic actions of energy restriction is strongly affected by genetic background.
Malaria continues to be a devastating disease. The elucidation of factors inducing asexual growth versus arrest of Plasmodium falciparum can provide information about the development of the parasite, and may help in the search for novel malaria medication. Based on information from genome-wide transcriptome profiling of different developmental stages of P. falciparum, we investigated the critical importance of copper homeostasis in the developmental succession of P. falciparum with regard to three aspects of copper function. These were:1) inhibition of copper-binding proteins, 2) copper-ion chelation, and 3) down-regulated expression of genes encoding copper-binding proteins associated with a specific growth-promoting factor.
Inhibition of copper-binding proteins with tetrathiomolybdate (TTM) caused cessation of growth of the parasite. TTM arrested the parasite irreversibly during the trophozoite to schizont stage progression. Target molecules for TTM may be present in P. falciparum. The involvement of copper ions in developmental arrest was also investigated by copper-ion chelating methods, which indicated a critical function of reduced copper ions (Cu1+) in the parasite during the early developmental stage. Copper ions, not only in the parasite but also in host cells, were targets of the chelators. Chelation of Cu1+caused blockage of trophozoite progression from the ring stage. Profound growth arrest was detected in parasites cultured in a chemically defined medium containing hexadecanoic acid alone as a growth-promoting factor. This developmental arrest was associated with down-regulated expression of genes encoding copper-binding proteins. Cis-9-octadecenoic acid completely prevented the down-regulation of gene expression and developmental arrest that were observed with the use of hexadecanoic acid.
The critical importance of copper homeostasis in early developmental stages of P. falciparum was confirmed. Perturbation of copper homeostasis induced profound and early developmental arrest of P. falciparum. These findings should help to elucidate the mechanisms behind the development of P. falciparum, and may be applied in the development of effective antimalarial strategies.
To investigate the impact of exposure to the phytoestrogen daidzein on erectile function and sexual hormones. The negative effects of phytoestrogens on the male reproductive system, particularly on penile erection, have hardly been evaluated.
Thirty adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were equally divided into a normal control group, three experimental groups, and one positive control group. The three experimental groups were given daidzein at doses of 2, 20, and 100 mg/kg body weight daily, and the positive control group received 0.1 mg diethylstilbestrol per animal daily for 90 days. The apomorphine-induced erection test was performed 0, 30, 60, and 90 days after daidzein administration to evaluate for erectile function or dysfunction. After each test, blood samples were collected for plasma testosterone and luteinizing hormone measurement.
High-dose daidzein (100 mg/kg) decreased erectile responses to apomorphine from the 30th day of daidzein treatment and lasted to the 90th day without significant differences compared with the diethylstilbestrol-treated rats. However, similar changes were observed in the medium-dose daidzein (20 mg/kg) group from the 60th day. Low-dose daidzein (2 mg/kg) had no significant effect on the erectile responses to apomorphine compared with the normal control group (P >0.05). The plasma testosterone and luteinizing hormone levels showed a declining trend similar to that of the apomorphine-induced erections.
The phytoestrogen daidzein has the potential to adversely affect erectile function in a dose and time-related manner that is at least partly attributable to androgen deficiency. These findings implicate that phytoestrogens, especially isoflavones, if overconsumed for a long period, might be a novel risk factor for erectile dysfunction.
Despite knowledge of oestrogen receptor status, it is not always possible to predict which breast cancers will respond to tamoxifen. We have previously reported that decreased expression of Bcl-2 and/or Ki-S1 were associated with tumour response to neo-adjuvant tamoxifen in 50 elderly women with oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer. In this study, we confirm that the expression of Bcl-2 and Ki-S1 are surrogates for the frequency of apoptosis and mitosis respectively, within these untreated breast cancers, with an inverse relationship between Bcl-2 expression and the apoptotic index (P<0.05), and a positive relationship between Ki-S1 expression and the mitotic index (P<0.01). However, after 3 months' tamoxifen treatment these relationships were no longer apparent. Moreover, amongst the 27 tumours in which Bcl-2 expression was reduced during the 3 months' therapy, there was a significant correlation between the response to therapy and the increase in apoptosis (P<0.05), whereas in those tumours in which Bcl-2 did not fall with therapy, there was a significant correlation between response and the decrease in mitosis (P<0.05). These data suggest there are at least two mechanisms for effective tamoxifen therapy: increased apoptosis as a consequence of reduced Bcl-2 expression, and decreased proliferation.
α(4)β(2) Neuronal nicotinic receptors (NNRs) are implicated in the pathophysiology of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
This study examined the efficacy and safety of the α(4)β(2) NNR partial agonist ABT-089 versus placebo in adults with ADHD.
In this multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study, subjects received placebo followed by ABT-089 (2 mg once daily [QD], 5 mg QD, 15 mg QD, 40 mg QD, or 40 mg twice daily [BID]), or vice versa, in a 2 × 2 crossover design. Each treatment period was 4 weeks, separated by a 2-week washout period. The primary efficacy endpoint was the Conners' Adult ADHD Rating Scale-Investigator Rated (CAARS:Inv) total score at the end of each treatment period. Secondary outcomes based on clinician- and self-rated efficacy scales were evaluated.
Of the 221 subjects enrolled, 171 met criteria for inclusion in the completers dataset for efficacy analyses. ABT-089 was superior to placebo on the CAARS:Inv total score at 40 mg QD and 40 mg BID (model-based least square mean difference from placebo: -4.33, P = 0.02; -3.02, P = 0.03, respectively). ABT-089 also demonstrated significant improvements on several secondary measures of efficacy. ABT-089 was generally safe and well tolerated. The most commonly reported adverse events (≥5%) for total ABT-089-treated subjects at rates higher than placebo were headache, upper respiratory tract infection, irritability, insomnia, and nasopharyngitis.
In this phase 2 crossover study, the NNR partial agonist ABT-089, at doses of 40 mg QD and 40 mg BID, was efficacious and generally well tolerated in treatment of adults with ADHD.
Thirty-nine patients with small cell lung cancer were treated with large dose intravenous cyclophosphamide combined with vincristine. Sequential split-course radiotherapy was added when the gross disease was limited to one hemithorax and draining scalene nodes. Fifteen of 16 patients in the limited disease category showed objective response, eight of which were complete. Fourteen of 23 patients in the extensive disease category yielded an objective response, six of which were complete. The median survival for complete responders was 48 weeks, 38 weeks for partial responders and 14 weeks for non-responders. The difference between responders and non-responders was statistically significant. The major toxicity was myelosuppression with a median leukocyte nadir of 500/mm-3 noted on treatment day no. 15. Prompt recovery was the rule. Toxicity appeared to be cumulative for patients receiving radiotherapy. These results are superior to those evolving from treatment with cyclophosphamide as a solitary agent.
Oxidative stress in liver injury is a major pathogenetic factor in progress of liver fibrosis. Resveratrol, a representative antioxidant derived from grapes, has been reported to show widespread pharmacological properties. In this study, we investigated the protective effects of resveratrol on dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced liver fibrosis in rats. Rats were treated with resveratrol daily by oral gavage for seven days after a single intraperitoneal injection of DMN (40 mg/kg). Resveratrol remarkably recovered body and liver weight loss due to DMN-induced liver fibrosis. Liver histology showed that resveratrol alleviated the infiltration of inflammatory cells and fibrosis of liver tissue. Resveratrol decreased the level of malondialdehyde and increased the levels of glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase. Also, resveratrol significantly inhibited the mRNA expression of inflammatory mediators including inducible nitric oxide, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta. In addition, resveratrol showed not only reduced mRNA expression of fibrosis-related genes such as transforming growth factor beta 1, collagen type I, and alpha-smooth muscle actin, but also a significant decrease of hydroxyproline in rats with DMN-induced liver fibrosis. Our results suggest that resveratrol could be used to treat liver injury and fibrosis and be useful in preventing the development of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.
Famotidine is considered to be safe, causing very few adverse events. We describe a case of famotidine-induced anaphylaxis in a 23-year-old man who presented with dyspnea, seizure-like activity, and comatose mental state immediately after an intravenous injection of cefazedone and famotidine for the preoperative preparation of left varicocele. He completely recovered with epinephrine, fluid replacement, and corticosteroids. Skin tests with cefazedone and other beta-lactam antibiotics were all negative but skin tests with famotidine showed a clear positive immediate reaction. Interestingly, we also observed clear positive skin reactions to other H2-receptor antagonists such as nizatidine and ranitidine, which have similar side chains to the ring structures. Our case suggests that famotidine may induce immunoglobulin E-mediated anaphylaxis and have cross-reactivity with nizatidine and ranitidine. Clinicians should therefore be aware of possible life-threatening adverse reactions to commonly used H2-receptor antagonists such as famotidine.
We wished to determine whether chronic phenytoin (PHT) exposure could impair neural development and if any morphological alterations could be linked to changes in gene expression.
Pregnant SWV mice were chronically administered PHT 40 mg/kg/day from gestational day (GD) 0:12 (day:h) until they were killed at various timepoints throughout neural tube closure (NTC). At each timepoint, embryos from both treated and control dams were collected and scored for their progression through NTC. The neural tubes were then isolated and subjected to in situ transcription (IST) and antisense RNA amplification procedures. Using these techniques, we examined the expression of 10 genes: N-cadherin (Ncad), collagen type IV (col-IV), bcl-2, c-jun, PAX-3, collular retinol binding protein-2 (CRBP-2), retinoic acid receptor alpha (RAR alpha), transforming growth factor(beta2) (TGF(beta2)), wee-1, and EMX-2.
Chronic PHT exposure not only caused a delay in NTC whereby exposed embryos lagged behind the controls at each collection timepoint, but also significantly altered the expression of specific genes at distinct times during NTC. Early in NTC, PHT induced a significant reduction in the expression of N-cad, col-IV, and c-jun in exposed embryos as compared with controls. In contrast, during the midstages of NTC, the only significant molecular alterations observed in the PHT-exposed embryos was the continued decreased expression of col-IV and an increase in CRBP-2 expression. Finally, in the latter stages of NTC, PHT caused a significant reduction in the expression of bcl-2, RAR alpha, TGF(beta2), EMX-2, and PAX-3.
These results show that although the effects of PHT are morphologically subtle, causing a delay in the development of the neural tube, this delay is accompanied by alterations in critical genes at crucial times of neural development that may account for the observed neurological deficits often associated with PHT exposure.
