To evaluate the effects of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), we measured the inhibitory effect of several LAB isolated from intestinal microflora and commercial probiotics against the glycosaminoglycan (GAG) degradation by intestinal bacteria. Bifidobacterium longum HY8004 and Lactobacillus plantarum AK8-4 exhibited the most potent inhibition. These LAB inhibited colon shortening and myeloperoxidase production in 2,4,6- trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced experimental colitic mice. These LAB also blocked the expression of the proinflammatory cytokines, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha, as well as of COX-2, in the colon. LAB also blocked activation of the transcription factor, NF-kappaB, and expression of TLR-4 induced by TNBS. In addition, LAB reduced the TNBS-induced bacterial degradation activities of chondroitin sulfate and hyaluronic acid. These findings suggest that GAG degradation-inhibitory LAB may improve colitis by inhibiting inflammatory cytokine expression via TLR-4-linked NF-kB activation and by inhibiting intestinal bacterial GAG degradation.
Zinc is essential for all life forms and plays a vital role in human nutrition and biochemical functions. Epidemiologic studies suggest that zinc deficiency may be associated with increased risk of cancer.
We measured the concentration of Zn in whole blood and scalp hair of female patients with breast and ovarian cancers from different cities of Pakistan. Sixty-five patients (30-60 y) and 50 healthy subjects of the same age groups were included. Both controlled and study group female patients were of same socio-economic status, localities and dietary habits. The scalp hair and whole blood samples were oxidized by mixture of 65% nitric acid: 30% hydrogen peroxide (2:1) ratio in microwave oven, to reduce the conventional wet acid digestion period. The proposed method was validated by certified sample of human hair BCR 397 and Clincheck control-lyophilized human whole blood. The all digested samples were analyzed for Zn concentration using flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS).
There was a significant decrease in mean total of Zn in whole blood and scalp hair samples of both cancer groups of patients compared to a controlled healthy female group (p<0.001).
There is an association of Zn with biological samples in different types of cancer in females.
The effect on intracranial pressure (ICP) of ketamine as an anaesthetic induction agent following pretreatment with either midazolam (ten cases) or diazepam (five cases) was investigated in unpremedicated neurosurgical patients. In all patients in the midazolam group, ICP increased following ketamine while the cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) fell in five cases. ICP rose further after intubation by a mean of 21 mmHg (2.8 kPa) with a further drop in CPP in two cases. The changes were usually terminated after pethidine was given but were allowed to continue for 10 min or more in two cases. There was little increase in ICP after the diazepam-ketamine combination, while the CPP fell in one case and increased markedly in two cases. The mean increase in ICP following intubation was 6 mmHg (0.8 kPa) above control values. All patients required assisted ventilation after either benzodiazepine-ketamine combination. It is concluded that midazolam much more effectively suppresses the cardiostimulatory action of ketamine than the increase in ICP and that neither a midazolam-ketamine nor a diazepam-ketamine combination should be considered safe for use in patients who may have reduced intracranial compliance.
Recently, survival benefit by chemotherapy using paclitaxel (PTX) and the induction of thymidine phosphorylase (TP) by PTX have been reported in several solid tumors. On the other hand, TP confers antiapoptotic effect on tumor cells through inhibition of caspase-8 activation in vitro. On the basis of these previous observations, we hypothesized that (a) TP can be induced after PTX treatment in human prostate cancer (PC) and (b) blockade of PTX-induced TP expression can enhance the apoptotic processes in human PC cells. PTX was used to find TP expression in all eight hormone-refractory PC cases after chemotherapy; however, cleaved caspase-8 was not expressed after chemotherapy in the six hormone-refractory PC cases with strong TP expression. In PC cell lines (PC-3, DU 145, and LNCaP), TP expression after PTX treatment was clearly up-regulated in a dose-dependent manner. Cell viability of PC cell lines treated with PTX and TP antisense was significantly reduced in a time-dependent and dose-dependent manner compared with the PTX treatment alone. Likewise, apoptotic index of PC cells treated with PTX and TP antisense was significantly increased in comparison with PTX alone. After complete blockade of PTX-induced TP translation by TP antisense transfection, cleaved form of caspase-3 and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase was increased, and this exaggeration of apoptosis also ran parallel with caspase-8 activation in a PTX dose-dependent manner. However, in PC cell lines treated with TP antisense alone, neither caspase-3 nor poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase was cleaved despite caspase-8 activation. These results indicate that PTX-induced TP up-regulation is associated with decreased caspase-8 activation. This study is the first report showing that blockade of PTX-induced TP expression could exaggerate the processing of apoptosis in PC cells treated with PTX. Our results provide preclinical evidence that TP could be a new molecular target for enhancing the potency of PTX-mediated apoptosis in PC cells.
Loeys-Dietz syndrome (LDS, OMIM # 609192) caused by heterozygous mutations in TGFBR1 and TGFBR2 has recently been described as an important cause of familial aortic aneurysms. These patients have craniofacial and skeletal features that overlap with the Marfan syndrome (MFS), and more importantly, have significant vascular fragility as is seen in MFS and Ehlers-Danlos syndrome Type IV (EDS-IV). The skeletal phenotype with respect to low bone mineral density and skeletal fragility is not clear. We present two patients with LDS with significant skeletal fragility. The first is a 17-year-old male who had talipes equinovarus, diaphragmatic and inguinal and herniae, aortic root dilatation necessitating surgical repair, craniofacial and skeletal dysmorphism consistent with LDS, and a history of numerous fragility fractures leading to significant skeletal deformity. He was found to be heterozygous for a c.923T > C transition in exon 4 of TGFBR2. The second is a 26-year-old male with submucous cleft palate, talipes equinovarus, pectus excavatum requiring surgery, inguinal hernia, and aneurysms in the ascending aorta, abdominal aorta, carotid, subclavian, vertebral and brachial arteries requiring surgical repairs. He also had craniofacial and skeletal dysmorphism consistent with LDS, multiple fractures in childhood, low bone mineral density, and was found to be heterozygous for a c.1561 T > C transition in exon 7 of TGFBR2. These case studies highlight the importance of paying close attention to fractures and bone density in patients with LDS. Osteopenia or osteoporosis may become increasingly important issues as earlier detection and treatment of the vascular complications of LDS improves life expectancy in these patients.
Tobacco smoking by women during pregnancy increases the risk of congenital birth defects in the infants. Among the smoke products, nicotine is believed to be the major teratogenic factor that perturbs embryonic development. However, the role of nicotine in embryonic malformations has not been addressed, and the mechanisms by which nicotine affects embryonic development remain to be delineated.
To investigate the effects of nicotine on early embryogenesis, murine embryos at embryonic day (E) 8.5 were dissected out of the uteri, cultured in a roller bottle system, and treated with nicotine (0.6-6 microM) or vehicle. Embryonic morphogenesis and growth were examined in terms of structural morphology and crown/rump length, respectively. Programmed cell death (apoptosis) was assessed using LysoTracker Red staining of whole mount embryos and TUNEL assay of tissue sections. Changes in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production were assessed using fluorescent dyes (Flu-4, AM; H2DCFDA, respectively) under a confocal microscope. To further investigate the role of intracellular calcium and ROS in nicotine-induced embryopathy, embryos were treated with BAPTA-AM (2 microM) to inhibit [Ca2+]i elevation and ascorbic acid (vitamin C; 100 microg/ml) to scavenge ROS in presence of nicotine (6 microM).
The embryos treated with nicotine in 3-6 microM were smaller than those treated with vehicle. Most of the embryos had open neural tube in the anterior (brain) regions. The embryos treated with 6 microM nicotine also exhibited severe defects in the posterior trunk, resembling caudal dysplasia. Excessive apoptosis was observed in the deformed structures. Significant increases in [Ca2+]i and ROS were seen in the tissues that had higher levels of apoptosis. Furthermore, inhibition of [Ca2+]i and scavenging of ROS significantly reduced embryonic malformation and apoptotic rates in the embryos.
Nicotine affects embryonic development in a concentration-dependent manner. The nicotine-induced embryonic malformations are, in part, a result of excessive cell death. Nicotine increases [Ca2+]i and ROS level, which play a role in nicotine-induced embryonic apoptosis and malformations. These studies identify the molecular pathway of nicotine action in embryonic apoptosis and malformations, and provide a promising approach for ameliorating the teratogenic effects of nicotine.
A 27-year-old woman with a history of aplastic anaemia complained of poor control of her right arm and hand, unsteady gait, and headache that increased while in a recumbent position. She was diagnosed with cerebral sinus thrombosis. Additional investigation revealed paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH). Treatment with heparin was initiated but stopped after the patient developed a brain haemorrhage. The patient recovered with no signs of residual symptoms and began taking oral anticoagulants as maintenance therapy. PNH is a rare acquired clonal disorder due to a defective expression of the glycosylphosphatidyl-inositol anchor membrane protein. It is characterised by haemolytic anaemia, diminished haematopoiesis, increased susceptibility for infections and a hypercoagulable state. Patients with aplastic anaemia have an increased risk of developing PNH. In patients with cerebral sinus thrombosis PNH should be considered as a possible underlying disorder. These patients should be questioned for possible clinical symptoms of PNH, such as acute abdominal pain or dark urine in the morning. For patients with these symptoms and in those with a history of aplastic anaemia or recurrent thrombosis, additional testing for PNH should be conducted.
Cosmetics are the causative agents in 8-15% of patients suspected of having allergic contact dermatitis. Patch testing with standard series identifies 70-80% of the responsible allergens in all contact dermatitis; however, many important cosmetic-related allergens may be missed by using standard series alone.
The aim of this study was to determine the value of using cosmetic series in addition to the European standard series in patients with suspected allergic contact dermatitis.
In this prospective study, 93 consecutive patients suspected of having allergic contact dermatitis were patch tested with the European standard series, and simultaneously with cosmetic series. Positive allergic reactions were further interpreted as clinically relevant or irrelevant. The clinically relevant reactions were subsequently stratified into three subgroups: (i) reactions only to allergen/allergens in the European standard series; (ii) reactions only to allergen/allergens in cosmetic series; and (iii) reactions both to allergen/allergens in the European standard and cosmetic series.
A total of 74 positive reactions were observed in 93 patients. However, only 46 (62.2%) of the total positive reactions were found to be clinically relevant. Of all the clinically relevant positive reactions, 27 (58.7%) were caused by the allergens in the European standard series; 19 (41.3%) were caused by the allergens in cosmetic series. Of the 93 patients tested, 44 (47.3%) had at least one positive allergic reaction, 30 (68.2%) of whom had clinically relevance. Of the 30 patients with clinically relevant positive tests, 16 (53.3%) reacted only to allergens in the European standard series; nine (30%) reacted only to cosmetic series allergens; and five (16.7%) reacted both to the European standard and cosmetic series allergens. Among the 45 cosmetic series allergens tested, 15 (33.3%) gave positive reactions of which 14 (93.3%) of those were found to be clinically relevant. The clinically relevant cosmetic series allergens which were found to be over the critical incidence of 1% included methyldibromo glutaronitrile, Euxyl K400, and isopropyl myristate.
Patch testing with cosmetic series in addition to the European standard series increased the capability to detect the relevant allergen/allergens, particularly in patients with a suspicion of cosmetic allergy. However, it is not practical and cost-effective to test those patients routinely with all 45 allergens in the cosmetic series. As the European baseline series which includes methyldibromo glutaronitrile is now widely used as the guideline minimum set of allergens for routine diagnostic patch test investigations, we additionally recommend Euxyl K400 and isopropyl myristate as the candidates for patch testing.
This study was intended to elucidate the mechanism(s) of protection afforded by splenectomy against EPI-induced ATN and myocardial necrosis. Renal function parameters, hematocrit, circulating catecholamines (EPI and NE), serum enzymes (CPK and SGOT), and urinary PGE2 were measured before and during intravenous infusion of EPI (4 micrograms/kg/min for 6 hr) in intact and chronically splenectomized animals. All but serum enzymes were measured in another group of splenectomized animals that were implanted with small fragments of the autologous spleen (autoimplanted animals) 2 weeks prior to EPI infusion. Renal function tests and urinary PGE2 levels were monitored for several hours during the recovery period. The development of ARF in intact animals was accompanied by marked increases in circulating catecholamine levels, hematocrit, and serum enzymes and by a marked decrease in urinary PGE2 levels. These animals had diffuse ATN and hemorrhagic lesions of the heart (myocardial necrosis), and none survived. Chronically splenectomized animals were protected against the adverse effects of EPI infusion. The protected animals showed minimal elevation of circulating catecholamine levels and no changes in urinary PGE2 levels or hematocrit. Serum enzymes and renal and cardiac histopathology remained essentially normal in these animals. Implantation of autologous splenic tissue in splenectomized animals caused reversal of the protective effect of splenectomy. The response of autoimplanted animals to EPI infusion was in all respects similar to that in intact animals with the exception of hematocrit, which did not rise. All autoimplanted animals survived. They showed prompt recovery of renal function associated with significant increase of urinary PGE2 levels during the recovery period. Focal ATN was observed but no hemorrhagic lesion of the heart was found. From these observations we conclude the following: (1) high circulating NE and/or low renal (urinary) PGE2 activity are important in the pathogenesis of EPI-induced ARF, (2) the spleen may release some factor(s) that modulate plasma NE level and/or renal PGE2 activity during EPI infusion, (3) EPI-induced ARF may occur independently of myocardial necrosis, and (4) hematocrit has no major role in EPI-induced ARF.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, systemic autoimmune disease that primarily attacks joints and is therefore a common cause of chronic disability and articular destruction. The hyperplastic growth of RA-fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLSs) and their resistance against apoptosis are considered pathological hallmarks of RA. The natural antioxidant resveratrol is known for its antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic properties. This study investigated the effect of resveratrol on RA-FLS. RA-FLS were isolated from the synovium of 10 RA patients undergoing synovectomy or joint replacement surgery. RA-FLS were first stressed by pre-incubation with interleukin 1beta (IL-1β) and then treated with 100 μM resveratrol for 24h. In order to evaluate the influence of resveratrol on the transcription of genes, a Gene Chip Human Gene 1.0 ST Array was applied. In addition, the effect of dexamethasone on proliferation and apoptosis of RA-FLS was compared with that of resveratrol. Gene array analysis showed highly significant effects of resveratrol on the expression of genes involved in mitosis, cell cycle, chromosome segregation and apoptosis. qRT-PCR, caspase-3/7 and proliferation assays confirmed the results of gene array analysis. In comparison, dexamethasone showed little to no effect on reducing cell proliferation and apoptosis. Our in vitro findings point towards resveratrol as a promising new therapeutic approach for local intra-articular application against RA, and further clinical studies will be necessary.
This study investigated the effect of N-acetylcysteine on plasma adiponectin, renal adiponectin receptors, lipid metabolism and oxidative stress in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Metabolic parameters, plasma adiponectin level, renal protein expression of adiponectin receptors were analyzed in controls and diabetic rats treated with or without N-acetylcysteine in drinking water for 8 weeks. Plasma lipid, creatinine and free 5-F(2t)-isoprostane levels, urine protein excretion rate, mesangial matrix expansion index, and protein expression of renal connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) were increased in diabetic rats. The decreased plasma adiponectin levels and renal protein expression of adiponectin receptor 1 were accompanied by the decreased renal phosphorylation of adenosine monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-alpha (Thr172) and protein expression of phospho-acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase (ACC) (Ser79) which led to the increased renal triglyceride levels in diabetic rats. There was no difference in the protein expression of renal adiponectin receptor 2 between control and diabetic rats. N-acetylcysteine treatment attenuated the increased oxidative stress, plasma and renal lipids, urine protein excretion rate, mesangial matrix expansion index, and protein expression of renal CTGF, but did not affect plasma adiponectin levels, renal protein expression of adiponectin receptor 1, phosphorylation of AMPK-alpha (Thr172) and renal protein expression of phospho-ACC (Ser79) in diabetic rats. These results suggested that the decreased plasma adiponectin and renal adiponectin receptor 1 result in the increased renal triglyceride that stimulates renal CTGF expression leading to the renal hypertrophy and the deteriorated renal function in the diabetic rats. N-acetylcysteine treatment attenuates the increased oxidative stress, but has no effect on the decreased plasma adiponectin and renal adiponectin receptor 1 in diabetic rats, indicating that oxidative stress may not contribute to the decreased plasma adiponectin and renal adiponectin receptor 1 protein expression in diabetic rats.
Cigarette smoke extracts (CSE) may play a significant role in diseases of the upper airway including chronic rhinosinusitis. Even short term exposure of cigarette smoke has adverse effects on mitochondrial functions and redox homeostasis in tissues which may progress to further complications associated with chronic smoking. Cigarette smoke alters toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) expression and activation in bronchial epithelial cells. Carbocysteine is an anti-oxidant and mucolytic agent. The effects of carbocysteine on CSE induced oxidative stress and on associated innate immune and inflammatory responses in nasal epithelial cells are largely unknown. The present study was aimed to assess in CSE stimulated nasal epithelial cells (RPMI 2650) the effects of carbocysteine (10(-4)M) on: cell survival, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, TLR4 expression, LPS binding and neutrophil chemotaxis (actin reorganization). We found that CSE increased ROS production, TLR4 expression, LPS binding and neutrophil chemotaxis and all these events were counteracted by pre-incubating CSE stimulated RPMI 2650 cells with carbocysteine. In conclusion, the present study provides compelling evidence that carbocysteine may be considered a promising therapeutic strategy in chronic inflammatory nasal diseases.
1. Male hooded Lister rats were fed a liquid diet containing 10% absolute ethanol for 4-5 weeks. Control rats received the liquid diet in amounts controlled to produce equal weight gain. 2. The rats were tested 7.5 h after withdrawal of ethanol and 30 min after i.p. injection with nitrendipine, chlordiazepoxide or baclofen or 20 min after i.p. injection with flumazenil. 3. Nitrendipine (25-100 mg/kg) was unable to reverse the anxiogenic responses detected on withdrawal from ethanol, but the highest dose did reduce withdrawal tremor. 4. Chlordiazepoxide (10 mg/kg), flumazenil (4 mg/kg) and baclofen (1.25 mg/kg) significantly reversed the anxiogenic response detected on withdrawal from ethanol. 5. These reversals of ethanol withdrawal responses are similar to the reversal of the increased anxiety detected on withdrawal from chronic treatment with benzodiazepines. 6. The mechanisms and clinical implications of these drug-induced reversals are discussed.
Renal failure due to combined acute interstitial nephritis and minimal-change glomerulopathy is reported in two patients after fenoprofen therapy. In the interstitial infiltrates, T lymphocytes predominated over B lymphocytes in a ratio of four to one. The majority of B lymphocytes present were IgE-bearing cells. Among the T cells, the ratio of cytotoxic/suppressor cells to helper-inducer cells was three to one. Repeated renal biopsy in one patient after steroid-induced clinical remission demonstrated resolution of the inflammatory infiltrate and restoration of normal glomerular foot processes. The theoretic and practical implications of these findings are discussed.
We evaluated the effects of isoflurane anaesthesia and induced hypotension in 33 neurosurgical patients by electrocardiographic monitoring and serial cardiac enzyme measurements. An electrocardiogram (ECG) and serum enzymes were obtained preoperatively, intraoperatively and postoperatively in the recovery room and for three consecutive days. ECG leads II, V1 and V5 were monitored continuously during anaesthesia. Patients who had had a subarachnoid haemorrhage and a high incidence of abnormal preoperative ECG (42 per cent). Ten patients developed ECG changes intraoperatively, but these changes were unrelated to isoflurane-induced hypotension. Fifty-three per cent of patients developed an abnormal postoperative ECG. These abnormalities consisted mostly of nonspecific ST segment or T wave changes. At no time was there an elevation in cardiac enzyme activity. We found that nonspecific ECG changes are relatively common in patients undergoing vascular neurosurgical procedures. There was no enzymatic evidence of myocardial infarction and we can only speculate that these ECG changes are related to intracranial surgical manipulation.
The effect of hypotensive haemorrhage on blood pressure recovery was compared in saline- and streptozotocin-injected rats. Absolute plasma volumes (and calculated blood volumes) were not different between the two groups. After haemorrhage of similar volumes at similar rates, there were no significant differences in the recoveries in blood pressures or heart rates between control and diabetic animals. In other control and diabetic groups, posthaemorrhage treatment with the converting enzyme inhibitor captopril (at 20 min) and the vasopressin (V1-receptor) antagonist d(CH2)5DAVP (at 40 min) did not have any deleterious effects on blood pressure recovery at these times. These results support the proposition that neither the renin-angiotensin system nor vasopressin are importantly involved in blood pressure recovery at these time points after hypotensive haemorrhage in conscious rats. They are also consistent with the lack of difference between untreated control and diabetic groups, despite previous findings showing impairments of renin-angiotensin- and vasopressin-mediated effects after acute hypotension induced by pentolinium in diabetic rats.
Puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced glomerular injury in rats mimics minimal-change nephrotic syndrome (NS) in humans. We have demonstrated an important role of cytochrome P450 (CYP) as a significant source of catalytic iron in this model of NS. The current study was designed to identify CYP isozyme(s) present in the rat glomerular epithelial cells (GEC) and to explore the role of the specific CYP isozyme in PAN-induced cytotoxicity. CYP2B1 was identified in GEC by immunocytochemistry and Western blot. Treatment of GEC with PAN resulted in a marked generation of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) and reduction of CYP2B1 content associated with significant increase in catalytic iron and hydroxyl radical formation. Preincubating GEC with CYP2B1 inhibitors (piperine and cimetidine) and H(2)O(2) scavenger (pyruvate) significantly reduced H(2)O(2 )generation, preserved CYP2B1 content, prevented the increase in catalytic iron and hydroxyl radical formation including PAN-induced cytotoxicity. We also observed the induction of heme oxygenase (HO-1) in PAN-treated GEC, and this up-regulation was reduced by pretreatment of the CYP inhibitors and pyruvate. Our data thus indicate an important role of CYP2B1 in PAN-induced cytotoxicity by serving as a site of reactive oxygen metabolite generation and a significant source of catalytic iron.
Combined intravenous (IV) and intra-arterial (IA) thrombolytic therapy may be faster and easier to initiate than monotherapy, and its recanalization rate may be better as well. The sequential combination of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rTPA) and urokinase (UK) has synergistic and complementary effects on clot lysis. We prospectively evaluated the effectiveness and safety of sequential combination of IV rTPA and IA UK in acute ischemic stroke.
IV rTPA was administered to patients with acute stroke within 3 hours of onset. Those whose condition had not improved at the end of rTPA infusion were further treated with selective IA UK. We evaluated baseline and 30-day National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) scores and 90-day modified Rankin Scale scores.
Thirty patients were initially treated with IV rTPA; 24 were further treated with IA UK. Four patients who had rapid reocclusion following initial successful IA therapy received IV abciximab. Fourteen of 24 patients who underwent angiography had an effective perfusion state of Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction grade 3 flow. Median baseline and 30-day NIHSS scores were 18 and 2, respectively. Eighteen patients improved to a modified Rankin scale score of 0 or 1 after 90 days. Symptomatic hemorrhage developed in two patients.
The strategy of using conventional-dose IV rTPA and the sequential combination of IA UK in patients without an early clinical response to IV treatment was safe and feasible. This strategy achieved high complete arterial recanalization rates and good functional outcomes.
In previous studies we demonstrated that dopamine, specifically a D2-receptor system, in the frontal cortex of the mouse functions to inhibit the motor response elicited by systemically administered amphetamine or cocaine; the inhibition appears to be the result of the dopaminergic activation of a GABAergic system. In the present study the inhibitory role of dopamine and GABA in the cortex was investigated in animals that were behaviorally sensitized to stimulant-induced stereotypy. For these studies various dopaminergic and GABAergic drugs were injected intracortically (i.c.) and their effects on stimulant-induced stereotypy were compared in nonsensitized and sensitized mice. The results indicate that the dopaminergic system in the cortex of sensitized animals, in contrast to nonsensitized controls, no longer functions to inhibit the motor response to the stimulants. The change in dopaminergic function in sensitized animals appears to be the result of a qualitative change in the D2 dopamine receptor system and not the result of a change in the associated GABA system. The loss of the inhibitory activity of dopamine in the cortex correlated with the persistence of sensitization. These results suggest a new mechanism to account for behavioral sensitization; that is, the phenomenon is the result of a loss of stimulant-induced dopaminergic inhibition of motor activity normally mediated by the frontal cortex.
This report describes a 48-year-old caucasian male with schizophrenia who developed hepatitis, hyperglycemia, pleural effusion, eosinophilia, hematuria and proteinuria early in clozapine treatment which resolved on drug discontinuation. The literature on similar cases is reviewed.
An overdose of astemizole predisposes the myocardium to ventricular dysrhythmias, including torsades de pointes. Herein we describe a case of astemizole-induced torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia and also review previous case reports in the literature. All the patients were young, and dysrhythmias developed only in those with corrected QT intervals greater than 500 ms. Although several mechanisms have been postulated, no clear explanation has been provided for why astemizole promotes myocardial dysrhythmias. Treatment of astemizole-induced torsades de pointes includes discontinuing use of astemizole, intravenous administration of magnesium sulfate and isoproterenol, temporary cardiac pacing, and, when necessary, direct current cardioversion. A cardiac cause of syncope or convulsions must not be overlooked, especially in patients taking H1 antagonists because they often have these symptoms before hospitalization or detection of torsades de pointes (or both).
Chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity studies of 5,5-diphenylhydantoin (DPH), were conducted in F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice of each sex. The major objective of the study was to determine if incorporating exposure to DPH during the perinatal period, in addition to conventional exposure of animals for 2 years, enhances the sensitivity of the bioassay to identify the carcinogenic potential of chemical. The studies were designed to determine the toxic and carcinogenic effects of dietary DPH in rats and mice receiving; (1) the perinatal administration including exposure of maternal animals prior to breeding, through gestation, lactation, weaning, and continued dietary exposure of offspring to the age of 8 weeks followed by control diet for 2 years, (2) exposure for 2 years beginning at the age of 8 weeks, and (3) of combined perinatal/adult exposure to DPH (perinatal exposure to 8 weeks of age followed by the adult exposure for 2 years). During the perinatal period, rats were exposed to DPH at dose levels ranging from 63 to 630 ppm and adult exposure concentrations ranged from 240 to 2400 ppm in diet. In the mice, the perinatal exposure ranged from 21 to 210 ppm in both males and females. In the adult exposure portion of the mouse studies, the dietary levels ranged from 30 to 300 ppm in males and 60 to 600 ppm in females. A total of eight dose groups (including controls) were used with 60 animals in each group. The only effect of perinatal exposure alone on tumor rate was a marginal increase in the incidence of hepatocellular neoplasms in female mice. The adult exposure to DPH significantly increased the incidence of hepatocellular neoplasms in female mice. There were also marginal increases in the incidence of liver tumors in male rats exposed to high DPH dietary concentrations during the adult-only regimen. Combined perinatal and adult dietary exposure to 5,5-diphenylhydantoin confirmed the findings for the increased incidences of hepatocellular neoplasms in male rats and female mice, although combined exposure did not enhance these effects. However, in male mice, perinatal and adult exposure resulted in an increase in the incidence of hepatocellular neoplasms that was not seen when dietary exposure was limited to the adult period only.
Five ambulatory children with various types of chronic arthritis developed renal papillary necrosis (RPN), as documented by intravenous pyelography. Each child was being treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) at the time of diagnosis of RPN and had had episodes of gross or microscopic hematuria for several months prior to diagnosis. In each child hematuria was associated with more than one NSAID, and three of the five children also had ingested acetaminophen intermittently. Glomerular function has remained normal and hypertension has not developed, but management of these children has necessitated reduction or elimination of NSAIDs. As evidenced by these five cases, microscopic or gross hematuria in a child with chronic arthritis treated with anti-inflammatory drugs should raise the possibility of RPN.
The hyperalgesic properties of the emetic drug lithium chloride (LiCl) were examined in eight experiments. At a dose of 63.6 mg/kg, LiCl produced hyperalgesia in the radiant-heat (Experiment la) and immersion (Experiment 1b) tail-flick tests. At doses of 15.9, 31.8, 63.6, and 127.2 mg/kg, LiCl failed to produce hyperalgesia during the delayed behavioral response in the formalin test (Experiments 2a and 2b), but 63.6 mg/kg LiCl did produce hyperalgesia during the normally quiescent, interphase period of formalin responding (Experiment 2c). At the dose of 63.6 mg/kg, LiCl did not produce hyperalgesia in the hotplate test (Experiments 3a and 3b) and did not exert significant motoric effects in a step-down passive-avoidance task (Experiment 4). The results were discussed with reference to the behavioral effects of LiCl and their implications for demonstrations of associatively mediated morphine analgesic tolerance.
Descending vasa recta (DVR) are 15-microm vessels that perfuse the renal medulla. Ouabain has been shown to augment DVR endothelial cytoplasmic Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](CYT)) signaling. In this study, we examined the expression of the ouabain-sensitive Na-K-ATPase alpha2 subunit in the rat renal vasculature and tested effects of acute ouabain exposure and chronic ouabain treatment on DVR. Immunostaining with antibodies directed against the alpha2 subunit verified its expression in both DVR pericytes and endothelium. Acute application of ouabain (100 or 500 nM) augmented the DVR nitric oxide generation stimulated by acetylcholine (ACh; 10 microM). At a concentration of 1 mM, ouabain constricted microperfused DVR, whereas at 100 nM, it was without effect. Acute ouabain (100 nM) did not augment constriction by angiotensin II (0.5 or 10 nM), whereas l-nitroarginine methyl ester-induced contraction of DVR was slightly enhanced. Ouabain-hypertensive (OH) rats were generated by chronic ouabain treatment (30 microg.kg(-1).day(-1), 5 wk). The acute endothelial [Ca(2+)](CYT) elevation by ouabain (100 nM) was absent in DVR endothelia of OH rats. The [Ca(2+)](CYT) response to 10 nM ACh was also eliminated, whereas the response to 10 microM ACh was not. The endothelial [Ca(2+)](CYT) response to bradykinin (100 nM) was significantly attenuated. We conclude that endothelial responses may offset the ability of acute ouabain exposure to enhance DVR vasoconstriction. Chronic exposure to ouabain, in vivo, leads to hypertension and DVR endothelial dysfunction, manifested as reduced [Ca(2+)](CYT) responses to both ouabain- and endothelium-dependent vasodilators.
Forty-six patients with recurrent metastatic breast cancer were treated with a combination chemotherapy including doxorubicin and mitomycin C. Myocardial contractility was monitored by means of echocardiography. During therapy there was a progressive deterioration of myocardial function, and this phenomenon was found to be linearly correlated to the cumulative dose of doxorubicin. Six patients (13.8%) developed congestive heart failure during therapy; it occurred after the median cumulative dose of 322 mg/m2 (range 135-472). Possible risk factors of cardiomyopathy could be identified in only two patients. These results suggest that mitomycin C could enhance the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin.
The protective effect on aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity by Cordyceps sinensis in the old patient was observed. 21 old patients were randomly divided into two groups. Each group received amikacin sulfate for 6 days. In addition, group A was administered Cordyceps sinensis for 7 days and group B was given placebo. The results revealed that group A developed less prominent nephrotoxicity compared with group B as evidenced by less urinary nephro-aminoglycosidase (NAGase) and beta-microglobulin in group A than those in Group B. These results suggested that Cordyceps sinensis exerted a protective effect on aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity in the old patients.
Metabolic activation of thioacetamide (CH3CSNH2) to a toxic metabolite which is responsible for its hepatotoxicity and/or its carcinogenicity has been proposed by a number of investigators. In this investigation thioacetamide and one of its metabolites, thioacetamide sulfine (CH3CSONH2), have been compared for their ability to inhibit hepatic mixed-function oxidase enzymes as well as their ability to induce hepatic necrosis. Thioacetamide sulfine was found to decrease aminopyrine N-demethylation and aniline hydroxylation at a lower dose and at an earlier time after administration than was the case with thioacetamide. In addition, at all doses examined, thioacetamide sulfine produced a more severe centrilobular hepatic necrosis than equivalent doses of thioacetamide. To determine whether the hepatic mixed-function oxidase enzyme system was involved in the biotransformation of thioacetamide and/or thioacetamide sulfine to a hepatotoxic compound(s), the severity of liver damage was examined after the administration of an inducer or inhibitors of hepatic mixed-function oxidase enzyme activity. Phenobarbital pretreatment potentiated the hepatic necrosis produced by both thioacetamide and thioacetamide sulfine. In contrast, pyrazole, SKF 525-A, and cobaltous chloride protected against the hepatic necrosis caused by thioacetamide and thioacetamide sulfine. These data suggest that both thioacetamide and thioacetamide sulfine are activated by hepatic mixed-function oxidase enzymes to a hepatotoxic compound(s). These data also suggest that the hepatotoxicity may be mediated by its metabolism to thioacetamide sulfine which, in turn, is metabolized to an ultimate toxic metabolite.
