In order to determine the activity of the renin-angiotensin system in the nephrotic syndrome, the plasma concentration of angiotensinogen was measured in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside (PA)-induced nephrosis using two different methods: a direct radioimmunoassay, which measures both angiotensinogen and des-angiotensin I-angiotensinogen, and an indirect assay, which measures angiotensin I liberated from angiotensinogen by excess renin. The plasma concentration of angiotensinogen as measured by the direct assay increased before the appearance of PA-induced hypoproteinemia or proteinuria and subsequently decreased to normal levels simultaneously with the appearance of proteinuria. The indirect assay of angiotensinogen also demonstrated an increased concentration of plasma angiotensinogen before the development of nephrosis, but the level decreased to below normal after the appearance of proteinuria. Both plasma renin concentration and renin activity also increased simultaneously with the increase in plasma angiotensinogen. The difference between the concentrations of plasma angiotensinogen determined by these methods increased before and during the early phase of PA-induced nephrosis, suggesting the increased consumption of angiotensinogen by renin during this period. Measurement of plasma corticosterone and serum interleukin-6 revealed that these circulating factors were not involved in the elevation of plasma angiotensinogen in rats with PA-induced nephrosis. These results indicate that the renin-angiotensin system is activated before the appearance of PA-induced nephrotic syndrome.
Matrix metalloproteinase 10 (MMP-10; stromelysin 2) is a member of a large family of structurally related matrix metalloproteinases, many of which have been implicated in tumor progression, invasion and metastasis. We recently identified Mmp10 as a gene that is highly induced in tumor-initiating lung bronchioalveolar stem cells (BASCs) upon activation of oncogenic Kras in a mouse model of lung adenocarcinoma. However, the potential role of Mmp10 in lung tumorigenesis has not been addressed. Here, we demonstrate that Mmp10 is overexpressed in lung tumors induced by either the smoke carcinogen urethane or oncogenic Kras. In addition, we report a significant reduction in lung tumor number and size after urethane exposure or genetic activation of oncogenic Kras in Mmp10 null (Mmp10(-/-)) mice. This inhibitory effect is reflected in a defect in the ability of Mmp10-deficient BASCs to expand and undergo transformation in response to urethane or oncogenic Kras in vivo and in vitro, demonstrating a role for Mmp10 in the tumor-initiating activity of Kras-transformed lung stem cells. To determine the potential relevance of MMP10 in human cancer we analyzed Mmp10 expression in publicly-available gene expression profiles of human cancers. Our analysis reveals that MMP10 is highly overexpressed in human lung tumors. Gene set enhancement analysis (GSEA) demonstrates that elevated MMP10 expression correlates with both cancer stem cell and tumor metastasis genomic signatures in human lung cancer. Finally, Mmp10 is elevated in many human tumor types suggesting a widespread role for Mmp10 in human malignancy. We conclude that Mmp10 plays an important role in lung tumor initiation via maintenance of a highly tumorigenic, cancer-initiating, stem-like cell population, and that Mmp10 expression is associated with stem-like, highly metastatic genotypes in human lung cancers. These results indicate that Mmp10 may represent a novel therapeutic approach to target lung cancer stem cells.
Several case reports described neurotoxic side-effects in the course of a combined clozapine-lithium treatment. Here we report on the safety and efficacy of this combination in a sample of 44 hospital patients. Medical records were retrospectively audited and a subsample of 23 patients was re-assessed. Mean total duration of combined treatment was 23.5 months. The combination (indications: prophylaxis; treatment of affective symptoms or aggression/excitement; augmentation of neuroleptic efficacy) was rated effective in 84% and adverse events were reported in 64% of the patients. Notably, most of the adverse events were benign and transient. However, 8 patients (18%) developed transient neurological adverse events that were genuinely novel in only 3 patients (7%) and coincided with high dosage of medication or high plasma levels or serotonergic (antidepressant) co-medication. Our data suggest that combined clozapine-lithium treatment may appear to be safe and effective when administered within a moderate therapeutic dose range and without serotonergic co-medication or other substances interfering with clozapine metabolism.
The systemic rotenone model of Parkinson's disease (PD) accurately replicates many aspects of the pathology of human PD and has provided insights into the pathogenesis of PD. The major limitation of the rotenone model has been its variability, both in terms of the percentage of animals that develop a clear-cut nigrostriatal lesion and the extent of that lesion. The goal here was to develop an improved and highly reproducible rotenone model of PD. In these studies, male Lewis rats in three age groups (3, 7 or 12-14 months) were administered rotenone (2.75 or 3.0 mg/kg/day) in a specialized vehicle by daily intraperitoneal injection. All rotenone-treated animals developed bradykinesia, postural instability, and/or rigidity, which were reversed by apomorphine, consistent with a lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine system. Animals were sacrificed when the PD phenotype became debilitating. Rotenone treatment caused a 45% loss of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive substantia nigra neurons and a commensurate loss of striatal dopamine. Additionally, in rotenone-treated animals, alpha-synuclein and poly-ubiquitin positive aggregates were observed in dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra. In summary, this version of the rotenone model is highly reproducible and may provide an excellent tool to test new neuroprotective strategies.
Mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisolone (MOPP) and doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine (ABVD) are well established first-line chemotherapy protocols for the treatment of Hodgkin's disease. The aim of this study was to try a new combination of drugs that individually have a proven efficacy in Hodgkin's disease but have less incidence of severe nausea, vomiting, pulmonary toxicity and sterility.
This prospective, single-arm study enrolled 66 newly diagnosed, previously untreated patients of Hodgkin's disease with stages IA (bulky)-IVB disease. They were given 6-8 courses of etoposide, vinblastine, doxorubicin and prednisolone (EVAP) as first-line chemotherapy between January 1992 and December 1997. Radiotherapy (RT) was given to the involved fields of those patients who had bulky (> or = 10 cm) stages I or II disease at presentation. The end-points were (i) complete and overall response; (ii) disease-free and overall survival; and (iii) toxicity.
Complete response was seen in 78.8% and partial response in 12.2% of patients; the overall response rate was 91%. The median follow up was 48 months. The 5-year overall and disease-free survivals were 72% and 62%, respectively. There were 3 episodes of grade IV neutropenia requiring hospitalization. One patient developed avascular necrosis of the femur. There were 2 deaths during treatment, one due to chemotoxicity, and another due to progressive disease.
The overall and complete responses were fractionally inferior to the recently published hybrid MOPP/ ABV combination and that of ABVD chemotherapy. The advantages of the EVAP combination are absence of pulmonary toxicity, markedly lower incidence of sterility and nausea and vomiting. EVAP is an attractive option and a randomized trial is warranted to assess its efficacy against established protocols.
Pre-eclampsia is one of the most serious and common complications of pregnancy. Nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker, and the vasodilator hydralazine have both been used as antihypertensive agents in this condition. The aim of this study was to determine which of these two agents is the most appropriate antihypertensive in the management of severe pre-eclampsia.
One hundred and twenty-six pre-eclamptic patients with a gestational age of more than 20 weeks were randomized to receive either 8 mg nifedipine sublingually or 5-10 mg intravenous hydralazine. Women with a history of heart failure and women receiving antihypertensive treatment during the course of the current pregnancy were excluded. For each patient the following data were recorded; the number of drug administrations, the time needed to control blood pressure, mean urinary output, the time interval between effective control and a new hypertensive crisis after each drug administration and relevant adverse effects in mother or fetus.
Effective control of blood pressure was achieved in both treatment arms. Data analysis indicated significantly fewer drug administrations in the nifedipine arm of the study. The time interval before a new hypertensive crisis following initial effective control of blood pressure was significantly longer in the nifedipine group when compared with hydralazine. Effective control of blood pressure was achieved more rapidly in multiparous patients receiving nifedipine (p=0.026). Mean urinary output before and after delivery was greater in the nifedipine arm of the study. There were no significant differences between the two groups in other variables. In addition, in neither group were there any serious adverse effects in mother or fetus.
Nifedipine is safe and more effective than hydralazine in controlling blood pressure in severe pre-eclampsia. It has the added advantage of being cheaper and more widely available than the latter and is easily administered.
Anterograde amnesia following triazolam ingestion lasting beyond the sedative-hypnotic effect of the drug has recently been reported. Two additional cases are presented involving emergency physicians.
Neuronal damage and degeneration in the rat forebrain was characterized by B4 isolectin and Fluoro-Jade labeling techniques after 4 doses of 15 mg/kg amphetamine i.p. in 70- and 180-day-old Sprague-Dawley rats. In amphetamine-dosed rats some seizure activity occurred in all rats exhibiting pronounced hyperthermia but the degree of seizure activity varied greatly between individual rats. Over 90% of the rats in both age groups that showed behavioral signs of limbic seizures had somatic degeneration in the taenia tecta within 3 days of amphetamine exposure. Degenerating small star-shaped cells were seen in the septum and hippocampus in 70-day-old rats having extensive seizure activity. Although somatic degeneration only sporadically occurred in the piriform cortex of the younger rats, extensive B4 isolectin binding to activated microglia was observed in this area. In older rats prominent somatic degeneration was seen in the piriform cortex and orbital and insular areas of the frontal cortex of rats having seizures. Damage to the basal ganglia and related areas, including the thalamus, parietal cortex and dorsal medial striatum, occurred in rats with pronounced hyperthermia but only correlated with seizures in older rats. In the more severe cases of thalamic damage the highest density of neurodegeneration was localized perivascularly. Thus, amphetamine can produce notable damage to the limbic system when seizures occur and to the basal ganglia and related areas when hyperthermia occurs but the neurotoxicity profiles in these areas are age-dependent and not produced solely by hyperthermia. Further studies to determine whether neuronal damage is the result of or the cause of amphetamine-induced seizures are necessary.
Interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) polymorphisms are associated with peptic ulcer and atrophic gastritis. This study aimed to examine effects of corpus atrophy and the genotypes of genes related to peptic ulcer, including IL-1beta, on risk of aspirin ulcer.
232 patients taking 100 mg of aspirin for cardiovascular diseases, of whom 40 had peptic ulcer, were enrolled. IL1beta, interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RN), tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, cyclooxygenase (COX)-1, cytochrome p450 2C9 (CYP2C9), UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT1A6) genotypes were determined, and serum pepsinogen levels were measured.
The polymorphisms of IL-1beta-511/-31 were significantly associated with peptic ulcer, but other genotypes were not. Serum pepsinogen I and II levels and I/II ratio were significantly higher in the ulcer group than in the non-ulcer group. Taking PPI [adjusted odds ratio (OR), 0.09; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.02-0.39], pepsinogen I of less than 50 ng/ml (OR, 0.24; 95% CI, 0.10-0.56) and IL-1beta-511 T carrier (OR, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.18-0.93) were significantly associated with peptic ulcer.
Hypoacidity related to corpus atrophy as well as taking PPI seems to be preventively associated with development of peptic ulcer among low dose aspirin users.
The various methods used to treat cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) have not given consistent results. The aim of the present study was to compare the efficacy of a solution of meglumine antimoniate (MA; 85 mg Sb/ml) given intralesionally (i.l.) with that of the same solution given intramuscularly (i.m.). Eighty CL patients, with a total of 147 lesions, were randomly allocated into the two treatment groups. Forty were injected i.m. with MA (15 mg Sb/kg.day) on 6 days/week until 12 injections had been given to each. The lesions of the other 40 patients were infiltrated with MA (0.2-0.8 ml/lesion) every other day for 30 days. After 15 days' therapy, none of the lesions on those treated i.m. had fully healed (although five lesions showed some improvement) whereas two lesions on those treated i.l. had fully healed and 10 showed good improvement. After 30 days, 46 (68%) of the 68 lesions on those treated i.m. had healed completely, 11 (16%) had improved, and five (8%) worsened. The corresponding values for the 66 lesions on those treated i.l. were 48 (73%), 10 (15%) and three (5%). There was no statistically significant difference between the two treatment groups, either in terms of satisfactory response (lesions fully healed or improved) or unsatisfactory response (lesions unchanged or advanced), when assessed on day 30 (P > 0.5). Intralesional antimony is a rapidly effective, safe and economical method of treating simple CL, particularly in patients with cardiac, liver or renal disease, for whom antimonials are contra-indicated.
The metronidazole resistance of Helicobacter pylori strains has increased rapidly.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of new 1-week regimens containing ranitidine bismuth citrate, furazolidone and either amoxicillin or tetracycline.
One hundred and twenty patients with H. pylori-positive inactive duodenal ulcer or non-ulcer dyspepsia diagnosed by endoscopy were recruited randomly to receive one of two regimens for 7 days: ranitidine bismuth citrate, 350 mg b.d., furazolidone, 100 mg b.d., and either amoxicillin, 1000 mg b.d. (n=60), or tetracycline, 500 mg b.d. (n=60). H. pylori infection was identified by rapid urease testing and histology. 13C-Urea breath test was performed to evaluate the cure of H. pylori infection at least 4 weeks after completion of triple therapy.
The eradication rates of H. pylori by ranitidine bismuth citrate-furazolidone-amoxicillin and ranitidine bismuth citrate-furazolidone-tetracycline regimens were 82% and 85% (P > 0.05), respectively, by intention-to-treat analysis, and 85% and 91% (P > 0.05), respectively, by per protocol analysis. Adverse effects were mild in both ranitidine bismuth citrate-furazolidone-amoxicillin and ranitidine bismuth citrate-furazolidone-tetracycline groups.
One-week regimens containing ranitidine bismuth citrate, furazolidone and amoxicillin or tetracycline are well tolerated and effective for the eradication of H. pylori.
Gilbert syndrome (GS) is characterized by intermittent unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia without structural liver damage, affecting about 10% of the white population. In GS the UGT1A1*28 variant reduces bilirubin conjugation by 70% and is associated with irinotecan and protease inhibitor side effects. The aim of this study was to characterize potential in vivo consequences of UGT1A gene variability in GS. Three hundred GS patients (UGT1A1*28 homozygous) and 249 healthy blood donors (HBD) were genotyped for UGT1A (UGT1A1*28, UGT1A3-66 T>C, UGT1A6*3a, UGT1A7*3) and transporter single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (SCLO1B1 p.V174A, SCLO1B1 p.N130D, ABCC2 p.I1324I, ABCC2-24 UTR) using TaqMan-5'-nuclease-assays. A humanized transgenic UGT1A-SNP and corresponding wildtype mouse model were established carrying the GS-associated UGT1A variant haplotype. UGT1A transcript and protein expression, and transcriptional activation were studied in vivo. Homozygous UGT1A1*28 GS individuals were simultaneously homozygous for UGT1A3-66 T>C (91%), UGT1A6*2a (77%), and UGT1A7*3 (77%). Seventy-six percent of GS and only 9% of HBD were homozygous for the variant haplotype spanning four UGT1A genes. SCLO1B1 and ABCC2 SNPs showed no differences. In transgenic humanized UGT1A SNP and wildtype mice this UGT1A haplotype led to lower UGT1A messenger RNA (mRNA) expression and UGT1A protein synthesis. UGT1A transcriptional activation by dioxin, phenobarbital, and endotoxin was significantly reduced in SNP mice.
Our data redefine the genetic basis behind GS. In vivo data studying the genotype present in 76% of GS individuals suggest that transcription and transcriptional activation of glucuronidation genes responsible for conjugation and detoxification is directly affected, leading to lower responsiveness. This study suggests that GS should be considered a potential risk factor for drug toxicity.
Diphenhydramine is a histamine-1 receptor antagonist of ethanolamine origin with anticholinergic, sedative, antivertigo, antiemetic, antidyskinetic, and local anesthetic properties. It inhibits the fast sodium channels and, at higher concentrations, also the potassium channels, inhibition of which may result in QT interval prolongation on electrocardiogram. The markedly abnormal ventricular repolarization is rare with diphenhydramine overdose. We report a case where a young woman who took moderate overdose of diphenhydramine (625 mg) along with acetaminophen developed prolonged QT interval with strikingly abnormal T waves. These changes reverted to normal with treatment. Patient did not experience torsade de pointes, possibly secondary to the protective effect of the diphenhydramine overdose-related tachycardia. As the tachycardia caused by diphenhydramine overdose seems to protect against torsade de pointes, it may be practical to avoid bradycardia in acute phase of diphenhydramine toxicity. Acetaminophen has not been shown to prolong QT interval or effect cardiac repolarization.
This ongoing phase II trial was designed to determine the antitumor activity and cardiotoxicity of a combination of doxorubicin (50 mg/m2) and paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) (175 to 225 mg/m2 over 3 hours) as first-line chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. Of 76 patients entered so far, 57 who had received at least three courses of chemotherapy are assessable for efficacy and cardiac toxicity. A slight majority (57%) of the patients entered had prior adjuvant chemotherapy, including 33% with anthracycline-containing combinations. An objective response was achieved by 70% of patients, with 18% complete responders. The main noncardiac toxicities were alopecia, neutropenia, mucositis, and peripheral neuropathy. Overall, after a median cumulative doxorubicin dose of 350 mg/m2, the evolution of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) values did not significantly decrease from baseline to the sixth course of therapy. However, LVEF values decreased significantly in eight patients (14%). The LVEF decreased by more than 14% over basal values in three patients, although the final determination was still above the lower limits of normal. The remaining five patients had LVEF decreases that fell below the lower limits of normal (33% to 48%). None of the patients developed clinically evident heart failure. Our results indicate that the combination of doxorubicin (50 mg/m2) plus paclitaxel (175 to 225 mg/m2) is effective and does not induce a clinically relevant cardiotoxicity.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections and methamphetamine use are emerging public health problems. We conducted a case-control investigation to determine risk factors for MRSA skin and soft tissue infections (SSTIs) in residents of a largely rural southeastern community in the United States. Case-patients were persons >12 years old who had culturable SSTIs; controls had no SSTIs. Of 119 SSTIs identified, 81 (68.1%) were caused by MRSA. Methamphetamine use was reported in 9.9% of case-patients and 1.8% of controls. After we adjusted for age, sex, and race, patients with MRSA SSTIs were more likely than controls to have recently used methamphetamine (odds ratio 5.10, 95% confidence interval 1.55-16.79). MRSA caused most SSTIs in this population. Transmission of MRSA may be occurring among methamphetamine users in this community.
Compound heterozygotes of the haemochromatosis gene (HFE) variants, H63D and C282Y, have raised transferrin saturation compared with that in the wild type. In the cohort of the Oxford Project To Investigate Memory and Ageing (OPTIMA), bicarriers of the HFE C282Y and the transferrin C2 gene variants are at five times greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease; the addition of HFE H63D may raise the risk still further.
To investigate transferrin saturation by HFE and transferrin genotype among people without dementia-that is, controls and those with mild cognitive impairment (MCI)-and also among those with Alzheimer's disease.
Serum iron status and genotype were examined of 177 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 69 patients with MCI and 197 controls from the OPTIMA cohort.
Although each of these variants alone had relatively little effect on iron status, the combination of either HFE C282Y and HFE H63D or of HFE C282Y and transferrin C2 markedly raised transferrin saturation in those without dementia, but had little effect in those with mature Alzheimer's disease.
These combinations may raise the risk for Alzheimer's disease, owing to higher iron loads and therefore oxidative stress in the preclinical phase. If replicated, these findings will have implications for the prevention of Alzheimer's disease.
To determine whether hypertriglyceridemia is associated with systemic inflammation, which may contribute to the increased cardiovascular risk in patients who have hypertriglyceridemia. In addition, we investigated whether fibrates reverse this inflammatory state.
Serum lipid levels, body mass index, insulin resistance, and inflammatory parameters were compared between 18 patients who had severe hypertriglyceridemia without cardiovascular disease and 20 normolipidemic controls. We measured the ex vivo production capacity of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-6 after whole-blood stimulation with lipopolysaccharide, as well as circulating levels of C-reactive protein and fibrinogen. A randomized controlled trial was conducted to determine whether bezafibrate (400 mg administered daily for 6 weeks) affected these parameters in hypertriglyceridemic patients.
When compared with normolipidemic controls, hypertriglyceridemic patients had significantly lower high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and higher triglyceride levels, body mass index, and insulin resistance. In addition, hypertriglyceridemic patients had a significantly higher production capacity of TNF-alpha (mean difference, 11 700 pg/mL; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 7800 to 15,700 pg/mL]) and IL-6 (mean difference, 20,400 pg/mL; 95% CI: 7800 to 32,900 pg/mL), and higher levels of C-reactive protein (mean difference, 0.8 mg/L; 95% CI: 0.1 to 2.4 mg/L) and fibrinogen (mean difference, 0.8 g/dL; 95% CI: 0.3 to 1.3 g/dL). Bezafibrate therapy significantly increased HDL cholesterol levels, reduced triglyceride and insulin resistance levels, and reduced production capacity of TNF-alpha and IL-6, as well as levels of C-reactive protein and fibrinogen.
Systemic inflammation is present in patients who have the clinical phenotype that is associated with severe hypertriglyceridemia, and may contribute to the increased risk of cardiovascular disease in these patients. Bezafibrate has anti-inflammatory effects in these patients.
The jitteriness syndrome (jitteriness, shakiness, increased anxiety, and insomnia) can develop with low doses of tricyclic antidepressants in patients who are sensitive to these drugs. The authors review the antidepressant treatment of 180 patients. Only those with panic attacks had jitteriness, usually during the first week of treatment. Desipramine was associated with a much higher frequency of jitteriness than was imipramine. Tolerance to jitteriness occurred with continued treatment, but fewer patients with jitteriness responded to treatment, apparently because of difficulties in increasing the dose. Characteristics of the jitteriness syndrome in panic disorder patients are consistent with noradrenergic hypotheses of panic anxiety. The clinical and theoretical implications of these findings are discussed.
A relatively high incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) occurs in patients undergoing a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Prophylaxis of PONV is usually achieved with a single-dose antiemetic drug administered during the surgical procedure. The aim of the current study was to compare the antiemetic activity of different 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor antagonists with that of metoclopramide.
In a randomised, double-blind study, 75 patients received the following: Group M, 10 mg metoclopramide; Group K, 40 mcg . kg(-1) granisetron; and Group Z, 15 mcg . kg(-1) ondansetron intravenously (IV) diluted in 20 cc 0.9% NaCl (n = 25 of each) i.v. immediately before the induction of anesthesia. The standard general anesthetic technique, which consisted of sevoflurane in air-oxygen and a fentanyl perfusion, was used. Nausea, vomiting, and safety assessments were performed continuously during the first 24 hours after anesthesia.
There were no statistically significant differences for demographic data, American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA), operation duration, or anesthesia time among the three groups (P > 0.05). Evaluated nausea and vomiting scores in the first 3-hour period revealed that each of the drugs had a similar antiemetic effect (P > 0.05). Nausea and vomiting scores, evaluated between the 4-24 hours, also revealed that the group M scores were obviously higher than groups K and Z (P < 0.001). A comparison of incidences of dose administrations were statistically not significant among the groups (P > 0.05).
Granisetron, when given prophylactically, resulted in a significantly lower incidence of PONV than metoclopramide and ondansetron, whereas metoclopramide was ineffective. Garnisetron may be an effective treatment in the proflaxy of PONV.
G9a is a mammalian histone methyltransferase that contributes to the epigenetic silencing of tumor suppressor genes. Emerging evidence suggests that G9a is required to maintain the malignant phenotype, but the role of G9a function in mediating tumor metastasis has not been explored. Here, we show that G9a is expressed in aggressive lung cancer cells, and its elevated expression correlates with poor prognosis. RNAi-mediated knockdown of G9a in highly invasive lung cancer cells inhibited cell migration and invasion in vitro and metastasis in vivo. Conversely, ectopic G9a expression in weakly invasive lung cancer cells increased motility and metastasis. Mechanistic investigations suggested that repression of the cell adhesion molecule Ep-CAM mediated the effects of G9a. First, RNAi-mediated knockdown of Ep-CAM partially relieved metastasis suppression imposed by G9a suppression. Second, an inverse correlation between G9a and Ep-CAM expression existed in primary lung cancer. Third, Ep-CAM repression was associated with promoter methylation and an enrichment for dimethylated histone H3K9. G9a knockdown reduced the levels of H3K9 dimethylation and decreased the recruitment of the transcriptional cofactors HP1, DNMT1, and HDAC1 to the Ep-CAM promoter. Our findings establish a functional contribution of G9a overexpression with concomitant dysregulation of epigenetic pathways in lung cancer progression.
Hyperlipidemia is common after cardiac transplantation and it is a risk factor for post-transplantation coronary artery disease. Immunosuppression with corticosteroids and cyclosporine has been associated with hyperlipidemia. Pravastatin, a HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, has been shown to be effective and safe for cholesterol reduction in adult heart transplant recipients. To our knowledge the safety and efficacy of pravastatin therapy in pediatric and adolescent heart transplant populations have not been previously analyzed. Therefore, we evaluated lipid profiles, liver transaminases, rejection data, and possible side effects in pediatric and adolescent cardiac transplant recipients treated with pravastatin.
The study group consisted of 40 cardiac transplant recipients 10 to 21 years old (mean age 16.9 years). Twenty-two patients received pravastatin in addition to an immunosuppressive regimen of either cyclosporine or tacrolimus, azathioprine or mycophenolate mofetil, and prednisone. Serial determinations of total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-density lipoprotein, and triglycerides were available for all pravastatin-treated patients. Pre-treatment lipid values and hepatic transaminases were compared with those measured after therapy with pravastatin. Comparison of pravastatin-induced lipid reduction between groups treated with cyclosporine vs tacrolimus was also made.
Patients receiving pravastatin experienced a mean 32 mg/dl decrease in TC (p < 0.005) and a mean 31 mg/dl decrease in LDL (p < 0.005), regardless of their immunosuppressive regimen. No statistical differences occurred in the magnitude of mean lipid reduction induced by pravastatin between the groups treated with cyclosporine vs tacrolimus. No significant changes in hepatic transaminase levels were noted, and no clinical evidence of pravastatin-induced myositis occurred in any subjects.
Pravastatin therapy is effective and safe when used in pediatric and adolescent cardiac transplant recipients. Although the pravastatin-induced reduction in TC and LDL was more pronounced in patients receiving cyclosporine, the reduction was not statistically different from that in the tacrolimus group. No evidence of hepatic dysfunction or rhabdomyolysis in patients treated with pravastatin was noted. Long-term studies are required to evaluate the effect of pravastatin therapy on the incidence of accelerated coronary atherosclerosis in this population.
