To report a case of ziprasidone- and lithium-induced neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS).
A 47-year-old white male with a history of schizoaffective disorder was admitted to the hospital due to an exacerbation of severe mania. He had been taking lithium 450 mg twice daily and divalproex sodium 750 mg/day. On hospital day 2, ziprasidone 80 mg twice daily was added, and as-needed doses of intramuscular ziprasidone 20 mg and lorazepam 2 mg were used for agitation. On day 6, the patient developed hyperthermia (39.4 degrees C), elevated creatine kinase 26,000 units/L and white blood cell (WBC) count (20.7 x 10(3)/microL), myoglobinuria, hypotension (68/40 mm Hg), altered mental status, and tachypnea (28 breaths/min). This case is notable for the absence of muscle rigidity, which presents in greater than 90% of patients with NMS taking traditional antipsychotics.
This case of ziprasidone- and lithium-induced NMS is of probable cause, as determined by the Naranjo probability scale. The patient presented with symptoms consistent with NMS 4 days after initiation of ziprasidone and lithium. The majority of NMS cases present with the core features of hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, and elevated CK levels. Other frequently seen symptoms include altered mental status, tachypnea, tachycardia, elevated WBC count, hypotension, diaphoresis, and myoglobinuria. Our patient presented with 2 of the core symptoms, but did not develop muscle rigidity at any time. NMS criteria include muscle rigidity as one of the major presenting symptoms. Recent literature suggests that perhaps NMS due to novel antipsychotics presents with less muscle rigidity than is seen with traditional agents due to their lower affinity for the dopamine D2 receptor.
This case illustrates that NMS due to the novel antipsychotic ziprasidone may present with many of the core symptoms of the syndrome, but possibly less muscle rigidity than is seen with traditional agents.
In a prospective study of 210 consecutively seen patients receiving nafcillin, no patient's therapy was discontinued because of clinically manifested or suspected nephritis. Administration of nafcillin was discontinued because of an adverse reaction in only two patients, one with a rash and one with neutropenia. In seven of the ten patients in whom renal dysfunction developed during treatment, renal function improved while the patients continued to receive nafcillin. In the remaining three patients, renal failure was attributed to other factors including rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria, gastrointestinal hemorrhage and hypotension, and what appeared to be aminoglycoside toxicity. No renal biopsy studies were done because none were clinically indicated. Although the results of this study do not rule out the possibility that nafcillin may induce nephritis, if it does occur it appears in such a mild form-manifested solely as urinary sediment abnormalities-or so infrequently that it was not detected in this group of patients. In four patients, leukopenia could not be explained on any basis other than nafcillin administration.
Harmaline-induced tremor in rodents is a model of essential tremor. We utilized a novel assay to quantify tremor activity in mice and found that tremor activity was dependent on harmaline dose. The first-line clinical essential tremor treatments propranolol, primidone and gabapentin and gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB) significantly attenuated harmaline-induced tremor. The anticonvulsants valproate and carbamazepine and the mood stabilizer lithium suppressed harmaline-induced tremor. The gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) receptor subtype A receptor agonist muscimol attenuated harmaline-induced tremor. By contrast, the GABA(B) receptor agonist R-baclofen increased tremor at the lowest dose tested, but had no effects at higher doses. Administration of the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists phencyclidine or 5R,10S-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate (MK-801) attenuated harmaline-induced tremor. The competitive NMDA antagonist D-4-[(2E)-3-phosphono-2-propenyl]-2-piperazinecarboxylic acid (d-CPPene) dose-dependently blocked harmaline-induced tremor, as did the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist 2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium salt (NBQX). The metabotropic glutamate subtype 5 (mGlu5) receptor antagonist 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP) was inactive against tremor. The dopamine reuptake inhibitor GBR12909 and the dopamine D(1)/D(2) receptor agonist apomorphine attenuated harmaline-induced tremor. Follow-up studies indicated that dopamine D(2)/D(3) but not dopamine D(1) receptor activation likely mediates the effects of apomorphine and GBR12909. Administration of compounds with sedative side-effects had no effect on tremor activity. In summary, the present data confirm the pharmacological validity of harmaline-induced tremor in mice, quantified via a novel assay, as an animal model of essential tremor. Further, these data provide additional evidence for the roles of ionotropic glutamate, GABA(A) and dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptors in the neurobiology of harmaline-induced tremor.
Association between pegylated liposomal doxorubicin-based regimens and palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia have just been emphasized, whereas the relationship between previous treatment and palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia is still a matter of discussion. We evaluate the relationship between previous chemotherapy treatments and the development of palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia in patients receiving pegylated liposomal doxorubicin-based regimens.
Between January 2005 and November 2006, 92 patients received regimens including pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. Patients were divided into three groups based on pegylated liposomal doxorubicin dosing interval length, different dose chosen, and previous chemotherapy.
Among pretreated patients receiving regimens including 30 mg/m2 of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin repeated every three weeks, the incidence of palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia was not significantly higher than in unpretreated patients receiving the same weekly schedule (P = 0.4). There was no difference in the incidence of palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia between pretreated patients with regimens including 30 mg/m2 of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin every three weeks and pretreated patients receiving 20 mg/m2 of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin every two weeks (P = 0.8). The prevalence of palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia observed in the unpretreated group exposed to 30 mg/m2 every three weeks was comparable to that of the pretreated group receiving 20 mg/m2 biweekly (P = 0.3). However, excluding all the patients who developed grade 1 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, the incidence of grade 2 and 3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia observed in pretreated patients receiving regimens including 20 mg/m2 of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin biweekly was significantly higher than in unpretreated patients receiving 30 mg/m2 of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin every three weeks (P = 0.001).
Our findings indicate that the pretreatment is not involved in the increased incidence of any grade palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia. On the contrary, the study could suggest that the type of previous treatment may be an important factor in the development of more severe forms of palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia.
The antidepressant amoxapine is structurally related to the neuroleptic loxapine and can cause side effects related to hypothesized dopamine receptor blockade. This case of withdrawal dyskinesia after amoxapine discontinuation further demonstrates its potential for causing side effects associated with neuroleptics.
Pain in multiple sclerosis (MS) is more common than has previously been believed. About 28% of all MS patients suffer from central pain (CP), a pain that is difficult to treat. In the present study we have investigated the responsiveness of this pain to morphine. Fourteen opioid-free patients (eight woman and six men) with constant, non-fluctuating, long-lasting CP caused by MS were investigated. Placebo (normal saline), morphine and naloxone were given intravenously in a standardized manner. The study design was non-randomized, single blind and placebo controlled. Ten patients experienced less than 50% pain reduction by placebo and less than 50% pain reduction by morphine. Four patients were opioid responders, i.e. had minimal or no effect on pain by placebo, >50% pain reduction after morphine and >25% pain increase after naloxone, given intravenously following morphine. However, this response was obtained after high doses of morphine (43 mg, 47 mg, 50 mg and 25 mg; mean 41 mg). Thus, compared with nociceptive pain, only a minority of the patients with CP due to MS responded to morphine and only at high doses. The present results are in accord with experimental studies indicating that neuropathic pain is poorly responsive but not totally unresponsive to opioids. The results do not support the routine use of strong opioids in MS patients with CP.
An 87-year-old man was scheduled for the 11th transurethral bladder tumor resection (TURBT). He had a history of non-active syphilis for 21 years, diabetes mellitus for 7 years, and severe emphysema. Preoperative physical examination of the lower extremities, revealed loss of knee-jerk reflex, and loss of vibratory and proprioceptive perception. Four years previously, he underwent TURBT twice under spinal anesthesia with dibucaine, which caused severe leg pain during anesthesia. Therefore, subsequent TURBTs (eight times) were performed under general anesthesia with tracheal intubation, which frequently caused postoperative respiratory distress. Recently, bupivacaine, less neurotoxic than dibucaine, was on the market in Japan for use in spinal anesthesia. Therefore we planned spinal anesthesia using 0.5% bupivacaine, 2.0 ml. This time, he did not complain of leg pain during anesthesia, and postoperative conditions were satisfactory. We can conclude that bupivacaine is very useful for spinal anesthesia especially in patients with a history of leg pain by spinal anesthesia with dibucaine.
We assessed the exposure of total N-nitroso compounds (TNOCs) in the inhabitants of high- and low-risk areas for esophageal cancer in southern China. Samples of 24 hr diet and 12 hr overnight urine were collected from 120 male adults in each of the 2 areas, a high-risk area (Nan'ao County) and a low-risk area (Lufeng County) for esophageal cancer. Annual standardized mortality rates of esophageal cancer in Nan'ao and Lufeng are 110/10(6) and 10/10(6) respectively. The 240 healthy male subjects (35-64 years old) were selected by a 3-stage random cluster sample procedure. Levels of TNOCs, NAAs and volatile nitrosamines in the samples were measured. The TNOC detection rate (95%) in the diet, the TNOC daily intake (4.25 +/- 0.84 micromol), TNOC excretion levels (0.04 +/- 0.01 nmol/12 hr) and daily intake of volatile nitrosamines (5.84 +/- 0.71 micromol) in the high-risk area were significantly greater than values in the low-risk area (A +/- B = mean +/- SE). The TNOC detection rate in the diet, the TNOC daily intake, TNOC excretion levels and daily intake of volatile nitrosamines in the low-risk area were 70%, 0.25 +/- 0.06 micromol, 0.02 +/- 0.01 nmol/12 hr and 3.18 +/- 0.31 micromol, respectively. NAA excretion levels showed no difference between the 2 areas (16.3 +/- 7.18 micromol/12 hr for Nan'ao and 31.2 +/- 26.4 micromol/12 hr for Lufeng). Thus, TNOCs are implicated in the etiology of esophageal cancer in southern China.
Cholangitis in rats induced by N-formyl L-methionine L-leucine L-tyrosine (fMLT) is characterized by infiltration of mononuclear cells around bile ducts in portal tracts.
We investigated the initial process in fMLT-induced cholangitis histochemically.
Administration of fMLT into the colons of adult male Wistar rats with acetate-induced colitis resulted in an infiltration of mostly macrophages and granulocytes into the portal tracts on day 1. Abnormal peroxidation as demonstrated by the nitro blue tetrazolium (NBT) reaction occurred in bile duct cells as well, although no apparent necrosis of the bile duct cells was observed. On day 4, the majority of the inflammatory cells in the portal tracts were CD4+ or CD8+ T lymphocytes. The oxidative products of the NBT reaction also disappeared from the bile duct cells. Administration of carrageenan, a potent inhibitor of macrophage function, resulted in a significant decrease in lymphocyte infiltration into the portal tracts. On day 8, portal inflammation subsided.
In formyl peptide-induced cholangitis, macrophages and granulocytes may injure bile ducts transiently. Further, macrophages are necessary for the subsequent migration of T lymphocytes around the bile ducts.
2,6-Di-tert-butyl-4-(3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-propyl)-phenol (CGP7930) is a recently reported positive allosteric modulator of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(B) receptors. In this study, we assessed the ability of CGP7930 to modulate the baclofen-induced depression of dopamine (DA) neuron activity via the activation of GABA(B) receptors in the ventral tegmental area in rat midbrain slices. The selective GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, depressed the spontaneous firing rate of DA neurons in a concentration-dependent manner (EC50 = 0.27 microM, n = 11). CGP7930 (30 microM) significantly (P < 0.05) shifted the baclofen concentration-response curve to the left (EC50 = 0.15 microM, n = 5). The effects of baclofen alone or baclofen coapplied with CGP7930 were fully blocked by 1 microM (2S)-3-[[(1S)-1-(3,4-dichloropheny)ethyl]amino-2-hydroxypropyl] (phenylmethyl) phosphinic acid (CGP55845), a potent and selective GABA(B) receptor antagonist. In similar experiments, N-[3,3-diphenylpropyl]-alpha-methylbenzylamine (fendiline) (30 or 50 microM), a compound shown to potentiate GABA(B) receptor-mediated cortical hyperpolarisation, also significantly enhanced the inhibitory effect of baclofen. It is therefore concluded that the recently reported GABA(B) receptor modulators, CGP7930 and fendiline, can enhance GABA(B) receptor-mediated depression of DA neuronal activity. This finding suggests a therapeutic potential for GABA(B) potentiators for the treatment of diseases associated with a hyperfunctional mesocorticolimbic system.
High-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2), given via continuous intravenous (i.v.) infusion, induces lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cell cytotoxicity against tumor cells. These LAKs exhibit enhanced cytotoxicity against tumor cells in vitro when they are subsequently pulsed with additional IL-2. Famotidine may increase LAK cytotoxicity against neoplastic cells by allowing for greater IL-2 uptake at the IL-2 receptor on lymphocytes. Twenty-three (23) patients received famotidine 20 mg i.v. twice per day and continuous-infusion IL-2 (18 MIU/m(2)/24 hours) for 72 hours, followed by a 24-hour rest, then 1-3 daily-pulse IL-2 doses of 18 MIU/m(2) over 15-30 minutes preceded by famotidine 20 mg i.v. Cycles were repeated every 3 weeks. The most common metastatic sites were lung, lymph node, and subcutaneous/soft tissue. The most common toxicities were fever, rigor, nausea/emesis, hypophosphatemia, hypotension, elevated creatinine, and pulmonary edema. There were no treatment-related deaths. One (1) complete (4%) and 9 partial responses (39%) were seen (43% total response rate; 95% confidence interval: 22%-65%). Median survival for all patients is 13 months. The combination of famotidine and high-dose continuous infusion + pulse IL-2 is active in metastatic melanoma.
The present experiment was planned to study nephrotoxicity in experimental diabetic rats under sub-chronic exposure to arsenic. Alloxan induced diabetic and control rats were exposed to sodium arsenite (0 and 5.5 mg/kg, orally) for 30 days. More pronounced nephrotoxic effects were noted in arsenic exposed diabetic group as evidenced by increased blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine and relative kidney weight and decreased level of reduced glutathione and glutathione peroxidase activity compared to non arsenic exposed diabetic group. Increased level of lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation, superoxide dismutase and catalase activities under diabetic condition remained unchanged in arsenic exposed diabetic group compared to unexposed diabetic group.
The purpose of this study was to examine the respiratory depression produced by diazepam and by midazolam. Ventilatory and mouth occlusion pressure responses to CO2 were measured in eight healthy volunteers before and after the intravenous administration of 0.3 mg/kg of diazepam and 0.15 mg/kg of midazolam. The mean ventilatory response to CO2 (mean +/- SEM) decreased after administration of diazepam or midazolam from 2.0 +/- 0.2 to 1.3 +/- 0.1 1.min-1/torr or from 2.1 +/- 0.2 to 1.4 +/- 0.1 1.min-1/torr, respectively. In the same volunteers, the mouth occlusion pressure responses decreased from 0.54 +/- 0.05 to 0.30 +/- 0.04 cm H2O/torr after midazolam and from 0.67 +/- 0.12 to 0.28 +/- 0.07 cm H2O/torr after diazepam. When compared with the control slopes of the ventilatory and mouth occlusion pressure responses, the drug slopes were significantly different. Respiration was similarly depressed after diazepam and after midazolam. That both the ventilatory and mouth occlusion pressure responses to CO2 are equally depressed by intravenous injections of midazolam and of diazepam at equipotent doses suggests a direct depression of the central respiratory drive by these drugs.
To compare the ocular-hypertensive and anti-inflammatory response to rimexolone (116-hydroxy-16alphafluoro-6alphamethylpresdnisolone) and fluorometholone (21-deoxy-9alphafluoro-6alphamethylprednisolone) therapy in children's eyes.
With parental consent, children who underwent surgical procedures for bilateral symmetric strabismus from January 18, 2000, through November 16, 2001, were recruited. One eye was randomized to receive topical 1% rimexolone while the contralateral eye received topical 0.1% fluorometholone, 4 times daily for 4 weeks.
Intraocular pressures and anti-inflammatory responses were the main outcome measures and were serially measured postoperatively for 8 weeks.
Fifty-four children, aged from 4 to 8 years (mean [SD] age, 5.33 [1.26] years), participated in the study. Intraocular pressure increased significantly in both treatment groups compared with the preoperative values (P<.001). The mean (SD) peak intraocular pressure was significantly higher in the rimexolone-treated group, 19.7 (6.1) vs 17.6 (4.6) mm Hg (P<.001). Similarly, the mean (SD) net increase in intraocular pressure (P<.001), was also higher in the rimexolone-treated eyes, 5.9 (4.4) vs 3.9 (4.1) mm Hg (P<.001). In addition, a greater percentage of the rimexolone-treated patients had no conjunctival erythema on days 13 (11.1% vs 0.0%) and 20 (88.9% vs 55.6%) (P =.03).
Rimexolone seems to be a more effective anti-inflammatory agent than fluorometholone. However, unlike adults, the ocular-hypertensive effect in children treated with rimexolone was higher. It would be desirable to monitor the intraocular pressure regularly when rimexolone therapy is used in children.
Aluminium phosphide (ALP) a major suicidal agent in the developing countries is freely available as grain fumigant. It is highly toxic to lungs, heart and blood vessels causing pulmonary oedema, shock and arrhythmias. There is massive focal myocardial damage resulting in raised cardiac enzymes. Clinical manifestations were nausea and vomiting (32), dyspnoea and palpitations (25 each), cyanosis (12), hypotension (12) and shock (15). Cardiac arrhythmias were present in 28 cases and hypermagnesaemia in 13 patients. Mean serum magnesium level (1.95 +/- 0.2O, mEq/L) was significantly raised compared to mean magnesium level in control subjects (1.62 +/- 0.23 mEq/L). Hypermagnesaemia occurs due to myocardial and liver damage. Out of 32 cases studied, 22 died 18 within 24 hours of ALP ingestion. Thirty two cases of ALP were studied.
Xestospongin C (XC), which is a group of macrocyclic bis-1-oxaquinolizidines, is a potent inhibitor of sarcoendoplasmic reticulum calcium transport ATPase and IP3 receptor. Nevertheless, very less information is available regarding whether XC induces AML differentiation. We investigated the potential role of XC in the differentiation of human leukemia HL60 cells and mechanisms underlying XC actin. XC treatment inhibited proliferation by inducing G1-phase cell cycle arrest in the HL60 cells. In addition, XC induced differentiation of HL60 cells into the CD14(+) monocytic lineage, which was indicated by morphological changes, nitroblue tetrazolium reduction assay, and expressions of CD11b and CD14 surface antigens. Our results also showed that XC promotes phagocytic activity and granularity in HL60 cells, suggesting that the cells are functionally activated. Furthermore, XC enhanced tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α-mediated cytotoxic effect by increasing the numbers of TNF receptors. Moreover, we showed that XC activates extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway in the differentiation stages. Inhibition of ERK activation using PD98059 significantly decreased NBT+HL60 cells induced by XC treatment. Taken together, the results show that XC promotes monocytic differentiation of HL60 cells via ERK pathway activation, suggesting that XC could be a candidate for use as a differentiation-inducing agent for AML treatment.
Dipyridamole has liberalized referrals for stress TI-201 chloride (thallium) studies at the Iowa City Veterans Administration Medical Center. Seventy-five percent of referrals now receive dipyridamole and, unlike patients who tolerate conventional exercise testing, these patients are often quite debilitated. Therefore, the hemodynamic consequences of dipyridamole were reviewed in 120 consecutive, physically-limited patients referred for thallium scintigraphy following an average oral dose of 5.4 mg/kg. Each patient's blood pressure was measured every 5 minutes for 1 hour after dipyridamole and compared with several clinical factors to determine if blood pressure change was predictable. In all patients, blood pressure changed from 136 +/- 21/83 +/- 15 (mean +/- 1 SD) to 117 +/- 25/72 +/- 15 following dipyridamole administration. One hundred nine of the 120 patients had a blood pressure decline from 137 +/- 21/82 +/- 12 to 113 +/- 21/70 +/- 13. Of the 109, 43% (N = 47) had a systolic blood pressure decline greater than 20 mmHg, 16% (n = 18) greater than 40 mmHg, and 13% (n = 14) greater than 50 mmHg. Thirteen percent (n = 14) required emergent reversal of the dipyridamole with aminophylline. Significant hypotension is relatively common but generally unpredictable after oral dipyridamole. Therefore, patient eligibility criteria should be carefully considered; strict hemodynamic monitoring must be routine in the usual patient undergoing thallium scintigraphy after oral dipyridamole challenge.
In normotensive Sprague-Dawley rats and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats stimulation of renal mechanoreceptors or chemoreceptors by increasing ureteral pressure or renal pelvic perfusion with 0.9 M NaCl results in a contralateral inhibitory renorenal reflex response with contralateral diuresis and natriuresis. However, in 14-15-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) renal sensory receptor stimulation failed to elicit a contralateral inhibitory renorenal reflex response. The present study was performed to examine whether the lack of a renorenal reflex response in SHR was related to elevated arterial pressure by studying the responses to renal sensory receptor stimulation in 5-6-week-old SHR and in 12-16-week-old SHR that had been treated with captopril from 3 weeks of age to prevent the development of hypertension. In 5-6-week-old SHR, mean arterial pressure was 113 +/- 3 mm Hg. Graded increases of ureteral pressure of 15 and 29 mm Hg resulted in graded increases in ipsilateral afferent renal nerve activity of 57 +/- 22% and 120 +/- 38%. Contralateral urinary sodium excretion increased from 0.26 +/- 0.06 to 0.35 +/- 0.07 mumol/min/g and from 0.36 +/- 0.08 to 0.46 +/- 0.11 mumol/min/g, respectively. In captopril-treated SHR, mean arterial pressure was 109 +/- 3 mm Hg. Increasing ureteral pressure by 34 mm Hg increased ipsilateral afferent renal nerve activity 65 +/- 21% and contralateral urinary sodium excretion from 1.28 +/- 0.24 to 1.53 +/- 0.30 mumol/min/g. Similar results were produced by renal chemoreceptor stimulation. It is concluded that renal sensory receptor stimulation results in a contralateral inhibitory renorenal reflex response in 5-6-week-old SHR and in SHR treated with captopril to prevent the development of hypertension. These results suggest that the previously demonstrated lack of a renorenal reflex response to renal sensory receptor stimulation in hypertensive SHR is related to the maintenance of hypertension.
Abnormalities in dopamine neurotransmission are thought to underlie the generation of dystonic movements. The authors performed a case-control allelic association study in patients with the focal dystonia blepharospasm, using polymorphisms in the dopamine receptor and transporter genes. Allele 2 of a DRD5 dinucleotide repeat was significantly associated with blepharospasm. This may indicate a pathogenic role for this receptor.
Cadmium (Cd) and arsenic (As) are important inorganic toxicants in the environment. Humans certainly have the potential to be exposed to the mixtures of Cd and As, but the toxicological interactions of these inorganic mixtures are poorly defined. Metallothionein (MT) is a cysteine-rich, metal-binding protein that plays an important role in Cd detoxication, but its role in As toxicity is less certain. To examine the role of MT in Cd- and/or As-induced nephrotoxicity, MT-I/II-knockout (MT-null) mice and background-matched wild-type (WT) mice were fed CdCl(2) (100 ppm Cd) in the diet, NaAsO(2) (22.5 ppm As) in the drinking water, or Cd plus As for 4 months. Subsequently, nephrotoxicity was examined by morphological and biochemical techniques. Chronic exposure to Cd produced more renal toxicity than As, and the combination of Cd and As produced even more renal injury than caused by either of the chemicals given alone. In mice receiving Cd plus As, proximal tubule degeneration and atrophy, glomerular swelling and interstitial fibrosis were more severe than those produced by either inorganic. Furthermore, lack of MT rendered MT-null mice more sensitive than WT mice to the nephrotoxicity produced by chronic Cd- and/or As-exposure. MT-null mice were especially susceptible to the toxicity produced by the combination of Cd and As, as evidenced by decreased body weight, enzymuria, glucosuria, proteinuria and nephropathy. In conclusion, this study indicates that As may potentiate Cd nephrotoxicity during the long-term, combined exposure, and that intracellular MT plays a role in decreasing the nephropathy of combined exposure to Cd and As.
195 (97.5%) children born to hypertensive women participating in a trial of methyldopa treatment during pregnancy were followed from birth and were extensively examined at the age of 7 1/2 years. The frequency of problems with health, physical or mental handicap, sight, hearing, and behaviour was the same in children of treated and untreated women. Sons of the untreated women were heavier and taller than those of treated women, as were their mothers. Among children of women who entered the trial between 16 and 20 weeks' gestation, sons of untreated women had larger heads than sons of treated women, but there was no difference in mean intelligence quotients. There were no significant differences between the children in the treated and untreated groups in standing and supine blood pressures, or fourteen tests of ability. Methyldopa therefore seems safe to use in pregnancy and is probably preferable to other drugs from the point of view of the neonate and child.
The author describes two cases of ambulatory iliac phlebitis occurring in young women, one pregnant, the other taking synthetic oestrogen-progestogen drugs. Anti-coagulants were contraindicated because of the pregnancy in the first case, and because of practical obstacles to their correct use in the second. In consequence both cases were treated as outpatients by physical compression (Nard's method), without any anticoagulant medication : the results were striking and lasting.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether β-catenin regulates basal cell fate determination in the mouse trachea. Analysis of TOPGal transgene reporter activity and Wnt/β-catenin pathway gene expression suggested a role for β-catenin in basal cell proliferation and differentiation after naphthalene-mediated Clara-like and ciliated cell depletion. However, these basal cell activities occurred simultaneously, limiting precise determination of the role(s) played by β-catenin. This issue was overcome by analysis of β-catenin signaling in tracheal air-liquid interface cultures. The cultures could be divided into two phases: basal cell proliferation and basal cell differentiation. A role for β-catenin in basal cell proliferation was indicated by activation of the TOPGal transgene on proliferation days 3 to 5 and by transient expression of Myc (alias c-myc). Another peak of TOPGal transgene activity was detected on differentiation days 2 to 10 and was associated with the expression of Axin 2. These results suggest a role for β-catenin in basal to ciliated and basal to Clara-like cell differentiation. Genetic stabilization of β-catenin in basal cells shortened the period of basal cell proliferation but had a minor effect on this process. Persistent β-catenin signaling regulated basal cell fate by driving the generation of ciliated cells and preventing the production of Clara-like cells.
We describe two innovative ideas in the treatment of iatrogenic chyle leak. The first is the early use of a pancreatic lipase inhibitor (Orlistat) to reduce fat absorption and chyle production, with consequent faster fistula healing. The second is the treatment of these patients at home in the community by district nurses backed by the hospital staff. This domiciliary approach has a positive psychological effect on the patient, permits the patient to take responsibility for their treatment, and reduces hospital length of stay minimising patient exposure to nosocomial infections.
1. Administration of glucocorticoids to ewes early in pregnancy results in offspring with hypertension in adulthood. The hypertension in female offspring exposed to dexamethasone is associated with increased cardiac output, but whether this is also true in cortisol-exposed offspring is unknown. 2. Systemic haemodynamic variables were measured under basal conditions in castrated male and female adult sheep exposed to cortisol (5 mg/h) or saline (0.19 mL/h) from 26 to 28 days of gestation. To examine the contribution of the autonomic nervous system to maintenance of basal arterial pressure in established hypertension in cortisol-exposed sheep, responses to adrenoceptor blockade (intravenous infusion of 0.15 mg/kg per h phentolamine plus 0.4 mg/kg per h propranolol) and ganglionic blockade (intravenous infusion of 125 mg/h hexamethonium) were examined in castrated male offspring. 3. Mean arterial pressure and calculated systemic vascular resistance were 9% and 17% greater, whereas cardiac output tended to be 8% less, in cortisol-compared with saline-exposed sheep. These effects were not sex dependent. The depressor response to ganglionic blockade and the initial phase of the depressor response to adrenoceptor blockade were greater in cortisol-compared with saline-exposed sheep. 4. These results indicate that hypertension in offspring exposed prenatally to cortisol is associated with increased total peripheral resistance, mimicking observations in human patients with chronic hypertension. Furthermore, the increased vascular resistance appears to be dependent, at least in part, on an increased effect of sympathetic vasomotor drive. Taken together with previous findings, the present observations suggest that prenatal cortisol and dexamethasone programme altered adult cardiovascular function via distinct mechanistic pathways.
Several enzyme activities involved in lipid hydrolysis (acid and neutral cholesterol esterase and lipase) or synthesis (acyl-CoA synthetase, acyl-CoA: cholesterol acyltransferase and cholinephosphotransferase) were assayed in the aortas of rats with nephrosis induced by daunomycin and of rats fed on high cholesterol diet. In nephrotic rats activities of some enzymes involved in lipid hydrolysis, but not in synthesis, were increased. On the contrary, in rats fed on high cholesterol diet, the activities of all enzymes involved in lipid synthesis were significantly increased, with some increase in those involved in lipid hydrolysis. In nephrotic rats fed on high cholesterol diet all enzyme activities were markedly increased. From the view point of accumulation of cholesterol ester (CE), the ratio of hydrolysis of CE in lysosomes to CE incorporated from the blood and the ratio of hydrolysis of CE to reesterification of free cholesterol in microsomes were considered to be important. From this point of view, nephrotic hyperlipidemia was not so atherogenic as hyperlipidemia induced by the diet. The role of serum high density lipoproteins in lipid metabolism in the aorta was discussed.
A 68-year-old man who developed MPO-ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis during propylthiouracil (PTU) treatment is reported. In 1986, he was diagnosed as having interstitial pneumonitis. Although he tested positive for antinuclear antibody and rheumatoid factor, he had no symptoms and was followed up without therapy. Five years later, the diagnosis of Graves's disease was made after complaints of body weight loss, diplopia and exophthalmos. Tests showed positivity for anti-thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) receptor antibody, antithyroidperoxidase antibody and antithyroglobulin antibody. He was treated with PTU and prednisolone for four years. In November 1995, hematuria and proteinuria developed, and renal function deteriorated rapidly. A renal biopsy revealed crescentic glomerulonephritis and the serum titer of MPO-ANCA was markedly elevated. He was treated with a high dose of prednisolone and cyclophosphamide. Although the serum creatinine level gradually decreased, irreversible renal dysfunction persisted. In this patient, the presence of various autoantibodies had been recognized for several years before MPO-ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis developed. Polyclonal B-cell activation and PTU treatment may have played a role in the pathogenesis of MPO-ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis.
Nitric oxide is involved in normal physiological functions and also in pathological processes leading to tissue damage due, in part, to its free radical nature (oxidative stress). Oxidative stress and vascular dysfunction have been recognized as contributing factors in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VD). In order to study the possible links between these processes and dementia, we have analysed plasma amyloid-beta(1-42) levels (Abeta) and total nitric oxide (NOx), apolipoprotein E (ApoE), lipids, vitamin B12, and folate concentrations in the serum of 99 patients with dementia and 55 age-matched non-demented controls. Both nitrate and nitrite levels were measured by a colorimetric method using Griess Reagent and plasma Abeta levels were analysed by a hypersensitive ELISA method. Our data showed a significant decrease of serum NOx levels in dementia, especially in probable AD and VD patients, as compared with controls. We observed a weak correlation between serum NOx levels and cognitive deterioration in dementia; however, NOx levels were not associated with ApoE and Abeta levels. In dementia and controls, a similar correlation pattern between HDL-cholesterol versus NOx was found. No apparent association between NOx, Abeta and AD-related genes [APOE (apolipoprotein E), PSEN1 (Presenilin 1)] was observed. Our data suggest that NOx may contribute to the pathogenesis of dementia through a process mediated by HDL-cholesterol.
