Id4 belongs to a family of helix-loop-helix (HLH) proteins that impact cellular growth and differentiation via regulation of basic HLH transcription factors. Herein the rat Id4 gene was cloned (GenBank Accession No. AF468681). The expression of rat Id4 was examined in rat mammary gland tumors induced by 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), a carcinogen found in the human diet. By real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis, relative expression of Id4 mRNA in carcinomas, adenomas, and normal tissue was 27, 6, and 1, respectively. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated statistically elevated nuclear expression for Id4 protein in carcinomas in comparison to adenomas and normal mammary gland. In carcinomas, Id4 nuclear expression was positively correlated with proliferation, invasiveness, and tumor weight (Fisher Exact Test or Spearman Correlation, P < 0.05). The consequence of enforced expression of Id4 on mammary epithelial cell proliferation, differentiation, and growth in soft agar was examined in HC11 cells, a well-characterized model for studying various aspects of mammary epithelial cell biology. After transient and stable transfection of HC11 cells, Id4 overexpression increased cell proliferation and inhibited lactogenic hormone-mediated differentiation as revealed by inhibition of beta-casein promoter activity and beta-casein expression. In addition, enforced expression of Id4 in HC11 cells induced a statistically significant increase in colony growth in soft agar. The results implicate Id4 in rat mammary gland carcinogenesis and suggest that Id4 may contribute to carcinogenesis by inhibiting mammary epithelial cell differentiation and stimulating mammary epithelial cell growth.
Serial ultrasound examinations were performed on 31 neonates with birth weights of less than 1,500 g for the detection of renal calcifications. Renal calcifications occurred in 20 (64%) of the infants at a mean age of 39.3 +/- 26.7 days of life. Infants with renal calcifications had shorter gestations (28.2 +/- 1.8 v 31 +/- 1.4 weeks, P less than .004) and lighter birth weights (924 +/- 195 v 1,338 +/- 100 g, P less than .004) than those infants without renal calcifications (n = 11). Furosemide administration was more common in the infants with renal calcifications (65% v 9.1%, P less than .001). The mean total dose of furosemide administered before renal calcifications were noted was 9.59 +/- 7.25 mg/kg. The 20 neonates with renal calcifications had a mean urine calcium level of 12.0 +/- 6.8 mg/kg/24 hours, mean urine calcium to creatinine ratio of 1.32 +/- 1.03 (range 0.3 to 4.45), and a mean alkaline phosphatase concentration of 961 +/- 327 IU. Initial parathyroid hormone levels were not different between the two groups, and subsequent determinations in infants with renal calcifications did not differ significantly from initial values. Renal calcifications are fairly common among very low birth weight infants, particularly in those receiving supplemental calcium and furosemide therapy. Although long-term implications of such findings are not known, close monitoring of renal function by serial determinations of urine calcium and urine calcium to creatinine ratios may identify those infants at risk for renal calcifications.
The fatty liver Shionogi (FLS) mouse is a new inbred strain that spontaneously develops fatty liver with infiltration of mononuclear cells. Moreover, this mouse is known to frequently develop spontaneous hepatic cancers. Recently, human non-alcholic steatohepatitis (NASH) has been focused of attention regarding hepatocellular carcinoma. Therefore, this mouse has potential as a model for human hepatic cancer due to steatosis. It is of interest therefore, whether it exhibits elevated susceptibility not only regarding spontaneous tumor development but also to chemical hepatocarcinogens. To examine this concern, we examined diethylnitrosamine (DEN) hepatocarcinogenesis in FLS mice with 30ppm in drinking water for 26 weeks in comparison to two other strains of mice, C3H and C57. The induction of spontaneous and DEN-induced hepatic tumors was clearly increased in the FLS case, along with levels of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), a marker of oxidative DNA damage, as compared to the other strains, with or without DEN treatment. These results indicate that the oxidative DNA stress is intimately involved in hepatocarcinogenesis in FLS mice and provide further support for use of this mouse as a useful model for investigating hepatocarcinogenesis due to human hepatic steatosis.
The present study investigated microscopically the process of 5-azacytidine (5-AC)-induced digital teratogenesis and caffeine's suppressive effect on this process. Three distinct zones of programmed cell death were observed in control and caffeine-treated embryos 3 hours after 5-AC injection: the preaxial and postaxial ectodermal regions and the central part of the mesodermal regions. 5-AC temporarily suppressed programmed cell death in the ectoderm and mesoderm 3 hours after it was injected. However, caffeine promoted programmed cell death; normal programmed cell death was observed in the limb buds of embryos whose dams were treated with 5-AC and caffeine. The percentage of total cell death in hindlimb buds of embryos treated with 5-AC and caffeine was higher than that from embryos treated with 5-AC, whereas 5-AC-induced digital malformations were reduced by post-treatment with caffeine. Cell death reached a maximum 12 hours after the injection in limb buds from 5-AC and caffeine-treated embryos and at 24 hours in the 5-AC treated embryos. Furthermore, in the 5-AC and caffeine-treated embryos, the frequency of cell deaths at 12 hours increased almost linearly with the doses of caffeine in parallel with the reduction of 5-AC-induced malformation frequency by caffeine. These results suggest that although induced cell death may be one of the factors leading to digital malformations produced by 5-AC, it is not essential, and the existence of other factors affecting the pattern formation of the limb bud is proposed.
A pressor response has been observed with propranolol, a nonselective beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, in animals given a nonselective alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist. This study investigates whether a pressor response to propranolol occurs in conscious unrestrained rats following a hypotensive response induced by phentolamine (nonselective alpha-antagonist), prazosin (selective alpha 1-antagonist) and (or) rauwolscine (selective alpha 2-antagonist), sodium nitroprusside (smooth muscle relaxant), or methacholine (muscarinic agonist). The rats were subjected to a continuous infusion of a hypotensive agent or normal saline followed by i.v. injection of propranolol. The infusion of phentolamine significantly decreased mean arterial pressure (MAP). Subsequent injection of propranolol restored MAP to the control level. Prazosin and rauwolscine each caused a small but not significant decrease in MAP which was reversed by propranolol. Concurrent infusions of prazosin and rauwolscine caused a significant decrease in MAP. Subsequent injection of propranolol caused a large pressor response which increased MAP to 20% above control MAP prior to the administration of drugs. Nitroprusside or methacholine each caused a significant decrease in MAP, but the hypotension was not antagonized by propranolol. The concurrent infusions of a low dose of nitroprusside and prazosin caused a significant decrease in MAP which was reversed by propranolol. The infusion of saline did not alter MAP, and propranolol did not cause a pressor response. It is concluded that propranolol antagonizes the hypotensive effect of an alpha-blocker but not that of sodium nitroprusside or methacholine. Our results suggest the presence of a specific interaction between alpha- and beta-antagonists.
Anabolic steroid abuse has been associated with thrombosis and arteriosclerosis, both of which predispose to myocardial ischemia and infarction. However, there are reports of sudden cardiac death in the absence of thrombus and atheroma following anabolic steroid use. Although treatment with the commonly abused steroid, nandrolone, has been shown to decrease recovery of systolic function following ischemia in isolated rat hearts, it is unknown whether anabolic steroids can increase the incidence of fatal arrhythmia associated with cardiac ischemia. Anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered vehicle or nandrolone (10-160 microg/kg/min iv) 10 min prior to 15-min occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery followed by 10-min reperfusion. Nandrolone, in this dose range, did not significantly change heart rate, blood pressure, or cardiac rhythm in the absence of ischemia. However, the fraction of rats surviving ischemia was significantly (p < 0.05) decreased by nandrolone at both 40 and 160 microg/kg/min, while survival time during ischemia was decreased significantly (p < 0.001) by nandrolone 160 microg/kg/min. An increase (p < 0.05) in the duration of ventricular fibrillation was noted at the highest compared to the lowest dose of nandrolone, corresponding to a significant increase in the fraction of rats experiencing ventricular fibrillation (p < 0.01). Nandrolone had no effect on the frequency or duration of ventricular fibrillation or survival time during reperfusion. Although the mechanisms underlying these effects are currently unclear, they indicate that exposure to anabolic steroids in combination with transient reductions in coronary blood flow may explain some reports of sudden cardiac death in anabolic steroid users.
Monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP-1) plays an important role in various immune and allergic disorders since it is a potent chemo-attractant for inflammatory cells, such as eosinophils, memory T cells, and monocytes.
To investigate serum MCP-1 during asymptomatic state and acute attacks of bronchial asthma.
In this longitudinal cohort design study, sequential serum levels of MCP-1 were measured by a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Twenty-four asthma patients' MCP-1 levels were examined at 5 time points: during the asymptomatic phase, in an acute wheezing episode, and at 1 week, 1 month, and 2 months after acute asthma attack. Fifteen children without asthma were enrolled as control.
During the asymptomatic phase of asthma, serum MCP-1 levels were significantly higher than that of normal controls (329.57 +/- 99.20 pg/ml vs. 213.63 +/- 77.29 pg/ml, p = 0.001). In comparison with the asymptomatic phase, the serum MCP-1 levels during the acute asthma attack were significantly higher (682.88 +/- 88.45 pg/ml vs. 329.57 +/- 99.20 pg/ml, p < 0.001). After treatment of acute asthma exacerbation, all of the serum MCP-1 levels declined within 1 week, but were still higher than control 2 months later.
In asthma patients, the consistently elevated serum levels of MCP-1 suggest its role in the pathogenesis of bronchial asthma - not only in the chronic inflammatory processes, but also in acute asthma attack exacerbation. These findings suggest a possible role for MCP-1 in the pathogenesis of asthma and a potential role for its use in anti-asthma treatment in the future.
Nitric oxide (NO) exerts a plethora of vascular beneficial effects. The NO-releasing beta-blocker nebivolol is a racemic mixture of D/L-enantiomers that displays negative inotropic as well as direct vasodilating activity. The in vivo antiatherogenic activity of therapeutic doses of the beta-blocker with antioxidant properties carvedilol (12.5mg/day) or nebivolol (5mg/day) was tested in cholesterol-fed rabbits. Animals received a 1% cholesterol-rich diet alone (controls) or mixed with drugs (treated animals) for 8 weeks. While it did not affect hyperlipidemia, nebivolol inhibited the development of atherosclerosis, expressed as computer-assisted imaging analysis of aortic area covered by lesions (23.3+/-4.1% in treated vs 38.2+/-6.4% in control animals, p<0.01). Differently, in our experimental condition of therapeutic drug doses, this antiatherogenic effect did not reach statistical significance in rabbits treated with carvedilol (32.5+/-5.1% aortic area covered by lesions, p=NS vs controls). Plasma nitrates increased in rabbits treated with nebivolol while both beta-blockers reduced LDL oxidation. Moreover, nebivolol induced a consistent increase of endothelial reactivity and aortic eNOS expression compared with control animals (p<0.05) and those receiving carvedilol (p<0.05). Since NO may exert beneficial effects in atherosclerosis, a NO-dependent mechanism could explain this data. These observations suggest that the NO-releasing beta-blocker, nebivolol, might represent an effective pharmacological approach for preventing atherosclerotic lesion progression.
The potential role of the serotoninergic system in the development of autistic disorder has long been suggested based on the observation of hyperserotoninemia in autistic subjects and the results of drug treatment studies. Promoter region polymorphisms (5-HTTLPR) of the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) and the 5-HT2A receptor gene (HTR2A) have been studied as potential candidate genes in autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The objective of this family-based linkage/association study is to evaluate the relationship between ASD and 5-HTTLPR as well as that between some SNPs of HTR2A and ASD in Korean trios by using the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT). Genotyping was performed for 5-HTTLPR and two single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (-1438G/A and 102T/C) of HTR2A. The TDT, linkage disequilibrium (LD) analysis and haplotype analysis were performed. This study comprised 126 complete trios of ASD patients and both parents. With regard to the transmission of 5-HTTLPR, the long allelic variant was preferentially transmitted in the ASD subjects. Based on the TDT results, there was no significant difference in the transmission of the two SNPs of HTR2A. However, in the results of the haplotype analysis, the AT haplotype demonstrated significant evidence of association with autism. The global chi(2) test for haplotype transmission revealed a significant association between HTR2A and autism. Although we identified a significant association between ASD and 5-HTTLPR as well as between ASD and HTR2A, it cannot exclude the chance finding because of the low level of statistical significance and relatively small power. We believe that further studies are required to examine the relationship between serotonin-related genes and the behavioral phenotypes of ASD in the Korean population.
BPA, a common environmental endocrine disruptor, has been reported to induce epigenetic changes and disrupt glucose homeostasis in F1 offspring through maternal exposure. However, no studies have examined whether maternal BPA exposure can exert multigenerational effects of glucose metabolic disorder on F2 generation through the altered epigenetic information. The aim of the current study was to investigate whether BPA exposure can disrupt glucose homeostasis in F2 offspring and the underlying epigenetic mechanism. In the present study, F0 pregnant dams were orally administered at a daily dose of 40μg/kg body weight during gestation and lactation. The F1 and F2 generations were obtained and not exposed to BPA anymore. The glucose and insulin tolerance tests were carried out to evaluate the glucose homeostasis level. The relative hormone level and the relative gene expression were also examined. F2 generation was found to exhibited glucose intolerance and insulin resistance in ipGTT and ipITT, as well as the downregulation of glucokinase (Gck) gene in liver. DNA methylation pattern of Gck promoter in the F2 generation of hepatic tissue and F1 generation of sperm was then performed. The Gck promoter in F2 hepatic tissue became completely methylated in the all CpG sites compared with five unmethylated sites in controls. In the F1 sperm, the global DNA methylation was decreased. However, there is only CpG site -314 was differently methylated between BPA and controls in sperm. In conclusion, F0 maternal BPA exposure during gestation and lactation can induce impaired glucose homeostasis in the F2 offspring through the transmission of sperm. The underlying epigenetic modifications in the sperm of F1 generation remain to be further elucidated.
Intestinal inflammation is an indispensable protective response of the gut immune system to aggressive injury from pathogens and/or chemicals. Although the major route of exposure to cadmium for most people is via food, causing the gastrointestinal tract to become the first target organ, very little information is available on whether cadmium exposure triggers the intestinal inflammatory response. We investigated in the present study the acute inflammatory response in the intestines of mice orally challenged with a single dose of cadmium chloride (CdCl(2)) by determining the gene expression of pro-inflammatory mediators with real-time PCR, and by examining the infiltration of inflammatory cells with a myeloperoxidase (MPO) assay and histological analysis of hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained intestinal sections. The results show that CdCl(2) significantly increased the expression of macrophage inflammatory protein-2 mRNA (30-40 times the normal level) 3h and the activity of MPO (about 2 times the normal level) 24h after the challenge in the duodenal and proximal jejunal tissue. Furthermore, these increases were dose-dependent over a dosage range of 25-100mg/kg of body weight. The histological analysis confirmed that CdCl(2) induced mild to moderate villus damage and infiltration of inflammatory cells into the lamina propria. All these results demonstrate that oral exposure to CdCl(2) triggered an acute inflammatory response in the proximal intestine of mice, suggesting that the gut immune system was involved in the toxic effects of Cd on the gastrointestinal tract.
The effect of felbamate on excitatory amino acid-induced biochemical changes was investigated in cultured cortical neurons. Felbamate inhibited NMDA- and glutamate-induced neuronal injury in a dose-dependent manner, but it did not rescue cells from kainate-induced neurotoxicity. The neuroprotective effect was accompanied by a decrease in NMDA- and glutamate-induced neuronal calcium (Ca2+) influx. Exogenous addition of glycine failed to modulate the effect of felbamate on NMDA-induced neurotoxicity or Ca2+ influx, although corresponding changes induced by the strychnine-insensitive glycine antagonist, 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid could be modulated with glycine. Taken together, these results suggest that felbamate acts through a site on the NMDA receptor that is distinct from the strychinine-insensitive site, and that the effect of the drug on neuronal Ca2+ may be pivotal to its neuroprotective mechanism.
The potential cytoprotective effects of the anti-leprosy antibiotic rifampicin were investigated in rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells prior to intoxication with 1-Methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium (MPP(+)). MPP(+) induced both apoptotic and necrotic cell death, and increased the expression of a 57 kDa species of alpha-Synuclein. This species of alpha-Synuclein is larger than the monomer, and is therefore an oligomer or an aggregated form of the protein. Rifampicin significantly increased survival of these catecholaminergic cells in a concentration-dependent manner. The expression of the higher molecular mass alpha-Synuclein was increased by MPP(+) exposure, and its expression was inversely related to cell survival in the rifampicin-treated cells. Importantly, rifampicin suppressed apoptosis almost completely, without shifting the death cascade to necrosis, which is a problem that has been reported with caspase inhibitors of apoptosis (Hartmann, A., Troadec, J.D., Hunot, S., Kikly, K., Faucheux, B.A., Mouatt-Prigent, A., Ruberg, M. Agid, Y., Hirsch, E.C., 2001. Caspase-8 is an effector in apoptotic death of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease, but pathway inhibition results in neuronal necrosis. J. Neurosci. 21, 2247-2255). These results suggest that rifampicin improves survival of catecholamine- and alpha-Synuclein-containing cells, which degenerate in Parkinson's disease (PD), and thus may be therapeutic in this disease.
To explore the changes of cycle and apoptosis of spermatogenic cells and antioxidant capacity of the serum and testis in male rats with diabetes mellitus.
Thirty male rats were divided into two groups, 10 for normal control and 20 for the diabetes group. The rats were injected intraperitoneally with streptozocin (TZ) to develop diabetes, and 12 weeks later, their survival rate and testis weight were recorded. The percentage of G0/G, S and G2/M phases and apoptosis in spermatogenic cells were measured with flow cytometry (FCM). Malondialdehyde (MDA) and nitric oxide (NO) levels, superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and NO synthase (NOS) activities in the serum and testis were measured with thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARs), nitric acid reoxidized enzyme, xanthine oxidative enzyme, 5,5 Dithiobis (2,2 nitrobenzoate) (TNB) and visible light photometer methods, respectively.
Twelve weeks after the male rats got diabetes, their survival rate, body weight and testis weight were significantly lower (p < 0.05), and the percentages of G0/G1 phases and apoptotic spermatogenic cells were obviously higher (P < 0.05) than the normal control. At the same time, the percentage of S and G2/M phases spermatogenic cells decreased. So the spermatogenic cells were arrested in G0/G1 phase. In the diabetic rat serum and testis, especially in the testis, MDA levels were distinctly higher and SOD activities were significantly lower than those in the control. Serum GSH-Px activities of the diabetic rats were significantly lower (p < 0.05), while testis GSH-Px activities were significantly higher than those in control group (P < 0.01). NO contents in the serum and testis of the diabetic rats (P < 0.01) increased significantly, particularly the former, while NOS activities in the serum decreased significantly as compared with the control (P < 0.5).
The increase in testis and serum MDA levels and NO contents and the decrease in the antioxidant enzyme activity of the diabetic rats may be relevant to spermatogenic disorder caused by the increase of G0/G1 phases arrest and spermatogenic cells apoptosis.
Diabetes mellitus is a syndrome characterized by the loss of glucose homeostasis due to several reasons. In spite of the presence of known anti-diabetic medicines in the pharmaceutical market, remedies from natural resources are used with success to treat this disease. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of coconut kernel protein (CKP) on alloxan induced diabetes in Sprague-Dawley rats. Diabetes was induced by injecting a single dose of alloxan (150mg/kg body weight) intraperitoneally. After inducing diabetes, purified CKP isolated from dried coconut kernel was administered to rats along with a semi synthetic diet for 45 days. After the experimental period, serum glucose, insulin, activities of different key enzymes involved in glucose metabolism, liver glycogen levels and the histopathology of the pancreas were evaluated. The amount of individual amino acids of CKP was also determined using HPLC. Results showed that CKP has significant amount of arginine. CKP feeding attenuated the increase in the glucose and insulin levels in diabetic rats. Glycogen levels in the liver and the activities of carbohydrate metabolizing enzymes in the serum of treated diabetic rats were reverted back to the normal levels compared to that of control. Histopathology revealed that CKP feeding reduced the diabetes related pancreatic damage in treated rats compared to the control. These results clearly demonstrated the potent anti-diabetic activity of CKP which may be probably due to its effect on pancreatic β cell regeneration through arginine.
Beginning in October 1995, and for several years thereafter, our institution used indomethacin as a first-line tocolytic drug. Our purpose is to compare the outcomes of very low birth weight infants who were exposed to antenatal indomethacin with those who were not exposed to this therapy.
We used our center's component of the NICHD Neonatal Research Network's Generic Data Base which recorded the outcomes of all live born infants weighing less than 1500 g over a 5-year period. We abstracted data concerning neonatal morbidity (death, Grades III to IV intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH), necrotizing enterocolitis and patent ductus arteriosus), as well as other factors including gestational age, birth weight, antenatal corticosteroid treatment and maternal hypertension or pre-eclampsia. Univariate analysis was performed using Fisher's exact test. Multivariate analysis using logistic regression was performed to control for confounding factors.
A total of 85 infants who were exposed to antenatal indomethacin were compared to 464 infants who were not exposed to the drug. In the univariate analysis, antenatal indomethacin exposure was not associated with a significant increase in the incidence of necrotizing enterocolitis or patent ductus arteriosus. The incidence of Grades III to IV IVH was 17.9% in those infants exposed to antenatal indomethacin compared to 7.1% in the nonexposed infants (p=0.008). The incidence of neonatal death in the exposed infants was 27.7 versus 16.4 in the nonexposed infants (p=0.02). After controlling for antenatal corticosteroids, maternal pre-eclampsia, gestational age and birth weight, antenatal indomethacin was significantly associated with an increased incidence of IVH, but not neonatal death.
Antenatal indomethacin was associated with significantly higher rates of IVH. Additional studies assessing the potential risks of indomethacin tocolysis are needed before it is used as a first-line tocolytic therapy.
HWA-138, a pentoxifylline analog, has been shown to increase yeast urinary clearance and to reduce yeast counts in the kidneys of rats infected with Candida albicans. Furthermore, HWA-138 has also been shown to prevent amphotericin B-induced acute renal failure in rats. We report here on the effects of HWA-138 alone and in combination with amphotericin B in the treatment of systemic candidiasis in mice. When single doses of HWA-138 were administered intravenously (10, 25, or 50 mg/kg of body weight) into infected mice, no significant improvement in survival was observed. In infected mice treated intravenously with multiple doses of HWA-138 (10, 25, or 50 mg/kg once daily for 5 consecutive days), a significant increase in survival time was seen only in animals also receiving 25 mg of HWA-138 per kg (14 +/- 3 days test versus 9 +/- 1 days control; P less than 0.05). The coadministration of subtherapeutic doses of amphotericin B and HWA-138 resulted in increased survival time. Combination therapy with amphotericin B (0.1-mg/kg single dose) and HWA-138 (10-, 25-, or 50-mg/kg multiple doses) resulted in a significant increase in survival time over controls (19 +/- 4, 19 +/- 5, and 21 +/- 9 days, respectively, versus 9 +/- 3 days; P less than 0.05). Combination therapy with amphotericin B (0.2-mg/kg single dose) and HWA-138 (10-, 25-, or 50-mg/kg multiple doses) also resulted in a significant increase in survival time over controls (24 +/- 6, 24 +/- 6, and 24 +/- 6, respectively, versus 9 +/- 3 days; P less than 0.05). Combination therapy with amphotericin B (0.2-mg/kg single dose) and HWA-138 (10-, 25-, or 50-mg/kg multiple doses) also resulted in a significant increase in survival time over controls (24 +/- 6, 24 +/- 6, and 24 +/- 6, respectively, versus 9 +/- 3 days; P < 0.05). Variance analysis of these findings indicate synergistic activity between amphotericin B and HWA-138 in the treatment of experimental candidiasis in mice.
We report a case of superior mesenteric artery thrombosis in a 57-year-old woman undergoing chemotherapy for T1N1M0, breast cancer. Although cancer itself is associated with an increased risk of thrombotic events, treatment with chemotherapy and/or tamoxifen in breast cancer patients increases this risk. Most cases reported are of venous thromboembolism; arterial events are rare.
It is shown that a day after introduction of adrenaline which evokes experimental focal myocarditis the level of ubiquinone and vitamin E content in the myocardial mitochondria increases by 56.8 and 122%, respectively. Succinate-ubiquinone-reductase activity in mitochondria remains practically unchanged, while NADH-ubiquinone-reductase activity considerably falls. 5 days after the focal myocarditis reproduction the content of ubiquinone and NADH-ubiquinone-reductase activity of mitochondria return to the norm, while the vitamin E amount remains higher than in intact animals. 24h after adrenaline introduction the level of succinate-ubiquinone-reductase activity of blood leucocytes considerably grows. It is not normalized even on the 5th day after adrenaline administration. It is supposed that the level of this activity may be an index showing development of the focal myocarditis.
A 26-year-old woman with upper limb phocomelia as a result of thalidemide embryopathy developed renal failure that required dialysis during pregnancy. The pregnancy was complicated by dialysis difficulties, uncontrollable hypertension and deteriorating renal function resulting in fetal loss at 26-weeks' gestation. The patient was left with end-stage renal failure and recently has undergone cadaveric renal transplantation. This case highlights the widespread effects, including urinary-tract abnormalities, that thalidomide may have and illustrates the peculiar difficulties in managing such a patient during and after pregnancy.
Three groups of dogs were each given repeat epidural injections of a 10% butamben suspension. A fourth group received a single subarachnoid injection of the butamben suspension. All dogs were later sacrificed and the spinal cord, meninges and spinal nerves were examined. The dogs receiving the epidural injections had no pathology. Those dogs that received subarachnoid injections had adhesive arachnoiditis. None demonstrated any evidence of neurolysis. Two cancer patients who had each received multiple injections of a 10% butamben suspension for the successful treatment of cancer pain prior to their deaths had autopsies and the spinal cords, meninges and spinal nerves were examined. No significant pathology due to the butamben was noted. Epidural butamben does not appear to cause any local tissue damage provided that subarachnoid needle placement has been ruled out. Subarachnoid butamben should be avoided.
Neonatal treatment of hamsters with diethylstilbestrol (DES) induces uterine hyperplasia/dysplasia/neoplasia (endometrial adenocarcinoma) in adult animals. We subsequently determined that the neonatal DES exposure event directly and permanently disrupts the developing hamster uterus (initiation stage) so that it responds abnormally when it is stimulated with estrogen in adulthood (promotion stage). To identify candidate molecular elements involved in progression of the disruption/neoplastic process, we performed: (1) immunoblot analyses and (2) microarray profiling (Affymetrix Gene Chip System) on sets of uterine protein and RNA extracts, respectively, and (3) immunohistochemical analysis on uterine sections; all from both initiation stage and promotion stage groups of animals. Here we report that: (1) progression of the neonatal DES-induced hyperplasia/dysplasia/neoplasia phenomenon in the hamster uterus involves a wide spectrum of specific gene expression alterations and (2) the gene products involved and their manner of altered expression differ dramatically during the initiation vs. promotion stages of the phenomenon.
The cardiomyopathy (CM) produced by the anticancer drug doxorubicin (DXR) (Adriamycin) provides a unique opportunity to analyze dose-effect and structure-function relationships during development of myocardial disease. We measured the degree of morphologic damage by ultrastructural examination of endomyocardial biopsy and the degree of performance abnormally by right heart catheterization in patients receiving DXR. Morphologic damage was variable but was proportional to the total cumulative DXR dose between 100 and 600 mg/m2. Performance abnormalities correlated weakly with dose, exhibited a curvilinear relationship, and had a "threshold" for expression. Catheterization abnormalities correlated well with morphologic damage (r = 0.57 to 0.78) in a subgroup of patients in whom exercise hemodynamics were measured, and this relationship also exhibited a curvilinear, threshold configuration. In DXR-CM myocardial damage is proportional to the degree of cytotoxic insult (DXR dose) while myocardial function is preserved until a critical dose or degree of damage is reached, after which myocardial performance deteriorates rapidly.
The cardiocirculatory actions of brief (69 +/- 5 minutes) infusions of prostaglandin E1 were evaluated in nine chronic coronary heart disease patients with severe left ventricular (LV) failure caused by previous myocardial infarction. Prostaglandin E1 infusion did not alter heart rate (HR) and produced modest declines in mean systemic blood pressure (BP) (85 +/- 6 to 76 +/- 5 mm Hg, P less than 0.025) and LV filling pressure (19 +/- 3 to 15 +/- 2 mm Hg, P less than 0.01). Simultaneously, prostaglandin E1 augmented LV pump function raising cardiac index from 1.9 +/- 0.2 to 2.5 +/- 0.1 L/min/m2 (p less than 0.005), elevating stroke index from 28 +/- 2.4 to 35 +/- 2.9 ml/beat/m2 (p less than 0.01), and increasing stroke work index from 26 +/- 4.3 to 30 +/- 4.4 gm . m/m2 (p less than 0.02). Additionally, total systemic vascular resistance decreased from 1862 +/- 192 to 1282 +/- 100 dynes-sec-cm-5 (p less than 0.02) and double product LV aerobic index of HR . systolic BP diminished from 9492 +/- 666 to 8278 +/- 492 (p less than 0.02). Concomitantly, in the forearm, vascular resistance fell, blood flow rose, and venous tone remained unchanged. These results indicate that prostaglandin E1 is a potent systemic arteriolar dilator with markedly beneficial effects on cardiac function in chronic coronary patients having severe ischemic LV failure refractory to conventional therapy.
Between January 1981 and December 1983, a prospective therapeutic trial of detorubicin (14-diethoxyacetoxy-daunorubicin [DTR]) was conducted in 40 patients with histologically proven malignant mesothelioma (MM). DTR was given intravenously at 40 mg/m2 on days 1, 2, and 3 for five 21-day cycles, then 40 mg/m2 once every 21 days. Thirty-five patients (32 with pleural MM, 3 with peritoneal MM) were eligible. The overall median survival from onset of chemotherapy was 17 months. Complete relief from chest pain was observed in 8 of 15 cases (53%). Of 21 patients with measurable disease, there were 2 complete responses (10%) and 7 partial responses (33%). Median duration of response was 30 weeks. Congestive cardiac failure developed in two patients after 1100 and 1600 mg/m2 of DTR, respectively. Hematologic toxicity was moderate. This study demonstrates that DTR is effective against MM.
Low levels of dopamine (DA) D2 receptor availability at a resting baseline have been previously reported in drug addicted individuals and have been associated with reduced ventral and dorsal prefrontal metabolism. The reduction in DA D2 receptor availability along with the reduced ventral frontal metabolism is thought to underlie compromised sensitivity to nondrug reward, a core characteristic of drug addiction. We therefore hypothesized that variability in DA D2 receptor availability at baseline will covary with dynamic responses to monetary reward in addicted individuals. Striatal DA D2 receptor availability was measured with [(11)C]raclopride and positron emission tomography and response to monetary reward was measured (an average of three years later) with functional magnetic resonance imaging in seven cocaine-addicted individuals. Results show that low DA D2 receptor availability in the dorsal striatum was associated with decreased thalamic response to monetary reward; while low availability in ventral striatum was associated with increased medial prefrontal (Brodmann Area 6/8/32) response to monetary reward. These preliminary results, that need to be replicated in larger sample sizes and validated with healthy controls, suggest that resting striatal DA D2 receptor availability predicts variability in functional responses to a nondrug reinforcer (money) in prefrontal cortex, implicated in behavioral monitoring, and in thalamus, implicated in conditioned responses and expectation, in cocaine-addicted individuals.
