Acrolein and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) are both byproducts of a lipid peroxidation reaction. Actinic elastosis in photodamaged skin of aged individuals is characterized by the accumulation of fragmented elastic fibers in the sun-exposed areas. To study whether a lipid peroxidation reaction is involved in the accumulation of altered elastic fibers in actinic elastosis, skin specimens obtained from sun-damaged areas were immunohistochemically examined using the antibodies against acrolein and HNE. Both antibodies were found to react with the accumulations of elastic material. Double immunofluorescence labeling demonstrated that acrolein/elastin and HNE/elastin were colocalized in the actinic elastosis. Western blot analysis showed that the polypeptide with a molecular weight of 62 kDa reacted with anti-acrolein, anti-HNE and anti-elastin antibodies. The results suggest that acrolein and HNE may be associated with actinic elastosis.
We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 97 children (59 boys and 38 girls) with a median age of 13 +/- 4 years who had been treated with continuous infusion of doxorubicin at a dosage of 60 mg/m2 over 24 h (61 patients) or at a dosage of 75 mg/m2 over 72 h (36 patients). The drug was administered every 3 weeks. The cardiac status of patients was evaluated as a baseline and every 6 months during, and following therapy (median, 30.5 months). The evaluations included M-mode and two-dimensional echocardiography. Congestive heart failure developed in only one patient in this series, an 8-year-old girl who ultimately died of her cardiac complication. This incidence of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity was compared with that seen in a control group of pediatric patients previously treated with doxorubicin at similar dosages but with a rapid infusion. The result compared favorably to the 13% incidence of cardiotoxicity (p = 0.03) and 7% mortality (p < 0.01) in the control group. No changes in the levels of tumor response were noted in children treated by continuous infusion when compared with historical controls. Continuous-infusion schedules of doxorubicin thus result in fewer incidences of cardiotoxicity in children and should be considered for wider application in pediatric cancer patients receiving doxorubicin.
Morphine anesthesia is often recommended in patients with reduced cardiac reserve. As the effect of morphine on the balance between myocardial oxygen supply and demand is not well understood, the effect of large doses of morphine (3 mg/kg, subcutaneously) on experimental myocardial infarction size in the rat was evaluated. Morphine was administered 10 minutes before thoracotomy and coronary artery ligation. Myocardial infarction size was assessed by histologic techniques 48 hours later. Rats given morphine developed significantly larger infarctions than did rats receiving an injection of saline (45.8% of left ventricular area versus 35.3%, p less than 0.05). The data indicate that morphine increase the area of myocardial ischemia when administered before coronary artery occlusion in rats.
Metoclopramide (MCP) is a dopamine receptor antagonist and serotonin receptor agonist widely used as an antiemetic and gastric prokinetic drug. In addition MCP is a weak and reversible inhibitor of cholinesterases. We have shown that MCP has a cholinesterase protective effect against inhibition by organophosphates. The putative mode of protective action of MCP is competition for the active site of the enzyme with the more potent organophosphate. In the present paper we present our results using another weak inhibitor of cholinesterases: ranitidine (RAN). The purpose of the study was to quantify in vitro the extent of RAN-conferred protection, using paraoxon (POX) as an inhibitor. Paraoxon is a non-neuropathic organophosphate responsible for a large number of accidental or suicidal exposures. Red blood cell (RBC) acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities in whole blood and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activities in human plasma were measured photometrically in the presence of different POX and RAN concentrations and the IC50 was calculated. Determinations were repeated in the presence of increasing RAN concentrations. The IC50 shift induced by the presence of RAN increases with the RAN concentration in a linear manner. The shift was more pronounced with RBC-AChE. The protective effect of RAN on cholinesterase could be of practical relevance in the treatment of POX poisoning. We conclude that in vivo testing of RAN as an organophosphate protective agent is warranted.
The key role in platelet aggregation is played by the platelet ADP receptor P2Y12, which is the target for antiaggregant drugs, clopidogrel and ticlopidine. At present, only sporadic data on genetic variants of platelet ADP receptor P2Y12 are available from literature, and their association with thromboembolic and cardiovascular diseases still remains obscure. Analysis of the group of subjects with high platelet reactivity resulted in identification of two nucleotide substitutions, C18T and G36T, in the coding region of the P2Y12 gene. The frequency of the P2Y12 T1 8 allele was higher in control group than in the group of patients survived from myocardial infarction at the age under 45 years (39% versus 28%, respectively, P = 0.04). Moreover, in the T18 carriers, platelet aggregation activity was lower than in the carriers of the wild-type genotype (0.84 +/- 0.05% versus 1.01 +/- 0.08%, respectively, P = 0.03). In the group of patients with early myocardial infarctions, a tendency towards the increased frequency of 16T allele in comparison with control group (20 and 12%, respectively, P = 0.07) was observed. The rate of ADP-induced platelet aggregation in the carriers of 16T allele from the control group was somewhat higher than in the subjects with the GG36 genotype (1.31 +/- 0.16% versus 1.12 +/- 0.06%, respectively, P = 0.07). The nucleotide substitutions identified were in absolute disequilibrium, i.e., allele T18 conformed to allele G36. On the contrary, allele C18 conformed to allele T36. Haplotype T18G36 was found to be responsible for the decreased risk of myocardial infarction and decreased platelet reactivity. It is suggested that polymorphisms of the P2Y12 gene identified can be used for determination of the risk group for myocardial infarction in the young males.
1. The ganglion blocking agents, chlorisondamine, pentamethonium, mecamylamine, decamethonium and hexamethonium all block nicotine extensor convulsions when administered intraventricularly in mice. Tetraethylammonium was inactive.2. For the intraventricular route, there is a relationship between ganglionic blocking potency and blocking of nicotine extensor convulsions. Indirect evidence suggests that the site(s) of action of nicotine extensor convulsions and lethality is central in origin and associated with brain areas near the ventricles.3. When ganglion blocking agents are given orally, subcutaneously or intravenously varying degrees of protection can be observed probably depending on factors such as whether or not the drugs cross the blood-brain barrier, absorption, etc., and the effectiveness in protecting mice from nicotine is not related to ganglionic blocking potency.4. Atropine and morphine given intraventricularly or subcutaneously did not protect mice from the LD95 of nicotine. Chlorpromazine gave very erratic results and phenobarbitone was effective subcutaneously and to a lesser extent intraventricularly.
The association between endothelial constitutive nitric oxide synthase (ecNOS) gene polymorphism and vascular endothelial function has not been clarified. We investigated the impact of ecNOS gene polymorphism on endothelial function in 95 patients with Type 2 diabetes (ecNOS genotype: 4b/b, n = 62; 4b/a, n = 30; 4a/a, n = 3). Flow-mediated (endothelium dependent, FMD) and nitroglycerin-induced (endothelium independent, NTG) vasodilations of the right brachial artery were studied using a phase-locked echotracking system. There were no significant differences in clinical characteristics among the ecNOS genotypes. The FMD was significantly lower in the patients with ecNOS4a allele than in those without ecNOS4a allele (P < 0.05). Multiple regression analysis showed that ecNOS4a allele and mean blood pressure were significant independent determinants for reduced FMD in all patients (R(2) = 0.122, P = 0.0025). The ecNOS4a allele was an independent determinant for reduced FMD in smokers but not in nonsmokers. These results suggest that ecNOS4a allele is a genetic risk factor for endothelial dysfunction in diabetic patients, especially in smokers.
Dipivalyl epinephrine was as effective as adrenaline as an eyedrop for glaucoma. It was responsible for fewer side effects, through side effects did occur. It had an additive effect when used with timolol maleate and, in 12 of 14 patients on long-term medication with both drugs, a rise of pressure of 3 mmHg or more occurred when dipivalyl epinephrine was stopped. As sole therapy dipivalyl epinephrine was effective in chronic simple open-angle glaucoma, ocular hypertension and pseudoexfoliative glaucoma, and may be useful on its own in the latter two conditions. In low-tension glaucoma it seemed the best therapy when combined with timolol. Headache and ocular pain were uncommon but prominent side effects.
Clofibrate is a peroxisome proliferator that can cause hepatic cancer in rodents. It has been suggested that oxidative damage is involved in this hepatocarcinogenesis, although the data are conflicting. We confirmed that clofibrate causes oxidative damage in nuclei from the livers of mice treated with this substance, measured both as protein carbonyls and levels of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) in DNA. In addition, clofibrate also affects mitochondria, causing elevated levels of carbonyls and 8-OHdG, increased state 4 respiration and decreased adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) activity. No evidence for clofibrate-induced lipid peroxidation in mitochondria was obtained. We propose that mitochondria may be a major target of injury and a source of oxidative stress in clofibrate-treated animals.
Islet amyloid deposition in type 2 diabetes is associated with reduced beta-cell mass. Therefore, interventions aimed at reducing islet amyloid formation may help preserve beta-cell mass in type 2 diabetes. Rosiglitazone and metformin act by different mechanisms to improve insulin sensitivity and thereby reduce beta-cell secretory demand, resulting in decreased release of insulin and islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP), the unique constituent of islet amyloid deposits. We hypothesized that this reduced beta-cell secretory demand would lead to reduced islet amyloid formation. Human IAPP (hIAPP) transgenic mice, a model of islet amyloid, were treated for 12 months with rosiglitazone (1.5 mg.kg(-1).day(-1), n = 19), metformin (1 g.kg(-1).day(-1), n = 18), or control (n = 17). At the end of the study, islet amyloid prevalence (percent islets containing amyloid) and severity (percent islet area occupied by amyloid), islet mass, beta-cell mass, and insulin release were determined. Islet amyloid prevalence (44 +/- 8, 13 +/- 4, and 11 +/- 3% for control, metformin-, and rosiglitazone-treated mice, respectively) and severity (9.2 +/- 3.0, 0.22 +/- 0.11, and 0.10 +/- 0.05% for control, metformin-, and rosiglitazone-treated mice, respectively) were markedly reduced with both rosiglitazone (P < 0.001 for both measures) and metformin treatment (P < 0.001 for both measures). Both treatments were associated with reduced insulin release assessed as the acute insulin response to intravenous glucose (2,189 +/- 857, 621 +/- 256, and 14 +/- 158 pmol/l for control, metformin-, and rosiglitazone-treated mice, respectively; P < 0.05 for metformin vs. control and P < 0.005 for rosiglitazone vs. control), consistent with reduced secretory demand. Similarly, islet mass (33.4 +/- 7.0, 16.6 +/- 3.6, and 12.2 +/- 2.1 mg for control, metformin-, and rosiglitazone-treated mice, respectively) was not different with metformin treatment (P = 0.06 vs. control) but was significantly lower with rosiglitazone treatment (P < 0.05 vs. control). When the decreased islet mass was accounted for, the islet amyloid-related decrease in beta-cell mass (percent beta-cell mass/islet mass) was ameliorated in both rosiglitazone- and metformin-treated animals (57.9 +/- 3.1, 64.7 +/- 1.4, and 66.1 +/- 1.6% for control, metformin-, and rosiglitazone-treated mice, respectively; P < 0.05 for metformin or rosiglitazone vs. control). In summary, rosiglitazone and metformin protect beta-cells from the deleterious effects of islet amyloid, and this effect may contribute to the ability of these treatments to alleviate the progressive loss of beta-cell mass and function in type 2 diabetes.
An administration of protamine sulfate combined with aminonucleoside of puromycin (AN) could produce in rats severe nephrotic syndrome and histological changes similar to focal glomerular sclerosis more distinctly than AN alone. This may be attributed to the action of protamine which seemed to enhance the effect of AN, causing polyanion loss at the glomerular basement membrane.
The objective of this study was to determine whether the incidence of emergence agitation (EA) can be reduced by adding an additional, faster onset, non-IV analgesic, intranasal fentanyl or intramuscular (im) ketorolac to rectal acetaminophen.
To compare the incidence of EA after analgesia with two agents vs acetaminophen alone in pediatric patients after bilateral myringotomy procedures (BM&T).
Anesthesia for BM&T is usually performed with volatile anesthetics as a single agent without securing intravenous access. The anesthetic agent most commonly used is sevoflurane; however, EA has been reported in up to 67% of patients. Emergence agitation is distressing for parents, can impair the ability of nursing staff to adequately monitor the child, and can result in a child injuring him/herself if it is severe.
A standardized anesthetic was used with oral midazolam premedication and sevoflurane for induction, and maintenance of anesthesia. All patients received 40 mg·kg(-1) rectal acetaminophen, group 1 received acetaminophen alone, group 2 received acetaminophen and 1 mcg·kg(-1) of intranasal fentanyl, and group 3 received acetaminophen and 1 mg·kg(-1) of intramuscular ketorolac. Incidence of EA was compared using chi-square test between the acetaminophen group alone vs the two-agent analgesia groups combined.
  There were no differences in demographic and clinical characteristics between the two groups. There were no statistically significant differences between the three groups for the incidence of EA at any time point during recovery from anesthesia nor were there any significant differences in pain scores or side effects. No significant side effects because of the administration of a second analgesic agent were reported.
We conclude that two-agent analgesia is not superior to acetaminophen alone for decreasing the incidence of EA after inhalation anesthesia with sevoflurane for BM&T surgery. Our overall incidence of EA was low compared to previous studies, which could potentially have decreased our ability to detect differences between groups.
Metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9) is crucial for normal neutrophil infiltration into zymosan-inflamed peritoneum. During the course of zymosan peritonitis MMP-9 is produced in a biphasic-manner as its presence is detectable as early as 30 min post zymosan and then between 2 and 8 h of inflammation. As inflammatory leukocytes were shown to produce MMP-9 we asked if also resident leukocytes, mast cells and macrophages, contribute to its production. And furthermore, if their contribution is limited only to the early phase of inflammation or extends to the later stages. For this purpose some mice were depleted of either resident macrophages or functional mast cells and expression of MMP-9 in peritoneal leukocytes and its release to the exudate were monitored. It turned out that depletion of peritoneal macrophages decreased both MMP-9 content in the leukocytes and its release to the inflammatory exudate at 30 min and 6h of peritonitis. The functional depletion of mast cells also caused a significant decrease in the production/release of MMP-9 that was especially apparent at the early time point (30 min). Moreover, the study shows concomitant kinetics of MMP-9 expression in leukocytes and its release to the exudatory fluid. The findings indicate that resident tissue leukocytes, and among them especially macrophages, constitute an important source of MMP-9 during acute peritoneal inflammation. Overall, the study shows that resident tissue leukocytes, mostly macrophages, constitute an important cellular source(s) of inflammation-related factors and should be regarded as possible targets of anti-inflammatory treatment.
Brevetoxins are neurotoxins produced by marine dinoflagellates, primarily Karenia brevis, and can cause intoxication and even mortality of marine species, affect human health through the consumption of brevetoxin-contaminated shellfish, and effect respiratory irritation through aerosol exposure at coastal areas. Brevetoxin-A and brevetoxin-B, the major brevetoxins produced in algae, are metabolized to a series of amino acid and peptide-related derivatives in shellfish through the reactions of the amino acid residue cysteine with an α,β-unsaturated aldehyde group. In this paper, covalent interactions between brevetoxin and proteins were investigated using brevetoxin-B and human serum albumin (HSA) as a model. It is demonstrated that both noncovalent and covalent interactions can occur between brevetoxin-B and HSA with in vitro experiments. Covalent adducts of brevetoxin-B and HSA were generated under physiological conditions and reduced with sodium borohydride based on the reaction conditions of single amino acid residues with brevetoxin-B. LC/MS analysis of toxin-treated HSA recognized the formation of the intact protein adducts with primarily one and two toxin molecules attached to one HSA molecule. HSA treated with/without brevetoxin-B was digested with trypsin, trypsin following chymotrypsin, and Pronase, respectively, for LC/MS analysis of adduction sites. Brevetoxin-B was found to react primarily with Cys(34) and His(3) and with His and Lys at other sites of HSA with variable reactivity and with Lys in general the least reactive.
Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) are involved in a number of biologic responses. Recent preclinical studies demonstrated that the PI3K-dominant signal pathway could play an important role in the development of acute lung injury, although the mechanism remains unclear.
CD-1 mice were administered different PI3K inhibitors either intranasally or intragastrically once a day for 3 days before intratracheal instillation of lipopolysaccharide at 4 h and 24 h. Effects of SHBM1009 on lipopolysaccharide-induced capillary permeability, leukocyte distribution and activation, and epithelial cell function were measured. Therapeutic effects of SHBM1009 on pancreatic elastase-induced lung injury were evaluated in rats.
The data demonstrated that the local delivery of PI3K inhibitors played more effective roles in the prevention of endotoxin-induced lung injury than the systemic delivery. The preventive effects of PI3K inhibitors varied most likely because of chemical properties, targeting sites, and pharmacokinetics. The local PI3K inhibitors prevented both endotoxin- and elastase-induced lung injury in mice and rats, possibly through directly inhibiting or inactivating the function of airway epithelial cells, which could not produce chemoattractant factors to activate neutrophils and macrophages.
PI3K may be a therapeutic target for lung injury, and local delivery of PI3K inhibitors may be one of the optimal approaches for the therapy.
Mutations occurring on the major antigenic 'a' determinant of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) have been detected in immunized Singapore children, despite immunoprophylaxis with hepatitis B immune globulin and HBV vaccine. These vaccine-escape HBsAg mutants display a predominance of the Gly145-to-Arg145 mutation in the antigenic 'a' determinant. Our latest follow-up studies indicate the stability of this as well as other vaccine-escape HBsAg mutants over time. We have also identified HBsAg mutants in immunized children with amino acid substitutions outside the 'a' determinant. Transmission of various vaccine-escape HBsAg mutants have been shown in our epidemiological studies. Detection of HBsAg mutants, carrying amino acid changes at various position of the 'a' determinant in random population, points to their emergence in Singapore before the implementation of the vaccination programme. Of significant interest is the recent identification of vaccine-escape HBsAg mutants in hepatocellular carcinoma.
Gene mutations within the P/Q type neuronal calcium channel in familial hemiplegic migraine (FHM) suggest a therapeutic role for calcium-channel blockade. The authors have previously reported abortive therapy of FHM with IV verapamil. Here the authors describe four cases of sporadic hemiplegic migraine (SHM) responsive to verapamil, administered either orally or IV. The findings indicate that verapamil is effective therapy for both SHM and FHM.
The clinical efficacy of bezafibrate was examined with special reference to glucose metabolism in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2). In protocol 1, 342 patients with DM2 and hyperlipidemias were randomly divided into 2 groups, 16-week bezafibrate treatment (n = 174) and no bezafibrate treatment (n = 168). In protocol 2, 20 DM2 patients were randomly divided into 2 groups, 8-week bezafibrate treatment (n = 10) and no bezafibrate treatment (n = 10), and a meal tolerance test (MTT) was performed. In protocol 1, bezafibrate treatment significantly reduced the fasting levels of triglyceride (TG) by 50% +/- 1.6%, total cholesterol (TC) by 12% +/- 1.1%, plasma glucose (PG) from 151.3 +/- 3.5 to 128.6 +/- 3.4 mg/dL, and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) from 7.2% +/- 0.1% to 6.9% +/- 0.1%, and significantly increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) by 20% +/- 0.8%. In protocol 2, fasting TG, PG, and insulin levels were significantly reduced by bezafibrate treatment. Moreover, in the MTT, postprandial increments of TG were significantly blunted after bezafibrate treatment, whereas postprandial PG and insulin levels were not significantly changed. Leptin levels were significantly decreased, while tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) levels were not changed. In conclusion, both hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia can be improved by bezafibrate treatment in DM2.
This study was aimed at examining the effects of two frequently used Ca2+ antagonists, nitrendipine and verapamil, on withdrawal after cessation of long-term treatment with the anticonvulsant drug carbamazepine in rats. The 48-h interruption of long-term (21 days) carbamazepine treatment led to the appearance of withdrawal characterized by increases in seizure intensity, the percentage of rats with tonic seizures and mortality. Oral treatment with the two calcium antagonists in combination with carbamazepine abolished the signs of carbamazepine withdrawal. Seizure intensity, the percentage of rats with tonic seizures and mortality in the groups treated with the combinations of carbamazepine + verapamil and carbamazepine + nitrendipine were significantly lower than those of the group of rats treated with carbamazepine alone. In conclusion, some Ca2+ antagonists could attenuate the manifestations of anticonvulsant withdrawal and thus could be used as adjuvants in long-term anticonvulsant therapy.
In human diabetic nephropathy, the extent of tubulointerstitial fibrosis is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease; fibrosis is closely correlated with renal dysfunction. Although a wide array of medicinal plants play a role in the prevention and treatment of diabetes, there are few reports of the application of herbal medicines in amelioration of renal fibrosis, or the underlying mechanisms by which such benefits are mediated. The efficacy of the Ayurvedic antidiabetic medicine Salacia oblonga (SO) root on rat renal fibrosis was investigated. An aqueous extract from SO (100 mg/kg, p.o., 6 weeks) diminished renal glomerulosclerosis and interstitial fibrosis in Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats, as revealed by van Giesen-staining. SO also reduced renal salt-soluble, acid-soluble and salt-insoluble collagen contents. These changes were accompanied by normalization of hypoalbuminemia and BUN. Gene profiling revealed that the increase in transcripts encoding the glomerulosclerotic mediators collagen I, collagen IV, fibronectin, angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1), transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI)-1 observed in ZDF rat kidney was suppressed by SO. In rat-derived mesangial cells, similar to the effect of the AT1 antagonist telmisartan, SO and its major component mangiferin suppressed the stimulatory effect of angiotensin II on proliferation and increased mRNA expression and/or activities of collagen I, collagen IV, fibronectin, AT1, TGF-β1 and PAI-1. Considered together the present findings demonstrate that SO attenuates diabetic renal fibrosis, at least in part by suppressing anigiotensin II/AT1 signaling. Further, it now emerges that mangiferin is an effective antifibrogenic agent.
Several South American countries are fortifying wheat flour with folic acid. However, only Chile started in 2000 to add 2.2 mg/kg, providing 360 microg daily per capita, an acceptable dosage for preventing the occurrence of some neural tube defect (NTD) cases. ECLAMC (Spanish acronym for the Latin American Collaborative Study of Congenital Malformations) routinely monitoring birth defects in South America since 1976, surveyed the impact of this fortification. Data from 361,374 births occurred in 43 South American hospitals, distributed in five different countries, active throughout the 1999-2001 triennium, were selected from the ECLAMC network. Birth prevalence rates for three different congenital anomalies with similar expected prevalence rates, were surveyed by the Cumulative Sum Method (CUSUM) method. They were NTD, oral clefts (OC), and Down syndrome (DS). Expected values were derived from observations made in 1999, and CUSUM was applied to the consecutive series of 24 months covering years 2000 and 2001. Only one of three congenital anomaly types, NTDs, in only one of five sampled out countries, Chile, showed a significant decrease, of 31%, during the 2000-2001 biennium, corresponding to the birth of the periconceptionally fortified infants. The level of significance (P < 0.001) was reached in the 20th month after fortification started, corresponding to August 2001. This is the first observation of a significant decrease in the occurrence of NTD after folic acid food fortification in a population little influenced by confounders common in the developed world as pre-existing secular decreasing trends, and partially unregistered induced abortions.
Patients with LQTS (long QT syndrome) with a mutation in a cardiac ion channel gene, leading to mild-to-moderate channel dysfunction, may manifest marked QT prolongation or torsade de pointes only upon an additional stressor. A 59-year-old woman had marked QT prolongation and repeated torsade de pointes 3 months after initiation of probucol, a cholesterol-lowering drug. We identified a single base substitution in the HERG gene by genetic analysis. This novel missense mutation is predicted to cause an amino acid substitution of Met(124)-->Thr (M124T) in the N-terminus. Three other relatives with this mutation also had QT prolongation and one of them had a prolonged QT interval and torsade de pointes accompanied by syncope after taking probucol. We expressed wild-type HERG and HERG with M124T in Xenopus oocytes and characterized the electrophysiological properties of these HERG channels and the action of probucol on the channels. Injection of the M124T mutant cRNA into Xenopus oocytes resulted in expression of functional channels with markedly smaller amplitude. In both HERG channels, probucol decreased the amplitude of the HERG tail current, decelerated the rate of channel activation, accelerated the rate of channel deactivation and shifted the reversal potential to a more positive value. The electrophysiological study indicated that QT lengthening and cardiac arrhythmia in the two present patients were due to inhibition of I(Kr) (rapidly activating delayed rectifier K(+) current) by probucol, in addition to the significant suppression of HERG current in HERG channels with the M124T mutation.
Small intestine permeability is frequently altered in inflammatory bowel diseases and may be caused by the translocation of intestinal toxins through leaky small intestine tight junctions (TJs) and adherence. Thus, the aim of the present study was to examine the effects of thalidomide treatment on the permeability and structure of small intestine TJs in an animal model of experimental colitis induced by dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS). Four days after colitis induction with DNBS, the ileal TJs were studied by means of transmission electron microscopy using lanthanum nitrate and immunohistochemistry of occludin and zonula occludens 1. When compared with DNBS-treated mice, thalidomide-treated (200 mg/kg orally starting 30 min after the administration of DNBS) mice subjected to DNBS-induced colitis experienced a significantly reduced rate of the extent and severity of the histological signs of colon injury associated with a significant reduction of plasma and colon tumor necrosis factor alpha levels. After administration of DNBS to the mice induced a significant increase of ileal permeability was observed. Distal colitis in mice induced an increase of TJ permeability throughout the entire small intestine, and the extent of alterations correlates with colonic damage. In particular, we have observed that thalidomide treatment resulted in a significant reduction of the following: (1) the degree of colon injury, (2) the alteration of zonula occludens 1 and occludin localization (immunohistochemistry), and (3) intestinal permeability caused by DNBS in the colon. Taken together, our results clearly show that thalidomide treatment reduced small intestinal permeability in experimental colitis through the regulation of TJ protein.
The objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of fluoxetine (FX) treatment in cocaine dependent methadone (MTD) maintenance patients, to assess decrease or interruption of cocaine use and pharmacokinetic interaction between fluoxetine an methadone plasma levels.
The sample was composed of 11 patients with DSM IV criteria for opioid and cocaine dependence. We added Fluoxetine (20 mg per day) during 9 weeks in Majadahonda Drug Program. All patients were in methadone program a mean of 7.5 months. We made a psychiatry interview and the baseline severity of the mood disorder was assessed with the Clinical Global Impression ICG for therapeutic improvement. Cocaine use and fluoxetine treatment was measured in urine analysis and pharmacokinetic interaction between FX-MTD were measured with plasma levels of methadone.
Fluoxetine was well tolerated combined with methadone. FX-MTD interaction didn't occur, resulting in no increased of MTD plasma level to dose before and after fluoxetine treatment. After fluoxetine treatment decreased cocaine use, changed cocaine tract from injected to smoked and improvement depressive symptoms.
High-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) is an important treatment for Burkitt lymphoma, but can cause hepatic and renal toxicity when its clearance is delayed. We report a case of acute renal failure after HD-MTX therapy in a patient with ileostomy, The patient was a 3-year-old boy who had received a living-related liver transplantation for congenital biliary atresia. At day 833 after the transplantation, he was diagnosed with PTLD (post-transplantation lymphoproliferative disorder, Burkitt-type malignant lymphoma). During induction therapy, he suffered ileal perforation and ileostomy was performed. Subsequent HD-MTX therapy caused acute renal failure that required continuous hemodialysis. We supposed that intravascular hypovolemia due to substantial drainage from the ileostoma caused acute prerenal failure. After recovery of his renal function, we could safely treat the patient with HD-MTX therapy by controlling drainage from ileostoma with total parenteral nutrition.
Low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) serum concentrations are independent risk factors for the development of coronary artery disease. In patients with the metabolic syndrome, low HDL-C can contribute to premature atherosclerosis. Extended-release (ER) niacin increases HDL-C and was shown to slow the progression of atherosclerosis. Adipose tissue is an important site of niacin action. Here we sought to determine potential pleiotropic effects of ER niacin on adipose tissue biology in patients with impaired glucose tolerance (IGT).
Thirty patients with IGT (mean age=45.2+/-3.9 years), low HDL-C serum concentrations (HDL-C <1.0 mmol/l), but no additional comorbidities were treated once-daily with ER niacin (1000 mg) in a randomized open-label controlled (n=30) study for 6 months. During the first 4 weeks, daily dose was increased from 375 to 1000 mg in weekly intervals. At baseline and after 6 months, subcutaneous adipose tissue biopsies were taken, body fat mass, insulin sensitivity (euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp), and adipokine serum concentrations were measured. After 6 months of ER niacin treatment, HDL-C increased significantly by 24% and adiponectin by 35%. In addition, ER niacin significantly reduced circulating lipoprotein (a) by 38% (p<0.001) and fasting triglycerides by 12% (p<0.05). Whole-body insulin sensitivity increased in the ER niacin treatment group, although this trend was not statistically significant (p=0.085). Six months ER niacin led to a significant reduction in mean adipocyte size associated with increased insulin sensitivity in isolated adipocytes and gene expression changes including increased adiponectin, C/EBPalpha, C/EBPdelta, PPARgamma and decreased carnitine palmitoyl transferase 2, hormone sensitive lipase, nicotinic acid receptor (GPR109B) and fatty-acid synthase mRNA expression.
Treatment with ER niacin significantly improves atherogenic lipid profile in patients with IGT. These beneficial effects could at least in part be due to pleiotropic niacin effects in adipose tissue, characterized by decreased mean adipocyte size, increased insulin sensitivity and altered mRNA expression profile.
Using a rat model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID), the contributions of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors to axial, limb, and orolingual (ALO) abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) elicited by L-DOPA were examined. Chronic L-DOPA-treated rats received the D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 (0.01, 0.1, and 1.0 mg/kg; i.p.), the D2 receptor antagonist Eticlopride (0.01, 0.1, and 1.0 mg/kg; i.p.), a mixture of both antagonists (0.01, 0.1, 1.0 mg/kg each; i.p.), or vehicle 30 min prior to L-DOPA (6 mg/kg; i.p.)+Benserazide (15 mg/kg; i.p.). SCH23390 (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg) significantly reduced axial and limb AIMs, while the same doses of Eticlopride significantly decreased axial, limb, and orolingual AIMs. Co-administration of SCH23390+Eticlopride significantly reduced axial (0.01, 0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg), limb (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg), and orolingual (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg) AIMs. These results indicate the importance of D1 and D2 receptors to LID and further validate the rat AIMs model.
