CD99 is a 32kDa surface glycoprotein that is involved in the migration of leukocytes, cell-cell adhesion and apoptosis of T cells and Ewing's sarcoma (ES) cells, two cell types with a high level of CD99 expression. Engagement of the molecule induces a rapid death signal that appears to be related to the level of expression of this antigen. The rapid apoptosis induced by agonistic anti-CD99 monoclonal antibodies is of clinical interest in ES, a tumour for which no new drugs have been described as clearly effective in the last 10 years. In this study, we show that an anti-CD99 monoclonal antibody can be used to advantage in association with doxorubicin. Striking effectiveness was observed against local tumours and metastases. No remarkably toxic effects of anti-CD99 monoclonal antibody were found in bone marrow against blood precursors. These results provide the necessary rationale and support for a novel modality of therapeutic intervention, which may have application in the care of patients with ES.
To review four cases of combined hepatic and renal toxicity that may be associated with the administration of nafcillin in adults. This type of adverse event with the use of nafcillin has not been previously documented in the literature.
References from pertinent articles are identified throughout the text.
Nafcillin is a widely used penicillinase-resistant penicillin. In four patients receiving nafcillin doses greater than 9 g/24 hours, changes in renal and hepatic function markers were noted within 72 hours of the initiation of nafcillin therapy. Laboratory values returned toward baseline when nafcillin therapy was discontinued. Elevations in blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, total bilirubin, and lactate dehydrogenase have been previously described in the literature for penicillin-like agents other than nafcillin. The exact mechanism for such toxicities as well as patient risk factors have not been clearly established.
Caution should be taken when initiating nafcillin therapy. Evaluation of renal and liver function tests prior to initiating nafcillin therapy and within the first 72 hours appears warranted. If hepatic and/or renal toxicity is observed, discontinuation of nafcillin should be considered.
A 24-year-old woman experienced grand mal seizures temporally related to cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin (CVB) administration. A second episode of seizures occurred when the patient's phenytoin level was estimated to be in the range of 15 micrograms/ml. Her plasma phenytoin level at the time had dropped to 2 microgram/ml despite a recent dosage increase. To evaluate the cause of the subtherapeutic phenytoin levels, daily plasma phenytoin levels and 24-h urine collections were obtained during her next CVB cycle. Data revealed a mean phenytoin absorption of 32% (normal greater than 80%), establishing that phenytoin malabsorption occurred. The disruption of phenytoin absorption at a cellular level by CVB therapy is the proposed mechanism. Frequent monitoring of plasma phenytoin levels is recommended for patients receiving CVB.
Lithium has been established as a useful drug for the treatment of mood and behavior disorders. In addition to its therapeutic role in psychiatric disease it is important to recognize that it has diverse effects on endocrine function. These include the development of hypothyroidism and goiter in up to 10% of patients. Hyperthyroidism is a rare but reported side effect. Other abnormalities include hypercalcemia, diabetes insipidus, and altered carbohydrate metabolism. Depending on the clinical situation it is usually not necessary to discontinue lithium treatment, but appropriate intervention to correct the resulting endocrine abnormality may be indicated. This review emphasizes that psychiatrists and clinicians caring for patients given lithium need to be aware of the possible endocrine effects of this drug.
Acute liver toxicity caused by carbamazepine is a well known though infrequent event. Severe toxicity with hepatocellular insufficiency is even more rare. A case is presented of a patient who suffered of partial epilepsy on treatment with valproate and carbamazepine, who was admitted because of severe acute liver insufficiency attributable to carbamazepine. He had started treatment with the latter drug two weeks earlier, when he developed fever, jaundice, rash and signs of encephalopathy in association with elevation in serum transaminases levels and a decrease in prothrombin index (24%). Discontinuation of both antiepileptic drugs, together with the usual supportive measures, was followed by a complete resolution. Valproate was restarted without complications. Liver biopsy suggested acute hepatitis of drug-related origin. Granulomas or steatosis were not found. The histologic picture together with the relation between carbamazepine administration and the development of hepatotoxicity allow us to dismiss valproate as the possible causal agent of this patient's disease. Therefore, we believe it was an acute hepatocellular failure secondary to carbamazepine.
Illicit use of cocaine has been associated with adverse vascular events involving most organ systems. A case report of a 30-year-old female with acute, bilateral loss of vision after smoking "crack" cocaine is presented. Other adverse ocular manifestations of cocaine use, and the differential diagnosis of toxin-induced blindness are presented.
FTY720 has been originally developed as a new immunosuppressive agent, which prolongs graft survival in organ transplantation. Adrenomedullin (AM) participates in the regulation of sodium homeostasis and has renoprotective effects. The possible involvement of renal AM in the pathophysiology of glomerulonephritis (GN) and the effect of FTY720 has been evaluated in rats. HgCl2 (1 mg/kg body weight) was inoculated subcutaneously 3 times/week for a total of 2 weeks. FTY720 (3 or 10 mg/kg) was inoculated subcutaneously daily. The proteinuria, urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) excretion and serum total cholesterol levels were increased and serum albumin level was reduced in rats with HgCl2-induced GN compared with controls. FTY720 reduced proteinuria (3 mg/kg: -25%; 10 mg/kg: -41%), urinary NAG excretion (-11%; -52%) and total cholesterol level (-21%; -55%) in a dose-dependent manner. Renal AM level and its mRNA expression were increased in rats with GN compared with controls (Peptide Cortex: +69%; Medulla: +82%; mRNA Cortex: +25%). Interestingly, FTY720 additionally increased these levels (Peptide Cortex: +38%; Medulla: +39%; mRNA Cortex: +20%). Renal AM levels correlated with urinary NAG excretion and creatinine clearance. These results suggest that FTY720 suppresses the renal damage in rats with GN and renal AM may participate in the pathophysiology of GN and the renoprotective effects of FTY720.
In this article, we report the case history of a 44-year-old female patient with bipolar disorder who developed the so-called Syndrome of Irreversible Lithium-Effectuated Neurotoxicity (SILENT). A detailed description of our patient's neurologic status is provided at baseline (i.e. during lithium intoxication) and after one year of follow-up, confirming the persistency of cerebellar signs and symptoms. Although rare, our report - which shows a severe and disabling form of SILENT - underscores the need to perform a strict control of the putative risk factors argued to be associated with the development of this syndrome. In our case, the presence of fever and the administration of multiple doses of antipsychotics may have contributed to the poor outcome exhibited by the patient.
Juvenile hemochromatosis is an iron-overload disorder caused by mutations in the genes encoding the major iron regulatory hormone hepcidin (HAMP) and hemojuvelin (HFE2). We have previously shown that hemojuvelin is a co-receptor for bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) and that BMP signals regulate hepcidin expression and iron metabolism. However, the endogenous BMP regulator(s) of hepcidin in vivo is unknown. Here we show that compared with soluble hemojuvelin (HJV.Fc), the homologous DRAGON.Fc is a more potent inhibitor of BMP2 or BMP4 but a less potent inhibitor of BMP6 in vitro. In vivo, HJV.Fc or a neutralizing antibody to BMP6 inhibits hepcidin expression and increases serum iron, whereas DRAGON.Fc has no effect. Notably, Bmp6-null mice have a phenotype resembling hereditary hemochromatosis, with reduced hepcidin expression and tissue iron overload. Finally, we demonstrate a physical interaction between HJV.Fc and BMP6, and we show that BMP6 increases hepcidin expression and reduces serum iron in mice. These data support a key role for BMP6 as a ligand for hemojuvelin and an endogenous regulator of hepcidin expression and iron metabolism in vivo.
Extended-release niacin effectively lowers plasma TG levels and raises plasma high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels, but the mechanisms responsible for these effects are unclear.
We examined the effects of extended-release niacin (2 g/d) and extended-release niacin (2 g/d) plus lovastatin (40 mg/d), relative to placebo, on the kinetics of apolipoprotein (apo) A-I and apoA-II in HDL, apoB-100 in TG-rich lipoproteins (TRL), intermediate-density lipoproteins (IDL) and low-density lipoproteins (LDL), and apoB-48 in TRL in 5 men with combined hyperlipidemia. Niacin significantly increased HDL cholesterol and apoA-I concentrations, associated with a significant increase in apoA-I production rate (PR) and no change in fractional catabolic rate (FCR). Plasma TRL apoB-100 levels were significantly lowered by niacin, accompanied by a trend toward an increase in FCR and no change in PR. Niacin treatment significantly increased TRL apoB-48 FCR but had no effect on apoB-48 PR. No effects of niacin on concentrations or kinetic parameters of IDL and LDL apoB-100 and HDL apoA-II were noted. The addition of lovastatin to niacin promoted a lowering in LDL apoB-100 attributable to increased LDL apoB-100 FCR.
Niacin treatment was associated with significant increases in HDL apoA-I concentrations and production, as well as enhanced clearance of TRL apoB-100 and apoB-48.
Reports are presented of two children with partial complex seizures (PCS) who had a variety of behavioral and psychiatric symptoms that were related to toxic serum levels of anticonvulsants. Anticonvulsant toxicity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of psychiatric symptoms in all children with convulsive disorders. The traditional view that the psychomotor spells have behavioral and psychiatric components increases the complexity of the differential diagnosis. PCS in children present differences in symptomatology and more difficulties in diagnosis and treatment compared with adults.
Gemfibrozil is a widely used hypolipidemic drug in humans that causes peroxisome proliferation and hepatocarcinogenesis in rodents. The induction of hepatomegaly and hepatic peroxisome proliferation (measured as peroxisomal acyl CoA oxidase activity), was determined and compared to another peroxisome proliferator, WY-14,643 (0.1% in the diet) in male F344 rats. In a 21-day study, dietary no-observable-effect and lowest-observable-effect levels of gemfibrozil for both hepatomegaly and peroxisome proliferation were 0.002% and 0.005%, respectively. In a 42-day study, dietary concentrations of 0.9-2.0% gemfibrozil induced a similar magnitude of hepatomegaly to WY-14,643 (2.3-fold) but a higher level of peroxisome proliferation (16-18-fold) than the maximum induction for WY-14,643 (13-fold). The plateau in magnitude of gemfibrozil-induced peroxisome proliferation across the 0.9-2.0% dietary concentrations was associated with a plateau in serum concentration of gemfibrozil (approximately 20 micrograms/ml), similar to concentrations reported in human subjects receiving oral gemfibrozil. These results indicate that maximal induction of peroxisome proliferation by gemfibrozil can exceed that of a more potent compound such as WY-14,643, and further suggest that maximal induction of peroxisome proliferation can be limited by steady-state serum concentrations. Moreover, the reported lack of hepatic responses to gemfibrozil in humans is unlikely to be the result of inefficacy or unavailability of this drug, compared to other peroxisome proliferators, in rodents.
Expression of hepcidin, a key regulator of intestinal iron absorption, can be induced in vitro by several bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs), including BMP2, BMP4 and BMP9 (refs. 1,2). However, in contrast to BMP6, expression of other BMPs is not regulated at the mRNA level by iron in vivo, and their relevance to iron homeostasis is unclear. We show here that targeted disruption of Bmp6 in mice causes a rapid and massive accumulation of iron in the liver, the acinar cells of the exocrine pancreas, the heart and the renal convoluted tubules. Despite their severe iron overload, the livers of Bmp6-deficient mice have low levels of phosphorylated Smad1, Smad5 and Smad8, and these Smads are not significantly translocated to the nucleus. In addition, hepcidin synthesis is markedly reduced. This indicates that Bmp6 is critical for iron homeostasis and that it is functionally nonredundant with other members of the Bmp subfamily. Notably, Bmp6-deficient mice retain their capacity to induce hepcidin in response to inflammation. The iron burden in Bmp6 mutant mice is significantly greater than that in mice deficient in the gene associated with classical hemochromatosis (Hfe), suggesting that mutations in BMP6 might cause iron overload in humans with severe juvenile hemochromatosis for which the genetic basis has not yet been characterized.
Many of the cardiovascular benefits of fish oil result from the antiarrhythmic actions of the n-3 polyunsaturated lipids docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA). The beneficial effects of DHA/EPA in patients with coronary artery disease and myocardial infarction may also result from modulation of the myocardial hypertrophic response. Hypertrophy was assessed in neonatal cardiomyocytes exposed to phenylephrine (PE) by measuring cell surface area, total protein synthesis ((14)C leucine incorporation), and the organization of sarcomeric alpha-actinin and by monitoring expression of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF). We report that PE induced a twofold increase in cell surface area and protein synthesis in cardiomyocytes. The hypertrophied cardiomyocytes also exhibited increased expression of ANF in perinuclear regions and organization of sarcomeric alpha-actinin into classical z-bands. Treatment of cardiomyocytes with 5 microM DHA effectively prevented PE-induced hypertrophy as shown by inhibition of surface area expansion and protein synthesis, inhibition of ANF expression, and prevention of alpha-actinin organization into z-bands. DHA treatment prevented PE-induced activation of Ras and Raf-1 kinase. The upstream inhibition of Ras --> Raf-1 effectively prevented translocation and nuclear localization of phosphorylated extracellularly regulated kinase 1 and 2 (Erk1/2). These effects consequently led to inhibition of nuclear translocation, and hence, activation of the downstream signaling enzyme p90 ribosomal S6 kinase (p90(rsk)). These results indicate that PE-induced cardiac hypertrophy can be minimized by DHA. Our results suggest that inhibition of Ras --> Raf-1 --> Erk1/2 --> p90(rsk) --> hypertrophy is one possible pathway by which DHA can inhibit cardiac hypertrophy. In vivo studies are needed to confirm these in vitro effects of DHA.
The effects of thiophosphoric acid alkaloid derivatives from Chelidonium majus L. (Ukrain, UKSR-222) on the central nervous system (CNS) of mice and rats was studied. Intraperitoneal (ip) administration of Ukrain in doses of 9.5 and 19 mg/kg for mice depressed spontaneous motor activity, decreased body temperature and potentiated the action of hexobarbital. Only in a dose of 19 mg/kg Ukrain produced analgesic action in the hot plate test. It had no protective effect against electroshock or pentetrazol-induced seizures. In rats, ip administration of Ukrain in dose of 14 and 28 mg/kg potentiated the action of amphetamine and apomorphine but had no effect on catalepsy induced by haloperidol. Ukrain used in dose 9.5, 14, 19 and 28 mg/kg antagonized the head twitches induced by 5-HTP and hyperthermia-induced by m-CPP. Biochemical studies indicated that Ukrain did not affect the NA and DA concentrations in the whole rats' brain and did not affect the 5-HT and 5-HIAA concentrations in the whole brain of rats. These findings demonstrate that the central action of Ukrain involves the stimulation of the dopaminergic system and the inhibition of the serotoninergic system.
Effects of local anesthetics and anticonvulsants on the pyrethroid-modified sodium current in cultured mouse neuroblastoma cells have been investigated using the suction pipette voltage clamp technique. In the presence of 10 microM of the pyrethroid deltamethrin the sodium current consists of an enhanced peak current during membrane depolarization and a slowly decaying, deltamethrin-induced tail current remaining after repolarization. At the onset of block the local anesthetics tetracaine, lidocaine and QX 314 reduced the deltamethrin-induced tail current more effectively than the peak current. Lidocaine, but not phenytoin, caused a time-dependent block of tail currents evoked by membrane depolarizations lasting 10-1000 ms. Both lidocaine- and phenytoin-induced blocks were independent of the membrane potential during the tail current. The anticonvulsants phenytoin, phenobarbital and valproate blocked the tail and the peak sodium current to the same extent, but diazepam, mephenesin and urethane blocked the peak current more effectively. Vitamin E, which suppresses pyrethroid-induced paresthesia of the skin, had no effect on the voltage-dependent sodium current. It is concluded that indirect effects of anticonvulsants on pyrethroid-induced toxic symptoms predominate, whereas local anesthetics preferentially block the pyrethroid-induced tail current. Therefore, local anesthetics are potentially useful pyrethroid antidotes.
Angiotensin-II (Ang-II) has inflammatory activity and is involved in different diseases associated with the cardiovascular system. This study has evaluated the effect of boldine (B), and two phenanthrene alkaloids semisynthesized by us, secoboldine (SB) and boldine methine (BM), on Ang-II-induced neutrophil recruitment. Intraperitoneal administration of 1 nM Ang-II induced significant neutrophil accumulation, which was maximal at 4-8 h. BM inhibited neutrophil infiltration into the peritoneal cavity at 4 h and 8 h by 73% and 77%, respectively, SB at 8 h by 55%, and B had no effect on this response. Although BM inhibited the release of cytokine-inducible neutrophil chemoattractant/keratinocyte-derived chemokine, macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2), and platelet-activating factor (PAF) elicited by Ang-II, SB only reduced the release of MIP-2 after 4 h of its administration. Sixty-minute superfusion of the rat mesentery with 1 nM Ang-II induced a significant increase in the leukocyte-endothelial cell interactions and P-selectin up-regulation, which were inhibited by 1 microM BM and SB. The generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in endothelial cells stimulated with Ang-II was inhibited significantly by the three alkaloids tested. BM also diminished Ang-II-induced interleukin-8 release from endothelial cells and blocked the PAF receptor on human neutrophils (concentration of the compound needed to produce 50% inhibition value: 28.2 microM). Therefore, BM is a potent inhibitor of Ang-II-induced neutrophil accumulation in vivo. This effect appears to be mediated through inhibition of CXC chemokine and PAF release, ROS scavenging activity, and blockade of the PAF receptor. Thus, it may have potential therapeutic interest for the control of neutrophil recruitment that occurs in inflammation associated with elevated levels of Ang-II.
Previous findings have demonstrated a protective role for dopamine D(3)/D(2) receptor agonists in the convulsant and lethal effects of acutely administered cocaine. Data are provided here to establish that the protection occurs through a D(3)-linked mechanism and that protection is extended to seizure kindling. The D(3) antagonist SB-277011-A [4-quinolinecarboxamide,N-[trans-4-[2-(6-cyano-3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-isoquinolinyl)ethyl]-cyclohexyl]-(9CI)] prevented the anticonvulsant effect of the D(3)/D(2) receptor agonist (+)-PD-128,907 [(R-(+)-trans-3,4a,10b-tetrahydro-4-propyl-2H,5H-[1]benzopyrano[4,3-b]-1,4-oxazin-9-ol)] on cocaine-induced seizures. The protection afforded by the D(3)/D(2) agonist, (+)-PD-128,907, was eliminated in D(3) receptor-deficient mice. In D(2) receptor knockout mice, the anticonvulsant effects of (+)-PD-128,907 were preserved. (+)-PD-128,907 also prevented the acquisition and expression of cocaine-kindled seizures engendered by repeated daily dosing with 60 mg/kg cocaine. (+)-PD-128,907 also blocked the seizures induced in mice fully seizure kindled to cocaine. Although repeated dosing with cocaine increased the potency of cocaine to produce seizures and lethality (decreased ED(50) values), daily coadministration of (+)-PD-128,907 significantly prevented this potency shift. In mice treated daily with cocaine and (+)-PD-128,907, the density, but not the affinity, of D(3) receptors was increased. The specificity with which (+)-PD-128,907 acts upon this cocaine-driven process was demonstrated by the lack of a significant effect of (+)-PD-128,907 on seizure kindling to a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, pentylenetetrazol. Taken together and with literature findings, the data indicate that dopamine D(3) receptors function in the initiation of a dampening mechanism against the toxic effects of cocaine, a finding that might have relevance to psychiatric disorders of drug dependence, schizophrenia, and bipolar depression.
Quetiapine is an atypical antipsychotic that is believed to have a low D2 binding affinity in striatal and extrastriatal regions. We report the case of a female patient with the diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder (using DSM-IV-TR criteria) who initially received amisulpride for 3 months, discontinued gradually because of persistent and distressing extra-pyramidal symptoms, and who developed tardive dyskinesia 3 months later after the initiation of quetiapine. A trial with ziprasidone resulted in a further worsening of tardive dyskinesia symptoms. A further trial with aripiprazole, improved her tardive dyskinesia symptoms. Although, it is under consideration the possibility that the improvement could have been due to the discontinuation of quetiapine, we conclude that aripiprazole improved the TD symptoms.
Aspirin and anti-platelet drugs are used commonly for patients with coronary heart disease. Proton pump inhibitor (PPI) and high-dose H2-blocker were recommended for preventing NSAIDs-related ulcer. Previously H2-blocker reported to have some negative cardiovascular effects. Additionally, a recent in vitro study showed that PPI reduced cardiac contractility. In this study, we evaluated whether chronic administration of PPI and high-dose H2-blocker affects left ventricular function.
Fifty-two stable angina patients were enrolled and classified into PPI group ([P]; lansoprazole: 15 mg/day, n=28), H2-blocker group ([H]; famotidine: 40 mg/day, n=8), and control ([C]; none or mucosal-defense drug, n=16). Eligible patients showed normal cardiac function in initial catheterization without administrated PPI or H2-blocker. They received percutaneous coronary intervention and follow-up catheterization. We compared changes in ejection fraction (EF: %), end diastolic/systolic volume index (EDVI/ESVI: ml/m(2)), and peak positive/negative dp/dt (+/-dp/dt: mmHg/s) in left ventricular angiography series.
There were no significant differences among three groups regarding patient characteristics, backgrounds of angiographic and intervention, except for fewer smokers in [C]. Other drugs such as beta- and Ca-blocker did not have effects on cardiac function except for aspirin during 255+/-115 days follow-up. Rate of EF changes significantly decreased in [P], and tended to decrease in [H] (C: 3.8+/-9.8%, H: -1.6+/-7.6%, P: -2.1+/-5.9%; p<0.05 for [C] vs. [P]). Those of ESVI changes were significantly greater in [P], and tended to be greater in [H] (C: -4.5+/-16.2%, H: 4.9+/-15.5%, P: 7.3+/-16.2%; p<0.05 for [C] vs. [P]), though, EDVI changes' were similar (C: 2.5+/-8.9%, H: 2.6+/-3.6%, P: 1.6+/-6.1%; p=ns). Rate of +/-dp/dt-changes tended to decrease in [H] (+dp/dt: C: 3.9+/-15.5%, H: -10.0+/-25.2%, P: 0.3+/-19.6%; p=ns, -dp/dt: C: -0.1+/-19.5%, H: -8.5+/-20.4%, P: 5.7+/-27.7%; p=ns).
In this study, PPI and high-dose H2-blocker have EF-reducing tendency. However, these changes were small and these drugs seemed to exhibit little influence clinically.
Transdifferentiation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) into myofibroblasts plays a critical role in the development of liver fibrosis, since myofibroblasts are the key cells responsible for excessive deposition of ECM proteins. Transient receptor potential melastatin 7 (TRPM7), a non-selective cation channel with protein serine/threonine kinase activity, has been demonstrated to function in the proliferation of activated HSCs. Here, we investigated the functional role of TRPM7 in collagen deposition in activated HSC-T6 cells (a rat hepatic stellate cell line). TRPM7 mRNA and protein were measured by Real-time PCR and Western blot in TGF-β1-activated HSC-T6 cells in vitro. Results demonstrated that TRPM7 protein was dramatically increased in fibrotic human livers. Stimulation of HSC-T6 cells with TGF-β1 increased TRPM7 mRNA and protein level in a time-dependent manner. Nevertheless, TGF-β1-elicited upregulation of TRPM7 in HSC-T6 cells was abrogated by SB431542 (TGF-β1 receptor blocker) or SIS3 (inhibitor of Smad3 phosphorylation). Additionally, blockade of TRPM7 channels with non-specific TRPM7 blocker 2-APB or synthetic siRNA targeting TRPM7 attenuated TGF-β1-induced expression of myofibroblast markers, as measured by the induction of α-SMA and Col1α1. Silencing TRPM7 also increased the ratio of MMPs/TIMPs by increasing MMP-13 expression and decreasing TIMP-1 and TIMP-2 levels. Strikingly, phosphorylation of p-Smad2 and p-Smad3, associated with collagen production, was decreased in TRPM7 deficient HSC-T6 cells. These observations suggested that TGF-β1 elevates TRPM7 expression in HSCs via Smad3-dependant mechanisms, which in turn contributes Smad protein phosphorylation, and subsequently increases fibrous collagen expression. Therefore, TRPM7 may constitute a useful target for the treatment of liver fibrosis.
Catatonia is characterized by the predominance of psychomotor abnormalities and shares many clinical, biological and treatment response features with the neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS), a rare adverse reaction to psychoactive medications. It has been advocated that the two conditions should be placed along the same spectrum of disorders. A case of a 49-year-old woman, who developed NMS while on low dose clozapine soon after recovering from catatonia, is presented. The potential relationship between catatonia and NMS is discussed in the light of the existing literature, and attention is drawn to the risk for clozapine-induced NMS in catatonic patients.
The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between methamphetamine (meth) use and impulsivity in a sample of 385 HIV-negative heterosexually identified meth users. Participants who scored highest on a self-report measure of impulsivity were compared with those who scored lower in terms of background characteristics, meth use patterns, use of alcohol and other illicit drugs, sexual risk behavior, and psychiatric health variables. Methamphetamine users in the high impulsivity group were younger, less educated, used larger quantities of meth, were more likely to be binge users, had a larger number of sexual partners, engaged in more unprotected vaginal and oral sex, and scored higher on the Beck Depression Inventory as compared with those in the low impulsivity group. In a logistic regression analysis, Beck depression was the factor that best distinguished between meth users who scored high and those who scored low on impulsivity. Neurophysiological pathways that may underlie the relationship between impulsivity and meth use are discussed.
The pharmacology of nicotinic receptor-mediated seizures was investigated in C3H mice. Eleven nicotinic agonists and six antagonists were administered centrally (i.c.v.). Epibatidine and epiboxidine were the most potent agonists tested, whereas acetylcholine and the alpha7*-selective compounds 3-(2,4-dimethoxybenzylidene)-anabaseine (GTS-21) and anabasine, were the least potent. Nicotine-induced seizures were blocked by cotreatment with either the nonselective antagonist mecamylamine or the alpha7*-selective antagonist methyllycaconitine. The alpha4beta2*-selective antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine was ineffective at blocking seizures. However, high doses of all six antagonists tested were fully efficacious in producing seizures, with d-tubocurarine being the most potent and mecamylamine the least potent. Potential relationships between nicotinic receptor-mediated seizures and drug effects on GABA function were also investigated. No correlation was seen between potencies of the agonists in producing seizures and stimulating [3H]GABA release or between potencies of the antagonists in producing seizures and antagonist inhibition of nicotine-stimulated [3H]GABA release. However, a robust correlation was detected between potencies of the agonists in producing seizures and the IC50 values for inhibition of nicotine-stimulated [3H]GABA release produced by agonist-induced receptor desensitization. We also compared inbred mouse strain sensitivity to nicotine, picrotoxin, bicuculline, and kainate-induced seizures. Robust positive correlations were revealed for nicotine-induced seizures and seizures induced by either picrotoxin or bicuculline, both GABAA receptor antagonists. No correlation was found between nicotine-induced seizures and those induced by the excitatory amino acid receptor agonist kainate. Based on these findings, we present a model for nicotinic receptor-mediated seizures mediated through GABAergic systems.
Depression is a major clinical feature of Parkinson's disease. We report the increased amount of motor disability in four patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease after exposure to the antidepressant fluoxetine. The possibility of a clinically relevant dopamine-antagonistic capacity of fluoxetine in Parkinson's disease patients must be considered.
Oxidative stress results when the balance between the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) overrides the antioxidant capability of the target cell; oxidative damage from the interaction of reactive oxygen with critical cellular macromolecules may occur. ROS may interact with and modify cellular protein, lipid, and DNA, which results in altered target cell function. The accumulation of oxidative damage has been implicated in both acute and chronic cell injury including possible participation in the formation of cancer. Acute oxidative injury may produce selective cell death and a compensatory increase in cell proliferation. This stimulus may result in the formation of newly initiated preneoplastic cells and/or enhance the selective clonal expansion of latent initiated preneoplastic cells. Similarly, sublethal acute oxidative injury may produce unrepaired DNA damage and result in the formation of new mutations and, potentially, new initiated cells. In contrast, sustained chronic oxidative injury may lead to a nonlethal modification of normal cellular growth control mechanisms. Cellular oxidative stress can modify intercellular communication, protein kinase activity, membrane structure and function, and gene expression, and result in modulation of cell growth. We examined the role of oxidative stress as a possible mechanism by which nongenotoxic carcinogens may function. In studies with the selective mouse liver carcinogen dieldrin, a species-specific and dose-dependent decrease in liver antioxidant concentrations with a concomitant increase in ROS formation and oxidative damage was seen. This increase in oxidative stress correlated with an increase in hepatocyte DNA synthesis. Antioxidant supplementation prevented the dieldrin-induced cellular changes. Our findings suggest that the effect of nongenotoxic carcinogens (if they function through oxidative mechanisms) may be amplified in rodents but not in primates because of rodents' greater sensitivity to ROS. These results and findings reported by others support a potential role for oxidative-induced injury in the cancer process specifically during the promotion stage.
