Bisphenol A (BPA), an endocrine disruptor, is a component of polycarbonate plastics, epoxy resins, and polystyrene. Several studies have reported potent in vivo effects, because BPA behaves as an estrogen agonist and/or antagonist and as an androgen and thyroid hormone antagonist.
We investigated the effects of neonatal exposure to BPA on the reproductive axis in adult female Sprague-Dawley rats.
Female rats were injected subcutaneously, daily from postnatal day 1 (PND1) to PND10 with BPA in castor oil at 500 microg/50 microL [BPA500; approximately 10-4 M, a dose higher than the lowest observed adverse effect level (LOAEL) of 50 mg/kg], 50 microg/50 microL (BPA50), or 5 microg/50 microL (both BPA50 and BPA5 are doses lower than the LOAEL), or castor oil vehicle alone. In adults we studied a) the release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from hypothalamic explants, b) serum sex hormone levels, and c) ovarian morphology, ovulation, and fertility.
Neonatal exposure to BPA was associated with increased serum testosterone and estradiol levels, reduced progesterone in adulthood, and altered in vitro GnRH secretion. Animals exposed to BPA500 had altered ovarian morphology, showing a large number of cysts. Animals exposed to BPA50 had reduced fertility without changes in the number of oocytes on the morning of estrus, whereas animals exposed to BPA500 showed infertility.
Exposure to high doses of BPA during the period of brain sexual differentiation altered the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis in female Sprague-Dawley rats. These results have the potential to link neonatal exposure to high doses of BPA in rats with the development of polycystic ovarian syndrome. Studies of doses and routes of administration more consistent with human exposures are needed to determine the relevance of these findings to human health.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the most common reason of visual impairment in the elderly in the Western countries. The degeneration of retinal pigment epithelial cells (RPE) causes secondarily adverse effects on neural retina leading to visual loss. The aging characteristics of the RPE involve lysosomal accumulation of lipofuscin and extracellular protein aggregates called "drusen". Molecular mechanisms behind protein aggregations are weakly understood. There is intriguing evidence suggesting that protein SQSTM1/p62, together with autophagy, has a role in the pathology of different degenerative diseases. It appears that SQSTM1/p62 is a connecting link between autophagy and proteasome mediated proteolysis, and expressed strongly under the exposure to various oxidative stimuli and proteasomal inhibition. ELAVL1/HuR protein is a post-transcriptional factor, which acts mainly as a positive regulator of gene expression by binding to specific mRNAs whose corresponding proteins are fundamental for key cellular functions. We here show that, under proteasomal inhibitor MG-132, ELAVL1/HuR is up-regulated at both mRNA and protein levels, and that this protein binds and post-transcriptionally regulates SQSTM1/p62 mRNA in ARPE-19 cell line. Furthermore, we observed that proteasomal inhibition caused accumulation of SQSTM1/p62 bound irreversibly to perinuclear protein aggregates. The addition of the AMPK activator AICAR was pro-survival and promoted cleansing by autophagy of the former complex, but not of the ELAVL1/HuR accumulation, indeed suggesting that SQSTM1/p62 is decreased through autophagy-mediated degradation, while ELAVL1/HuR through the proteasomal pathway. Interestingly, when compared to human controls, AMD donor samples show strong SQSTM1/p62 rather than ELAVL1/HuR accumulation in the drusen rich macular area suggesting impaired autophagy in the pathology of AMD.
Carvedilol, a beta-blocking agent with beta-blocking properties is now widely used for the treatment of congestive heart failure. In addition to its beta-adrenergic receptor blockage, antiapoptotic effects have been demonstrated in experimental animals.
The cardioprotective effects of carvedilol and its hydroxylated analogue BM-91.0228 were tested with regard to their infarct-limiting and antiapoptotic properties in an experimental infarct model in the rat heart.
Anesthetized rats were subjected to either 30 (groups 1 to 3) or 60 minutes (groups 4 to 6) of coronary artery occlusion followed by 30 minutes of reperfusion. Groups 1 and 4 served as the control; groups 2 and 5 received intravenous Carvedilol (1 mg/kg) and groups 3 and 6 received intravenous administration of BM-91.0228 (1 mg/kg), respectively, 5 minutes prior to coronary occlusion. Infarct sizes were measured by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining. In situ visualization of apoptosis was measured by nick end labeling.
Carvedilol reduced infarct size after 30 minutes of coronary occlusion compared to controls (8.7% +/- 2.7% versus 27.3% +/- 3.4%, P <.001), while BM-91.0228 showed no significant infarct size reduction (23.7% +/- 5.9%, NS). Neither Carvedilol (36.9% +/- 3.9%) nor BM-91.0228 (42.4% +/- 3.6%) reduced infarct size after 60 minutes of coronary occlusion compared to controls (47.7% +/- 3.9%, NS). Carvedilol reduced apoptosis after 30 minutes (4.9% +/- 1.3% versus 16.7% +/- 3.2%, P <.01) and after 60 minutes (11.7% +/- 1.8% versus 25.5% +/- 0.5%, P <.001) of coronary occlusion compared to controls. BM-91.0228 reduced apoptosis after 30 minutes (7.3% +/- 1.4% versus 16.7% +/- 3.2%, P <.01) and after 60 minutes (13.4% +/- 1.8% versus 25.5% +/- 0.5%, P <.001) of coronary occlusion compared to controls.
Carvedilol is cardioprotective by preventing ischemia-perfusion-induced necrosis and apoptosis of cardiomyocytes. The antiapoptotic effects of Carvedilol are independent of its beta-adrenoceptor blocking effects, but its effects might be caused by antioxidant properties and by modulation of the signalling pathway.
Pregnant rats were injected with cocaine (CN; 6 mg/kg) or an equal volume of saline (SAL), via the tail vein, on gestation days 8-20. A third group was untreated (UT). Maternal weight gain was not affected by dam treatment despite slight differences in food intake. Litter characteristics (e.g., litter size, pup weight) did not differ among groups. Indices of fetal mortality were not affected by the treatments. Developmental tests, initiated on postnatal day (PND) 2, indicated slight delays in the negative geotaxic response and eye opening in cocaine-exposed pups. Open-field and tail-flick tests were performed on PND 21. Pups were acutely injected with cocaine (10 mg/kg, IP), saline, or received no treatment before placement in a novel open field; morphine (1.5 mg/kg, SC) or saline was injected prior to the tail flick test. Pups from CN dams exhibited a significant decrease in spontaneous exploratory behavior compared to both controls, and a time-dependent increase in rearing compared to pups from UT dams. The acute cocaine injection prior to placement in the open field did not alter locomotion or rearing among dam treatment groups. However, the acute cocaine injection did increase stereotypy ratings for female pups from CN dams compared to similarly treated males, and females from SAL and UT dams. No differences were observed among groups in the tail-flick test. These data suggest that the IV route of administration provides a viable method of cocaine delivery in pregnant rats, and provides further evidence of the developmental and behavioral teratogenicity of prenatal cocaine exposure.
We report a patient who developed progressive renal failure following 13 months of rifampicin therapy for renal tuberculosis. The renal function continued to deteriorate despite the discontinuation of rifampicin. Renal pathology did not demonstrate any evidence of tuberculosis of the kidney but revealed the unique pathological finding of glomerulosclerosis, granulomatous interstitial nephritis, and extensive papillary necrosis.
Unexpected exacerbation of seizures may occur following initiation of treatment with carbamazepine (CBZ). We reviewed the occurrence of such reactions in our patient population at a tertiary care children's hospital.
A retrospective analysis of our clinic database identified 129/691 (18.6%) patients with epilepsy treated with CBZ, as monotherapy. 38/129 children were later switched to another drug. In 11/38 (28.5%) clinical and/or EEG deterioration was observed. Two patients identified at another institution with similar exacerbation were also included in our analysis. We report on the findings in these 13 cases.
Two groups were identified: Group I--6 patients with normal neurological exam, normal EEG background, and a diagnosis of idiopathic generalized epilepsy. Group II--7 patients with an abnormal neurological exam and/or abnormal EEG background. Following introduction of CBZ therapy, worsening of preexisting seizures, appearance of new seizure types, behavioral regression, and accompanying EEG deterioration were reported in both groups. Dramatic improvement in seizure control occurred, following withdrawal of CBZ and substitution of another anticonvulsant.
Physicians treating epilepsy must be aware that CBZ can exacerbate seizures, and cause developmental regression in children. Careful patient selection, when choosing CBZ as treatment, and prompt recognition of clinical deterioration and intervention, may help avoid or reverse these paradoxical reactions.
We previously reported that prenatal cocaine exposure (40 mg/kg s.c., E10-E20) increased susceptibility to convulsant-induced seizures later in life, with female rats becoming more sensitive to seizures induced by cocaine and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), and males more sensitive to PTZ-induced seizures (Snyder-Keller and Keller, 1995, 2000). In order to determine the locus of enhanced seizure susceptibility in the brains of prenatally cocaine-treated rats, we examined the distribution and density of Fos-immunoreactive cells after cocaine- and PTZ-induced seizures in mature rats. Subconvulsive cocaine doses induced c-fos in cortical areas as well as densely dopamine-innervated regions such as striatum and nucleus accumbens. Following cocaine-induced seizures, intense c-fos induction was observed in piriform cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus. Quantification of the number of Fos-immunoreactive cells in the brains of prenatally cocaine-treated versus prenatally saline-treated rats revealed differences in piriform cortex and amygdala that were indicative of a lower threshold in prenatally cocaine-treated female rats. Following PTZ-induced seizures, the same pattern of limbic structures were recruited with increasing seizure severity. Only females exhibited changes in the number of Fos-immunoreactive cells as a result of prenatal cocaine treatment. Pretreatment with the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist MK-801 blocked both cocaine- and PTZ-induced seizures, and Fos expression in limbic areas was also blocked. The dopamine D1 antagonist SCH 23390 blocked cocaine-induced seizures and associated c-fos induction, but not PTZ-induced seizures or Fos. Examination of the pattern of Fos expression at 15-20 min postseizure revealed that the initial site of c-fos induction associated with PTZ-induced seizures appeared to be the piriform cortex, whereas cocaine-induced seizures induced early expression in both piriform cortex and lateral amygdala. These findings suggest that neural alterations residing in the piriform cortex and amygdala are likely to account for the increased seizure susceptibility of prenatally cocaine-treated rats.
To counter the paucity of documention on thromboembolic disorders caused by oral contraceptives (OC), a case study is presented describing the incidence of occlusion of arteria centralis retinae in a 24-year old woman after prolonged use of an OC, Bisecurin. She had taken Bisecurin for 4.5 years and had gained 20 kg during that time, but stopped usage 1 month before admission. She was hospitalized with severe deterioration of vision in the left eye. An eye examination indicated an edematous condition of the retina and reddening of the macula. Acuity of vision value for the left eye was .01 vs. 1.0 for the right, which was confirmed by fluorescein fundus angiography. Moderately decreased antithrombin III (AT III) activity was also ascertained. Treatment consisted of immediate retrobulbar injection with Tolazolin followed by Rheomacrodex, Cavinton infusions, B1 and B12 injections, Oradexon subconjunctival injection as well as vitamin B complex, Cavinton, and Colfarit tablets and a fat-free diet. Significant improvement of the left eye condition appeared 4 weeks later. Periodic follow-ups showed the healing of the condition around the macula; however, the patient suffered permanent damage to the retina due to the arterial occlusion above and below the macula. The disturbed lipid values of metabolism were also returned to normal, as borne out by normal dextrose loading results 8 months later (glucose tolerance was abnormal during examination at admission). The estrogen and progesterone components of OCs have been shown to reduce AT III levels, shorten heparin-thrombin coagulation time, increase fibrinogen levels, decrease HDL cholesterol levels, and produce excess TXA2 (thromboxan) resulting in vasoconstriction and thrombocyte aggregation. The risk of thrombosis is 6 times higher in OC users than in nonusers, although other susceptibility factors (obesity, diabetes, hypertension) also contribute to thrombosis.
Reinforcing and physical dependence-producing effects of oral diazepam and triazolam (0.01-1.28 mg/ml) were studied in four non-water-deprived baboons in daily 2-3-h sessions. Drinking initially was food-induced, but subsequently it was maintained for greater than year without the inducing procedures; drug intake greater than 10 mg/kg per session was attained. Triazolam and diazepam reinforcement (compared to vehicle) was concluded for only one baboon for each drug under a single-spout procedure and for two baboons for each drug under a two-spout procedure. However, all baboons showed ethanol reinforcement under a two-spout procedure. When a lever-pressing requirement was imposed for each drink (one-spout procedure), ethanol maintained requirements of 128 or 256 responses/drink, and volume of ethanol consumed was greater than vehicle. Neither benzodiazepine maintained lever pressing better than vehicle at any response requirement and drinking was suppressed by requirements of 1-32. Physical dependence to triazolam and diazepam developed after approximately 1 month of daily ingestion, evidenced by a precipitated withdrawal syndrome after injection of the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil. A mild spontaneous withdrawal syndrome occurred after substitution of vehicle for triazolam or diazepam. These data indicate a clear dissociation between the reinforcing and physical dependence-producing effects of triazolam and diazepam.
A 58-year-old man and his two young adult children showed fixed abduction of the arms, mild proximal weakness, and muscle induration. The skin over the upper arms, buttocks, and thighs was sclerotic and contained numerous healed punctate ulcers. One patient required skin grafting because of large, active ulcers on both arms. The initial diagnosis was an obscure inherited disorder, but each patient eventually admitted chronic self-injection of pentazocine, which was suspected because of the characteristic clinical findings.
Optimal therapy for pyelonephritis requires the immediate administration of an effective broad-spectrum antibiotic. Because conventional oral antibiotics such as the sulfonamides and the aminopenicillins are limited by the development of resistant bacteria associated with this common disease, the therapeutic effectiveness of a new oral carbacephem antibiotic was investigated. Two double-blind, randomized clinical trials of loracarbef (LY163892) were conducted. A total of 245 patients (greater than or equal to 18 years old) with uncomplicated pyelonephritis were enrolled in parallel studies. One study compared loracarbef with cefaclor; the other compared loracarbef with norfloxacin. In the combined patient population, 119 patients were treated with loracarbef (400 mg twice daily), 43 with cefaclor (500 mg three times daily), and 83 with norfloxacin (400 mg twice daily). All treatment regimens continued for greater than or equal to 14 days. A total of 68 patients in the loracarbef group, 25 in the cefaclor group, and 43 in the norfloxacin group qualified for efficacy analysis. Escherichia coli was the causative pathogen in 85.0% of these patients. Successful posttherapy clinical and bacteriologic responses were similar for all three study drugs: 94.1 and 86.8%, 96.0 and 80.0%, 97.7 and 88.4% for loracarbef, cefaclor, and norfloxacin, respectively. Late posttherapy clinical responses were 87.4, 83.3, and 91.7% for the loracarbef, cefaclor, and norfloxacin groups, respectively. Bacteriologic responses for the three groups were 79.6, 60.0, and 88.9%. The most frequent adverse effects (headache, diarrhea, and nausea) were experienced by three patients (2.5%) in the loracarbef group; headaches were noted in two (4.7%) cefaclor patients, diarrhea was noted in three (7.0%) patients in the cefaclor group, and nausea was noted in four (9.3%). Gastrointestinal events were noted in four patients (4.8%) in the norfloxacin group. The data demonstrate that loracarbef is comparable in efficacy and safety to both cefaclor and norfloxacin as oral therapy for uncomplicated pyelonephritis.
Hydroxyurea is a potent teratogen; free radical scavengers or antioxidants reduce its teratogenicity. Activator Protein-1 (AP-1) and NF-kappaB are redox-sensitive transcription factors with important roles in normal development and the stress response. This study was designed to determine if exposure to teratogenic doses of hydroxyurea induces oxidative stress and alters gene expression by activating these transcription factors. Pregnant mice were treated with saline or hydroxyurea (400, 500, or 600 mg/kg) on gestation day 9 (GD 9) and killed either on GD 9, 0.5, 3, or 6 h after treatment, to assess oxidative stress and transcription factor activities, or on GD 18, to assess fetal development. Exposure to 400 mg/kg hydroxyurea did not affect the progeny, whereas exposure to 500 or 600 mg/kg resulted in dose-dependent increases in fetal resorptions and malformations, including curly tails, abnormal limbs (oligodactyly, hemimelia, and amelia), and short ribs. Hydroxyurea did not induce oxidative stress, as assessed by the ratio of oxidized to reduced glutathione, nor did it alter NF-kappaB DNA binding activity in the GD 9 conceptus. In contrast, exposure to hydroxyurea at any dose increased AP-1 DNA binding activity in embryos and yolk sacs 0.5 or 3 h after treatment. Hydroxyurea-induced c-Fos heterodimer activity in the embryo peaked 3-4-fold above control at 3 h and remained elevated by 6 h; in contrast, the activity of c-Jun dimers was not altered by drug exposure. A dramatic and region-specific increase in c-Fos immunoreactivity was found in hydroxyurea-treated embryos. The induction of AP-1 DNA binding activity by hydroxyurea represents an early, sensitive marker of the embryonic response to insult.
Long-term spaceflight induces hypokinesia and hypodynamia, which, along microgravity per se, result in a number of significant physiological alterations, such as muscle atrophy, force reduction, insulin resistance, substrate use shift from fats to carbohydrates, and bone loss. Each of these adaptations could turn to serious health deterioration during the long-term spaceflight needed for planetary exploration. We hypothesized that resveratrol (RES), a natural polyphenol, could be used as a nutritional countermeasure to prevent muscle metabolic and bone adaptations to 15 d of rat hindlimb unloading. RES treatment maintained a net protein balance, soleus muscle mass, and soleus muscle maximal force contraction. RES also fully maintained soleus mitochondrial capacity to oxidize palmitoyl-carnitine and reversed the decrease of the glutathione vs. glutathione disulfide ratio, a biomarker of oxidative stress. At the molecular level, the protein content of Sirt-1 and COXIV in soleus muscle was also preserved. RES further protected whole-body insulin sensitivity and lipid trafficking and oxidation, and this was likely associated with the maintained expression of FAT/CD36, CPT-1, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) in muscle. Finally, chronic RES supplementation maintained the bone mineral density and strength of the femur. For the first time, we report a simple countermeasure that prevents the deleterious adaptations of the major physiological functions affected by mechanical unloading. RES could thus be envisaged as a nutritional countermeasure for spaceflight but remains to be tested in humans.
Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is widely recognized as probably most advisable treatment of perimenopausal women with cardiovascular disorders. Whenever HRT is administered for gynecological reasons, special attention should be paid to the presence of cardiological risk factors as these may be potentiated by high doses of gestogens. The authors undertake this problem inspired by a cases of a 53-years old patient (given oral lynestrol fair persisting uterine bleedings) who suffered from several complications, including venous thrombosis and myocardial infarction.
The aim of this study was to examine the influence of transient exercise- and dobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia on time domain parameters of signal-averaged ECG (SAECG) and presence of late potentials (LP) in patients after myocardial infarction (MI). The investigation covered 85 patients after healing of MI, divided into two groups. Group I (24 males and 2 females, mean age 56.8 +/- 6.4 yrs) had exercise-induced ischemia and group II consisted of 59 patients (51 males and 8 females, mean age 58.3 +/- 8.5 years) with ischemia provoked by the intravenous dobutamine stress-testing. In each patient 2-D echocardiography, 24-h ambulatory Holter ECG, coronary arteriography were performed before stress testing. The ischemia was proven by using Tc-99m MIBI myocardial perfusion and standard 12-lead ECG monitoring. Recordings of SAECG were registered at rest and during ischemia under influence of stress-testing. The following time-domain parameters of SAECG were analysed: the root-mean-square voltage of the last 40 and 50 ms of the filtered QRS complex (RMS40, 50), total time duration of filtered QRS (t-QRS) and duration of signal lower than 40 muV (LPD). LP were detected when two or three of following criteria's had been registered: RMS 40 < 20 muV, t-QRS > 114ms, LPD > 38s. There was no statistically significant differences in all time domain parameters of SAECG between records at the baseline and during ischemia in each study group. At the baseline LP have been registered in 11.5% and in 15% patients, respectively of group I and group II. On the top of ischemia during treadmill exercise stress-testing LP have been recorded in 27% subjects. Under influence of dobutamine-provoked ischemia LP have been registered in 25% patients.
Exercise- and dobutamine-induced ischemia triggers development of LP in small grade in post-infarction patients.
Large-scale systematic resequencing has been proposed as the key future strategy for the discovery of rare, disease-causing sequence variants across the spectrum of human complex disease. We have sequenced the coding exons of the X chromosome in 208 families with X-linked mental retardation (XLMR), the largest direct screen for constitutional disease-causing mutations thus far reported. The screen has discovered nine genes implicated in XLMR, including SYP, ZNF711 and CASK reported here, confirming the power of this strategy. The study has, however, also highlighted issues confronting whole-genome sequencing screens, including the observation that loss of function of 1% or more of X-chromosome genes is compatible with apparently normal existence.
We investigated the protective effect of human ulinastatin against gentamicin-induced acute renal failure in rats. Gentamicin sulfate was subcutaneously injected at a dose of 200 mg/kg for 5 consecutive days. After 3 days administration of gentamicin, a slight decrease in renal function was observed, as well as granulovascular degeneration in the proximal tubular cells as a change in the renal histology. After 5 days administration of gentamicin, a remarkable increase in plasma concentration of creatinine (from 0.27 +/- 0.02 to 1.17 +/- 0.18 mg/dL) and urea nitrogen (from 17.8 +/- 0.6 to 48.8 +/- 5.1 mg/dL) and a significant decrease in creatinine clearance (from 0.64 +/- 0.08 to 0.20 +/- 0.03 mL.100 g-1.min-1) were observed. In addition, an apparent increase in urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase and albumin was detected. In the renal histology, proximal tubular necrosis and desquamation of the epithelial cells in the cortex were observed. Furthermore, hyaline cast formation was frequently observed in the outer stripe of the outer medulla. Ulinastatin at doses of 100,000 or 300,000 U/kg was coadministered intraperitoneally just after each gentamicin injection. Ulinastatin treatment showed a dose-dependent suppression of gentamicin-induced biochemical alterations and histological changes. After 5 days treatment with 300,000 U.kg-1.day-1 of ulinastatin, the magnitude of gentamicin-induced changes in renal function was significantly lessened, by 45-80%. The score for proximal tubular injuries and the rate of hyaline cast formation were also significantly lower in the same group of animals than those in the group treated with gentamicin alone. In the in vitro study, ulinastatin at 10-300 U/mL showed a concentration-dependent suppression on the fragility of the lysosomal membrane isolated from rat kidney cortex during hypotonic treatment. These results indicate that human ulinastatin has a prominent protective effect on gentamicin-induced acute renal failure in rats, and the lysosomal membrane stabilizing effect is possibly involved as a mechanism of this action.
Drug-associated thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP/HUS) has been recognized for several years. The most commonly implicated drugs are mitomycin-C, cyclosporine, quinine, and ticlopidine. As with idiopathic cases of TTP/HUS, basic science discoveries in the late 1990s now suggest that the likely mechanisms by which these agents lead to a thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) include either an immune-mediated phenomenon involving the ADAMTS13 metalloprotease or direct endothelial toxicity. This article reviews the current understanding of the pathogenesis, the clinical and laboratory features, and the recommended treatments, prognosis, and outcomes of drug-associated TMA.
Electrical storm is defined as a recurrent episode of hemodynamically destabilizing ventricular tachyarrhythmia that usually requires electrical cardioversion or defibrillation. We describe three cases presenting with electrical storm under differing circumstances: (1) a 57-year-old man with ST-elevation myocardial infarction within 1 week of a posterior circulation stroke who developed refractory sustained ventricular tachycardia 10 days after an acute myocardial infarction; (2) a 65-year-old man who developed polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation following dobutamine echocardiography; and (3) a 20-year-old woman who developed intractable ventricular fibrillation following an overdose of a weight-reduction pill. The management of electrical storm is discussed, and evolving literature supporting the routine use of intravenous amiodarone and beta-blockers in place of intravenous lidocaine is critically examined.
Fusion proteins involving the retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARalpha) and PML or PLZF nuclear protein are the genetic markers of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). APLs with PML-RARalpha or PLZF-RARalpha fusion protein differ only in their response to retinoic acid (RA) treatment: the t(15;17) (PML-RARalpha-positive) APL blasts are sensitive to RA in vitro, and patients enter disease remission after RA treatment, while those with t(11;17) (PLZF-RARalpha-positive) APLs do not. Recently it has been shown that complete remission can be achieved upon treatment with arsenic trioxide (As2O3) in PML-RARalpha-positive APL, even when the patient has relapsed and the disease is RA resistant. This appears to be due to apoptosis induced by As2O3 in the APL blasts by poorly defined mechanisms. Here we report that (i) As2O3 induces apoptosis only in cells expressing the PML-RARalpha, not the PLZF-RARalpha, fusion protein; (ii) PML-RARalpha is partially modified by covalent linkage with a PIC-1/SUMO-1-like protein prior to As2O3 treatment, whereas PLZF-RARalpha is not; (iii) As2O3 treatment induces a change in the modification pattern of PML-RARalpha toward highly modified forms; (iv) redistribution of PML nuclear bodies (PML-NBs) upon As2O3 treatment is accompanied by recruitment of PIC-1/SUMO-1 into PML-NBs, probably due to hypermodification of both PML and PML-RARalpha; (v) As2O3-induced apoptosis is independent of the DNA binding activity located in the RARalpha portion of the PML-RARalpha fusion protein; and (vi) the apoptotic process is bcl-2 and caspase 3 independent and is blocked only partially by a global caspase inhibitor. Taken together, these data provide novel insights into the mechanisms involved in As2O3-induced apoptosis in APL and predict that treatment of t(11;17) (PLZF-RARalpha-positive) APLs with As2O3 will not be successful.
1. The effects of adjuvant-induced arthritis on the chiral inversion of 'profens', a type of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, have hardly been investigated. The authors investigated the effects of adjuvant-induced arthritis on the chiral inversion of ibuprofen using freshly isolated rat hepatocytes. 2. S- or R-ibuprofen was incubated with hepatocytes isolated from control and adjuvant-induced arthritis rats in the absence of the serum. In the hepatocyte system the chiral inversion rate constant of R- to S-ibuprofen and the metabolic rate constants of both enantiomers in adjuvant-induced arthritis rats were significantly decreased to about 64-80% of the corresponding values in control rats. In contrast, the addition of serum from each group to the corresponding hepatocyte medium resulted in no significant differences in these rate constants between control and adjuvant-induced arthritis rats. 3. With regard to chiral inversion enzymes, adjuvant-induced arthritis decreased the messenger RNA levels of acyl-coenzyme A synthetase (ACS) isoforms, but not 2-arylpropionyl-CoA epimerase, compared with control rats. 4. Chiral inversion of R- to S-ibuprofen was inhibited by triacsin C, a specific inhibitor of ACS1. 5. The results suggest that adjuvant-induced arthritis induces down-regulation of ACS enzymes involved in chiral inversion of R- to S-ibuprofen in rats.
The effects of MIF-1 (Pro-Leu-Gly-NH2) and Tyr-MIF-1 (Tyr-Pro-Leu-Gly-NH2) on haloperidol-induced catalepsy were studied in order to examine the influences of both peptides on central dopaminergic function. In the first experiment, several variables were tested. It was found that the optimal effect was achieved with a dose of 1.0 mg/kg haloperidol injected SC an hour before testing for catalepsy and 1.0 mg/kg MIF-1 injected SC 30 min before testing. In the second experiment, Tyr-MIF-1 as well as MIF-1 were injected as single injections at four doses. Catalepsy was inhibited in an inverted U-shape dose-response relationship with the maximal effect of each peptide occurring at 1.0 mg/kg. The results indicate that when careful attention is given to dose, both MIF-1 and Tyr-MIF-1 can activate dopaminergic neuronal activity after acute administration.
Matrine (Mat), a component extracted from Sophora flavescens Ait, has a wide spectrum of pharmacological effects. Glycyrrhizin (Gly), a major active constituent of licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra) root, has various pharmacological effects. Gly and Mat are ancillary drugs used clinically in China for protection of liver function and treatment of tumors. However, habitual administration of Gly may cause adverse effects marked by the development of pseudohypercorticosteroidism. This work was designed to see whether combination use of Gly and Mat could offer better liver protective and anti-hepatocarcinogenic effects than Gly or Mat alone, and whether it could reduce the adverse effects of Gly alone by acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity, diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, induction of immunosuppression, albumen-induced swelling of rat hind paws. The results showed that compared with Gly or Mat alone, Gly+Mat reduced the mortality of acetaminophen overdosed mice more effectively, attenuate acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity, and reduced the number and area of gamma-GT positive foci, thus protecting liver function and preventing HCC from occurring. In addition, Gly+Mat had a protective effect on immunosuppression, a strong non-specific anti-inflammatory effect, and an effect of reducing the incidence of sodium and water retention.
Andrographolide (Andro), a diterpenoid lactone isolated from a traditional herbal medicine Andrographis paniculata, is known to possess multiple pharmacological activities. In our previous study, Andro had been shown to have potent anti-cancer activity against human colorectal carcinoma Lovo cells by inhibiting cell-cycle progression. To further investigate the mechanism for the anti-cancer properties of Andro, it was used to examine the effect on migration and invasion of Lovo cells. The results of wound-healing assay and in vitro transwell assay revealed that Andro inhibited dose-dependently the migration and invasion of Lovo cells under non-cytotoxic concentrations. Using zymographic assay and RT-PCR, the results revealed that Andro diminished the activity and the mRNA and protein levels of MMP-7, but not MMP-2 or MMP-9. The down-regulation of MMP-7 appeared to be via the inactivation of activator protein-1 (AP-1) since the treatment with Andro suppressed the nuclear protein level of AP-1, which was accompanied by a decrease in DNA-binding level of the factor. Taken together, these results indicated that Andro reduces the MMP-7-mediated cellular events in Lovo cells, and provided a new mechanism for its anti-cancer activity.
1. The gastric mucosa of portal hypertensive rats exhibits important microvascular changes and a nitric oxide (NO)-dependent hyperemia. This study analyses whether portal hypertensive mucosa exhibits changes in its ability to withstand aggression. 2. Portal hypertension was induced by partial portal vein ligation (PPVL) or common bile duct ligation (CBDL) and gastric damage was induced by oral administration of ethanol or aspirin. Experiments were performed in conscious or anaesthetized rats and some animals were pre-treated with the NO-synthesis inhibitor L-NAME. 3. Conscious PPVL or CBDL rats showed an increased resistance to the damaging effects of ethanol. Oral administration of aspirin produced less gastric damage in PPVL conscious rats than in the control group. 4. The protective effects of portal hypertension were maintained in animals anaesthetized with ketamine and absent when pentobarbital was employed. 5. Pre-treatment with L-NAME restored the damaging effects of ethanol and aspirin in PPVL rats without modifying the level of damage in control animals. 6. Gastric bleeding induced by oral aspirin, as measured by the luminal release of (51)Cr-labelled erythrocytes, was significantly greater in PPVL rats than in control animals. 7. Semi-quantitative analysis by RT--PCR of the mRNA for endothelial NO-synthase (eNOS), neuronal NOS (nNOS) and inducible NOS (iNOS) levels showed that the expression of iNOS was slightly increased in both the gastric mucosa and smooth muscle of PPVL rats. No changes were observed in eNOS and nNOS expression. 8. Conscious portal hypertensive rats exhibit an enhanced resistance to acute gastric damage which is absent under the influence of some types of anaesthesia and seems related to an increased synthesis of nitric oxide. However, mucosal lesions in these animals show an augmented bleeding per area of injury.
The turbidimetric determination of folic acid concentration in serum and erythrocytes was made by means of a spectrophotometer multiscan in 35 conservatively treated patients with chronic renal failure with a minimum creatine retention of 309 mumol/l and in 63 hemodialysed patients with terminal renal insufficiency. The result showed a statistically significant diminution of serum folic acid concentration in those patients treated in a conservative manner and a significant diminution of plasmatic and erythrocytic folate++ activity in patients under hemodialysis. There was a correlation between the folic acid concentration and the hemoglobin level in both groups of patients, whereas there was no correlation to the number of leukocytes and thrombocytes. A protein deficiency diet or loss of dialysis through the capillary membrane could be found to be the cause for the loss of folic acid. The possibility of folate++ substitutive therapy and its performance was discussed and recommended for selected indications.
Naloxone had been shown to be effective in relieving pruritus of dialyzed patients. In order to determine the mechanism by which this is accomplished, we studied its effect on histamine release from white blood cells taken from this group.
We compared 12 dialyzed patients (before and after dialysis) and 12 healthy controls.
The effect of naloxone (5 x 10(-3) M) on histamine release from the subjects' white blood cells was measured following anti-IgE + IL3 and TPA administration.
The white blood cells of dialyzed patients had a high degree of histamine release compared to the healthy controls. Neither dialysis nor the patient's plasma affected this release. Naloxone markedly inhibited histamine release from white blood cells when stimulated with anti-IgE + IL3 or with TPA.
We concluded that naloxone may have a beneficial effect in treating dialyzed patients suffering from pruritus, probably by inhibiting histamine release.
