The aim of this study was to determine the dependency on peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) of insulin sensitisation and glucose homeostasis by thiazolidinediones using a global Ppar-gamma (also known as Pparg)-knockout mouse model.
Global Mox2-Cre-Ppar-gamma-knockout (MORE-PGKO) mice were treated with rosiglitazone and analysed for insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism. Metabolic and hormonal variables were determined. Adipose and other tissues were measured and analysed for gene expression.
Rosiglitazone induced regrowth of fat in female but not male MORE-PGKO mice, and only in specific depots. Insulin sensitivity increased but, surprisingly, was not associated with the typical changes in adipokines, plasma NEFA or tissue triacylglycerol. However, increases in alternatively activated macrophage markers, which have been previously associated with metabolic improvement, were observed in the regrown fat. Rosiglitazone improved glucose homeostasis but not insulin sensitivity in male MORE-PGKO mice, with further increase of insulin associated with an apparent expansion of pancreatic islets.
Stimulating fat growth by rosiglitazone is sufficient to improve insulin sensitivity in female mice with 95% PPAR-gamma deficiency. This increase in insulin sensitivity is not likely to be due to changes typically seen in adipokines or lipids but may involve changes in macrophage polarisation that occur independent of PPAR-gamma. In contrast, rosiglitazone improves glucose homeostasis in male mice with similar PPAR-gamma deficiency by increasing insulin production independent of changes in adiposity. Further, the insulin-sensitising effect of rosiglitazone is dependent on PPAR-gamma in this male lipodystrophic model.
The main characteristic findings in canine acromegaly are a visible increase in soft tissue mass, prominent skin folds, abdominal enlargement, and/or radiographic evidence of an increase in soft tissue mass in the orolingual, oropharyngeal, and orolaryngeal region. Acromegalic dogs almost invariably show some degree of respiratory stridor. Enlargement of the interdental spaces can be seen, but it is felt that these changes are less specific for the disease. Other possible findings include hyperglycemia, PU/PD, elevated SAP levels, and lowered PCV. For a conclusive diagnosis, the demonstration of elevated GH levels and, preferably, the demonstration of nonsuppressibility of these high GH levels is required. Basal plasma GH levels in acromegalic dogs varies considerably (for example, from 10 ng per ml to approximately 1500 ng per ml). GH-dependent circulating growth factor (that is, insulin-like growth factor I) is drastically elevated. Acromegaly is encountered in intact female dogs that were treated with progestagens to prevent estrus and in dogs during diestrus (progesterone phase). Progestagen withdrawal and/or ovariohysterectomy will result in a reduction of plasma GH and GH-dependent insulin-like growth factor concentrations and appreciable clinical improvement.
1. The present paper reports changes in the urinary excretion of dopamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and amine metabolites in nitric oxide deprived hypertensive rats during long-term administration of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AAAD) activity in renal tissues and the ability of newly-formed dopamine to leave the cellular compartment where the synthesis of the amine has occurred were also determined. 2. Twenty four hours after exposure to L-NAME, both systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure were increased by 20 mmHg; heart rate was slightly decreased. During the next 13 days both SBP and DBP increased progressively reaching 170 +/- 3 and 116 +/- 3 mmHg, respectively. 3. Baseline urinary excretion of L-DOPA, dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT) and homovanillic acid (HVA) during the 4 day period of stabilization averaged 4.4 +/- 0.5, 13.8 +/- 0.3, 37.4 +/- 0.8, 180.0 +/- 2.7 and 206.1 +/- 6.7 nmol day-1, respectively. The urinary excretion of L-DOPA, dopamine and DOPAC, but not that of 3-MT and HVA, were increased from day 6-8 of L-NAME administration onwards (L-DOPA, up to 13.4 +/- 2.1; dopamine, up to 23.0 +/- 1.6; DOPAC, up to 62.8 +/- 3.7 nmol day-1). Baseline daily urinary excretion of 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) averaged 73.5 +/- 1.1 and 241.7 +/- 5.4 nmol day-1, respectively. During the first week of L-NAME administration, the urinary excretion of both 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-HIAA did not change significantly; however, as was found with dopamine and DOPAC, changes in the urinary excretion of 5-hydroxytryptamine were evident during the second week of L-NAME administration. 4. In experiments performed on homogenates of isolated renal tubules, the decarboxylation of L-DOPA to dopamine was dependent on the concentration of L-DOPA used (10 to 5000 microM) and saturable at 1000 microM. AAAD activity as determined in homogenates (Vmax, in nmol mg-1 protein h-1; Km in microM) was significantly (P < 0.01) higher in rats given L-NAME for 14 days (Vmax = 25 +/- 2; Km = 72 +/- 10) than in control rats (Vmax = 14 +/- 1; Km = 63 +/- 7), rats given L-NAME for 7 days (Vmax = 15 +/- 1; Km = 69 +/- 5) and rats given L-NAME plus L-arginine (Vmax = 13 +/- 1; Km = 60 +/- 3) for 14 days. 5. A considerable amount of the total dopamine formed from added L-DOPA in kidney slices escaped into the incubation medium. The application of the Michaelis-Menten equation to the net transport of newly-formed dopamine allowed the identification of a saturable (carrier-mediated transfer) and a non-saturable component (diffusion). No significant differences in the diffusional rate of transfer(0.14 +/- 0.02 micro mol-1) were observed between the four experimental groups. However, the saturable outward transfer of dopamine (Vmax, in micromol mg-1 protein h-1; Km in microM) was higher in control animals(Vmax= 2.3 +/- 0.2; Km = 568 +/- 67) than that in rats treated with L-NAME for 14 days (Vmax = 0.8 +/- 0.02;Km = 241 +/- 21), but similar to that observed in rats receiving L-NAME plus L-arginine (Vmax= 2.4+/- 0.2; Km= 618 +/- 61); the saturable dopamine outward rate of transfer in rats given L-NAME for 7days (Vmax = 3.9 +/- 0.2; Km = 1006 +/- 32) was higher than in controls.6. In conclusion, the present studies show that the hypertensive response resulting from the long-term administration of L-NAME is accompanied by an increased urinary excretion of dopamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine, which appears to follow an enhanced activity of renal AAAD. The observation that the increased AAAD activity can be reversed by the administration of L-arginine to L-NAME treated rats favours the view that the adaptational response which results in an enhanced AAAD activity probably involves a decrease in the generation of nitric oxide.
Tiapride is a substituted benzamide derivative with selective dopamine D2-receptor antagonist properties which appears to have preferential affinity for extrastriatal dopamine receptors. Animal and clinical studies show that tiapride has anxiolytic properties but the mechanism of action is uncertain. Results from limited studies indicate that the clinical efficacy of tiapride in the treatment of agitation, aggressiveness, anxiety and sleep disorders in the elderly appears superior to that of placebo, chlorpromazine, lorazepam and meprobamate. Tiapride also exerts a beneficial effect on vigilance and alertness in elderly patients and causes less sedation than chlorpromazine. Tiapride is well tolerated at the dosages recommended for elderly patients. Further well designed comparative studies with newer drugs are needed to determine the relative place of tiapride in the treatment of geriatric agitation, and such studies should also address the quality-of-life benefits for the patient. Additional clinical experience to determine the efficacy of tiapride in elderly patients with more than one disease condition, receiving concomitant medications, and/or with renal impairment is also required. However, despite these current limitations, tiapride may have potentially important applications in this difficult area of clinical medicine.
A 42-year-old woman who underwent single lung transplantation who received tacrolimus and a 58-year-old woman with pneumonia and multiple comorbidities who received haloperidol both experienced drug-induced prolongation of cardiac repolarization. The second woman also developed torsade de pointes. Critically ill patients are particularly susceptible to developing torsade de pointes due to various comorbidities, electrolyte disturbances, and receipt of numerous drugs. These two case reports illustrate the increased risk for drug-induced cardiotoxicity in the critically ill patient. They also indicate the need for current knowledge derived from basic research and retrospective case reports on drug-induced torsade de pointes to be integrated into the existing body of knowledge. Guidelines can then be developed to help prospectively reduce the frequency of adverse effects in intensive care patients. Research is necessary regarding identification of high-risk patients before drugs are administered, and clarification of the proper role of therapeutic QT monitoring in clinical practice.
Serotonin (5-HT) is considered as a major mediator causing hyperalgesia and is involved in inflammatory reactions and irritable bowel syndrome. Alverine citrate may possess visceral antinociceptive properties in a rat model of rectal distension-induced abdominal contractions. This study was designed to evaluate the pharmacological properties of alverine citrate in a rat model of rectal hyperalgesia induced by 5-HTP (5-HT precursor) and by a selective 5-HT1A agonist (8-OH-DPAT) and to compare this activity with a reference 5-HT1A antagonist (WAY 100635). At 4 h after their administration, 5-HTP and 8-OH-DPAT increased the number of abdominal contractions in response to rectal distension at the lowest volume of distension (0.4 mL). When injected intraperitoneally before 8-OH-DPAT and 5-HTP, WAY 100635 (1 mg kg(-1)) blocked their nociceptive effect, but also reduced the response to the highest volume of distension (1.6 mL). Similarly, when injected intraperitoneally, alverine citrate (20 mg kg(-1)) suppressed the effect of 5-HTP, but not that of 8-OH-DPAT. However, when injected intracerebroventricularly (75 microg/rat) alverine citrate reduced 8-OH-DPAT-induced enhancement of rectal distension-induced abdominal contractions. In-vitro binding studies revealed that alverine citrate had a high affinity for 5-HT1A receptors and a weak affinity for 5-HT3 and 5-HT4 subtypes. These results suggest that 5-HTP-induced rectal hypersensitivity involves 5-TH1A receptors and that alverine citrate acts as a selective antagonist at the 5-HT1A receptor subtype to block both 5-HTP and 8-OH-DPAT-induced rectal hypersensitivity.
Glomerular mesangial injury is the predominant renal lesion in patients with heroin addition. We studied the effect of morphine (an active metabolite of heroin)activated macrophages on mesangial cell (MC) proliferation and matrix synthesis. We prepared conditioned media containing either vehicle along (CSP), macrophage secretory products (MSP) and secretory products of morphine treated macrophages (M-MSP), M-MSP increased (P < 0.01) the proliferation of MC when compared with MSP alone. M-MSP increased synthesis of laminin by MC at concentrations of 10 to 50% when compared with cells treated with MSP alone (at 50% concentration, MSP, 126 +/- 19 vs. M-MSP, 312 +/- 14 ng/mg protein, P < 0.001). M-MSP also increased the synthesis of collagen type IV by MC. This effect of M-MSP was attenuated (P < 0.05) by anti-TGF-beta antibodies. Since M-MSP also increased mRNA expression for TGF-beta by MC, it appears that the effected of M-MSP on MC may be mediated through the generation of TGF-beta.
The acute-phase response (APR) is the most frequent side effect after the first dose of intravenous nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (N-BPs). It has been demonstrated in vitro that N-BPs stimulate gammadelta T-cell proliferation and production of cytokines and that vitamin D is able to modulate them. Therefore, we have studied the relationship between bone metabolism parameters, particularly for 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D], and APR in patients treated with 5 mg zoledronic acid intravenously. Ninety N-BP-naive osteoporotic women (63.7 +/- 10.6 years of age) were stratified for the occurrence of APR (APR(+)) or not (APR(-)) and quantified by body temperature and C-reactive protein (CRP). The APR(+) women had significantly lower 25(OH)D levels than the APR(-) women. Levels of 25(OH)D were normal (>30 ng/mL) in 31% of APR(+) women and in 76% of APR(-) women. The odds ratio (OR) to have APR in 25(OH)D-depleted women was 5.8 [95% confidence interval (CI) 5.30-6.29; p < .0002] unadjusted and 2.38 (95% CI 1.85-2.81; p < .028) after multiple adjustments (for age, body mass index, CRP, calcium, parathyroid hormone, and C-telopeptide of type I collagen). Levels of 25(OH)D were negatively correlated with postdose body temperature (r = -0.64, p < .0001) and CRP (r = -0.79, p < .001). An exponential increase in fever and CRP has been found with 25(OH)D levels lower than 30 ng/mL and body temperature less than 37 degrees C, whereas normal CRP was associated with 25(OH)D levels above 40 ng/mL. The association between post-N-BPs APR and 25(OH)D suggests an interesting interplay among N-BPs, 25(OH)D, and the immune system, but a causal role of 25(OH)D in APR has to be proven by a randomized, controlled trial. However, if confirmed, it should have some practical implications in preventing APR.
To assess the hormonal response to captopril pre-treatment during sodium nitroprusside (SNP) -induced hypotension, 12 patients were studied during a spinal surgical procedure. Haemodynamic data, plasma-renin activity, aldosterone, adrenaline and noradrenaline levels were measured. Patients were randomly allocated to two groups: Group I, control patients; Group II, 3 mg kg-1 captopril pre-treated patients. SNP requirement for the same level (mean arterial pressure (MAP) = 55 mmHg) and duration of hypotension (88.5 +/- 28.7 vs. 95.2 +/- 22.5 min) was significantly lower in Group II than in Group I (16.5 +/- 14.2 mg vs. 39.3 +/- 16.7 mg; P less than 0.05) and a lower SNP infusion rate was required to induce and to maintain hypotension. In Group II patients, MAP remained significantly lower than the control and Group I values for 30 min after SNP withdrawal. Cardiac index (CI) remained stable in both groups. Heart rate was not modified in Group II during hypotension. Plasma-renin activity rose more dramatically in Group II patients than in Group I both during hypotension (13.9 +/- 7.5 vs. 2.8 +/- 0.9 ng ml-1 h-1; P less than 0.05) and after hypotension (23.4 +/- 15.4 vs. 2.2 +/- 0.8 ng ml-1 h-1; P less than 0.05). Plasma catecholamine levels increased in both groups during hypotension and remained raised in captopril patients after SNP withdrawal. It can be concluded that recovery from hypotension may be delayed when using captopril and that sympathoadrenal activity induced by hypotension is not substantially altered by captopril pre-treatment, suggesting that sympathetic blockade might not be the mechanism by which captopril reduces SNP requirement during controlled hypotension for surgical procedure in man.
Tacrolimus is used widely for immunosuppression following transplantation. It has rarely been linked to the development of peripheral neuropathy. However, one study also reported improvement in peripheral neuropathy after tacrolimus use. We have reported herein two patients who developed chronic sensorimotor polyneuropathy after tacrolimus use following renal transplantation. One patient had an unusual presentation with bilateral facial and extremity weakness and a relapsing course. The other patient presented with focal sensory symptoms in one hand. Electrophysiological studies confirmed widespread, predominantly demyelinating or axonal polyneuropathy. We concluded that patients on tacrolimus should be carefully monitored for symptoms suggestive of peripheral neuropathy.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (abnormal involuntary movements) is one of the most debilitating complications of chronic L-DOPA pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease. It is generally agreed that dyskinesia arises as a consequence of pulsatile dopamine-receptor stimulation in the brain, causing downstream changes in genes and proteins. Advance in our understanding of such changes is critically dependent on the availability of suitable animal models. We have introduced a new method to classify and rate L-DOPA-induced abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned rats. This method allows us to dissect the molecular correlates of a dyskinetic motor response to L-DOPA in this species. One of the most prominent molecular changes underlying the development of dyskinesia in the rat consists in the striatal induction of prodynorphin gene expression by L-DOPA. This effect is mediated by FosB-related transcription factors of 32-37 kDa, which are co-induced with prodynophin in striatal neurons of the "direct pathway". Both AIM development and the associated upregulation of prodynorphin mRNA by L-DOPA are significantly inhibited by the intrastriatal infusion of fosB antisense. Antisense-mediated knockdown of CREB (cyclic AMP response-element binding proteins) has however no effect. Our results identify fosB as a potential target for adjunctive antiparkinsonian therapies.
An increasing number of studies have reported unexpectedly high body burdens of triphenyltin (TPT) in wild fishes around the world. To assess the effects of TPT on fish, we exposed pairs of medaka (Oryzias latipes) to different levels of TPT for 5 weeks, and the reproduction responses and transgenerational effects were studied. The results demonstrated that TPT exposure markedly suppressed the spawning frequency, spawned egg number, egg quality and gonad development, and induced teratogenesis, such as hemorrhaging, eye defects, morphological malformation and conjoined twins, less hatchability, and swim-up failure in the F1 generation, thereby resulting in a significant decrease in the capacity to produce viable offspring (p < 0.01). The residual TPT levels in the exposure fish are in the range of 6.52 +/- 0.56 to 5595 +/- 1016 ng of TPT/g of wet weight, similar to those reported in wild fish around the world, indicating TPT contamination in the real world would have a significant adverse effect on the health of fish population. Down-regulation of vitellogenin (VTG) genes in the female of the TPT exposure groups was recognized as a cause for the decreased fecundity. Expressions of VEGFs and PAX6 associated with vascular or ocular development respectively, were measured in hemorrhaging and eye defects embryos and showed good correlations with response outcomes.
HIV infection is more common among smokers than nonsmokers, and, remarkably, HIV-infected individuals are about 3 times more likely to smoke than the uninfected general population. However, the relationship between tobacco smoking and HIV/AIDS disease progression remains controversial. In this study, we demonstrate a potent enhancing effect of aqueous tobacco smoke extract (TSE) on HIV infectivity that is nicotine-independent. This increased infectivity is neither NF-κB mediated nor a direct result of oxidative stress, as it cannot be blocked by antioxidants. On the contrary, TSE itself was found to possess significant antioxidant potential, enabling it to protect the viability of both infected cells and HIV virions in the presence of peroxide. Assessment of TSE-induced alterations in cellular gene expression that may be involved in increasing HIV infectivity in T cells showed that TSE up-regulates some genes known to be capable of enhancing HIV and HCV infection, or protecting HIV, but down-regulates several genes involved in cellular defense and antigen presentation. These results demonstrate that tobacco smoke can enhance HIV infectivity, possibly by a combination of direct (antioxidant) and indirect (gene-based) mechanisms. This raises the concern that smoking may thereby increase the risk of acquisition or progression of HIV infection.
Clinical, electrophysiological, and the nerve and muscle biopsy findings from a case treated with amiodarone are reported. Marked distal motor and sensory impairment and distal muscular atrophy were observed clinically. The electrophysiological examination revealed normal motor and sensory conduction velocities in the median nerve; the sensory action potentials were polyphasic and reduced in amplitude. Electromyography revealed denervation potentials and severe loss of motor units in the M. extensor digitorum brevis and in the M. tibialis anterior. The light and electronmicroscopical study of a N. suralis biopsy displayed total loss of large myelinated fibers and an almost total reduction of small myelinated fibers. The number of unmyelinated axons was markedly reduced. Fibrocytes and degenerative axons polymorphous inclusion bodies were present in Schwann cells. The muscle biopsy revealed both neurogenic and myopathic changes. Lipid storage was also present in the muscle fibers. Physical and chemical analysis of the nerve and muscle biopsy revealed the content of iodine to be more than 40 times increased. The findings indicate damage of axons, schwann cells and muscle fibers. It is suggested that the lipid storage in nerve and muscle tissue might be related to the accumulation of the drug or its metabolites.
The time course and the mode of antiarrhythmic action of Amiodarone was studied after acute i.v. injection of the drug (5 mg/kg in 5 min) to four patients with junctional reciprocating tachycardia. Electrophysiological studies were performed before and 1 and 2 hours after Amiodarone injection. It was impossible or considerably more difficult to induce junctional reciprocating tachycardia after Amiodarone, and the drug's effect was detectable mainly on the AV node. Kinetic analysis of blood levels of Amiodarone during the electrophysiological study did not support a direct association between blood concentration and its effects.
Activated eosinophils play a critical role in asthma pathogenesis, and eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) is a useful indicator of inflammation. Inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting beta2-agonists (LABA) effectively control asthma symptoms and improve airway function. Salmeterol's anti-inflammatory efficacy as add-on therapy to inhaled corticosteroids has not been evaluated in Caribbean populations. We investigated nine non-smoking subjects (three men and six women; mean age: +/- SE, 50.7 +/- 3.82 years) with stable mild and moderate persistent asthma who were inhaling > or = 500 microg beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) daily. This was a with-in-patient controlled laboratory blind study performed over 8 weeks. Patients received BDP for 2 weeks, add-on salmeterol 100 microg in weeks 3-6 and BDP alone in weeks 7-8. Patients recorded daily morning and night symptoms. Morning peak expiratory flow rate was measured on entry to the study and with sputum ECP at the end of weeks 2, 4, 6 and 8. Salmeterol together with BDP decreased sputum ECP from a pretreatment median value of 897.84 microg/l to 628.38 microg/l after 4 weeks, and ECP continued to decrease even after salmeterol withdrawal. Both drugs decreased the frequency of rescue medication use by approximately 50% and increased the median number of days per week without rescue salbutamol from 0 to 3 days. Salmeterol's bronchoprotective effect was maximal after 4 weeks and was sustained after its withdrawal. In conclusion, this study, performed in Trinidadian asthmatics, used ECP as a surrogate marker of bronchial inflammation and supports the recent Salmeterol Multi-center Asthma Research Trial (SMART) data recommending add-on salmeterol therapy to adequate anti-inflammatory medication such as inhaled corticosteroids for optimal asthma management. Further studies are required to evaluate the anti-inflammatory efficacy and possible tolerance to salmeterol in Caribbean patients.
Numerous mechanisms have been proposed to account for deficient bilirubin excretion and the pathogenesis of estrogen and steroid (danazol) induced intrahepatic cholestasis. Our hypothesis is based on the fact that danazol is administered in the treatment of pulmonary emphysema because it stimulates synthesis of alpha-1 antitrypsin and that other estrogen glucuro-conjugated metabolites are P-glycoprotein substrates. We believe that genetic alterations of alpha-1 antitrypsin and P-glycoprotein, either alone or in association with known pathogenetic mechanisms, may explain the onset of danazol induced cholestasis and justify the difference in its varying duration and intensity.
Although patients with gynecological malignancies now survive longer due to advances in early diagnosis and therapy, major issues still remain regarding the quality of life for the survivors. Surgical menopause increases the risk of atherosclerosis; however, few studies have investigated the influence of platinum-based adjuvant chemotherapy. This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of platinum-based chemotherapy on atherosclerosis.
This study enrolled 47 women (26 with ovarian cancers and 21 with endometrial cancers) who underwent surgical treatment, with or without platinum-based adjuvant chemotherapy, according to established protocols between 2007 and 2009. Arterial stiffness was measured by brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) performed before surgery, and subsequently at 12 months after treatment. The flow-mediated dilatation of the brachial artery was measured before and immediately following chemotherapy to evaluate the vascular endothelial damage. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were used to evaluate cisplatin-induced vascular endothelial dysfunction in vitro.
Although there were no significant differences in the baPWV associated with surgical treatment, platinum-based chemotherapy was associated with an increased baPWV. Significant decreases of flow-mediated dilatation were observed immediately following chemotherapy. An in vitro examination demonstrated that cisplatin attenuated nitric oxide production via inhibition of Akt-eNOS cascades in HUVECs.
This research suggests that platinum-based chemotherapy directly induces vascular endothelial dysfunction and may be a risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis. Therefore, gynecologic cancer survivors should be educated about these potential risks, and informed regarding lifestyle modifications that may benefit their general health.
Reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior can be elicited by a systemic priming injection of cocaine or a non-selective biogenic amine transporter inhibitor. In order to determine which biogenic amine is responsible for this effect, selective dopamine (GBR 12909), serotonin (fluoxetine) or norepinephrine (nisoxetine) transporter inhibitors were systemically administered in order to assess their ability to induce cocaine seeking in rats. Administration of GBR 12909, but not nisoxetine or fluoxetine, dose-dependently reinstated cocaine seeking in rats. Furthermore, administration of the non-selective dopamine receptor antagonist flupenthixol into the nucleus accumbens shell attenuated GBR 12909-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking. These results suggest that increases in extracellular concentrations of dopamine, specifically in the nucleus accumbens shell, are primarily responsible for promoting cocaine priming-induced reinstatement of drug seeking in rats.
To investigate whether rosiglitazone (ROS) protects diabetic rats from destructive changes in the liver.
Twenty-four Sprague Dawley rats were randomly divided into 3 groups: control (NC) group (no.=8), streptozocin (STZ)-treated diabetic (DM) group (no.=8), and STZ+ROStreated diabetic (RSG) group (no.=8). After 8 weeks, the liver structure was observed by light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Apoptosis was detected by TUNEL, and apoptosis index was calculated. The Fas ligand (FasL) mRNA expression of apoptosis-promoting gene and cyclooxygenase- 2 (COX-2) mRNA in the liver were detected by RTPCR. COX-2 protein in the liver was tested via immunohistochemical staining.
Compared to NC group, DM group showed a visible fatty degeneration and inflammatory cell infiltration in the liver under microscopy. Obvious hepatocyte swelling with atrophic mitochondria was observed, and the central zone of cholangiole was severely outstretched. Meanwhile, in RSG group, the hepatocyte steatosis and inflammatory cell infiltration decreased, and the hepatic ultra-structure was markedly improved. Hepatocyte apoptosis (p<0.05) and the expression levels for hepatic COX-2 mRNA (p<0.05), FasL mRNA (p<0.01), and COX-2 protein (p<0.05) were higher in DM group compared to the NC group, while the expression level of hepatic COX-2 mRNA (p<0.05), FasL mRNA (p<0.01), COX-2 protein (p<0.05), and hepatocyte apoptosis (p<0.05) in RSG group were decreased compared to DM group.
Diabetes causes severe liver injury and ROS can protect diabetic rats from liver destruction, which may be related to inhibition of the expression of COX-2 and the hepatocyte apoptosis induced by FasL gene over expression.
A clinical evaluation of etomidate for outpatient cystoscopy was embarked upon. Unpremedicated patients were given fentanyl 1 microgram/kg followed by etomidate 0.3 mg/kg. Anaesthesia was maintained with intermittent etomidate in 2-4 mg doses. Patients were interviewed personally later the same day, and by questionnaire three to four weeks later. The trial was discontinued after 20 cases because of an unacceptable incidence of side effects. Venous pain occurred in 68% of patients and 50% had redness, pain or swelling related to the injection site, in some cases lasting up to three weeks after anaesthesia. Skeletal movements occurred in 50% of patients; 30% experienced respiratory upset, one sufficiently severe to necessitate abandoning the technique. Nausea and vomiting occurred in 40% and 25% had disturbing emergence psychoses.
The molecular mechanisms governing the pathogenesis of ACTH-secreting pituitary adenomas are still obscure. Furthermore, the pharmacological treatment of these tumors is limited. In this study, we report that bone morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP-4) is expressed in the corticotrophs of human normal adenohypophysis and its expression is reduced in corticotrophinomas obtained from Cushing's patients compared with the normal pituitary. BMP-4 treatment of AtT-20 mouse corticotrophinoma cells has an inhibitory effect on ACTH secretion and cell proliferation. AtT-20 cells stably transfected with a dominant-negative form of the BMP-4 signal cotransducer Smad-4 or the BMP-4 inhibitor noggin have increased tumorigenicity in nude mice, showing that BMP-4 has an inhibitory role on corticotroph tumorigenesis in vivo. Because the activation of the retinoic acid receptor has an inhibitory action on Cushing's disease progression, we analyzed the putative interaction of these two pathways. Indeed, retinoic acid induces both BMP-4 transcription and expression and its antiproliferative action is blocked in Smad-4dn- and noggin-transfected Att-20 cells that do not respond to BMP-4. Therefore, retinoic acid induces BMP-4, which participates in the antiproliferative effects of retinoic acid. This new mechanism is a potential target for therapeutic approaches for Cushing's disease.
