The hypothesis that clozapine reduced serious physically and verbally aggressive behavior of persons with schizophrenia whose symptoms did not respond to typical neuroleptic treatment was tested.
Incident reports of aggression and restraint of 75 such inpatients were reviewed for 3 months before clozapine treatment and for 6 months of clozapine treatment. BPRS scores were also examined. Twenty-eight patients with no incidents were removed from study.
There were significantly fewer incidents of physical aggression per month per patient on clozapine than before clozapine (mean +/- S.D. = 0.13 +/- 0.25 vs. 0.54 +/- 0.93; t = 3.4, df = 46, p < 0.002) and a similar decline in verbal aggression (0.21 +/- 0.31 vs. 0.73 +/- 0.83; t = 4.3, df = 46, p < 0.000). On clozapine, 49% (n = 23) of patients had fewer incidents of physical aggression, 36% (n = 17) showed no change and 15% (n = 7) showed more. Seventy percent (n = 33) of patients had fewer incidents of verbal aggression, 4% (n = 2) showed no change and 25% (n = 12) had more. During the 3 months before clozapine, 14 patients (30%) were restrained a total of 40 times. During the first 6 months of clozapine treatment, three patients (6%) were restrained a total of six times. There were significant decreases in BPRS hostility, positive, negative and psychosis scores.
Clozapine appears to reduce serious aggression among some patients.
This study is about an elderly female patient who presented with rapid atrial fibrillation. Pharmacologic stress myocardial perfusion imaging with dipyridamole for the assessment of myocardial ischemia resulted in transient abnormalities on electrocardiogram, wall motion and perfusion defects with complete resolution 1 month later, suggestive of Takotsubo cardiomyopathy. We believe that our case report is the first to describe this finding after dipyridamole stress.
Cytosine arabinoside is known to cause severe gastrointestinal side effects in an already very ill patient population. Three cases are reviewed in which apparent surgical peritonitis was managed conservatively, with very careful clinical monitoring. Two of the patients recovered completely, and one died of systemic fungal infection. No patient had a surgically remediable condition, and all were extremely poor surgical risks. A review of our experience and the literature leads us to recommend careful conservative management in patients receiving cytosine arabinoside who appear to have a "surgical abdomen," but in whom a definitive surgical diagnosis cannot be made.
Whether calcitriol administration, which is used to treat secondary hyperparathyroidism in dialysis patients, induces regression of parathyroid-gland hyperplasia remains a subject of interest and debate. If regression of the parathyroid gland were to occur, the presumed mechanism would be apoptosis. However, information on whether high doses of calcitriol can induce apoptosis of parathyroid cells in hyperplastic parathyroid glands is lacking. Consequently, high doses of calcitriol were given to azotaemic rats and the parathyroid glands were evaluated for apoptosis.
Rats were either sham-operated (two groups) or underwent a two-stage 5/6 nephrectomy (three groups). For the first 4 weeks, all rats were given a high (1.2%) phosphorus (P) diet to stimulate parathyroid gland growth and then were changed to a normal (0.6%) P diet for 2 weeks. At week 7, three of the five groups were given high doses of calcitriol (500 pmol/100 g body weight) intraperitoneally every 24 h during 72 h before sacrifice. The five groups during week 7 were: (i) normal renal function (NRF)+0.6% P diet; (ii) NRF+0.6% P+calcitriol; (iii) renal failure (RF)+0.6% P; (iv) RF+1.2% P+calcitriol; and (v) RF+0.6% P+calcitriol. Parathyroid glands were removed at sacrifice and the TUNEL stain was performed to detect apoptosis.
At sacrifice, the respective serum calcium values in calcitriol-treated groups (groups 2, 4, and 5) were 15.52+/-0.26, 13.41+/-0.39 and 15.12+/-0.32 mg/dl. In group 3, PTH was 178+/-42 pg/ml, but in calcitriol-treated groups, PTH values were suppressed, 8+/-1 (group 2), 12+/-2 (group 4), and 7+/-1 pg/ml (group 5). Despite, the severe hypercalcaemia and marked PTH suppression in calcitriol-treated groups, the percentage of apoptotic cells in the parathyroid glands was very low (range 0.08+/-0.04 to 0.25+/-0.20%) and not different among the five groups.
We found no evidence in hyperplastic parathyroid glands that apoptosis could be induced in azotaemic rats by the combination of high doses of calcitriol and severe hypercalcaemia despite the marked reduction in PTH levels that was observed.
Damage to the coronary artery and myocardium is known to be more marked when hypertension is complicated by diabetes than when either is present alone. The reason is not clear, but one possible factor is vascular permeability. Therefore, we investigated vascular permeability using sodium fluorescein of 70 mg/kg body weight, in 12-week-old streptozotocin-induced diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats. Non-diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats, diabetic rats with normal blood pressure, and non-diabetic rats with normal blood pressure of the same age were used as controls and treated similarly. H-E and Azan staining were used to examine vascular abnormality and mycoardial damage. The diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats showed marked sodium fluorescein in the coronary artery wall and surrounding area, demonstrating greater vascular permeability than non-diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats, diabetic and non-diabetic normotensive rats. Heart weights and diameters of myocytes were smaller in the diabetic than in the non-diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats. Diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats also exhibited marked perivascular fibrosis and focal necrosis. Thus, increased vascular permeability may play a role in vascular and myocardial changes in diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats.
Acute behavioral responses to cocaine are more pronounced in female than in male rats. We have shown that 3 weeks of treatment with 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) implants significantly enhanced the hyperactivity induced by cocaine in ovariectomized (OVX) rats. The ligand-bound estrogen receptor (ER) functions as a transcription factor to regulate the expression of E-responsive genes. Thus, we hypothesized that estrogen (E) modulates the behavioral response to cocaine via regulation of expression of components of dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) systems in mesolimbic nuclei important in the response to cocaine as well as the hypothalamus, a brain area known to be E-responsive. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were OVX; half of them then received E(2) implant (OVX+E) (n=8/group, two groups). Twenty-seven days later, brain tissue was collected to study E(2) effects on mRNA expression for DA D(1)-like (D(1)) and D(2)-like (D(2S), D(2L), D(3)) receptors, DA transporter (DAT), 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(1B), 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2C) receptors, and 5-HT transporter (SERT) as well as ERalpha and ERbeta in amygdala, hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens, midbrain, and ventral tegmental area (VTA). We found that E(2) implants in OVX rats increased mRNA levels for D(1) receptor in hypothalamus, D(2L) receptor in midbrain, and D(3) receptor in VTA, and decreased D(3) receptor mRNA levels in midbrain relative to OVX controls. E(2) also increased 5-HT(2C) receptor mRNA levels in midbrain and hypothalamus. In addition, E(2) decreased mRNA levels for ERalpha in amygdala and hypothalamus and ERbeta in amygdala. The present study demonstrates that E can regulate mRNA expression for specific DA and 5-HT receptors in a region-specific manner and suggests that such modifications may contribute to the behavioral response to cocaine.
In the present study, we investigated the antitumour efficacy of vanadium in a defined rodent model of experimental hepatocarcinogenesis. Hepatic preneoplasia was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats with a single, necrogenic, intraperitoneal injection of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) (200 mg/kg body weight) followed by promotion with phenobarbital (PB). The levels of modified DNA bases 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), a potential marker involved in the initiation of carcinogenesis, were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography, whereas tissue trace element status and expression of metallothionein (MT), a Cu-Zn metalloprotein associated with neoplastic cell growth and subsequent development of premalignant phenotype of the cell, were studied by energy-dispersive X-ray fluorescence spectrometry and enzyme-coupled immunohistochemistry, respectively. There was a significant and steady elevation of modified bases (8-OHdG) along with substantial increase in MT immunoexpression and disturbance in trace element homeostasis following DEN exposure. Supplementation of vanadium at a dose of 0.5 ppm for four consecutive weeks strictly abated the formation of 8-OHdG (P < 0.0001; 81.28%) in preneoplastic rat liver. In a long-term DEN plus PB regimen, vanadium was able to limit in situ MT expression with a concomitant decrease in MT immunoreactivity (P < 0.05). Furthermore, vanadium treatment throughout the study restored hepatic levels of essential trace elements and decreased nodular incidence (58.34%) and nodule multiplicity (P < 0.001; 66.89%) in rats treated with DEN plus PB. Taken together, the study provides evidence in support of the chemopreventive potential of vanadium in limiting neoplastic transformation during the preneoplastic stages of hepatocarcinogenesis in rats.
The fetal heart rate recordings of 100 parturients given PCB with less than 200 mg. of lidocaine were reviewed. No PCB bradycardia occurred if there were no pre-PCB FHR decelerations (92 per cent accuracy). In an effort to prevent post-PCB bradycardia, atropine was given in the maternal paracervical area and also intravenously. The most effective dose was 1.0 mg. intravenously, but the prophylactic efficiency of atropine was uncertain in preventing the post-PCB bradycardia.
Hypertension was induced in conscious rats by intravenous infusion of phenylephrine (3, 6 or 12 micrograms kg-1 min-1), noradrenaline (3 micrograms min-1) or adrenaline (3 micrograms kg-1 min-1). Local cerebral blood flow was measured autoradiographically in 24 defined brain structures using [14C]iodoantipyrine as the diffusible tracer. The mean arterial pressure induced by adrenaline, noradrenaline and the two higher doses of phenylephrine was 158-168 mmHg with no significant differences between the groups. Only adrenaline significantly increased local cerebral blood flow in nine of the 24 structures studied. The smaller capacity for autoregulation after adrenaline compared with other drugs might be related to a beta-adrenoreceptor-stimulating effect.
Alcohol and stimulant abuse represents a major cause of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disease in young adults. Although mild-to-moderate alcohol consumption has been linked to a decreased risk for stroke and CVD, excessive use is associated with an increased risk for intracranial hemorrhage and cardiomyopathy. Cocaine represents the single largest,cause of medical complications related to illegal drug use. Cocaine has been associated with cerebral infarction, intracranial hemorrhage, myocardial infarction, cardiomyopathy, and cardiac arrhythmias. Abuse of amphetamines is associated with complications similar to those of cocaine. The complications associated with stimulant abuse are thought to be primarily mediated through excess catecholamines, resulting in acute arterial hypertension, vasospasm, thrombosis, and accelerated atherosclerosis. Because many complications of alcohol and stimulant abuse are preventable and reversible, it is important to screen for these in patients with cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disease.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) is a sympathomimetic drug similar in structure to amphetamine which, in the United States, is present in over 130 medications, primarily decongestants, cough/cold remedies, and anorectic agents. We have reviewed 37 cases (published in North America and Europe since 1960) that received diagnoses of acute mania, paranoid schizophrenia, and organic psychosis and that were attributed to PPA product ingestion. Of the 27 North American case reports, more reactions followed the ingestion of combination products than preparations containing PPA alone; more occurred after ingestion of over-the-counter products than those obtained by prescription or on-the-street; and more of the cases followed ingestion of recommended doses than overdoses. Groups at particular risk appear to be those with a past or family psychiatric history, children under the age of 6 and post-partum women. Failure to recognize PPA as an etiological agent in the onset of symptoms usually led to a diagnosis of schizophrenia or mania, lengthy hospitalization, and treatment with substantial doses of neuroleptics or lithium. While generally safe at recommended doses, PPA can be hazardous to susceptible individuals and we urge physicians to be alert to the potential for PPA related psychiatric reactions. We have compiled an alphabetized table (Table 1: Prescription and Over-the-Counter Products Containing Phenylpropanolamine) allowing busy clinicians quick access to those drugs containing PPA.
Many clinical cases of cocaine-induced myocardial infarction have been reported in the literature. Of the reported cases, patients tend to be young (in the third decade of life), chronic abusers with myocardial infarction typically involving the anterior left ventricular wall. This case report demonstrates the usefulness of two-phase (symptomatic and asymptomatic) Tc-99m sestamibi myocardial imaging at rest for definitive diagnosis of cocaine-induced myocardial ischemia and infarction.
The effects of MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine), a neurotoxin that produces the symptoms of Parkinson's disease, can be fully prevented in experimental animals by inhibiting monoamine oxidase B. On the basis of this observation, a double-blind, placebo-controlled study in patients with early Parkinson's disease was initiated to determine whether deprenyl (a selective monoamine oxidase B inhibitor) would delay the need for L-dopa therapy by slowing the progression of the disease. Fifty-four patients were randomly assigned to deprenyl (10 mg/day) or placebo treatment groups and followed until L-dopa therapy was indicated or until the patient had been in the study for 3 years. Analysis of Kaplan-Meier survival curves for each group showed that deprenyl delayed the need for L-dopa therapy; the average time until L-dopa was needed was 312.1 days for patients in the placebo group and 548.9 days for patients in the deprenyl group. Disease progression, as monitored by five different assessment scales, was slowed (by 40 to 83% per year) in the deprenyl group compared to placebo. Therefore, early deprenyl therapy delays the requirement for antiparkinsonian medication, possibly by slowing progression of the disease.
Eight patients (16 eyes) developed ocular toxicity while undergoing intravenous deferoxamine mesylate (Desferal) chelation therapy for transfusional hemosiderosis. Presenting symptoms included decreased visual acuity, color vision abnormalities, and night blindness. Six patients presented as presumed retrobulbar optic neuropathy demonstrating central scotomas and color vision abnormalities. The remaining two patients presented with pigmentary changes confined either to the macula or equator. Following cessation of therapy, vision improved in all but four eyes, which did not attain their pretreatment visual acuity. Optic neuropathy resolved in all cases. However, follow-up revealed development of retinal pigmentary degeneration in seven patients, involving the macula in six and the equatorial retina in one. Fluorescein angiography and electrophysiological tests suggested toxicity at the level of retinal pigment epithelium and photoreceptors.
Doxorubicin plus paclitaxel has been shown to be an active regimen for metastatic breast cancer and is now frequently used as adjuvant therapy for high-risk primary breast cancer. Initial studies reported a higher than expected rate of cardiac toxicity with this regimen. We studied 105 patients with either high-risk primary breast cancer or metastatic breast cancer who were treated with doxorubicin (60 mg/m2) and 3-h infusions of paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) cycled every 3 weeks. Patients received three cycles of chemotherapy for high-risk primary or four cycles for metastatic disease. Patients then proceeded to high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) (STAMP I cyclophosphamide, cisplatin and carmustine) and peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation (PBPCT). Patients underwent radionuclide multi-gated angiograms (MUGA) before and following induction chemotherapy and following HDC. During induction chemotherapy 40 (38%) of the patients had a reduction in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). Fourteen had a decrease of 20% or greater and two were mildly symptomatic from CHF. There was additional reduction in the LVEF after HDC with a median value for LVEF of 59% (range, 20-78%). During HDC 10 patients developed clinical signs of congestive heart failure (CHF). Five patients responded to diuretic therapy and did not require any additional treatment. Four patients responded to vasodilation and/or digoxin with improvement in cardiac function. A clinically significant decrease in cardiac function was found in a small number of patients after induction chemotherapy and HDC with PBPCT. The majority of the patients tolerated this regimen without problems. Although there was a decline in LVEF as measured by radionuclide MUGA this did not prevent the majority of patients from proceeding with HDC. Bone Marrow Transplantation (2000).
Amineptine-induced acne is a classical side effect often encountered after prolonged and excessive use of the antidepressor.
We report the case of a young female drug addict (benzodiazepines and alcohol) who denied overuse of amineptine. The initial inflammatory aspect of the lesion was unusual as was the histology report. The sebaceous glands were the site of cystic dilatation as would be expected, but in addition the sudoriparous glands showed keratinizing syringometaplasia with areas of neutrophilic eccrine hidradenitis.
This is the second report of such a case similar to other due to chemotherapy, benaxoprofene or toxic agents for example, and corresponds to direct toxicity to the sudoriparous glands which accumulate amineptine. We therefore propose the term of adnexal toxic drug eruption.
Astragaloside IV, the primary pure saponin isolated from Astragalus membranaceus has been found to have potent cardioprotective effects. In this study, we aim to investigate if the beneficial effects of astragaloside IV on cardiac function are associated with improvement in sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-pump function in myocardial injury in vivo. Myocardial injury in rats was induced by subcutaneous injection of a high dose of isoproterenol, and the therapeutic effect of astragaloside IV was observed. Isoproterenol-treated rats showed widespread subendocardial necrosis, a rise in serum lactate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase, formation of lipid oxide product malondialdehyde and inhibition of left ventricular diastolic and systolic function, which suggested severe myocardial injury and acute heart failure. Moreover, sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-uptake ability and Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA2a) activity were significantly reduced. And the level of SERCA2a mRNA and protein expression was also markedly decreased, associated with a decrease in Ser(16)-phosphorylated phospholamban protein expression, while total phospholamban level was unchanged in the isoproterenol-treated group compared with controls. However, these biochemical and hemodynamic changes in the acute failing hearts were prevented by treatment of isoproterenol-induced rats with astragaloside IV. Likewise, the observed reductions in sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-pump function as well as in SERCA2a mRNA and protein levels and the phosphorylation level of phospholamban in the injured hearts were attenuated by astragaloside IV treatment. These results suggest that the beneficial effect of astragaloside IV on isoproterenol-induced myocardial injury may be due to its ability to prevent changes of SERCA2a and Ser(16)-phosphorylated phospholamban protein expression and, thus, may prevent the depression in sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) transport and improve cardiac function.
Treatment of acute burn wounds with silver sulfadiazine (SSD) has raised concern about potential silver toxicity. Numerous adverse reactions and side effects have been reported and an increasing resistance to SSD, especially in Pseudomonas strains, have motivated researchers to search for an alternative wound dressing.
Recently, a silver-coated wound dressing Acticoat (Smith & Nephew, Inc.) has become available for use in burn patients. It is a three-ply dressing, consisting of an inner rayon/polyester absorptive core between two layers of silver-coated, high-density polyethylene mesh. In a moist environment, the nanocrystals of silver are released and improve the microbial control in the wound.
After 1 week of local treatment with Acticoat in a young, previously healthy 17-year-old boy with 30% mixed depth burns, hepatotoxicity and argyria-like symptoms, a grayish discoloration of the patient's face, appeared. The silver levels in plasma (107 microg/kg) and urine (28 microg/kg) were clearly elevated, as well as the liver enzymes. As soon as the local application of Acticoat was aborted, the clinical symptoms and liver enzymes returned to the normal values.
This is the first report on silver toxicity in a patient with 30% burns who received Acticoat for local treatment. Due to substantial experiences with adverse SSD reactions and side effects, it is appropriate to keep the possibility of a toxic silver effect in burn patients treated with Acticoat silver-coated wound dressing in mind. The silver levels in plasma and/or urine should be monitored.
Approximately 40% of growth hormone-secreting pituitary adenomas have somatic mutations in the GNAS1 gene (the so-called gsp oncogene). These mutations at codon 201 or codon 227 constitutively activate the alpha subunit of the adenylate cyclase-stimulating G protein G(s). GNAS1 is subject to a complex pattern of genomic imprinting, its various promoters directing the production of maternally, paternally, and biallelically derived gene products. Transcripts encoding G(s)alpha are biallelically derived in most human tissues. Despite this, we show here that in 21 out of 22 gsp-positive somatotroph adenomas, the mutation had occurred on the maternal allele. To investigate the reason for this allelic bias, we also analyzed GNAS1 imprinting in the normal adult pituitary and found that G(s)alpha is monoallelically expressed from the maternal allele in this tissue. We further show that this monoallelic expression of G(s)alpha is frequently relaxed in somatotroph tumors, both in those that have gsp mutations and in those that do not. These findings imply a possible role for loss of G(s)alpha imprinting during pituitary somatotroph tumorigenesis and also suggest that G(s)alpha imprinting is regulated separately from that of the other GNAS1 products, NESP55 and XLalphas, imprinting of which is retained in these tumors.
In a child with minimal brain dysfunction, we found that chorea was related to the major central effect of methylphenidate and probably to the effect of the drug on central catecholaminergic systems. Also, after 3 weeks of treatment with methylphenidate, guinea pigs showed a hypersensitive response to apomorphine, suggesting that chronic administration of methylphenidate leads to hypersensitivity of receptor sites. Chorea beginning shortly after initiation of methylphenidate therapy probably is related to the central dopaminergic effect of the drug; when choreic movements appear after chronic methylphenidate administration, altered responsiveness of striatal dopamine receptor sites may be responsible.
Male orgasmic disorder is commonly encountered among patients treated with thioridazine. This side effect interferes significantly with sexual satisfaction. In this pilot study, eight male schizophrenic patients who complained of orgasmic disorder, compatible with probable retrograde ejaculation during thioridazine treatment, were given concomitant low-dose imipramine (25-50 mg at bedtime). Four of the eight reported complete resumption of their previous ejaculatory function, and in one patient there was a partial, but substantial, improvement. Three patients noted no change. It appears that imipramine might be beneficial for some patients with thioridazine-induced male orgasmic disorder.
Sunitinib, an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved to treat advanced renal cell carcinoma and gastrointestinal stroma tumor, is associated with clinical cardiac toxicity. Although the precise mechanism of sunitinib cardiotoxicity is not known, both the key metabolic energy regulator, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), and ribosomal S 6 kinase (RSK) have been hypothesized as causative, albeit based on rodent models. To study the mechanism of sunitinib-mediated cardiotoxicity in a human model, induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs) having electrophysiological and contractile properties of native cardiac tissue were investigated. Sunitinib was cardiotoxic in a dose-dependent manner with an IC₅₀ in the low micromolar range, observed by a loss of cellular ATP, an increase in oxidized glutathione, and induction of apoptosis in iPSC-CMs. Pretreatment of iPSC-CMs with AMPK activators AICAR or metformin, increased the phosphorylation of pAMPK-T172 and pACC-S79, but only marginally attenuated sunitinib mediated cell death. Furthermore, additional inhibitors of AMPK were not directly cytotoxic to iPSC-CMs up to 250 μM concentrations. Inhibition of RSK with a highly specific, irreversible, small molecule inhibitor (RSK-FMK-MEA) did not induce cytotoxicity in iPSC-CMs below 250 μM. Extensive electrophysiological analysis of sunitinib and RSK-FMK-MEA mediated conduction effects were performed. Taken together, these findings suggest that inhibition of AMPK and RSK are not a major component of sunitinib-induced cardiotoxicity. Although the exact mechanism of cardiotoxicity of sunitinib is not known, it is likely due to inhibition of multiple kinases simultaneously. These data highlight the utility of human iPSC-CMs in investigating the potential molecular mechanisms underlying drug-induced cardiotoxicity.
It is not yet known whether Yasmin involves a higher thrombotic risk compared with other contraceptives. We present a serie of eight new cases of women who developed thrombotic events early after starting on Yasmin who were sent to our Thrombosis and Hemostasis Unit for a thrombophilia work-up in the last five years. Only two of them were heterozygous carriers of the prothrombin G20210A mutation and three were obese while none of them were smoker. These new cases provide information about the characteristics of the thrombotic events and the concomitant risk factors, indicating that this pill may not be as safe as had been previously thought, and suggest that new studies regarding safety profile of Yasmin are required to explain the association with venous thrombotic events.
The rabbit syndrome is an extrapyramidal side effect associated with chronic neuroleptic therapy. Its occurrence in a patient being treated with imipramine is described, representing the first reported case of this syndrome in conjunction with antidepressants. Repeated cerebral perfusion SPECT scans revealed decreased basal ganglia perfusion while the movement disorder was present, and a return to normal perfusion when the rabbit syndrome resolved.
Exposure to diesel engine exhaust particles (DEPs) has been associated with several adverse health outcomes in which inflammation seems to play a key role. DEPs contain a range of different inorganic and organic compounds, including polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs). During the metabolic activation of PAHs, CYP1A1 enzymes are known to play a critical role. In the present study we investigated the potential of a characterised sample of DEPs to induce cytotoxicity, to influence the expression of CYP1A1 and inflammation-related genes, and to activate intracellular signalling pathways, in human bronchial epithelial cells. We specifically investigated to what extent DEP-induced expression of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8 and cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 was regulated differentially from DEP-induced expression of CYP1A1.
The cytotoxicity of the DEPs was characterised by a marked time- and concentration-dependent increase in necrotic cells at 4 h and above 200 μg/ml (~ 30 μg/cm2). DEP-induced DNA-damage was only apparent at high concentrations (≥ 200 μg/ml). IL-6, IL-8 and COX-2 were the three most up-regulated genes by the DEPs in a screening of 20 selected inflammation-related genes. DEP-induced expression of CYP1A1 was detected at very low concentrations (0.025 μg/ml), compared to the expression of IL-6, IL-8 and COX-2 (50-100 μg/ml). A CYP1A1 inhibitor (α-naphthoflavone), nearly abolished the DEP-induced expression of IL-8 and COX-2. Of the investigated mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), the DEPs induced activation of p38. A p38 inhibitor (SB202190) strongly reduced DEP-induced expression of IL-6, IL-8 and COX-2, but only moderately affected the expression of CYP1A1. The DEPs also activated the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) pathway, and suppression by siRNA tended to reduce the DEP-induced expression of IL-8 and COX-2, but not CYP1A1.
The present study indicates that DEPs induce both CYP1A1 and pro-inflammatory responses in vitro, but via differential intracellular pathways. DEP-induced pro-inflammatory responses seem to occur via activation of NF-κB and p38 and are facilitated by CYP1A1. However, the DEP-induced CYP1A1 response does not seem to involve NF-κB and p38 activation. Notably, the present study also indicates that expression of CYP1A1 may represent a particular sensitive biomarker of DEP-exposure.
Ever since dicloxacillin and cloxacillin were introduced in the 1960s, it has been known that they are associated with a high incidence of infusion phlebitis. Some in vitro studies and clinical experience have indicated that dicloxacillin is the more vessel-irritating of the 2 drugs. In this prospective observational study on 39 patients with 111 peripheral venous catheters (PVCs), the incidence of infusion phlebitis was compared between these 2 drugs. The incidence of phlebitis was 38% with dicloxacillin and 21% with cloxacillin; which, compared by logistic regression with other risk factors as covariates, was significant [odds ratio 5.06, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.45-17.60]. Since the duration of catheterization is also an important risk factor, Cox regression was performed, and the difference between the 2 drugs was still significant (proportional hazard rate 3.48, 95%, CI 1.64-7.38). The only other significant risk factor found in the study was the insertion site; the risk was higher in PVCs inserted in the forearm/antecubital fossa than in the hand/wrist. The infusion time and dilution of the infusate were not significant risk factors.
