Ras is the most frequently activated oncogene found in human cancer, but its mechanisms of action remain only partially understood. Ras activates multiple signaling pathways to promote transformation. However, Ras can also exhibit a potent ability to induce growth arrest and death. NORE1A (RASSF5) is a direct Ras effector that acts as a tumor suppressor by promoting apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. Expression of NORE1A is frequently lost in human tumors, and its mechanism of action remains unclear. Here we show that NORE1A forms a direct, Ras-regulated complex with β-TrCP, the substrate recognition component of the SCF(β-TrCP) ubiquitin ligase complex. This interaction allows Ras to stimulate the ubiquitin ligase activity of SCF(β-TrCP) toward its target β-catenin, resulting in degradation of β-catenin by the 26 S proteasome. However, the action of Ras/NORE1A/β-TrCP is substrate-specific because IκB, another substrate of SCF(β-TrCP), is not sensitive to NORE1A-promoted degradation. We identify a completely new signaling mechanism for Ras that allows for the specific regulation of SCF(β-TrCP) targets. We show that the NORE1A levels in a cell may dictate the effects of Ras on the Wnt/β-catenin pathway. Moreover, because NORE1A expression is frequently impaired in tumors, we provide an explanation for the observation that β-TrCP can act as a tumor suppressor or an oncogene in different cell systems.
Carbamazepine is a widely used drug. It is commonly associated with hepatic abnormalities, ranging from an asymptomatic rise in liver function tests to acute liver failure. The most severe reaction occurs as part of a generalised hypersensitivity reaction, also known as drug reaction, eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS). We describe a case of a young adult who presented with non-specific symptoms, which progressed to fulminant hepatic failure, displaying the hallmarks of DRESS. We highlight the need for awareness of such an association.
To determine the influence of two different pretreatment intervals, i.e. 3 and 6 min, on the efficacy of 0.01 mg/kg cisatracurium in preventing succinylcholine-induced fasciculations and myalgia.
A total of 60 adult patients were randomized and received either 0.01 mg/kg cisatracurium (0.2*ED(95)) i.v. (Cis 3 group: pretreatment interval 3 min, Cis 6 group: pretreatment interval 6 min) or normal saline i.v. (placebo group) prior to injection of succinylcholine. The incidence and severity of fasciculations and myalgia and side-effects of precurarization were assessed.
The incidence of muscle fasciculations was only reduced in the Cis 6 group (45%) compared with the Placebo group (85%), p<0.05. Cisatracurium was associated with a higher incidence of paralytic symptoms in both pretreatment groups (Cis 3: 75%, Cis 6: 80%) compared with the Placebo group (30%), p<0.05.
Cisatracurium is only effective in preventing succinylcholine-induced fasciculations when a longer pretreatment interval, i.e. 6 min instead of 3 min, is chosen. Precurarization led to signs of paralysis in both pretreatment groups in the majority (75-80%) of patients without reducing the incidence or severity of postoperative myalgia.
Sensitive biomarkers are needed to detect kidney injury at the earliest stages. The objective of this study was to determine whether the appearance of kidney injury molecule-1 (Kim-1) protein ectodomain in urine and kidney injury molecule-1/hepatitis A viral cellular receptor-1 (Kim-1/Havcr1) gene expression in kidney tissue may be more predictive of renal injury after exposure to nephrotoxicants when compared to traditionally used biomarkers. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with a range of doses of gentamicin, mercury (Hg; HgCl2), or chromium (Cr; K2Cr2O7). The results showed that increases in urinary Kim-1 and kidney Kim-1/Havcr1 gene expression paralleled the degree of severity of renal histopathology and were detected at lower doses of nephrotoxicants when compared to blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine, and urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG). In a time course study, urinary Kim-1 was elevated within 24 h after exposure to gentamicin (100 mg/kg), Hg (0.25 mg/kg), or Cr (5 mg/kg) and remained elevated through 72 h. NAG responses were nephrotoxicant dependent with elevations occurring early (gentamicin), late (Cr), or no change (Hg). At 72 h, after treatment with any of the three nephrotoxicants, there was increased Kim-1 immunoreactivity and necrosis involving approximately 50% of the proximal tubules; however, only urinary Kim-1 was significantly increased, while BUN, serum creatinine, and NAG were not different from controls. In rats treated with the hepatotoxicant galactosamine (1.1 mg/kg), serum alanine aminotransferase was increased, but no increase in urinary Kim-1 was observed. Urinary Kim-1 and kidney Kim-1/Havcr1 expression appear to be sensitive and tissue-specific biomarkers that will improve detection of early acute kidney injury following exposure to nephrotoxic chemicals and drugs.
Tenofovir is an acyclic nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor that is commonly prescribed as part of a highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) regimen in HIV-infected patients. Although it is generally well tolerated, renal insufficiency has been associated with its use. We report a biopsy-proven case of acute renal failure that developed within weeks of initiating a HAART regimen containing tenofovir, and review the literature with specific attention to cases of renal failure occurring within 8 weeks of tenofovir initiation. Our patient developed renal insufficiency within 3 weeks of initiating tenofovir-containing HAART and overt renal failure was noted within 5 weeks. Renal biopsy demonstrated histopathologic changes suggestive of HIV nephropathy, despite normal baseline serum creatinine values. Thirty additional cases of tenofovir-associated renal failure have been reported. In the majority (n = 22, 73%), renal failure occurred months after initiating therapy (range: 5-26 months). However, in a significant subset (n = 8, 27%), renal failure occurred within 8 weeks of treatment initiation. Our data suggest that some patients are at risk for developing renal failure within weeks of tenofovir initiation. Thorough evaluation of renal function should be undertaken before prescription of tenofovir-containing HAART. For those in whom subclinical renal disease is discerned, added vigilance when monitoring renal function may be warranted.
To report a relatively rare presentation of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) meningitis in a previously healthy boy in Kuwait.
A 14-year-old boy presented with a 2 weeks' history of headache and fever with increasing severity. He developed photophobia and double vision 2 days prior to his hospital visit and received ceftriaxone for 6 days prior to admission to the hospital. There was no history of head trauma or neurosurgical operation. Lumbar puncture revealed a slightly turbid cerebrospinal fluid with pleocytosis and greatly reduced glucose, elevated protein level and on culture grew MRSA. Staphylococcal chromosome cassette mec (SCCmec) typing revealed that it belonged to SCCmec type III and sequence type 238 (ST238-SCCmec-III). Polymerase chain reaction screening for the presence of Panton-Valentine leukocidin (PVL) genes yielded a negative result; all these findings were consistent with hospital-acquired MRSA. He was treated with intravenous linezolid and rifampicin for 2 weeks, made good response and was discharged home fully recovered and well.
Hospital MRSA should be considered in the differential diagnosis of the causative agents of community-onset meningitis in healthy patients even without predisposing factor.
Destruxins are fungal toxins used as insecticides. Recent reports demonstrated the potential anti-cancer activities of destruxin B (DB). This study is to discover the effects of DB in lymphoma. Flow cytometry and Western blotting were used to analyze apoptosis and protein expression, respectively, in Toledo human non-Hodgkin lymphoma cells in response to DB. Administration of DB, induced apoptosis via death receptor pathway activating Fas associated death domain (FADD), caspase 8 and caspase 3, and suppressed the cell growth. In addition, DB alterated mitochondrial membrane potential by increasing the expressions of tBid and Bax, but decreasing the levels of Bcl-2, resulting in the release of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). In conclusion, apoptosis of human non-Hodgkin lymphoma cells in response to DB is induced through the death receptor pathway and involves an alteration of the mitochondrial membrane potential. These findings may aid the development of novel treatment of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Perinatal exposure to endocrine disrupting chemicals with estrogenic activity can adversely affect reproductive development, but few studies evaluating estrogen-sensitive endpoints have been performed in Wistar rats. Therefore, time-mated Wistar rats (n=10) were gavaged during gestation and lactation with 0, 5, 15 or 50μg/kg bw/day of ethinyl estradiol. This potent estrogen was found to induce an increased number of nipples and reduced ovary weight in female offspring. Malformations of female genitalia were found in young as well as adult offspring, as an increased AGD was seen at birth and a deeper urethral slit length was seen in adulthood. In prepubertal male offspring, estrogen-regulated gene expression in ventral prostate was increased dose-dependently and a decreased ventral prostate weight was seen at 15μg/kg. Female external sexual characteristics and prostate development were found to be targets for exposure to estrogenic compounds and may be of interest in studies on estrogenic environmental compounds.
Pimecrolimus is a calcineurin inhibitor developed for the topical therapy of inflammatory skin diseases, particularly atopic dermatitis (AD). Pimecrolimus selectively targets T cells and mast cells. Pimecrolimus inhibits T-cell proliferation, as well as production and release of interleukin-2 (IL-2), IL-4, interferon-gamma and tumour necrosis factor-alpha. Moreover, pimecrolimus inhibits mast cell degranulation. In contrast to tacrolimus, pimecrolimus has no effects on the differentiation, maturation and functions of dendritic cells. In contrast to corticosteroids, pimecrolimus does not affect endothelial cells and fibroblasts and does not induce skin atrophy. Given the low capacity of pimecrolimus to permeate through the skin, it has a very low risk of systemic exposure and subsequent systemic side-effects. In different randomised controlled trials, topical pimecrolimus as cream 1% (Elidel) has been shown to be effective, well tolerated and safe in both adults and children with mild to moderate AD. In addition, pimecrolimus has been successfully used in inflammatory skin diseases other than AD, including seborrheic dermatitis, intertriginous psoriasis, lichen planus and cutaneous lupus erythematosus.
Twelve patients with congestive heart failure receiving maintenance therapy with digoxin and potent diuretics were followed closely during development of hypokalemia and potassium loss. Cardiac arrhythmias compatible with digoxtin toxicity developed in 6 patients in the presence of stable, normal serum digoxin concentrations. The mechanisms involved in the development of the rhythm disturbances are discussed with regard to hypokalaemia, intracellular potassium loss, intra-/extracellular potassium gradients and digoxin, and the significance of maintaining a normal potassium balance in this setting is stressed.
The subjects were 30 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension randomly assigned to receive 10 mg of nitrendipine twice daily or 60 mg of diltiazem thrice daily for 14 days. On days 1 and 14 the patients performed an effort test (to a maximum of 100 W) before and after drug administration. Both nitrendipine and diltiazem reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure; after 14 days of treatment, the reductions in blood pressure were significantly greater in the nitrendipine-treated patients than in the diltiazem-treated patients. Blood pressures were reduced at maximum effort in both treatment groups before drug administration on day 14 compared with day 1. Two hours after drug administration on days 1 and 14, the reductions in effort blood pressures were significantly greater after nitrendipine than after diltiazem. No side effects were noted in either group. It is concluded that nitrendipine is safe and effective in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension at rest and during exercise.
Mutations in FOXP2 cause developmental verbal dyspraxia (DVD), but only a few cases have been described. We characterize 13 patients with DVD--5 with hemizygous paternal deletions spanning the FOXP2 gene, 1 with a translocation interrupting FOXP2, and the remaining 7 with maternal uniparental disomy of chromosome 7 (UPD7), who were also given a diagnosis of Silver-Russell Syndrome (SRS). Of these individuals with DVD, all 12 for whom parental DNA was available showed absence of a paternal copy of FOXP2. Five other individuals with deletions of paternally inherited FOXP2 but with incomplete clinical information or phenotypes too complex to properly assess are also described. Four of the patients with DVD also meet criteria for autism spectrum disorder. Individuals with paternal UPD7 or with partial maternal UPD7 or deletion starting downstream of FOXP2 do not have DVD. Using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, we show the maternally inherited FOXP2 to be comparatively underexpressed. Our results indicate that absence of paternal FOXP2 is the cause of DVD in patients with SRS with maternal UPD7. The data also point to a role for differential parent-of-origin expression of FOXP2 in human speech development.
The antigenicity of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder has stimulated the search for effective immunotherapeutic agents in the treatment of this disease. Non-specific immunotherapy with local (intravesical/intralesional) and systemic Keyhole Limpet Haemocyanin (KLH) in a FANFT induced murine bladder tumor model was studied. Results showed no difference between control or treated groups in either tumor growth or animal survival.
Inadequate folate intake and in consequence deficient of plasma folate status may have a negative impact on human health. Among elderly the most important effects are related to hyperhomocysteinemia, a significant risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, procarcinogenic effects and cognitive dysfunctions. To prevent such situation and improve the quality of life of elderly people, in Poland as in many other countries, different strategies for increasing folate intake were applied, among them food fortification. At the same time it is important to educate people because food fortification and individual diet supplementation applied together could be a risk of exceeding upper level of folate intake.
Parkinson's disease has long been associated with impaired mitochondrial complex I activity, while several gene defects associated with familial Parkinson's involve defects in mitochondrial function or 'quality control' pathways, causing an imbalance between mitochondrial biogenesis and removal of dysfunctional mitochondria by autophagy. Amongst these are mutations of the gene for PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) in which mitochondrial function is abnormal. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ), a nuclear receptor and ligand-dependent transcription factor, regulates pathways of inflammation, lipid and carbohydrate metabolism, antioxidant defences and mitochondrial biogenesis. We have found that inhibition of complex I in human differentiated SHSY-5Y cells by the complex I inhibitor rotenone irreversibly decrease mitochondrial mass, membrane potential and oxygen consumption, while increasing free radical generation and autophagy. Similar changes are seen in PINK1 knockdown cells, in which potential, oxygen consumption and mitochondrial mass are all decreased. In both models, all these changes were reversed by pre-treatment of the cells with the PPARγ agonist, rosiglitazone, which increased mitochondrial biogenesis, increased oxygen consumption and suppressed free radical generation and autophagy. Thus, rosiglitazone is neuroprotective in two different models of mitochondrial dysfunction associated with Parkinson's disease through a direct impact on mitochondrial function.
Bisphenol A (BPA), a component of polycarbonate and epoxy resins, has been reported to adversely impact the central nervous system, especially with respect to learning and memory. However, the precise effect and specific mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. In the present study, pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were orally administered with BPA at 0.05, 0.5, 5 or 50mg/kg·body weight (BW) per day from embryonic day 9 (E 9) to E 20. We examined the effects of maternal BPA exposure on memory and synaptic structure in the hippocampus of male offspring at postnatal day (PND) 21. Maternal BPA exposure significantly affected locomotor activity, exploratory habits, and emotional behavior in open field test, and increased reference and especially working memory errors in the radial arm maze during the postnatal developing stage. Maternal BPA exposure had an adverse effect on synaptic structure, including a widened synaptic cleft, a thinned postsynaptic density (PSD), unclear synaptic surface and disappeared synaptic vesicles. Furthermore, maternal BPA exposure decreased the mRNA and protein expressions of synaptophysin, PSD-95, spinophilin, GluR1 and NMDAR1 in the hippocampus of male offspring on PND 21. These results showed that fetal growth and development was more sensitive to BPA exposure. The decreased learning and memory induced by maternal exposure to BPA in this study may be involved in synaptic plasticity alteration.
In order to elucidate the possible roles of the glutamate system in the mechanisms underlying behavioral sensitization, which is used as an animal model for human psychosis, we investigated the effects of 3-((+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) and MK-801 ((+)-dizocilpine), a competitive and noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, respectively, on methamphetamine-induced behavioral sensitization in rats. Administration of 0.5 mg/kg MK-801 enhanced 2 mg/kg methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity, whereas it reduced 6 mg/kg methamphetamine-induced stereotyped behavior markedly. CPP (10 mg/kg) reduced 2 mg/kg methamphetamine-induced stereotypy slightly. Repeated treatment with 2 and 6 mg/kg methamphetamine alone induced progressive augmentation of stereotypy, whereas combining either MK-801 or CPP with methamphetamine treatment abolished or attenuated this augmentation. However, when rats were challenged with methamphetamine after a 7-day period of abstinence, the intensity of stereotypy among the rats pretreated with repeated doses of methamphetamine alone or in combination with MK-801 or CPP did not differ significantly. These results indicate that competitive and non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists modulate acute methamphetamine-induced abnormal behavior and sensitization expression, but they failed to prevent the induction of the neural mechanisms underlying behavioral sensitization.
The consumption of okadaic acid (OA) contaminated shellfish can induce acute toxic symptoms in humans such as diarrhea, nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain; carcinogenic and embryotoxic effects have also been described. Toxicokinetic studies with mice have shown that high cytotoxic doses of OA can pass the gastrointestinal barrier presumably by paracellular passage. However, in vitro studies using human intestinal Caco-2 cell monolayers to represent the intestinal barrier have shown that at low-dose exposure OA is transported against a concentration gradient suggesting an active efflux mechanism. Since P-glycoprotein (P-gp) transports a wide variety of substrates, we investigated its possible influence on the observed elimination of OA. We used two different cellular transwell models: (i) Caco-2 cell monolayer endogenously expressing human P-gp and simulating the intestinal barrier and (ii) MDCK-II cell monolayer stably over-expressing P-gp. Our study demonstrates clearly that OA at non-cytotoxic concentrations passes the monolayer barrier only to a low degree, and that it is actively eliminated by P-gp over the apical membrane. Therefore, our in vitro data indicate that humans appear to have efficient defense mechanisms to protect themselves against low-dose contaminated shellfish by exhibiting a low bioavailability as a result of active elimination of OA by P-gp.
Recurrent pancreatitis is a common complication of severe hypertriglyceridaemia (HTG) often seen in patients carrying various gene mutations in lipoprotein lipase (LPL). This study investigates a possible pathogenic mechanism of cell damage in isolated mouse pancreatic acinar cells and of pancreatitis in LPL-deficient and in wild type mice.
Addition of free fatty acids (FFA) or of chylomicrons to isolated pancreatic acinar cells caused stimulation of amylase release, and at higher concentrations it also caused cell damage. This effect was decreased in the presence of the lipase inhibitor orlistat. Surprisingly, pancreatic lipase whether in its active or inactive state could act like an agonist by inducing amylase secretion, increasing cellular cGMP levels and converting cell damaging sustained elevations of [Ca(2+)](cyt) to normal Ca(2+) oscillations. Caerulein increases the levels of serum amylase and caused more severe inflammation in the pancreas of LPL-deficient mice than in wild type mice.
We conclude that high concentrations of FFA as present in the plasma of LPL-deficient mice and in patients with HTG lead to pancreatic cell damage and are high risk factors for the development of acute pancreatitis. In addition to its enzymatic effect which leads to the generation of cell-damaging FFA from triglycerides, pancreatic lipase also prevents Ca(2+) overload in pancreatic acinar cells and, therefore, counteracts cell injury.
We conducted a phase II trial in 19 chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) patients with rapamycin, calcineurin inhibitors, and prednisone with the goals of controlling cGVHD, reducing prednisone use, and defining the safety of this regimen. Rapamycin was begun as second-line (n = 9) or more than second-line (n = 10) therapy. With a median follow-up of 42 months, 16 patients were evaluable for response. Nine patients discontinued rapamycin because of poor compliance/patient request (n = 2) or an adverse event (n = 7), 3 of whom were not evaluable because of withdrawal at < or =1 month or noncompliance. The adverse events included serum creatinine > or =2.4 mg/dL (n = 4), hemolytic uremic syndrome (n = 2), and relapse of malignancy (n = 1). Fifteen of 16 evaluable patients had a clinical response. Five of the 16 discontinued the drug, and 1 died of relapsed leukemia. Of the 10 patients who continued rapamycin, 2 discontinued and 1 successfully tapered all systemic immunosuppression. Three of the 10 developed progressive cGVHD with tapering immunosuppression; all responded to resumption of prior medications. Four of the 10 patients required alternate therapy for persistent or progressive cGVHD while receiving rapamycin; prednisone was discontinued (n = 2) or tapered at the time of progressive disease (n = 2). Seventeen of 19 original patients were alive. One death was due to relapsed malignancy, and 1 was due to congestive heart failure. In this report of rapamycin as cGVHD therapy, there is evidence of rapamycin's efficacy. Given the significant toxicities described, investigation of altered administration of rapamycin and calcineurin inhibitors should be pursued in future cGVHD trials.
In addition to the usual adverse effects, the chronic use of the valproic acid can entail dementia syndrome. We describe the case of a 68-year-old woman who had presented a dementia syndrome due to the use of valproic acid for one year. This drug was prescribed in order to prevent a potential convulsive crisis after an ischemic stroke in a patient who did not have a history of epilepsy. This case shows that each clinician must be careful about all medications consumed by the patient in the face of cognitive disorders.
An adult female with developmental disability was prescribed chlorpromazine for the target behaviors of aggression and self-injurious behavior (SIB), and she was prescribed phenobarbital for seizures. Upon a chlorpromazine minimal effective dose reduction, target behaviors increased and dosage was returned to prior levels with the conclusion that chlorpromazine was controlling the target behaviors. Upon subsequent reduction and discontinuation of phenobarbital, however, chlorpromazine was able to be reduced with no increase in target behaviors. Ten years of behavioral data are presented to support the hypothesis that phenobarbital was exacerbating maladaptive behaviors. Given tardive dyskinesia (TD), clinicians and interdisciplinary teams should remain alert to the following client profile: (1) prescribed phenobarbital (or primidone), (2) prescribed neuroleptics, especially at high dosages, to control maladaptive behaviors, (3) failure of neuroleptic gradual minimal effective dose attempts, and (4) possible presence of behavioral procedures, especially intrusive procedures, to control maladaptive behaviors. This profile should trigger a "red flag" as to the possibility of phenobarbital behavioral side effects or exacerbation of preexisting maladaptive behaviors.
Omeprazole-induced acute interstitial nephritis (OIAIN) is a rare adverse event. It is unknown if this is an idiosyncratic immune mediated reaction or if it relates to direct drug toxicity. Individuals who are homozygous for the variant alleles of CYP2C19 are poor metabolizers of omeprazole and have a greater exposure to the drug. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of the CYP2C19 poor metabolizer genotype and phenotype in patients with OIAIN.
Twenty patients were genotyped for the CYP2C19 variant alleles (2, 681G>A and 3, 636G>A) by RFLP-PCR analysis and eighteen phenotyped for CYP2C19 metabolizer status.
The frequency of the CYP2C19 2 allelic variant was 12.5%, no 3 allelic variants were detected and no patient was a homozygous variant genotype. This was not different from the expected frequency. 33% of subjects were phenotypically CYP2C19 poor metabolizers.
There was discordance between CYP2C19 genotype and phenotype. However, up to 45% of healthy elderly subjects have a poor metabolizer phenotype. Thus neither CYP2C19 poor metabolizer genotype nor phenotype is a risk factor for OIAIN.
gamma-Acetylenic GABA and gamma-vinyl GABA, two catalytic irreversible inhibitors of mammalian brain GABA transaminase that produce several-fold increases in brain GABA concentrations were tested for their effects on bicuculline and picrotoxin-induced seizures and mortality in mice. Neither inhibitor influenced the frequency of seizures or death produced by either bicuculline or picrotoxin. Both inhibitors, however, produced a dose-dependent prolongation of the time to onset of seizures and death induced by picrotoxin but by bicuculline. These results suggest differences in the antagonism by bicuculline and picrotoxin of GABA-mediated neural functions.
