The efficacy and safety of amikacin administered once-daily versus twice-daily was evaluated in adult patients with systemic infections. Patients over 23 years of age with suspected or documented systemic infections were randomly divided into two groups: one group received amikacin intravenously 15 mg/kg once-daily, and the other group received amikacin 15 mg/kg divided into 2 doses. The efficacy of both dosage regimens was very good with a satisfactory clinical response in 90.2% and 89%, respectively. The bacteriological cure rate was 82.2% and 76%, respectively. There were no significant differences between the 2 regimens as far as what efficacy and safety are concerned. Nephrotoxicity appeared in 2 patients of the first group and 3 patients of the second, but did not lead to discontinuation of amikacin. No significant differences between the regimens with regard to hearing loss or prodromal signs of ototoxicity. We concluded that amikacin administered once-daily appears to be as effective and safe as the twice-daily dosing. However, the once-daily administration is more convenient and less costly.
Arthrogryposis, renal dysfunction and cholestasis syndrome (ARC) is a multisystem disorder associated with abnormalities in polarized liver and kidney cells. Mutations in VPS33B account for most cases of ARC. We identified mutations in VIPAR (also called C14ORF133) in individuals with ARC without VPS33B defects. We show that VIPAR forms a functional complex with VPS33B that interacts with RAB11A. Knockdown of vipar in zebrafish resulted in biliary excretion and E-cadherin defects similar to those in individuals with ARC. Vipar- and Vps33b-deficient mouse inner medullary collecting duct (mIMDC-3) cells expressed membrane proteins abnormally and had structural and functional tight junction defects. Abnormal Ceacam5 expression was due to mis-sorting toward lysosomal degradation, but reduced E-cadherin levels were associated with transcriptional downregulation. The VPS33B-VIPAR complex thus has diverse functions in the pathways regulating apical-basolateral polarity in the liver and kidney.
We performed a second-generation genome-wide association study of 4,533 individuals with celiac disease (cases) and 10,750 control subjects. We genotyped 113 selected SNPs with P(GWAS) < 10(-4) and 18 SNPs from 14 known loci in a further 4,918 cases and 5,684 controls. Variants from 13 new regions reached genome-wide significance (P(combined) < 5 x 10(-8)); most contain genes with immune functions (BACH2, CCR4, CD80, CIITA-SOCS1-CLEC16A, ICOSLG and ZMIZ1), with ETS1, RUNX3, THEMIS and TNFRSF14 having key roles in thymic T-cell selection. There was evidence to suggest associations for a further 13 regions. In an expression quantitative trait meta-analysis of 1,469 whole blood samples, 20 of 38 (52.6%) tested loci had celiac risk variants correlated (P < 0.0028, FDR 5%) with cis gene expression.
Thirty-eight patients with primary urothelial tumors recurring in the pelvis or nodal presentation were treated with intravenous or intra-arterial cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and cisplatin chemotherapy. The 38 patients were selected owing to unresectability by local criteria (12 patients) or by virtue of nodal metastases (26 patients). Histologically, the patients either had pure transitional cell carcinoma (29), transformation to a histological subtype of transitional cell carcinoma (7) or pure squamous cell carcinoma (2). An over-all 50 per cent complete remission rate was achieved with an 18 per cent objective pelvic response rate, and 32 per cent failed to respond to chemotherapy. Responses by histological subtype revealed that patients with pure transitional cell carcinoma had a 62 per cent complete remission rate, those with transitional forms had a 14 per cent complete remission rate and none with squamous cell carcinoma responded to chemotherapy. A significant difference in the incidence of responses among patients with transitional carcinoma and those with transition forms was seen (p less than 0.02). Complete remissions were independent of disease site. Nineteen patients achieved a complete remission with a mean duration of 86 weeks and median of 81 weeks (range 33 to 172 weeks). Toxicity of the chemotherapy was moderate with a high incidence of peripheral neuropathy and leukopenic infections. No deaths of chemotherapy were encountered. Patients with locally advanced or metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium to lymph nodes can benefit from intravenous and intra-arterial cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and cisplatin chemotherapy.
TRH and a new TRH analog (all L-pyro-2-aminoadipyl-histidyl-thiazolidine-4-carboxamide, MK-771) have been compared with several other peptides for their "analeptic" activity and their ability to enhance the excitatory actions of microiontophoretically applied acetylcholine (ACh) on cerebral cortical neurons of rats. TRH and MK-771 offset the narcosis induced by pentobarbital in mice, whereas the C-terminal free acid derived from TRH, melanostatin, somatostatin and pyroglutamyl-histidineamide have been found inactive. Similarly, of these peptides only TRH and MK-771 induced a tremor of the forepaws in pentobarbital-anesthetized mice. Employing comparable ejection currents and durations, only TRH and MK-771, applied by microiontophoresis, enhanced the excitatory actions of ACh on spontaneously active cortical neurons in anesthetized rats. Based on these findings and other recent data, it is suggested that the interactions of TRH and MK-771 with cholinergic mechanisms may underlie some of the actions, including their anti-anesthetic effects, of these peptides.
A study in anaesthetised dogs aged 2, 6, 13, 26 and 52 weeks or older was done to determine the dose of IV bupivacaine given by infusion required to produce severe cardiovascular depression as measured by a drop in mean blood pressure to about 25 mmHg or the development of life-threatening dysrrhythmias. Plasma local anaesthetic concentration was analysed at the time of ceasing the infusion. The toxic dose was significantly less in the six-week-old group than younger or older animals. The plasma concentrations associated with toxicity in the groups 13 weeks and younger were significantly lower than in the older dogs. Treatment of the induced toxicity included hyperventilation, adrenaline infusion, bretylium and/or cardioversion. The response to treatment was better in young dogs than adult dogs.
The treatment of AL amyloidosis was not successful until the advent of myeloablative chemotherapy consisting of high-dose intravenous melphalan followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. This new treatment has achieved better survival rates and, remarkably, it has obtained complete remission. Among patients with renal involvement, achievement of a complete hematological response was associated with a 50% reduction in proteinuria and stable creatinine clearance in more than 2/3 of patients. Despite of these excellent results, this new therapy is associated with significant toxicity, including the development of acute renal failure due to white blood cell lysis syndrome. We report a 59 year-old female with a nephrotic syndrome due to primary amyloidosis successfully treated autologous stem cell transplantation who developed acute renal failure caused by white blood cell lysis syndrome. The patient required treatment with granulocytic colony stimulating factor and intermittent hemofiltration and was discharged 23 days after melphalan administration with a satisfactory renal function and white blood cell count. After one year of follow up, she maintains a good glomerular filtration rate, a proteinuria of less than, 1 g/day and normal hematological values.
From June until October 1993, a battalion of Dutch marines was stationed in Cambodia for a United Nations deployment. In 73 volunteers who used mefloquine as malaria chemoprophylaxis, possible mefloquine-related adverse events were monitored with special emphasis on QT prolongation. All participants started mefloquine chemoprophylaxis with a loading dose (250 mg a day for three days) one week before departure, followed by a weekly dose (250 mg) for approximately 25 weeks. One month before (t - 1) and one (t + 1) and three (t + 3) months after mefloquine prophylaxis was started, an at rest electrocardiogram was made. Frequency, PR-, and QT-intervals were measured; blood samples for liver transaminases, total white blood cell count, and mefloquine concentration were obtained after one and three months. Adverse events such as dizziness, headache, coordination problems, and nausea were spontaneously reported in one (1.4%) and three (4.1%) persons at t + 1 and t + 3, respectively, while specific questioning revealed adverse events in nine (12.3%) and five (6.9%) persons, respectively, at the same time point. Three months after starting chemoprophylaxis, the heart rate at rest and total white blood cell count were lower (P < 0.05), while the QTc-interval was longer and levels of liver transaminases increased (P < 0.05), although both were still within the normal range. There was no extreme prolongation of the QTc-interval or increased levels of liver transaminases that resulted in a need to stop the chemoprophylaxis. No accumulation of mefloquine in the serum occurred, and no relationship was observed between the incidence of adverse events and serum mefloquine concentrations. The incidence of self reported mefloquine-related adverse events was low. In conclusion, mefloquine chemoprophylaxis was safe and well-tolerated in this group.
Six halogenated derivatives of cannabidiol (CBD, 1) substituted on the aromatic ring at the 3' and/or 5' position, 3'-chloro- (2), 3',5'-dichloro- (3), 3'-bromo- (4), 3',5'-dibromo- (5), 3'-iodo- (6) and 3',5'-diiodo-CBD (7) were synthesized and their pharmacological effects of barbiturate-induced sleep prolongation, anticonvulsant effects and locomotor activity were evaluated by intravenous (i.v.) injection in mice. 2 (10 mg/kg, i.v., 69 +/- 10 min) significantly prolonged pentobarbital-induced sleeping time by 3.1-fold, compared to control (22 +/- 2 min), although other 1 derivatives used did not significantly affect the sleeping time. 2, 4 and 6 (10 mg/kg, i.v.) significantly prolonged hexobarbital-induced sleeping time by 2.0-, 2.0- and 2.3-fold, respectively, compared with control (52 +/- 5 min). On the other hand, 1 and all halogenated derivatives did not significantly prolong barbital-induced sleeping time. The monohalogenated derivatives, 2, 4 and 6 were able to prolong pentobarbital and hexobarbital-induced sleeping time, although the dihalogenated derivatives, 3, 5 and 7 did not exhibit a prolongation of the sleeping time. All halogenated derivatives of 1 except for brominated derivatives (2, 3, 6, 7) tended to prolong tonic seizure latency induced by pentylenetetrazol. 1 and its halogenated derivatives did not exhibit any prolongation of seizure latency induced by picrotoxin or strychnine. Maximal electroshock test demonstrated that 1 and 4 exhibited almost the same potency in their anticonvulsant effects, although other 1 derivatives 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7 did not show significant effect up to a dose of 63 mg/kg, i.v. The ED50 values (mg/kg, i.v.) of 1 and 4 were 38 and 44, respectively. 1 and 4 also showed anticonvulsant effect in minimal and maximal electroshock-threshold tests. 2, 4 and 6 tended to decrease the total distance (horizontal activity) and number of rearings (vertical activity) of mice, whereas 3, 5 and 7 tended to increase the number of rearings. However, the effects of all derivatives were not statistically significant from the control. 2 and 4 were the most potent derivatives on pharmacological activities among the synthetic cannabinoids examined in the present study. These results indicate that monohalogenation of 1 leads to some modification of the pharmacological profile of CBD.
A 49-year-old-man, a healthy carrier of hepatitis B virus (HBV), received chemotherapy with a rituximab/cyclo- phosphamide/doxorubicin/vincristine/prednisolone (R-CHOP) regimen for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. At the first course of chemotherapy, not only the liver function but the HBV DNA level was elevated. These symptoms were diagnosed as hepatic injury induced by HBV reactivation, and, therefore, entecavir (ETV) was started. As a result, although the treatment with ETV decreased the HBV DNA level, liver function values were remarkably elevated again (over 3 times the levels before beginning ETV). ETV was discontinued because of suspicion regarding the onset of hepatic injury it caused. After switching to lamivudine (LVD), the liver function quickly improved and no problems were observed with renewal of the R-CHOP regimen. In addition, the HBV DNA level decreased and 3 courses of R-CHOP were performed successfully. In our case, the hepatic injury was induced by ETV, although anti-HBV medicine was used for the treatment of HBV reactivation according to the guideline. Therefore, the medical staff must carefully and consistently observe patients with HBV infection after chemotherapy.
Gamma radiation is known to cause serious damage in the brain, and many agents have been used for neuroprotection. In this study, lipid peroxidation levels and histopathological changes in brain tissues of whole-body irradiated rats with likely radiation injury were compared to those with melatonin and vitamin E protection. Forty rats in four equal groups were used. The control group received neither radiation nor medication. The remaining groups received doses of 720 cGy in two equal fractions 12 h apart. The second group received radiation but no medication, the third received radiation plus 100 mg/kg per day of vitamin E i.p., and the fourth received radiation plus 100 mg/kg per day of melatonin i.p. over 5 days. On the 10th postoperative day, all the rats were decapitated and specimens from parietal cortices were analyzed for tissue malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and histopathological changes. Increases in MDA were relatively well prevented by melatonin treatment but less so with vitamin E therapy. On histopathological examination, melatonin significantly reduced the rates of edema, necrosis, and neuronal degeneration, whereas vitamin E reduced only necrosis. Neither substance was capable of preventing vasodilatation. In conclusion, melatonin may be useful in preventing the pathological changes of secondary brain damage as a result of free oxygen radicals generated by irradiation.
Fenvalerate (20% EC) is a synthetic pyrethroid, which is commonly used in India by farmers for the protection of many food and vegetable crops against a wide variety of insects. However, its inhalation toxicity data is very limited in the literature due to the fact that the exposure levels associated with these effects were usually not reported. Hence, inhalation exposure was carried out to investigate the hepatotoxic effects.
Adult male rats were exposed to fen for 4 h/day, 5 days a week for 90 days by using Flow Past Nose Only Inhalation Chamber. Sham treated control rats were exposed to compressed air in the inhalation chamber for the same period.
The results indicated hepatomegaly, increased activities of serum clinical enzymes (indicative of liver damage/dysfunction) along with pronounced histopathological damage of liver.
The hepatotoxic potential of formulated Fen (20% EC) in rats exposed by nose only inhalation is being reported for the first time and warrant adequate safety measures for human beings exposed to this insecticide, particularly by inhalation route.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Dopamine replacement therapy considerably reduces motor handicap. Although levodopa continues as the gold standard for efficacy, its chronic use is associated with potentially disabling motor complications. Strategies to treat levodopa-related motor complications are only partially effective. Best results are currently achieved with invasive strategies via subcutaneous (s.c.) or intraduodenal delivery of apomorphine or levodopa, or deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus. This presentation will develop the current treatment principles for PD: (1) L-dopa does not accelerate disease progression, (2) no treatment modality exerts neuroprotective effects, (3) L-dopa is more effective than dopamine agonists in alleviating motor symptoms and improving the activities of daily living (ADL) score, in parkinsonian patients, (4) Treatment with dopamine agonist is associated with fewer motor complications than L-dopa. (5) Dopamine agonist therapy is associated with more frequent adverse events than L-dopa therapy, such as hallucinations and somnolence. There is no evidence of a long-term benefit with initial dopamine agonist therapy.
To study the antiangiogenic effect of thalidomide.
The expression of key angiogenic genes was studied in bone marrow endothelial cells (ECs) of patients with active and nonactive multiple myeloma (MM), monoclonal gammopathies unattributed/unassociated (MG[u]), diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, in a Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) cell line, and in healthy human umbilical vein ECs (HUVECs) following exposure to therapeutic doses of thalidomide.
Thalidomide markedly downregulates the genes in a dose-dependent fashion in active MMECs and KS cell line, but upregulates them or is ineffective in nonactive MMECs, MG(u)ECs, NHL-ECs, and in HUVECs. Secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and hepatocyte growth factor also diminishes according to the dose in culture conditioned media (CM) of active MMECs and KS, whereas it does not change in the other CM.
Inhibition by thalidomide is probably confined to the genes of active MMECs and KS. This would account for its higher efficacy in these diseases.
A 50-year-old man undergoing operations for sigmoid colon cancer, small intestine invasion, and liver metastasis was given adjuvant chemotherapy postoperatively. During the course, lung, brain and bone metastasis were found, FOLFIRI therapy was started. Fifth FOLFIRI therapy was performed, but on the night of the next day, he was transported on an emergency basis to our hospital because of a coma. Laboratory examination revealed hyperammonemia, so aminoleban was started for its treatment. After 3 days in the hospital, consciousness and serum ammonia were improved. Cases of hyperammonemia caused by 5-FU have been reported in the literature, and this case was diagnosed with the same. Hyperammonemia should be taken into account as a differential diagnosis in the disturbance of consciousness in chemotherapy.
The biologic cofactor, pyridoxal-5'-phosphate (PLP), is responsible for tonic-clonic convulsion in immature mice. The mechanisms underlying such convulsive fits induced by administration of a single high dose of PLP were studied. The administration of PLP resulted in a 13% increase of PLP in the P2 fraction compared to control P2, and the calculated data suggested that membrane bound PLP increased over 31% (approximately 1 microM). The P2 fraction of administered mice was treated with [3H]NaBH4 and analyzed by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The radioactivity was mainly incorporated into a 52 kDa protein which corresponded to a GABAA receptor subunit. The addition of PLP in vitro competitively inhibited [3H]GABA binding as well as [3H]flunitrazepam binding to synaptic membranes in a concentration-dependent manner, and 50% inhibition was achieved with 1 mM PLP. The results obtained in the present study demonstrate that PLP was rapidly permeable into the brain through the immature blood-brain barrier and then bound directly to GABAA receptor. It is probable that specific amino groups of lysine residues on the GABAA receptor react in vivo with PLP to form Schiff bases, and that the in vivo modification of the receptor produces a degeneration of GABAergic neurotransmission leading to the onset of a convulsive fit.
Neuroleptics are the main biological treatment for psychotic patients. The brutal withdrawal of a neuroleptic treatment may induce an important aggravation of the psychotic symptoms. A few of those relapses may occur very early after the interruption of treatment; they are often associated with a modification of the symptoms and an unfavorable evolution in the course of the illness. Using those clinical observations a few authors have developed the concept of supersensitivity psychosis to explain those kinds of relapses and to formulate hypothesis about tolerance and resistance to neuroleptics. They focus on the possible correlation between supersensitivity psychosis and tardive dyskinesia. We report three cases of a dramatic aggravation of the psychotic symptomatology following the withdrawal of clozapine in three schizophrenic patients resistant to classical neuroleptic treatment. According to the clinical data and to the physiopathological hypothesis, the concept of supersensitivity psychosis can have implications in the therapeutic management of resistant schizophrenic patients.
1,3-Butadiene (BD) has been classified as a human carcinogen, group I; however, the relationship between polymorphisms of glutathione S-transferases that metabolize BD and chromosomal damage is not clear. The present study used sister chromatid exchange (SCE) and cytokinesis-block micronucleus (CBMN) assays to detect chromosomal damage in peripheral lymphocytes of 44 BD-exposed workers and 39 non-exposed healthy controls. PCR and PCR-RFLP were employed to detect three known glutathione S-transferase polymorphisms GSTT1, GSTM1, and GSTP1 (Ile105Val). The data demonstrated that the micronucleus (CBMN) frequency in BD-exposed workers was significantly higher than that in controls (frequency ratio (FR)=1.48, 95% CI: 1.14-1.91, P<0.01), and the CBMN frequency was higher in workers exposed to higher cumulative BD levels (FR=1.70, 95% CI: 1.28-2.27, P<0.01). However, differences in SCE frequency were not observed (FR=1.14, 95% CI: 0.81-1.61, P>0.05). Among exposed workers, chromosomal damage was related to BD exposure levels (FR=1.35, 95% CI: 1.02-1.80, P<0.05); age, older workers exhibited higher MN frequencies than younger workers (FR=1.45, 95% CI: 1.14-1.84, P<0.05); and years of work, those with more years of work exhibited higher MN frequencies than those with fewer years (FR=1.40, 95% CI: 1.10-1.77, P<0.05). Multivariate Poisson regression analysis showed that those who carried GSTM1 (-) (FR=1.48, 95% CI: 1.14-1.92) or GSTT1 (-) (FR=1.42, 95% CI: 1.10-1.83) genotypes, and especially those who carried both (FR=2.10, 95% CI: 1.43-3.09) exhibited significantly higher MN frequencies than those carrying GSTM1 (+), GSTT1 (+) genotypes or their combination. The GSTP1 Val genotype did not affect MN frequency (P>0.05). Our results suggested that higher levels of BD exposure in the workplace resulted in increased chromosomal damage, and that polymorphisms in GSTT1 and GSTM1 genes might modulate the genotoxic effects of BD exposure. Furthermore, the GSTT1 and GSTM1 polymorphisms exhibited an additive effect. Finally, urinary DHBMA was found to provide a biomarker that correlated with airborne BD levels.
Thirty-five patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, who had relapsed from or failed prior cytotoxic regimens including doxorubicin, received mitoxantrone at a dose of 14 mg/m2 iv every 3 weeks. According to the working formulation, 18, 15, and two patients had low-, intermediate-, and high-grade malignancy, respectively. Thirty-four patients were evaluable for response and all were evaluable for drug toxicity. Three patients achieved complete response, 12 achieved partial response, eight had stable disease, and 11 had progressive disease. The overall objective response rate was 43% (95% confidence limits, 25%-61%) for all patients. The response durations ranged from 7 to 11+ months. Time to treatment failure was 4.5 months (range, 1-10+). The response achieved were clustered in patients with low-grade malignancy. There was a partial response in a patient who had relapsed from prior anthracyclines. A total of 155 cycles of mitoxantrone therapy were given. The median number of courses per patient was four (range, one to ten). Myelosuppression was the dose-limiting factor. Most nonhematologic toxic effects were mild. The data indicate that mitoxantrone is effective in the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma with acceptable toxicity.
The authors report a case of a 41-year-old mentally disabled man with bipolar disorder who presented to the emergency department with altered mental status. He was found to have a significantly elevated ammonia level (377 microM/L) with no signs of hepatic insufficiency. His coma and hyperammonemia were attributed to his chronic valproate therapy. This patient had the highest serum ammonia level ever reported with a therapeutic valproate level in the absence of any other anticonvulsant therapy, metabolic abnormality, or hepatic dysfunction. The authors discuss this case and review the current literature on hyperammonemia in valproic acid therapy and the use of L-carnitine in these patients.
Triptolide, which has been used to treat inflammatory diseases, has also been reported to inhibit proliferation of cancer cells. However, it can cause severe nephrotoxicity, limiting its clinical use. Here, nephrotoxicity of triptolide was observed in vivo and in vitro. Heat shock protein 72 (HSP72) was upregulated during kidney injury in rats. HSP72 partially protected human kidney proximal tubule cell lines HK-2 and HKC from triptolide-induced injury. Phospho-Raf, phospho-MEK and phospho-ERK were elevated in HK-2 cells that overexpressed HSP72 after either heat shock or triptolide treatment, and downregulated when HSP72 was repressed by siRNA. The participation of the MEK/ERK1/2 pathway was confirmed by exposure of the cells to the MEK inhibitor U0126. Collectively, our results suggested that HSP72 plays a protective role by means of the MEK/ERK pathway, against triptolide-induced kidney injury.
B cell receptor (BCR) signaling contributes to the pathogenesis of B cell malignancies, and most B cell lymphomas depend on BCR signals for survival. Identification of genes that restrain BCR-mediated proliferation is therefore an important goal toward improving the therapy of B cell lymphoma. Here, we identify Ptger4 as a negative feedback regulator of proliferation in response to BCR signals and show that its encoded EP4 receptor is a principal molecule conveying the growth-suppressive effect of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Stable knockdown of Ptger4 in B cell lymphoma markedly accelerated tumor spread in mice, whereas Ptger4 overexpression yielded significant protection. Mechanistically, we show that the intrinsic activity of Ptger4 and PGE2-EP4 signaling target a similar set of activating genes, and find Ptger4 to be significantly down-regulated in human B cell lymphoma. We postulate that Ptger4 functions in B cells as a candidate tumor suppressor whose activity is regulated by PGE2 in the microenvironment. These findings suggest that targeting EP4 receptor for prostaglandin may present a novel strategy for treatment of B cell malignancies.
Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) type I may occur as complication after any type of surgery for basal joint arthritis of the thumb. We investigated prospectively in an ongoing study our results after a fully standardized treatment with a total joint prosthesis under vitamin C prophylaxis.Patients with trapeziometacarpal arthritis stage II or III according to Dell, and no benefit from conservative treatment, were selected to undergo joint replacement with a semi-constrained hydroxyapatite coated prosthesis.First web opening and visual analogue scale (VAS) scores for pain, activities of daily living (ADL) and satisfaction were taken pre and postoperatively. Vitamin C 500 mg daily was started two days prior to surgery during 50 days as prevention for CRPS. Post-operative treatment was functional.We performed 40 implantations for trapeziometacarpal arthritis in 34 patients (mean age 60.8 years; 27 females, 7 males) with a mean follow-up of 44 months. Operations were performed in day care under regional (or general) anesthesia.First web opening increased with 15.4 degrees and there was a significant improvement for pain, ADL and satisfaction as well (p = 0.000). Patient satisfaction was strongly associated with the amount of pain reduction. According to the Veldman and IASP criteria, there were no cases of CRPS.The overall complication rate for this procedure is high. Literature reports 5 cases of CRPS after 38 operations with the same implant (13%). We advise vitamin C as prophylaxis against CRPS in trapeziometacarpal joint replacement.
The effect of clarithromycin on the QT interval was studied in a group of 28 children treated for respiratory tract infections. QTc was measured before and following 24 h of treatment. A modest (average 22 ms, 95% CI 14-30 ms) but significant QTc prolongation (p<0.001) was observed, with seven cases having a QTc >440 ms during treatment (including a single case with QTc >460 ms).
Serial QTc measurements are necessary for early detection of children at risk for drug-induced arrhythmias.
