This report is about a 62-year old male patient with an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) for patient activated termination of atrial fibrillation who experienced dofetilide-associated ventricular tachyarrhythmias and ICD-induced ventricular fibrillation six months after the initiation of the antiarrhythmic drug therapy.
The development and progression of colorectal cancer has been extensively studied and the genes responsible have been well characterized. However the correlation between the SMAD4 gene mutations with KRAS mutant status has not been explored by many studies so far. Here, in this study we aimed to investigate the role of SMAD4 gene aberrations in the pathogenesis of CRC in Kashmir valley and to correlate it with various clinicopathological variables and KRAS mutant genotype.
We examined the paired tumor and normal tissue specimens of 86 CRC patients for the occurrence of aberrations in MCR region of SMAD4 and exon 1 of KRAS by PCR-SSCP and/or PCR-Direct sequencing.
The overall mutation rate of mutation cluster region (MCR) region of SMAD4 gene among 86 patients was 18.6% (16 of 86). 68.75% (11/16) of the SMAD4 gene mutants were found to have mutations in KRAS gene as well. The association between the KRAS mutant genotype with SMAD4 mutants was found to be significant (P = or < 0.05). Further more, we found a significant association of tumor location, tumor grade, node status, occupational exposure to pesticides and bleeding PR/Constipation with the mutation status of the SMAD4 gene (P = or < 0.05).
Our study suggests that SMAD4 gene aberrations are the common event in CRC development but play a differential role in the progression of CRC in higher tumor grade (C+D) and its association with the KRAS mutant status suggest that these two molecules together are responsible for the progression of the tumor to higher/advanced stage.
The study examined the effects of various progesterone and mifepristone concentrations on the proliferation and apoptosis of the human ovarian cancer cell line, OVCAR-3. OVCAR-3 cells were incubated with progesterone and mifepristone at concentrations ranging from 10(-3) to 10(-9) M. Proliferation and apoptosis were studied by means of inverted optical microscopy, DAPI staining, and crystal violet assay. Immunoblotting was used to study the regulation of the apoptosis-related proteins, bcl-2, caspase-3 and PARP, after incubation with various reagents. OVCAR-3 cell density was increased by progesterone concentrations of 10(-5) M or less, and decreased by 10(-3) M progesterone. DAPI staining showed no apoptotic bodies. Mifepristone concentrations of 10(-3) and 10(-4) M reduced the OVCAR-3 cell density. Immunoblotting showed PARP cleavage in the presence of mifepristone 10(-4) M. Caspase-3 and bcl-2 expression was reduced by mifepristone 10(-4) and 10(-7) M. These results suggest that progesterone has a paradoxical effect on OVCAR-3 cell proliferation, stimulating it at low concentrations and inhibiting it at high concentrations, potentially through a caspase-independent non-apoptotic death pathway. Mifepristone seems to inhibit OVCAR-3 cell proliferation by down-regulating bcl-2 and up-regulating caspase-3 activity. These preliminary results suggest that progesterone and mifepristone have beneficial effects in ovarian cancer.
Steroid-induced rosacea-like eruption is characterized by facial rosacea-like dermatitis in patients that have been treated with topical steroids for relatively long periods.
To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of 1% pimecrolimus topical cream for steroid-induced rosacea-like eruption.
In an open-label pilot study, 40 patients were enrolled and instructed to apply 1% pimecrolimus cream twice daily for 6 weeks. Patients were evaluated by a rosacea clinical score, investigator's global assessment, overall erythema severity, and tolerability at weeks 0, 2, and 6.
In 35 patients, the rosacea clinical score decreased significantly from 16.0+/-4.3 at baseline to 8.1+/-3.3 at week 2 and 4.2+/-2.5 at week 6 (P<0.0001). Investigator's global assessment was 4.1+/-1.1 (baseline), then decreased to 1.4+/-0.8 (week 2) and 0.5+/-0.6 (week 6) (P<0.0001). By week 6, 48.6% of the patients were clear. Overall erythema severity was 2.4+/-0.7 (baseline), 0.9+/-0.4 (week 2), and 0.3+/-0.4 (week 6) (P<0.0001). Cutaneous adverse events (local burning, stinging, and itching) occurred in 17.5%.
Pimecrolimus cream might be efficacious, safe, and well tolerated for steroid-induced rosacea-like eruption. The small sample size and open label nature of this study is its limitation. Further double-blind, vehicle-controlled studies are needed.
Pulmonary hypoplasia and persistent pulmonary hypertension (PPH) are the principal causes of the ongoing mortality in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) presenting with respiratory insufficiency within 6 hours after birth. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is an endothelial-derived vasoconstrictor, which could play an important role in modulating pulmonary vascular tone in PPH. ET-1 exerts its role in controlling vascular tone through two different subtype receptors, endothelin-A receptor (ETA) which is responsible for vasoconstriction and endothelin-B receptor (ETB) which is responsible for vasodilatation by induction of nitric oxide synthase.
We examined the pulmonary expression of ET-1, ETA and ETB mRNAs in a rat model of CDH. CDH was induced in rats by administration of 100 mg of nitrofen dissolved in olive oil on day 10 of gestation. Fetal lungs were collected after cesarean section on gestational day 22 (term) and processed for Northern blot analysis and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Significantly (P<.05) enhanced levels of ET-1 mRNA were observed in CDH rats compared with control rats. In contrast to equal levels of ETB mRNA, a two- to fourfold increase in ETA mRNA levels were observed in CDH as compared with control rats.
The upregulated expression of ET-1 and ETA receptor mRNA before birth strongly support the reason for pulmonary vasoconstriction and altered pulmonary vascular muscularization in CDH. Consequently in the clinical setting, the use of endothelin receptor blockade for the treatment of PPH may be considered against the background of the unpredictable and variable response to inhaled nitric oxide in newborns with CDH.
The Authors report a new iatrogenic complication of preventive or curative standard heparinotherapy. This so called "white clot syndrome" or "Heparin associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis" is an anatomico-clinical entity characterized by severe, multiple, recurrent, arterial and/or venous thromboembolic accidents which are sometimes fatal. They appear, paradoxically, under heparin treatment and are concomitant with thrombocytopenia (generally less than 100 10(9)/l). Antiplatelet immunoallergic phenomena, via type IgG antibodies, induced by heparin, are the most commonly admitted in physiopathology; however they remain controversial. Treatment of "WCS" includes urgent suppression of standard heparin, administration of antivitamin K, or the new generation of low molecular weight heparin. This series presents 26 cases of HATT treated by LMWH (CY 216 CHOAY). Severe complications must be surgically cured. Prevention of WCS or HATT is mandatory by the systematic survey of platelet count during heparinotherapy.
: Pain on injection is still a major problem with propofol. We performed this study to compare different doses of intravenous (i.v.) ketorolac with and without venous occlusion and its effect on the incidence and the severity of the pain after propofol injection.
We conducted a prospective, randomized and double-blind study of 180 patients (20-60 years of age.) scheduled to undergo elective surgery. Six groups of patients were generated: group A received normal saline (NS) 2 ml i.v.; groups B, C, D received ketorolac 10 mg in 2 ml NS with venous occlusion (VO) and a subsequent propofol injection at either 30, 60 or 120 s; groups E and F received ketorolac 15 mg and 30 mg in 2 ml NS and propofol was injected after 60 s. The pain perception was assessed during injection of propofol in all patients.
: The incidence of propofol-associated injection pain was for A: 46.7%; B: 43.4%; C: 23.3%; D:16.7%; E: 20%, and F: 10%. The incidence of pain following propofol injection was reduced by i.v. ketorolac 10 mg with venous occlusion for 120 s. Furthermore, i.v. ketorolac 15 mg and 30 mg but not 10 mg following propofol injection after 60 s without venous occlusion revealed significant pain reduction when compared to saline group. There was no difference in venous sequelae at 7 days postoperatively between the groups.
Our results suggested that pretreatment with i.v. 15 and 30 mg ketorolac reduces pain following propofol injection. Moreover, pretreatment with i.v. ketorolac 10 mg with venous occlusion for 120 s achieves the same pain relief effect.
We studied the effects of the antianginal drug carbocromen (4 mg/kg bolus plus 80 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) on amitriptyline (400 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) toxicity. In anesthetized dogs, amitriptyline increased heart rate, left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic pressure, and the PR and QT intervals, the QRS complex, and the S-T segments of the peripheral electrocardiogram. Blood pressure, LV pressure, and LV dP/dtmax fell considerably. Survival time was 37 +/- 4 min in amitriptyline-treated dogs and 64 +/- 3 min (p less than 0.05) in those receiving amitriptyline plus carbocromen. The amount of amitriptyline consumed until death increased from 14.8 to 25.6 mg/kg (p less than 0.05) with carbocromen. In conscious dogs, the hemodynamic impact of intraatrial amitriptyline was similar to that in anesthetized animals, and changes in stroke volume resembled those of dP/dt. Cardiac output was not altered, and peripheral resistance decreased moderately. Carbocromen prevented most of the typical amitriptyline effects on the heart and circulation. Sustained ventricular arrhythmia occurred at 29 +/- 4 min with amitriptyline infusion but was delayed to 58 +/- 3 min (p less than 0.05) when carbocromen was added. These experiments demonstrate (a) amitriptyline intoxication produced ventricular tachyarrhythmia and cardiac failure if high agent concentrations were achieved; (b) these rhythm disorders were associated with slowing of intraventricular conduction, which could be enhanced by carbocromen; and (c) carbocromen might be an effective therapy for amitriptyline-caused arrhythmia with cardiovascular collapse.
Valproate sodium, a commonly used antiepileptic drug (AED), is effective for the treatment of status epilepticus and is often used as a second-line agent when other AEDs are contraindicated. Some studies have reported that infusion of valproate sodium is generally well tolerated, whereas other studies have reported various degrees of hypotension during infusion. The objective of this case report was to call attention to the potential risk of hypotension after intravenous infusion of valproate sodium.
This was the case of a 75-year-old Hispanic man (height, 145 cm; weight, 68 kg) who developed hypotension after receiving an intravenous loading dose of valproate sodium. The patient received the loading dose 12 hours after administration of his last dose of phenytoin (300 mg daily), which had been discontinued secondary to a cutaneous drug reaction. The patient's medical history was significant for seizure disorder, a cerebrovascular accident, and controlled type 2 diabetes mellitus. He was taking glyburide 5 mg daily and aspirin 81 mg daily. At baseline, the patient's blood pressure (measured while seated, at rest, using an upper-extremity cuff) was 135/70 mm Hg. The intravenous loading dose of valproate sodium (20 mg/kg) was administered at a rate of 14 mg/min (total dose, 1280 mg over 90 min). Approximately 2.5 hours after completion of the loading dose, the patient's blood pressure decreased to 107/48 mm Hg. Because our standard operating procedure is to measure blood pressure every 4 hours after the baseline measurement, the patient's hypotension was not detected during the infusion. The next morning (22 hours after completion of the valproate sodium infusion), divalproex sodium 1000 mg orally once daily was initiated as maintenance therapy. The patient's blood pressure reached a nadir of 82/44 mm Hg. The hypotension was treated initially with intravenous fluid hydration with normal saline, but the blood pressure correction was transient using this approach. The patient remained hypotensive for 3 days. The hypotension was ultimately found to be self-limited, and the patient was asymptomatic throughout his hospital stay. The patient's Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale score was 6, indicating that the relationship between valproate sodium infusion and hypotension was probable.
In this case report, infusion of valproate sodium at a rate of 14 mg/min was a probable cause of hypotension in a 75-year-old man.
Thiopentone sodium is a highly useful pharmacological agent that provides a neuroprotection against cerebral ischaemia. Since not all patients can receive thiopentone sodium before cerebral ischaemia occurs, we investigated the influence of timing of thiopentone sodium administration on the neurotoxicity induced by nitric oxide (NO) using Shibuta's established model of primary brain cultures. Cortical neurones prepared from 16-day gestational rat foetuses were used after 13-14 days in culture. The cells were exposed to an NO-donor, NOC-5 at 30 microM. Thiopentone sodium administered at 30 and 10 min before or 5, 10 and 15 min after exposure to NOC-5, but not thereafter, significantly attenuated NO-induced neurotoxicity compared with controls. The survival rate of the neurones in which thiopentone sodium was administered at 15 min after exposure to NOC-5 was 55.7+/-2.4%, compared to a 10.0+/-1.6% survival rate in neurones when thiopentone sodium was administered at 30 min after exposure to NOC-5. These findings demonstrate that thiopentone sodium, which protects cerebral cortical neurones against NO-mediated cytotoxicity, should be given as soon as possible in case ischaemic or hypoxic neuronal damage is predicted.
The antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA) is an established human teratogen causing spin bifida aperta. We recently developed a mouse model in which spina bifida aperta and occulta are induced with VPA. In a search for protection against neural tube defects, we investigated the effect of methionine on the incidence of VPA-induced spina bifida in the mouse. To induce spina bifida, we injected VPA (350 mg VPA-Na/kg body weight) subcutaneously three times on d 9 of gestation at 0, 6 and 12 h. In some mice, L-methionine (3 x 70 mg/kg body weight) was injected intraperitoneally 30 min before each VPA administration. When fetuses were examined on d 18, methionine treatment slightly reduced the VPA-induced spina bifida aperta rate from 5 to 1% (P > 0.05, no significant difference). The incidence of VPA-induced spina bifida occulta (90%) was significantly lower (28%) when methionine was also administered (P < 0.05). Examination on d 10 showed that the number of embryos in the mice administered VPA and methionine having an open neuroporus posterior was significantly lower than in mice administered VPA alone (P < 0.05). Pharmacokinetic studies indicated that VPA concentrations in maternal plasma and embryo did not differ between the two groups. Methionine reduces VPA-induced spina bifida in mice without altering VPA kinetics.
To describe a child with vigabatrin-associated reversible acute psychosis and review the literature reports on this adverse effect.
A 7-year-old boy with intractable epilepsy developed acute psychosis 3 days after initiating a rapid vigabatrin dosage escalation. All symptoms resolved within 48 hours after vigabatrin therapy was withdrawn. Two months later, reinitiation of vigabatrin therapy using a slower dosage escalation was well-tolerated by the patient, and he currently is being treated with vigabatrin successfully.
Although vigabatrin-associated psychosis is rare, a few cases have been reported in predisposed adult patients, especially in the early stages of treatment. The mechanism of this reaction remains unclear and its incidence is unknown. To our knowledge, there has been no previous report of this adverse effect in children.
Caution must be taken in children with predisposing factors at the beginning of vigabatrin therapy.
In order to assess the potential chronic toxicity and tumorigenicity of ammonium perfluorooctanoate (APFO), a 2-year dietary study was conducted with male and female rats fed 30 ppm or 300 ppm (approximately 1.5 and 15 mg/kg). In males fed 300 ppm, mean body weights were lower across most of the test period and survival in these rats was greater than that seen either in the 30 ppm or the control group. Non-neoplastic effects were observed in liver in rats fed 300 ppm and included elevated liver weight, an increase in the incidence of diffuse hepatocellular hypertrophy, portal mononuclear cell infiltration, and mild hepatocellular vacuolation without an increase in hepatocellular necrosis. Mean serum activities of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and alkaline phosphatase were elevated up to three times the control means, primarily at the 300 ppm dose. A significant increase in Leydig cell tumors of the testes was seen in the males fed 300 ppm, and tumors of the liver and acinar pancreas, which are often observed in rats from chronic exposure to peroxisome proliferating agents, were not observed in this study. All other tumor types were those seen spontaneously in rats of this stock and age and were not associated with feeding of APFO.
The present study compared the effects of the anticholinergics aprophen hydrochloride, atropine sulfate, azaprophen hydrochloride, benactyzine hydrochloride, biperiden hydrochloride, diazepam, procyclidine hydrochloride, scopolamine hydrobromide and trihexyphenidyl hydrochloride on acoustic startle response in rats. Peak startle amplitude, latency to peak startle amplitude and prepulse inhibition following 100- and 120-dB tones were recorded 15 min following drug administration in food-restricted rats. Aprophen, atropine, azaprophen, benactyzine, biperiden and scopolamine significantly increased peak startle amplitude and decreased latency to peak startle amplitude following 100-dB pulses. In contrast, only biperiden increased peak startle amplitude following 120-dB pulses, whereas atropine and trihexyphenidyl decreased latency to peak startle amplitude following 120-dB pulses. Benactyzine decreased prepulse inhibition following both 100- and 120-dB pulses, whereas both biperiden and scopolamine decreased prepulse inhibition following 120-dB pulses. Acoustic startle response measures were effective in differentiating the effects of anticholinergic compounds. The comparison of drug effects on the acoustic startle response may be useful in selecting efficacious anticholinergic drug therapies with a minimal range of side-effects. In addition, these data may be useful in down-selecting the number of anticholinergic drugs that need to be tested in comparison studies involving more complex behavioral tests.
To study tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) cytokine polymorphisms as possible risk and protective factors, define their relative importance, and examine these as severity factors in patients with juvenile dermatomyositis (DM).
TNFalpha and IL-1 cytokine polymorphism and HLA typing were performed in 221 Caucasian patients with juvenile DM, and the results were compared with those in 203 ethnically matched healthy volunteers.
The genotypes TNFalpha -308AG (odds ratio [OR] 3.6), TNFalpha -238GG (OR 3.5), and IL-1alpha +4845TT (OR 2.2) were risk factors, and TNFalpha -308GG (OR 0.26) as well as TNFalpha -238AG (OR 0.22) were protective, for the development of juvenile DM. Carriage of a single copy of the TNFalpha -308A (OR 3.8) or IL-1beta +3953T (OR 1.7) allele was a risk factor, and the TNFalpha -238A (OR 0.29) and IL-1alpha +4845G (OR 0.46) alleles were protective, for juvenile DM. Random Forests classification analysis showed HLA-DRB1*03 and TNFalpha -308A to have the highest relative importance as risk factors for juvenile DM compared with the other alleles (Gini scores 100% and 90.7%, respectively). TNFalpha -308AA (OR 7.3) was a risk factor, and carriage of the TNFalpha -308G (OR 0.14) and IL-1alpha -889T (OR 0.41) alleles was protective, for the development of calcinosis. TNFalpha -308AA (OR 7.0) was a possible risk factor, and carriage of the TNFalpha -308G allele (OR 0.14) was protective, for the development of ulcerations. None of the studied TNFalpha, IL-1alpha, and IL-1beta polymorphisms were associated with the disease course, disease severity at the time of diagnosis, or the patient's sex.
TNFalpha and IL-1 genetic polymorphisms contribute to the development of juvenile DM and may also be indicators of disease severity.
To describe 2 patients with severe indapamide-induced hyponatremia and hypokalemia and to discuss the incidence and mechanisms of diuretic-induced hyponatremia and hypokalemia.
Two women aged 60 and 62 years presented with severe hyponatremia (plasma sodium concentrations of 103-104 mmol/L) and hypokalemia (plasma potassium concentrations of 1.6-2.2 mmol/L) 5-6 weeks after they received indapamide 2.5 mg/d therapy for arterial hypertension. Central nervous system symptoms of hyponatremia were observed in both patients. One patient experienced severe postural hypotension, a plasma potassium concentration of 1.6 mmol/L, and electrocardiographic abnormalities consistent with hypokalemia. Hyponatremia was initially mistaken in this patient for the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). Both patients recovered completely after withdrawal of indapamide therapy and correction of the hyponatremia and hypokalemia.
Previous studies of administration of indapamide 2.5 mg/d for 10-24 months in hypertensive patients showed a low incidence (0.6-1.2%) of hypokalemia severe enough to require withdrawal of drug therapy. Serum sodium concentrations were unaltered in these studies. All case reports, except 1, of indapamide-induced electrolyte disturbances described only hypokalemia.
Indapamide can cause both severe hypokalemia and hyponatremia. The predominant clinical features can be a result of severe hyponatremia. The latter can have diverse clinical presentations and may be mistaken for SIADH. As with other diuretics, plasma sodium and potassium concentrations must be monitored during indapamide therapy, especially in patients at risk for hyponatremia and hypokalemia.
Cardiac toxicity is an uncommon but potentially serious complication of cancer therapy, especially with anthracyclines. One of the most effective anticancer drugs is doxorubicin, but its value is limited by the risk of developing cardiomyopathy and ventricular arrhythmia. When applied to a network of periodically contracting cardiomyocytes in culture, doxorubicin induces rhythm disturbances. Using a novel rapid assay based on non-invasive ion-conductance microscopy we show that the beta-antagonist esmolol can restore rhythm in doxorubicin-treated cultures of cardiomyocytes. Moreover, esmolol pre-treatment can protect the culture from doxorubicin-induced arrhythmia.
The activity of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) was compared to two second generation platinum analogs, cis-diammine-1,1-cyclobutane dicarboxylate platinum(II) and cis-dichlorotransdihydroxybisisopropylamine platinum(IV) in the N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide-induced murine bladder tumor model and a tumor colony assay. Murine drug testing revealed that all three drugs were active against the MBT-2 tumor line, although cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) was more active than its analogs. All drugs produced enhanced inhibition of clonal growth with increasing drug exposure times. Cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) was more active against MBT-2 cells in the plateau growth phase versus the log growth phase after a one hour drug exposure. Similar differential activity depending upon the proliferative state of MBT-2 was not seen with the two platinum analogs. These two platinum analogs have somewhat less activity in vivo and in vitro than cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II) and would be predicted to be less effective clinically in human bladder cancer than the parent compound.
Total external ophthalmoplegia was observed in five patients consequent to the oral or intravenous administration of phenytoin. Coincident with the ophthalmoplegia, the state of consciousness varied from drowsiness to coma and the blood levels of phenytoin ranged from 36 to 55 mug per milliliter. Initially, the eyes were fixed in midposition, and oculocephalic and oculovestibular stimulation failed to evoke either horizontal or vertical eye movements. The return of vestibulo-ocular responsiveness lagged behind the return of consciousness and other reflex activity. The mechanism underlying this ophthalmoplegia may be related to the ability of phenytoin to potentiate inhibitory synapses in the vestibulo-oculomotor pathway which utilize gamma aminobutyric acid, and to increase the discharge rate of Purkinge cells which exert an inhibitory influence on the same structures.
We tested the hypotheses that extended-release niacin is effective for the separate treatments of abnormalities in low-density liprotein (LDL) size, high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-2, and lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] without potential negative effects on glycated hemoglobin levels. The lipids that constitute the atherogenic lipid profile (ALP), such as triglycerides, small, dense LDL-cholesterol particle concentration, LDL particle size, total HDL-cholesterol (HDLc), HDL-2, and HDL-2 cholesterol concentration, as well as total LDL-cholesterol (LDLc) and Lp(a), were measured in 36 diabetic patients with primary abnormalities of LDL particle size (n = 25), HDL-2 (n = 23), and/or Lp(a) (n = 12) before and after extended-release niacin treatment. LDL particle size and HDL-2 were measured using polyacrylamide gradient gel electrophoreses and Lp(a) was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). After extended-release niacin, LDL peak particle diameter increased from 25.2 +/- 0.6 nm to 26.1 +/- 0.7 nm (P <.0001); small, dense LDLc concentration decreased from 30 +/- 17 mg/dL to 17 +/- 10 mg/dL (P <.0001); total HDLc increased from 42 +/- 9 mg/dL to 57 +/- 16 mg/dL (P <.0001); HDL-2 as the percent of total HDLc mass increased from 34% +/- 10% to 51% +/- 17% (P <.0001); and Lp(a) decreased from 37 +/- 10 mg/dL to 23 +/- 10 mg/dL (P <.001). Mean hemoglobin A(1c) level was improved during treatment from 7.5% +/- 1.6% to 6.5% +/- 0.9% (P <.0001). A subset of patients who had no change in hemoglobin A(1c) levels before and after treatment (6.8% +/- 1% v 6.7% +/- 1%; not significant) showed identical lipid changes. Twenty-two percent of patients were unable to tolerate extended-release niacin due to reversible side effects. These data indicate that in diabetic patients, extended-release niacin (1) is effective for separately treating diabetic dyslipidemias associated with abnormal LDL size, HDL-2, and Lp(a) independently of glycated hemoglobin levels; (2) must be used with modern and aggressive oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin treatment; and (3) is a major drug for the treatment of diabetic dyslipidemias because of its broad spectrum of effectiveness for the ALP and Lp(a).
Lithium salts have been used extensively in both adults and children during the last 30 years, for the treatment of a variety of psychiatric conditions, including bipolar disorder The cardiac side effects of lithium in adult patients have been well described. However, to the best of our knowledge, there are no reports of lithium-induced cardiac side effects in pediatric patients. We describe the case of a 9-year-old boy who developed cardiac toxicity while receiving long-term lithium therapy.
Copper is an important regulator of hypoxia inducible factor 1 alpha (HIF-1α) dependent vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression, and is also required for the activity of lysyl oxidase (LOX) to effect matrix protein cross-linking. Cell detachment from the extracellular matrix can induce apoptosis (anoikis) via inactivation of focal adhesion kinase (FAK).
To examine the molecular mechanisms whereby copper depletion causes the destruction of the normal alveolar architecture via anoikis, Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a copper deficient diet for 6 weeks while being treated with the copper chelator, tetrathiomolybdate. Other groups of rats were treated with the inhibitor of auto-phosphorylation of FAK, 1,2,4,5-benzenetetraamine tetrahydrochloride (1,2,4,5-BT) or FAK small interfering RNA (siRNA).
Copper depletion caused emphysematous changes, decreased HIF-1α activity, and downregulated VEGF expression in the rat lungs. Cleaved caspase-3, caspase-8 and Bcl-2 interacting mediator of cell death (Bim) expression was increased, and the phosphorylation of FAK was decreased in copper depleted rat lungs. Administration of 1,2,4,5-BT and FAK siRNA caused emphysematous lung destruction associated with increased expression of cleaved capase-3, caspase-8 and Bim.
These data indicate that copper-dependent mechanisms contribute to the pathogenesis of emphysema, which may be associated with decreased HIF-1α and FAK activity in the lung.
The objective of the investigation was to assess whether circulating adhesion molecules, von Willebrand factor (vWf) and endothelin-1 are elevated in patients with mild uncomplicated essential hypertension without further risk factors of atherosclerosis and whether they could serve as indicators of endothelial dysfunction in this form of hypertension. Furthermore the authors investigated the effect of ACE inhibitor treatment (ACEI), quinapril, on the level of these markers of endothelial dysfunction. The level of adhesion molecules [intercellular cytoadhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), E-selectin, P-selectin], von Willebrand s factor (vWf) and endothelin-1 were assessed in patients with mild essential hypertension without further cardiovascular risk factors or clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis before and after quinapril treatment (n = 25) and compared with normotensive controls (n = 29). The results of the examinations provided evidence that contrary to controls the hypertensive subjects had significantly higher ICAM-1 levels (237.8 vs. 207.8 ng/ml, P = 0.02) vWf (118 vs. 106 IU/dl, p < 0.05) and endothelin-1 (5.81 vs. 5.15 fmol/ml, p < 0.05). Three-month treatment of hypertensive patients with ACEI led to a significant drop of endothelin-1 levels (5.81 vs. 5.26 fmol/ml, p = 0.01). The authors proved also an unequivocal declining trend of other cytoadhesion molecules and vWf after ACEI treatment, the changes however were not statistically significant. From the investigation it may be concluded that also patients with uncomplicated essential hypertension without other cardiovascular risk factors or clinical manifestations of atherosclerosis have significantly elevated plasma levels of ICAM-1, vWf and endothelin-1. Higher concentrations of these factors suggest endothelial dysfunction already in mild forms of essential hypertension without further risk factors or cardiovascular complications. A significant drop of endothelin-1 and declining trend of the other investigated indicators suggest that ACEI treatment can favourably influence endothelial dysfunction in hypertensive patients also independently on reduction of the BP.
Di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), an environmental endocrine disruptor, is widely present in the environment and some products with phthalate plasticizer. It has become a serious problem in recent years. The effect of DEHP on female reproductive system is still not well-studied. This study was to investigate the effects of DEHP on hypothalamus-pituitary-ovarian axis in adult female rats. Compared with control rats, the DEHP-treated rats showed: (1) lower body weight; (2) lower organ coefficient of ovary; (3) higher GnRH level in the hypothalamus; (4) higher mRNA and protein levels of GnRHR in the pituitary; and (5) lower serum sex hormone levels. Our data reveal that DEHP exposure may lead to the disruption of estrogen biosynthesis pathways in female rats and imbalance of hypothalamus-pituitary-ovarian axis. DEHP may impose negative influence on the development and function of the reproductive system in female rats.
This study was designed to assess how the glomerular expression of the nonmuscle-type myosin heavy-chain isoform, SMemb, is regulated in rats with focal glomerulosclerosis induced by puromycin aminonucleoside. SMemb was barely detectable in control glomeruli. On day 48 of focal glomerulosclerosis, SMemb was expressed in mesangial area and glomerular epithelial cells. When glomerulosclerosis became prominent on day 80, SMemb stained immunohistochemically in a focal segmental pattern in the sclerotic glomeruli. SMemb-expressing cells did not always express alpha-smooth muscle actin. In Northern blot analysis, SMemb mRNA was not detected in control glomeruli, whereas it was transiently upregulated in glomeruli on day 48 in rats with focal glomerulosclerosis. The mRNA levels of SMemb were thereafter gradually downregulated by day 80; however, they remained higher than those of control glomeruli. These data suggest that glomerular embryonic nonmuscle-type myosin heavy chain is abnormally regulated in glomerulosclerosis and that glomerulosclerosis may be associated with dedifferentiation of not only the mesangial cells, but also the other resident glomerular cells.
In a genome-wide screen using differential methylation hybridization (DMH), we have identified a CpG island within the 5' region and untranslated first exon of the secretory granule neuroendocrine protein 1 gene (SGNE1/7B2) that showed hypermethylation in medulloblastomas compared to fetal cerebellum. Bisulfite sequencing and combined bisulfite restriction assay were performed to confirm the methylation status of this CpG island in primary medulloblastomas and medulloblastoma cell lines. Hypermethylation was detected in 16/23 (70%) biopsies and 7/8 (87%) medulloblastoma cell lines, but not in non-neoplastic fetal (n=8) cerebellum. Expression of SGNE1 was investigated by semi-quantitative competitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and found to be significantly downregulated or absent in all, but one primary medulloblastomas and all cell lines compared to fetal cerebellum. After treatment of medulloblastoma cell lines with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, transcription of SGNE1 was restored. No mutation was found in the coding region of SGNE1 by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis. Reintroduction of SGNE1 into the medulloblastoma cell line D283Med led to a significant growth suppression and reduced colony formation. In summary, we have identified SGNE1 as a novel epigenetically silenced gene in medulloblastomas. Its frequent inactivation, as well as its inhibitory effect on tumor cell proliferation and focus formation strongly argues for a significant role in medulloblastoma development.
Microsomal epoxide hydrolase is an important enzyme involved in the metabolism of endogenous and exogenous toxicants. Polymorphic variants of the human epoxide hydrolase gene vary in enzyme activity. We determined whether genetic variability in the gene encoding for microsomal epoxide hydrolase contributes to individual differences in susceptibility to the development of pre-eclampsia with or without the syndrome of Haemolysis, Elevated Liver enzymes, and Low Platelets (HELLP).
A total of 183 non-pregnant women with a history of pre-eclampsia, 96 of whom had concurrently developed the HELLP syndrome, and 151 healthy female controls were genotyped for the 113Tyr-->His polymorphism in exon 3 and the 139His-->Arg polymorphism in exon 4 of the epoxide hydrolase gene by a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism assay. Chi-square analysis was used for statistical evaluation of differences in polymorphic rates.
In pre-eclampsia a higher frequency (29%) of the high activity genotype Tyr113 Tyr113 in exon 3 was found as compared to controls (16%, OR 2.0, 95% CI 1.2-3.7). There was no difference between groups for the 139His-->Arg polymorphism. In women with a history of pre-eclampsia, no difference in epoxide hydrolase genotypes was found between women who either did or did not develop the HELLP syndrome. In addition, a significant association was found between predicted EPHX activity and pre-eclampsia.
Women with the high activity genotype in exon 3, which could reflect differences in metabolic activation of endogenous or exogenous toxic compounds, may have enhanced susceptibility to pre-eclampsia. However, polymorphisms in the epoxide hydrolase gene do not seem to influence the risk for concurrent development of the HELLP syndrome.
