There is an increased incidence of heart disease in patients with chronic nephrotic syndrome (NS), which may be attributable to the malnutrition and activated inflammatory state accompanying the sustained proteinuria. In this study, we evaluated renal function, cardiac morphometry, contractile function, and myocardial gene expression in the established puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis rat model of NS. Two weeks after aminonucleoside injection, there was massive proteinuria, decreased creatinine clearance, and a negative sodium balance. Skeletal and cardiac muscle atrophy was present and was accompanied by impaired left ventricular (LV) hemodynamic function along with decreased contractile properties of isolated LV muscle strips. The expression of selected cytokines and proteins involved in calcium handling in myocardial tissue was evaluated by real time polymerase chain reaction. This revealed that the expression of interleukin-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and phospholamban were elevated, whereas that of cardiac sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum calcium pump protein was decreased. We suggest that protein wasting and systemic inflammatory activation during NS contribute to cardiac remodeling and dysfunction.
The introduction of high doses of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and lamivudine for liver transplantation (OLT) prophylaxis has reduced the risk of hepatitis B recurrence and improved the survival of patients transplanted for hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related liver disease. But, posttransplant prophylaxis strategies to treat the recurrence of HBV have not yet been standardized. We analyzed 23 patients with HBV recurrence among 340 HBV-associated liver transplants performed from September 1996 to April 2004 (6.7%). Nine patients underwent deceased donor OLT and 14, living donor OLT. Mean follow-up was 37 months. Seroconversion after recurrence was observed in 6 of 23 patients (26%). Mean time to HBV recurrence tended to be shorter among the seroconversion (+) patients compared to seroconversion (-) patients (10 months vs 19.7 months; P = .062). Seroconversion rate after HBIG and lamivudine combination therapy for patients with HBV recurrence was 37.5% and time to seroconversion after HBV recurrence was 1.7 months. Seroconversion was best achieved when the pretransplant HBV DNA level was high and HBeAg was positive. Also, seroconversion rate was increased when HBV DNA level was low and the alanine transferase level high at the time of recurrence and when the time to recurrence after transplantation was short. Seroconversion after HBV recurrence, which was observed in 26%, may be increased in selected cases. Accordingly, aggressive treatment should be undertaken after HBV recurrence.
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have arterial vasospastic properties. The authors report a stroke that occurred within minutes following an intramuscular injection of diclofenac. A sixty-one-year-old man, a heavy smoker, was admitted for an acute onset of mild hemiparesis thirty minutes after a single intramuscular injection of diclofenac. The neurologic deficit was resolved at one month of follow-up. The authors suggest a temporal causal relationship between the cerebrovascular event and the injection of diclofenac. The mechanism of stroke might be related to a synergistic vasospastic property shared by the use of an NSAID and heavy smoking.
A 56-year-old man with Brugada syndrome presented with ventricular fibrillation induced by administration of pilsicainide. He had syncope at age 46 years, and his uncle suddenly died of unknown cause. He had taken pilsicainide (150 mg/day) for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, and suffered from syncope due to ventricular fibrillation. Coved type ST elevation was observed in the V1 lead, and saddle back type ST elevation was observed in the V2 lead. The ST elevation gradually recovered after stopping pilsicainide therapy. No structural heart disease was found. After intravenous injection of pilsicainide, the ST segment elevated in the V1 and V2 leads. Ventricular fibrillation was induced by triple extrastimulation at the right ventricular apex. The diagnosis was Brugada syndrome, and a cardioverter-defibrillator was implanted. Brugada syndrome should be considered before administering pilsicainide.
Hepatotoxicity may complicate therapy with methotrexate in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Prevention of cirrhosis may depend upon early identification of liver damage, usually accomplished by serial biopsy. To determine the adequacy of noninvasive methods for identifying hepatotoxicity, 22 sets of data were obtained in patients undergoing therapy with methotrexate for rheumatoid arthritis. Comparisons were made between liver biopsy, hepatocellular enzymes and two noninvasive radioisotopic methods that have been shown to be abnormal in hepatocellular disease: the rate constant of excretion of the 14C-aminopyrine and the time from injection to peak hepatic activity of 99mTc-diisopropylimidodiacetic acid. The hepatocellular enzymes and the time-to-peak-activity of diisopropylimidodiacetic acid were not useful predictors of methotrexate-induced hepatotoxicity. The aminopyrine breath test was abnormal in approximately half the patients with hepatotoxicity but showed poor specificity. Noninvasive methods remain inferior to biopsy for the detection of mild to moderate methotrexate-induced hepatotoxicity in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
Fifteen patients with Tourette's disorder developed school and work avoidance syndromes when treated with low doses (mean 2.5 mg/day) of haloperidol for short periods of time (mean, 8 weeks). The phobic syndromes disappeared completely with discontinuation or reduction of the haloperidol dose. Haloperidol's effects on dopaminergic functioning support a role for catecholamines in the pathogenesis of phobic syndromes. It is not known whether phobias are precipitated by haloperidol only in patients with Tourette's disorder as a consequence of the specific metabolic alterations in this disorder or are a medication side effect in other psychiatric disorders as well.
Indomethacin is the conventional treatment for hemodynamically important patent ductus arteriosus in preterm infants. However, its use is associated with various side effects. In a prospective study, we compared ibuprofen and indomethacin with regard to efficacy and safety for the early treatment of patent ductus arteriosus in preterm infants.
We studied 148 infants (gestational age, 24 to 32 weeks) who had the respiratory distress syndrome and an echocardiographically confirmed, hemodynamically important patent ductus arteriosus. The infants were randomly assigned at five neonatal intensive care centers to receive three intravenous doses of either indomethacin (0.2 mg per kilogram of body weight, given at 12-hour intervals) or ibuprofen (a first dose of 10 mg per kilogram, followed at 24-hour intervals by two doses of 5 mq per kilogram each), starting on the third day of life. The rate of ductal closure, the need for additional treatment, side effects, complications, and the infants' clinical course were recorded.
The rate of ductal closure was similar with the two treatments: ductal closure occurred in 49 of 74 infants given indomethacin (66 percent), and in 52 of 74 given ibuprofen (70 percent) (relative risk, 0.94; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.76 to 1.17; P=0.41). The numbers of infants who needed a second pharmacologic treatment or surgical ductal ligation did not differ significantly between the two groups. Oliguria occurred in 5 infants treated with ibuprofen and in 14 treated with indomethacin (P=0.03). There were no significant differences with respect to other side effects or complications.
Ibuprofen therapy on the third day of life is as efficacious as indomethacin for the treatment of patent ductus arteriosus in preterm infants with the respiratory distress syndrome and is significantly less likely to induce oliguria.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the optimal timing of ADR-529 administration to protect rats treated with doxorubicin (DXR) against drug-induced cardiotoxicity. Complete electrocardiographic monitoring (QRS complex, S alpha T segment and T wave) and the histopathological analysis of cardiac tissue were used to assess the degree of heart damage produced in female rats treated with ten i.v. doses of 1 mg/kg DXR over a period of 15 weeks; body-weight increase and survival were also analyzed to evaluate the toxicity of treatments. Cardiac alterations induced by DXR were compared with those occurring in animals receiving 20 mg/kg i.v. ADR-529 at 30 min prior to DXR administration, starting at the first, third, or sixth DXR dose and given until the end of the study (15th week). Rats treated with DXR were severely cardiomyopathic, showing progressive and irreversible ECG alterations (QRS-complex and S alpha T-segment widening and T-wave flattening) and marked degeneration of the myocardium (myocyte vacuolation, myofibrillar loss, and endomyocardial fibrosis). The most effective cardiac protection was provided by the administration of ADR-529 beginning with the first or third DXR dose. Delaying treatment with ADR-529 until the sixth DXR dose resulted in a significant reduction in its therapeutic action on heart damage. A significant difference in body-weight increase and survival was observed between the treatment groups: ADR-529 injected prior to the first DXR dose significantly protected animals from DXR toxicity, but this schedule was significantly more toxic than the administration of ADR-529 beginning with the third or sixth DXR dose. Taking into account the degree of cardiac protection and the toxicity of combination treatments, the results of the present study demonstrate the superiority of ADR-529 given prior to the third DXR dose over the other schedules tested. This finding suggests that significant protection against DXR-induced chronic cardiotoxicity in the rat can be obtained using deferred treatment with ADR-529.
Long-acting dihydropyridine calcium channel blockades have been shown to limit the progression of atherosclerosis and decrease the incidence of cardiovascular events in humans and animals. To investigate the vasoprotective effects beyond the blood pressure-lowering effects of these agents, amlodipine (20 mg/kg/ day) and manidipine (10 mg/kg/day) were administered by gavage to N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME)-induced hypertensive rats for 2 weeks. L-NAME treatment (0.7 mg/ml in drinking water) significantly decreased the gene and protein expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and increased nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) mRNA levels in the aorta, as determined by Western blotting and reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Amlodipine and manidipine normalized the decreased expression of eNOS gene and protein, and attenuated the overexpression of NADPH oxidase, VCAM-1, and MCP-1 mRNA. Furthermore, amlodipine and manidipine prevented the L-NAME-induced increase in the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) mRNA content, thereby restoring control levels in the aorta. On the other hand, hydralazine treatment had no such effect in L-NAME treated rats. Furthermore, the increased expression of manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) by L-NAME treatment was not affected by amlodipine, manidipine, or hydralazine. We concluded that the direct anti-inflammatory and antioxidative effects of calcium channel blockades in the aorta of rats with L-NAME-induced hypertension were not likely to have been mediated by the blood pressure-lowering action of these agents, but instead these beneficial effects appear to have been mediated by an augmentation of eNOS expression and by the inhibition of the expression of ACE.
Aspirin is a common antiplatelet drug used in the prevention of ischemic stroke due to its inhibitory effect on platelet cyclooxygenase-1 (Cox-1). Patients can be categorized as either aspirin 'responders' or 'non-responders' depending on whether they are protected against a secondary stroke event or not. In this study, we have searched for variants of the Cox-1 gene that could possibly result in an unblocked and thus, aspirin-resistant Cox-1 enzyme and phenotype.
The Cox-1 gene was sequenced in 68 patients with recurrent ischemic stroke despite taking aspirin. The genotype distribution of identified variants was determined and compared with healthy control subjects. Mutations that involved amino acid substitutions of the mature Cox-1 molecule were analysed by molecular modelling and functional analysis using whole blood aggregometry.
Fourteen variants of the Cox-1 gene were identified. Seven of the variants involved amino acid substitutions of the Cox-1 molecule. None of the mutations were located near the catalytic site as judged from a three-dimensional model of the human Cox-1. Carriers and non-carriers of one of the mutations behaved similarly when aggregation and granule content release function were studied using collagen, ADP and arachidonic acid as agonists.
The results do not support the hypothesis that common variants of the Cox-1 gene results in unblocked Cox-1 molecules in aspirin non-responders.
We describe a college football player and weight-lifter who unexpectedly developed rhabdomyolysis and nonoliguric acute renal failure (ARF) following arthroscopic knee surgery. There was swelling and pain without evidence of a compartment syndrome postoperatively. The patient reported that he was an avid weight-lifter and that he was taking up to 10 g/d of a creatine supplement during the 6 weeks prior to this surgery. His ARF resolved over several days, with a peak serum creatinine of 2.3 mg/dl and peak creatine kinase (CK) of 194,000 U/l, following administration of intravenous fluids, mannitol, and sodium bicarbonate. Given the rarity of clinically significant rhabdomyolysis with this type of operation, we suggest that the patient's use of creatine increased the risk of skeletal muscle injury due to ischemia from intra-operative tourniquet application.
Vitamin K-dependent proteins (VKDPs) require carboxylation to become biologically active. Although the coagulant factors are the most well-known VKDPs, there are many others with important physiologic roles. Matrix Gla Protein (MGP) and Growth Arrest Specific Gene 6 (Gas-6) are two particularly important VKDPs, and their roles in vascular biology are just beginning to be understood. Both function to protect the vasculature; MGP prevents vascular calcification and Gas-6 affects vascular smooth muscle cell apoptosis and movement. Unlike the coagulant factors, which undergo hepatic carboxylation, MGP and Gas-6 are carboxylated within the vasculature. This peripheral carboxylation process is distinct from hepatic carboxylation, yet both are inhibited by warfarin administration. Warfarin prevents the activation of MGP and Gas-6, and in animals, induces vascular calcification. The relationship of warfarin to vascular calcification in humans is not fully known, yet observational data suggest an association. Given the high risk of vascular calcification in those patients with chronic kidney disease, the importance of understanding warfarin's effect on VKDPs is paramount. Furthermore, recognizing the importance of VKDPs in vascular biology will stimulate new areas of research and offer potential therapeutic interventions.
Experimental data indicated that Acanthopanax giraldii given intraperitoneally in mice had pronounced inhibitory effects on the CNS. It reduced the spontaneous activity, prolonged the hypnotic time of pentobarbital sodium and antagonised the amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. The results suggest that the sedative effect of A. giraldii is probably different from that of diazepam, but perhaps similar to that of reserpine.
We report the clinical history of a patient with drug induced liver injury due to quetiapine who ultimately developed subfulminant hepatic failure and died. The clinical presentation, laboratory data, as well as liver histopathology were supportive of the putative diagnosis of drug induced liver injury. To our knowledge, this is the first report of the important association between quetiapine and drug induced liver injury.
Although PNETs are rare malignancies, they should be considered in the differential diagnosis of submucosal gastric tumours in adolescents with clinical alarm symptoms.NET was confirmed by detection of the characteristic EWS/FLI-1 fusion gene, resulting in a reciprocal translocation t(11;22)(q24;q12). Three distinct liver metastases were detected by CT, MRI, and PET. The tumour failed to respond to neoadjuvant polychemotherapy with vincristine, etoposide, doxorubicin, and ifosfamide. Subtotal gastrectomy was performed and, surprisingly, we found diffuse metastatic infiltration of the liver that had not been detected by preoperative staging. Due to the diffuse metastatic disease the young patient's prognosis has to be considered very poor. Because of the tumour's intense expression of CD117 (c-kit), the patient is now treated with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib (STI571).
Focal necrotizing encephalitis due to Toxoplasma gondii infection represents one of the most common opportunistic infection in patients with the acquired inmunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), and the treatment is commonly with a combination sulphadiazine, and pyrimethamine. A major side effect of sulfadiazine therapy is the occurrence of crystallization in the urinary collecting system. We report a patient with AIDS and Toxoplasmic encephalitis treated with sulfadiazine who developed acute renal failure. Renal ultrasound demonstrated echogenic areas within the renal parenchyma, presumed to be sulfa crystals. Renal failure and ultrasound findings resolved rapidly with hydratation and administration of alkali. Patients infected with AIDS frequently have characteristic that increase intratubular crystal precipitation and they require treatment with one or more of the drugs that are associated with crystal-induced renal failure. Controlled alkalinization of the urine and high fluid intake are recommended for prophylaxis of crystalluria. The literature concerning crystalluria and renal failure due to sulfadiazine is reviewed.
To assess the role of basal anesthesia in the negative inotropic properties of verapamil, the effect of thiopental (30 mg/kg followed by 3.5 mg.kg-1.min-1) on verapamil pharmacokinetics (200 micrograms/kg iv; n = 6) and its pharmacodynamics (3 and 6 micrograms.kg-1.min-1; n = 11) in chronically instrumented dogs was studied. In the presence of thiopental, verapamil pharmacokinetics remained essentially unchanged. In contrast, anesthesia altered verapamil hemodynamic properties. In the conscious animal verapamil infusions increased heart rate (14 +/- 3 and 27 +/- 4 beats/min, respectively), cardiac output (0.22 +/- 0.07 and 0.24 +/- 0.08, l/min, respectively) and PR interval (14 +/- 2 and 25 +/- 6 ms, respectively) and slightly decreased dP/dt (-315 +/- 114 and -419 +/- 106 mmHg/s, respectively). Systemic vascular resistance (SVR) decreased at the low dose (-2.7 +/- 0.7 mmHg.1.min-1), and stroke volume decreased at the high dose (-4.4 +/- 0.6 ml). Yet the presence of thiopental resulted in an accentuation of verapamil-induced tachycardia (27 +/- 7 and 31 +/- 6 beats/min, respectively), and a decrease in stroke volume (-5.3 +/- 2.0 and -6.3 +/- 2.1 ml, respectively). At 3 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 verapamil did not increase PR interval, cardiac output, or vasodilation. Finally, at 6 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 verapamil did not decrease dP/dt and increased renal blood flow (21.8 +/- 6.4 ml/min). These data provide evidence that the negative inotropic properties of verapamil are more pronounced in the presence of thiopental. However, the role of basal anesthesia appears to be limited.
To observe the changes of serum PDCD5 antibody in chronic ischemic heart failure patients and the effect of carvedilol treatment.
Twenty chronic ischemic heart failure patients, 11 males and 9 females, aged 58 +/- 13, with the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) < 45% by echocardiography and New York Heart Association (NYHA) cardiac function classification II-III, were treated with carvedilol for 6 months with a target dosage of 50 mg/d. The serum PDCD5 antibody was tested by ELISA before and after carvedilol treatment and compared with those of 20 healthy persons.
The A value of PDCD5 antibody in the heart failure patients was 3.5 +/- 1.4, significantly higher that in than healthy persons (1.9 +/- 1.0, P < 0.01). After treatment of carvedilol, the A value of PDCD5 antibody in the heart failure patients decreased to 2.5 +/- 1.2 (P < 0.05). In 6 months maintenance treatment, 14 (70%) patients reached the dosage 50 mg/d, 4 (20%) reached 25 mg/d, and 2 (10%) reached 12.5 mg/d. Five patients (25%) had side effect such as dizziness, nausea and cough, one patient (5%) was hospitalized for 3 weeks because of heart failure, no patient died. After treatment of carvedilol, the NYHA degree increased by 0.3 (P < 0.05), LVEF increased from 35.5% +/- 7.8% to 42.7% +/- 9.6% (P < 0.05), left ventricular end-diastolic diameter decreased 5.3 mm (P < 0.05), and left ventricular end-systolic diameter decreased by 8.1 mm (P < 0.01).
The titer of apoptosis gene PDCD5 antibody in the serum of chronic ischemic heart failure patients are higher, which shows apoptosis and treatment of carvedilol significantly decreases its titer.
The prevalence of the type 2 diabetes mellitus is still growing. Although the occurrence of insulin resistance is quite frequent in the whole population, diabetes not always develops because for a time the compensating mechanism avoids it. In a frequent variation of type-2 diabetes the disease is not the result of an alteration in the insulin receptor or the glucose transporter, but a genetically determined defect of the postreceptorial intracellular signaling mechanism plays a role in its occurrence. There have been investigations for decades to find out more about the role of chromium (III) ions in glucose metabolism and in the prevention of type-2 diabetes. It has also been investigated if chromium substitution can prevent or treat those forms of diabetes where chromium deficiency is suspected to be in the background of the disorder.
The aim of our present investigation is to test the role of chromium (III) compounds in glucose metabolism that are known from literature. The authors examined the effect of oral chromium supplementation on antidiabetic treatment. Chromium supplementation was applied for 6 months.
Before, through and after the investigation changes in the patient's carbohydrate and lipid metabolism were followed by laboratory tests.
At the end of our examination the cholesterin level significantly, the HbA1c level close to the significant value decreased. Due to their results the authors presume that chromium (III) compounds may be effective in the treatment of patients' with decreased glucose tolerance or type-2 diabetes mellitus as a supplement to their therapy.
Prolongation of QT interval may lead to serious, potentially life-threatening, ventricular tachyarrhythmia, such as torsades de pointes. The cause may be an inherited or an acquired malfunction of ion channels at the myocardial cell membrane. Metabolic abnormalities, starvation, nervous system injury, and drug administration cause the much more frequent acquired long QT syndrome (LQTS). Types Ia and III antiarrhythmic drugs account for the majority of these life-threatening events, whereas a number of drugs widely used in otolaryngology, such as antibiotics and antihistamines, have been recently implicated. A case of a life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmia after the concurrent administration of cisapride and erythromycin is presented. Reviewed are drugs commonly prescribed in otolaryngology, as well as the associated risk factors that potentially lead to LQTS.
Five critically ill patients received dopamine hydrochloride intravenously to support their blood pressure. When seizures developed, intravenous phenytoin sodium therapy was begun. Coincident with the infusion of phenytoin, the blood pressure, which was stable on the dopamine infusion, declined rapidly. Analysis of these cases led to a hypothesis that the interaction of dopamine and phenytoin produced the hypotension. When this hypothesis was tested in the normovolemic dog, intravenous dopamine produced no change in the blood pressure, and the addition of a phenytoin infusion had little effect. In animals rendered hypovolemic and hypotensive by bleeding, intravenous dopamine returned the blood pressure to the prebleeding level. At this point, an infusion of phenytoin produced a sustained decrease in the blood pressure. The mechanism of this action may be related to a combination of catecholamine depletion and myocardial depression.
The effects of a high-fat meal on the bioavailability of oxycodone hydrochloride, administered as a recently developed 40 mg controlled-release (CR) tablet or a 20 mg immediate-release (IR) solution, were evaluated in a randomized crossover study in 22 normal male and female subjects. Serial blood samples were collected for 36 h after dosing and analyzed for oxycodone by a validated method using gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. There was no significant food effect with CR oxycodone as judged by 90% confidence interval (CI) analysis of AUC0-infinity and Cmax values under fed and fasted conditions. For the IR solution, both oxycodone bioavailability and peak plasma oxycodone concentration were significantly altered by consumption of the high-fat meal, with the mean value for AUC0-infinity increasing to 120% (CI = 109-132%) and the mean value for Cmax decreasing to 82% (CI = 47-91%) of values observed in the fasted condition. Adverse events reported for both formulations were mostly mild to moderate in severity and typical of those observed with opioids.
The influence of a genotype of inbred mice on the aggressive behavior induced by clonidine and the role of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in that behavior were studied. Clonidine in a dose of 10 mg/kg evoked a strong aggressiveness in BALB/c, DBA/1, and CC57Br mice and an intermediate response in C57BL/6J, Albino Swiss, and CBA mice, whereas DD, A/He, and C3HA/y mice did not show any aggressive behavior. Apomorphine significantly potentiated the clonidine-induced aggressiveness in C57BL/6J mice. In Albino Swiss mice, SK&F38393 as well as quinpirole augmented the aggressive behavior evoked by clonidine. The clonidine-induced aggressiveness was blocked by SCH23390 and cis-flupentixol but not by (-)-sulpiride. In aggressive mice, the binding of [3H]SCH23390 was decreased in the limbic forebrain, whereas the binding of [3H]spiperone was not changed. The obtained results indicate that the potency of the clonidine-induced aggressiveness depends upon genotype of mice; moreover, the presence of a physiological function of D1 receptors is necessary for its occurrence.
Previous studies reported that RAS inhibitors prevented atrial fibrillation by improving atrial electrical and structural remodeling. However, the effect of RAS inhibitors on the substrates of atrial fibrillation (AF) underlying hyperthyroid is unclear.
Forty rabbits were assigned to four groups: sham group, thyroxine group, benazepril group and irbesartan group (10 per group). The atrial effective refractory period (AERP) was measured. The physiologic rate adaptation and the AF vulnerability were evaluated. The real-time PCR, Western blot or fluorescent immunohistochemistry was performed to detect the expression of AF related Ca+, K+ channel and gap junction.
No significant difference was found in AERP among the thyroxine group, benazepril group and irbesartan group (75.13±5.41ms vs. 76.63±4.44ms, 79±4.95ms, P=0.28). However, benazepril or irbesartan could reduce AF vulnerability underlying hyperthyroid (75% vs. 37%, 44%, for thyroxine group, benazepril group and irbesartan group, respectively), and significantly improved physiologic rate adaptation of the AERP. Furthermore, both drugs significantly reduced L-Ca(2+) channel related subunits (α1C or α1D) and interstitial fibrosis (17.1±2.2% vs. 12.3±1.8, 11.7±1.2%, P<0.01, for thyroxine group, benazepril group and irbesartan group, respectively), increased lateral/polar connection of Cx43 (1.04±0.16 vs. 1.33±0.29,1.28±0.25, P<0.01, for thyroxine group, benazepril group and irbesartan group, respectively) and improved the abnormal distribution of gap junctions (Cx40, Cx43) underlying hyperthyroid.
Blockade of angiotensin II could improve abnormal atrial electrophysiological properties and further reduce AF vulnerability by extenuating ion channel, gap junction and structural remodeling in experimental thyrotoxic rabbits.
