Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by the progressive loss of motor neurons, leading to muscle weakness, paralysis, and death, most often from respiratory failure. The only FDA-approved drug for the treatment of ALS, riluzole, only extends the median survival in patients by 2-3 months. There is an urgent need for novel therapeutic strategies for this devastating disease. Using a high-throughput screening assay targeting an ALS cultured cell model (PC12-G93A-YFP cell line), we previously identified three chemotypes that were neuroprotective. We present a further detailed analysis of one promising scaffold from that group, pyrimidine-2,4,6-triones (PYTs), characterizing a number of PYT analogues using SAR and ADME. The PYT compounds show good potency, superior ADME data, low toxicity, brain penetration, and excellent oral bioavailability. Compounds from this series show 100% efficacy in the protection assay with a good correlation in activity between the protection and protein aggregation assays. The modifications of the PYT scaffold presented here suggest that this chemical structure may be a novel drug candidate scaffold for use in clinical trials in ALS.
A 79-year-old man was admitted because of consciousness disturbance on August 9, 2002. He had been diagnosed as having chronic myeloid leukemia in 1999, and since then, he had continued to take hydroxyurea (1500 mg/day) orally. On admission, his serum sodium concentration was as low as 119 mEq/L, while urinary sodium excretion was high. Based on the blood picture and lack of hepatosplenomegaly, we considered that the leukemia was still in the chronic phase. Because of normal blood level of the antidiuretic hormone (ADH) concentration and sufficient urine volume, the syndrome of inappropriate ADH secretion (SIADH) was unlikely, and sodium-losing nephropathy was suspected. After discontinuation of hydroxyurea, the urinary sodium excretion decreased and the patient's consciousness became clear concomitantly with improvement in the serum Na level. This patient appears to be the first case of hyponatremia caused by hydroxyurea.
Temporal bones from five patients with hearing loss as a result of aminoglycoside treatment were examined by the method of microdissection and surface preparations, followed by celloidin embedding and serial sectioning of the modiolus. Three patients had received the newer antibiotics, gentamicin, tobramycin, and amikacin; the other two neomycin. In the cochleas from two patients of the first group there was only a small loss of hair cells, restricted to the lower end of the basal turn. The third, who had been treated with several antibiotics over a longer period of time, showed more extensive but strikingly asymmetrical patterns of degeneration in the two ears. This patient, as well as the fourth, who had received neomycin during peritoneal lavage, had numerous patchy areas of complete disappearance of Corti's organ in the basal turn, with incipient degeneration of the distal ends of the nerve fibers in adjacent portions of the osseous spiral lamina. The fifth patient, who had become deaf after prolonged treatment with neomycin by mouth, showed a complete loss of cochlear hair cells. Nerve fibers were present only in the middle and upper turns, where supporting cells remained. Midmodiolar sections showed a proportionately much greater loss of the distal than of the proximal processes of the cells of the spiral ganglion. These findings underscore once again the special hazard for the inner ear that is associated with the clinical use of neomycin, regardless of the route of administration.
Blockage of nerve growth factor (NGF) by anti-NGF antibodies can inhibit allergic airway hyper-responsiveness in mice. This study was aimed at determining the mechanisms underlying the action of anti-NGF in vivo.
BALB/c mice were sensitized with ovalbumin (OVA) and treated with anti-NGF. At 1 day after the last challenge, their airway responsiveness and inflammation were examined and the levels of cytokine and transcription factor mRNA transcripts in the lungs and cytokines in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were determined. The frequency of different functional T cells and the levels of serum OVA-specific antibodies were measured.
OVA challenge induced severe airway resistance, inflammation, higher levels of IL-4, TNFα, IL-17A, TGFβ, GATA-3 and RORγT expression and increased Th2 and Th17 cells and IgE responses, but decreased IFNγ and IL-10 responses, T-bet and Foxp3 expression and Th1 and Tregs. Treatment with anti-NGF significantly reduced allergic airway resistance and inflammation, up-regulated IFNγ, IL-10, TGFβ, T-bet, and Foxp3 expression, increased Th1 and Tregs, but down-regulated IL-4, TNFα, IL-17A, RORγT and GATA-3 expression and reduced Th2 and Th17 cells, accompanied by increased serum IgG2a.
Anti-NGF inhibits allergic airway inflammation by modulating the balance of pro- and anti-asthmatic T cell responses in the lungs of mice.
We analyzed the long-term outcome and late effects of treatment in 187 patients with childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) diagnosed between 1984 and 1990. Overall survival and event-free survival rates were 68.2% +/- 3.7% and 63.2% +/- 3.6% at 15 years, respectively. Of 55 patients who relapsed after achieving the first complete remission (CR), only 17.4% were rescued by salvage therapy. The advantage of stem cell transplantation over chemotherapy was observed only in those patients with bone marrow relapse during therapy. The SD for score height in patients maintaining the first CR significantly decreased at the time of final follow-up compared with that at diagnosis: 0.059 to -0.800 (P < .0001). The decrease was remarkable in patients younger than 5 years at diagnosis. Other late effects included mild liver dysfunction in 18% and hepatitis C virus infection in 9%. Congestive heart failure was observed in only 2.9% of patients despite the high cumulative dose of daunorubicin (450 mg/m2). Although the survival rates of patients on our protocols were comparable to those of other study groups, some modification, including reduction in dose of cranial irradiation and/or anticancer drugs, should be considered to reduce late adverse effects in survivors of childhood ALL.
Fluctuations in the concentrations of the neuroactive steroid allopregnanolone are thought to influence γ-amino-butyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor gene expression and function. Long-term treatment with ethinyl estradiol (EE) plus levonorgestrel (LNG), two of the most widely used steroids in the hormonal contraceptive pill, decreases allopregnanolone levels in rat cerebral cortex and plasma, alters GABA(A) receptor expression and induces anxiety-like behavior. We evaluated which component of the hormonal contraceptive pill is responsible for the aforementioned changes. Female rats were injected subcutaneously (s.c.) with EE (0.030 mg) or LNG (0.125 mg) once a day for 4 weeks. Compared to the respective vehicle-treated control groups, EE decreased cerebral cortical levels of allopregnanolone, progesterone and pregnenolone by 76, 72 and 33%, respectively and hippocampal levels by 52, 56 and 50%, respectively. Likewise, LNG decreased cerebral cortical levels of allopregnanolone, progesterone and pregnenolone by 75, 68 and 33%, respectively, and hippocampal levels by 55, 65 and 60%, respectively. Administration of LNG, but not EE, increased the abundance of the γ2 subunit peptide in cerebral cortex and hippocampus by 38 and 59%, respectively. Further, LNG, but not EE, decreased the time spent and the number of entries into the open arms of the elevated plus maze by 56 and 43%, respectively, an index of anxiety-like behavior. These results suggest that alterations in GABA(A) receptor subunit expression and anxiety-like behavior induced by long-term treatment with combined EE/LNG appear to be caused by LNG. Given that both EE and LNG decrease allopregnanolone levels in a similar manner, these results further suggest that changes in allopregnanolone levels are not associated with GABA(A) receptor expression.
In a previous study, we showed that continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration (CAVH) reversed the depression in left ventricular (LV) contractility in canine Escherichia coli sepsis by the removal of a circulating substance the molecular weight of which is less than 30,000. Despite the normalization of LV contractility, however, we were unable to demonstrate an improvement in systemic arterial blood pressure (BP), presumably because the mechanisms underlying the depression in LV contractility and the decrease in BP are different in sepsis. In the current study, we examined the effect of combined treatment with CAVH and the alpha-adrenergic agonist phenylephrine on LV mechanics and tissue oxygen delivery in our canine E. coli model.
Measurements were obtained at baseline (condition B), after 4 h of sepsis (condition S), and after 2 h of CAVH and phenylephrine (condition P) (total of 6 h of sepsis). During P, phenylephrine was infused to restore BP to that found at baseline. The slope of the end-systolic pressure-dimension relation was used as the index of LV contractility; LV anterior-posterior dimensions were measured by sonomicrometry.
During combined CAVH and phenylephrine treatment, the decrease in the slope of the end-systolic pressure-dimension relation otherwise observed at S was reversed. The slope (mean +/- SD) was 57.5 +/- 32 mmHg/mm at B versus 22.2 +/- 8 mmHg/mm at S (P < 0.05, B vs. S) versus 62 +/- 37 mmHg at P (P < 0.05 S vs. P) (analysis of variance). Mean BP was restored to that found at B (123 +/- 19 mmHg versus 82 +/- 14 mmHg (P < 0.05 B vs. S) versus 116 +/- 27 mmHg (P < 0.05 S vs. P). Combination treatment with CAVH and phenylephrine also improved stroke volume (39.3 +/- 13.5 versus 32 +/- 8 versus 44 +/- 12 ml) and tissue oxygen delivery during P compared with results obtained when phenylephrine was given alone.
Our study offers a rationale for the combined use of phenylephrine and CAVH in the reversal of cardiac depression and hypotension in sepsis.
Glycine propionyl l-carnitine (GPLC) is a propionyl ester of carnitine that includes an additional glycine component. The present study evaluated hepatoprotective effect of GPLC in d-Galactosamine (d-GalN) induced fulminant hepatic failure. Rats were intraperitonially administered d-GalN (700mg/kgBW). GPLC was given as a pre-treatment (35mg/kgBW/day) for 1month followed by a single dose of d-GalN on the 31st day. d-GalN administration resulted in increased mortality and serum ALT and AST activities. These increases were significantly attenuated by GPLC. d-GalN treatment increased hepatic lipid peroxidation and a decrease in reduced glutathione content was observed. GPLC pre-treatment significantly decreased lipid peroxidation and augmented the level of GSH. d-GalN increased the circulating level of TNF-α and ATM-Kinase and MAP-Kinase expression. GPLC supplementation inhibited the increase in serum TNF-α and ATM-Kinase and MAP-Kinase expression. d-GalN treatment increased the level of Bax and Caspase-3 m-RNA while as a decline was observed in Bcl2 m-RNA. GPLC prevented the increase in Caspase-3 and Bax m-RNA and at the same time augmented the expression of Bcl2 m-RNA. Our findings suggest that GPLC alleviates d-GalN induced liver injury by strengthening antioxidative defense system and reducing apoptotic signalling pathways.
A 74-year-old man received oral administration of pilsicainide, a pure sodium channel blocker with slow recovery kinetics, to convert paroxysmal atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm and developed loss of consciousness two days later. The ECG monitoring revealed sinus pause with markedly prolonged PQ interval and QRS width. Two days after the drug was discontinued, the duration of the QRS complex was normalized. This drug is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, most of which is excreted from the kidney. The plasma concentration of pilsicainide, although not measured, must have been very high, since his renal function was impaired. When pilsicainide is prescribed in patients with coronary artery disease or renal dysfunction, close attention must be paid to avoid life-threatening arrhythmias due to high plasma concentrations of the drug. This is an interesting case because the proarrhthmia of the drug was not tachyarrhythmia, such as ventricular tachycardia or torsades de pointes, but sinus pause.
Recent animal studies have indicated a possible role of opioids in epilepsy. Intraventricular opioid administration induces a prolonged nonconvulsive stuporous state characterized by epileptiform electroencephalographic patterns, and reversed by naloxone. In high doses, naloxone itself causes generalized clonic convulsions. We compared opioid-induced and naloxone-induced epileptogenic phenomena using quantitative 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography in order to define the anatomical structures involved in these two different seizure types. When opioid-induced seizures occurred, limbic structures were preferentially activated, but when naloxone-induced clonic convulsions occurred, pyramidal and extrapyramidal motor areas and some limbic structures were activated. Based on the present experiments and currently available evidence, we speculate that opioid-mediated epileptogenic phenomena are similar to those occurring during the postictal state of a fully kindled seizure, whereas naloxone-induced epileptogenic phenomena are similar to the ictal state. Therefore, simple pharmacological manipulation of endogenous opioid systems may allow selective study of ictal and postictal phenomena.
The interaction of nigrostriatal dopamine and corticostriatal glutamate plays a critical role in motor output. Recent studies in mutant dystonic hamsters (dt[sz]), an animal model of idiopathic generalized dystonia, revealed antidystonic effects of both N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, such as dizocilpine (MK-801), and of neuroleptics, such as haloperidol and clozapine. Whereas the neuroleptics reduced spontaneous locomotion at antidystonic effective doses, MK-801 caused hyperactivity in mutant hamsters. Therefore, the combination of neuroleptics and MK-801 may exhibit synergistic antidystonic effects, while the side effects may be counteracted. In order to prove this assumption, the neuroleptics haloperidol and clozapine were coadministered with MK-801 in dt(sz) hamsters in the present study. The antidystonic effects were potentiated by coadministration of MK-801 and clozapine, but not by the combination of MK-801 and haloperidol. The coadministration of MK-801 and clozapine did not cause severe side effects, such as catalepsy in dystonic hamsters. In contrast to the well-documented reverse of haloperidol-induced catalepsy by MK-801 in rats, in mutant hamsters, catalepsy was increased by coadministration of haloperidol and MK-801. This unexpected finding could be due to pathophysiological brain alterations in dt(sz) hamsters, because in non-dystonic control hamsters, combined treatment with MK-801 and haloperidol did not cause cataleptogenic effects.
Risperidone has shown safety and efficacy for aggressive and destructive behaviors in short-term studies. This longer-duration study includes a broad sample. Forty subjects, aged 8-56 years (mean=22), all with mental retardation and 36 with autism spectrum disorders participated in this 22-week crossover study, with 24 weeks of open maintenance thereafter. Of 40 subjects, 23 (57.5%) responded fully (50% decrease in Aberrant Behavior Checklist-Community Irritability subscale score), while 35 subjects (87.5%) showed a 25% decrease. Gender, mood disorder, and antiseizure medications did not alter response. Increased appetite and weight gain were common. Low dose risperidone was effective for aggressive behavior in persons with MR. More long-term studies are needed, incorporating weight control interventions.
Vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF(165) is a critical element for development of the vascular system in physiological and pathological angiogenesis. VEGF isoforms have different affinities for heparan sulphate proteoglycan (HSPG) as well as for VEGF receptors; HSPGs are important regulators in vascular development. Therefore, inhibition of interactions between VEGF and HSPGs may prevent angiogenesis. Here, we demonstrate that an HSPG-binding synthetic peptide, corresponding to exon 6a-encoded domain of VEGF gene, has anti-angiogenic property. This 20 amino acids synthetic peptide prevents VEGF(165) binding to several different cell types, mouse embryonic sections and inhibits endothelial cell migration, despite its absence in VEGF(165) sequence. Our in vivo anti-tumor studies show that the peptide inhibits tumor growth in both mouse Lewis-Lung Carcinoma and human Liposarcoma tumor-bearing animal models. This is the first evidence that a synthetic VEGF fragment corresponding to exon 6a has functional antagonism both in vitro and in vivo. We conclude that the above HPSG binding peptide (6a-P) is a potent inhibitor of angiogenesis-dependent diseases.
Obesity and insulin resistance are two major risk factors underlying the metabolic syndrome. The development of these metabolic disorders is frequently studied, but mainly in liver, skeletal muscle, and adipose tissue. To gain more insight in the role of the small intestine in development of obesity and insulin resistance, dietary fat-induced differential gene expression was determined along the longitudinal axis of small intestines of C57BL/6J mice.
Male C57BL/6J mice were fed a low-fat or a high-fat diet that mimicked the fatty acid composition of a Western-style human diet. After 2, 4 and 8 weeks of diet intervention small intestines were isolated and divided in three equal parts. Differential gene expression was determined in mucosal scrapings using Mouse genome 430 2.0 arrays.
The high-fat diet significantly increased body weight and decreased oral glucose tolerance, indicating insulin resistance. Microarray analysis showed that dietary fat had the most pronounced effect on differential gene expression in the middle part of the small intestine. By overrepresentation analysis we found that the most modulated biological processes on a high-fat diet were related to lipid metabolism, cell cycle and inflammation. Our results further indicated that the nuclear receptors Ppars, Lxrs and Fxr play an important regulatory role in the response of the small intestine to the high-fat diet. Next to these more local dietary fat effects, a secretome analysis revealed differential gene expression of secreted proteins, such as Il18, Fgf15, Mif, Igfbp3 and Angptl4. Finally, we linked the fat-induced molecular changes in the small intestine to development of obesity and insulin resistance.
During dietary fat-induced development of obesity and insulin resistance, we found substantial changes in gene expression in the small intestine, indicating modulations of biological processes, especially related to lipid metabolism. Moreover, we found differential expression of potential signaling molecules that can provoke systemic effects in peripheral organs by influencing their metabolic homeostasis. Many of these fat-modulated genes could be linked to obesity and/or insulin resistance. Together, our data provided various leads for a causal role of the small intestine in the etiology of obesity and/or insulin resistance.
An 86-year-old man on whom a transurethral resection of prostate was performed under spinal anaesthesia developed profound bradycardia and hypotension with disturbance of consciousness during transfer to the recovery room. Initial treatment with atropine produced rapid improvement in cardiovascular and cerebral function. A further hypotensive episode (without bradycardia) occurred approximately 1 h later but responded rapidly to methoxamine. The patient made a full recovery during an overnight stay on the High Dependency Unit. Possible mechanisms for this event are discussed, with the proposal that the concomitant administration of captopril and the relative unavailability of Angiotensin II may have significantly contributed to the problem.
Bupivacaine-induced cardiovascular depression is known to be difficult to treat, and the efficacy of epinephrine for treatment of bupivacaine-induced cardiovascular depression is in doubt. We compared the efficacy of amrinone with that of epinephrine for the treatment of bupivacaine-induced cardiovascular depression in anesthetized dogs.
In dogs receiving 1.5-2% sevoflurane anesthesia, 0.5% bupivacaine was infused at a rate of 0.5 mg.kg-1.min-1 intravenously until mean arterial blood pressure decreased to 40 mmHg or less. In the amrinone group (n = 9), amrinone (4 mg.kg-1, intravenously) was given immediately after cardiovascular depression, followed by intravenous infusion at a rate of 0.1 mg.kg-1.min-1. In the epinephrine group (n = 9), epinephrine (0.01 mg.kg-1, intravenously) was given as a bolus, and the same dose was given again as required.
All nine dogs that received amrinone survived. Of the nine dogs that received epinephrine, five survived; fatal cardiovascular depression developed in the four remaining animals (P < 0.05). Only one animal in the amrinone group showed tachyrhythmia with wide QRS complexes during resuscitation, whereas all nine animals in the epinephrine group showed tachyrhythmia with wide QRS complexes during resuscitation.
Amrinone is superior to epinephrine for the treatment of bupivacaine-induced cardiovascular depression in sevoflurane-anesthetized dogs.
The genotype for N-acetyltransferase was analyzed in five Japanese patients with isoniazid neuropathy by using the allele specific polymerase chain reaction for a single slice of the 30-year-old paraffin-embedded and hematoxylin-eosin stained sural nerve biopsy specimens. We found slow acetylator genotypes for N-acetyltransferase in all isoniazid neuropathy patients. This result confirmed that patients with the slow acetylator genotype tend to develop neuropathy after administration of isoniazid.
This report describes two cases of central anticholinergic syndrome, the first after general anaesthesia and the other during a prolonged stay in the intensive care unit. The symptoms in both patients resolved soon after physostigmine administration. There was a delay in the diagnosis of central anticholinergic syndrome, which resulted in acute lung injury and unanticipated intensive care unit admission. It is suggested that in cases of abnormal mental recovery after anaesthesia or sedation, the diagnosis of central anticholinergic syndrome should be considered.
Nephrotoxicity is a well-known side effect of intravenous acyclovir treatment but occurs rarely by oral treatment. A 76-y-old healthy male, with normal baseline renal functions (blood creatinine 0.6 mg%), received oral acyclovir at a dose of 800 mg five times daily for 10 days for treatment of herpes zoster ophthalmicus. He developed renal failure with blood creatinine levels of 3 mg% and his renal function failed to improve within eight months of end of treatment. Affection of renal function has to be considered also in relation to oral acyclovir treatment, especially in elderly subjects.
During initial trials of 5-azacytidine in adults with advanced acute leukemia, we unexpectedly observed acid-base, fluid, and electrolyte abnormalities that contributed directly to the deaths of two early patients. To evaluate this toxicity further, we studied 22 patients who received a total of 33 courses of combination chemotherapy that included 5-azacytidine. During 29 courses (88%) of treatment, polyuria, glucosuria, and/or transient changes in the serum concentrations of bicarbonate or phosphorus were detected. Spontaneous polyuria with demonstrable salt wasting and orthostatic hypotension occurred during seven courses (21%) of treatment. Inappropriate glucosuria was observed in nine courses (27%). In 24 courses (73%) the serum bicarbonate fell below the normal range. The urine became alkaline during 12 of these instances; the anion gap was not increased during the acidosis. Hypophosphatemia with serum phosphorus concentrations as low as 0.3 mg/dl occurred in 21 of 32 evaluable courses (66%). In the three patients studied the tubular reabsorption of phosphorus was 10%-18%. The renal abnormalities that were observed suggest both proximal and distal tubular damage from 5-azacytidine. Patients receiving 5-azacytidine should be monitored closely for manifestations of renal toxicity.
A 70-year-old woman began to experience gait disturbance in 1995, followed by the appearance of action tremor of the left hand in 1996. This tremor was subsequently noted in the right hand. Her doctor initially diagnosed Parkinson's disease and administered amantadine and levodopa. The gait disturbance and tremor improved. However, she stopped taking the medication and her symptoms worsened in April, 1998. She was admitted to our hospital, and showed rigidity and action tremor predominantly on the left side, frozen gait, postural reflex disturbance and orthostatic hypotension. Following levodopa administration, her UPDRS score improved from 61.3 +/- 1.2 (mean +/- SD) to 41.7 +/- 5.4. However, she experienced a greater decrease in systolic blood pressure following administration upon standing, from 12.5 +/- 5.8 mmHg to 17.8 +/- 9.2 mmHg. Thus, although levodopa administration led to an improvement in rigidity, tremor and akinesia, her orthostatic hypotension worsened. Based on the present results clinicians should be aware of the potential of worsened orthostatic hypotension when prescribing levodopa to treat Parkinson's disease.
An 82-year old man was admitted with dyspnea, productive cough and wheezing. In addition to antibiotics (meropenem trihydrate 0.5 g/day), glucocorticoids (hydrocortisone 1.250 mg, methylpredonisolone 4.250 mg) were administered for the severe bronchospasms. Since his respiratory condition deteriorated, he underwent mechanical ventilation using a muscle relaxant (vecuronium bromide, total dose 776 mg) in combination with high dose glucocorticoid. As his pneumonia improved on the 10th hospital day, we started weaning him from the ventilator. However, we were unable to complete weaning from the ventilator because of prolonged quadriplegia and paralysis of the respiratory muscles. A few days later, myoglobinuria appeared. Electrophysiological examinations suggested the involvement of both neuromuscular junctions and muscles. Muscle biopsy showed rhabdomyolysis. Acute necrotizing myopathy was diagnosed due to high doses of glucocorticoid, muscle relaxant, or both. He required about 3 months to be weaned from the mechanical ventilation, and another 3 months to leave the hospital. Based on our experience, we should consider acute myopathy as an adverse effect of glucocorticoids, muscle relaxants or both in elderly patients who require mechanical ventilation.
In 24 patients with acute myocardial infarction intravenous nitroglycerin in 2 different dosages was administered and the effect on hemodynamics and extent of myocardial ischemia was investigated. According to the initial left ventricular filling pressure (LVFP) the patients were divided in Group I: LVFP below 20 mm Hg (13 patients) and in Group II: LVFP above 20 mm Hg (11 patients). Following an infusion of 3 mg of nitroglycerin in the first and 6 mg in the second hour, a significant decrease (P less than 0.0001) in the filling pressure (in Group I from 15 +/- 4 to 9 +/- 3 (+/-1 SD) and in Group II from 28 +/- 11 to 16 +/- 7 mm Hg) was observed. The mean arterial pressure decreased in both groups by an average of 9 mm Hg. The changes in the heart rate were minimal. The cardiac output decreased in Group I from 4.4 +/- 1.0 to 3.9 +/- 0.8 1/min (P less than 0.005) whereas in the group with left ventricular failure it increased significantly from a lowered initial value (3.4 +/- 1.0 to 4.0 +/- 1.1 1/min) (P less than 0.001). By using precordial mapping for estimation of ischemic injury in 12 patient sigma ST elevation decreased from 14.6 +/- 11.9 to 12.2 +/- 9.8 mV at a dose of 3 mg/h (P less than 0.03). The dose of 6 mg/h, however, was less effective on the extent of myocardial ischemia than 3 mg/h. Thus, the dosage of nitroglycerin may be critical in respect to infarct size, despite the beneficial hemodynamic effects of the drug.
A study was conducted to determine whether once-daily administration of risperidone was as effective and safe as twice-daily administration. In a double-blind 6-week trial, 211 patients with acute exacerbation according to DSM-III-R criteria were randomly assigned to receive risperidone at 8 mg once daily or 4 mg twice daily. The primary efficacy measure was the treatment response rate, defined as a 20% or greater reduction in total Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) scores. Severity of extrapyramidal symptoms was assessed by the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale. The percentage of patients who showed a treatment response at endpoint was not significantly different between groups (76%, once-daily; 72%, twice-daily), nor was the median time to first treatment response (14 days, both groups). Significant reductions in PANSS total and subscale scores and PANSS-derived Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale were observed in both groups, with no significant between-group differences. Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale scores did not differ significantly between groups. There were no clinically relevant changes in vital signs, electrocardiograms, or clinical laboratory test results in either group. Gradual dosage titration over the first 3 days of treatment was well-tolerated in both groups. The median trough plasma concentrations of risperidone, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, and risperidone plus 9-hydroxyrisperidone were significantly lower with once-daily than with twice-daily administration; median plasma concentrations measured within the first 8 hours after administration tended to be higher with once-daily administration. These differences did not affect the safety and efficacy of risperidone. Risperidone given once daily at 8 mg is as effective as twice-daily administration of 4 mg in the treatment of acute exacerbations of schizophrenia. Both regimens were equally well-tolerated.
Very high blood pressure during pregnancy poses a serious threat to women and their fetuses. The use of drugs to lower blood pressure may reduce this risk.
The objective of this review was to compare different antihypertensive drugs used for rapid treatment of severe hypertension during pregnancy.
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group trials register and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register.
