To determine the effect of naloxone on the hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstrictive response, six mongrel dogs were rendered hypoxic with 10% oxygen and were given either saline or naloxone. Following hypoxia all dogs had significant increases in mean pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) and pulmonary arterial resistance index (PARI) without changes in cardiac output or systemic blood pressure. Beta endorphins did not change at any time following hypoxia. Dogs receiving naloxone had significant lowering of PAP and PARI without changes in plasma beta endorphin levels. We conclude that naloxone attenuates hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction without measurable alterations of plasma beta endorphin levels.
Our understanding of the health risks of farmworkers exposed to pesticides in their work and home environments is rapidly increasing, although studies designed to examine the possible neurobehavioral effects of low-level chronic pesticide exposure are limited. We measured dialkyl phosphate urinary metabolite levels, collected environmental dust samples from a subset of homes, obtained information on work practices, and conducted neurobehavioral tests on a sample of farmworkers in Oregon. Significant correlations between urinary methyl metabolite levels and total methyl organophosphate (azinphos-methyl, phosmet, malathion) house dust levels were observed. We found the neurobehavioral performance of Hispanic immigrant farmworkers to be lower than that observed in a nonagricultural Hispanic immigrant population, and within the sample of agricultural workers there was a positive correlation between urinary organophosphate metabolite levels and poorer performance on some neurobehavioral tests. These findings add to an increasing body of evidence of the association between low levels of pesticide exposure and deficits in neurobehavioral performance.
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of procainamide on polymorphic ventricular tachycardia induced by programmed stimulation and to correlate the responses with heart disease, left ventricular endocardial activation abnormalities and the signal-averaged electrocardiogram (ECG).
Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia is induced frequently during electrophysiologic studies. In many patients this response is an artifact of programmed stimulation; in others, it appears to be clinically relevant. Previous observations have suggested that in some patients type IA antiarrhythmic agents can change the response to programmed stimulation from polymorphic to uniform ventricular tachycardia.
Programmed right ventricular stimulation was performed in the absence of antiarrhythmic drugs and after procainamide. Signal-averaged ECGs and left ventricular maps were performed during sinus rhythm in the absence of antiarrhythmic drugs.
We evaluated 79 consecutive patients undergoing clinical electrophysiologic studies, in whom polymorphic ventricular tachycardia was the only arrhythmia induced in the absence of antiarrhythmic drugs. After procainamide administration, uniform monomorphic ventricular tachycardia was induced in 24 patients (Group 1), inducible polymorphic ventricular tachycardia persisted in 30 patients (Group 2) and no ventricular tachycardia could be induced in the remaining 25 patients (Group 3). Twenty-three (96%) of 24 patients developing uniform ventricular tachycardia after procainamide administration had coronary artery disease compared with 63% of Group 2 and 48% of Group 3 patients (p = 0.003). Left ventricular aneurysms were also found more frequently (46%) in the patients developing uniform ventricular tachycardia after procainamide than in either Group 2 or Group 3 (13% and 0%, respectively, p < 0.008). Abnormalities of the signal-averaged ECG typically seen in patients with spontaneous reentrant sustained ventricular tachycardia were significantly more frequent in patients who developed inducible uniform ventricular tachycardia after procainamide than in those who did not. Similarly, patients developing uniform ventricular tachycardia after procainamide had more extensive abnormalities of left ventricular endocardial activation revealed by catheter maps during sinus rhythm.
The conversion of inducible polymorphic ventricular tachycardia to uniform ventricular tachycardia after procainamide administration occurs almost exclusively in patients with coronary disease, previous myocardial infarction and abnormal left ventricular function. This response may permit activation mapping of tachycardias, allowing the application of surgical or catheter ablation techniques that would otherwise not be possible in such patients.
Urticaria/angioedema is a common aspirin-induced allergy; however, its pathogenic mechanism is not understood.
In order to uncover the genetic mechanism, we studied the associations of the human leucocyte antigen (HLA) genotypes in patients with aspirin-induced urticaria compared with aspirin-intolerant asthma and normal control in a Korean population.
Ninety-four aspirin-induced urticaria patients presenting urticaria/angioedema-induced by both ASA and NSAID (50 had underlying chronic urticaria) and showing positive responses on oral aspirin challenge test, 76 aspirin-intolerant asthmatics with positive responses on lysine-aspirin bronchoprovocation test, and 185 normal healthy controls were enrolled. HLA-DRB1, DQB1, and DPB1 genotypings were performed by direct DNA sequencing analysis.
The allele frequencies of HLA-DRB1(*)1302 (18.1%) and HLA-DQB1(*)0609 (10.1%) in aspirin-induced urticaria were significantly higher than in aspirin-intolerant asthma (5.3%, P=0.0004; 2.0%, P=0.0024) and in normal controls (8.1%, P=0.0005; 3.2%, P=0.0008), and they remained significant after correcting for multiple comparisons. The patients with these two HLA markers had a significantly younger age than patients without, while no associations were found in with respect to atopic status, a history of previous allergic diseases, total IgE level, or presence of underlying chronic urticaria (P>0.05, respectively). In haplotype analysis, the HLA-DRB1(*)1302-DQB1(*)0609-DPB1(*)0201 was significantly higher in the aspirin-induced urticaria (8.0%) than in the aspirin-intolerant asthma (0.7%, P=0.0014) and normal controls (2.0%, P=0.0006).
These findings suggest that the HLA-DRB1(*)1302-DQB1(*)0609-DPB1(*)0201 may be a strong genetic marker to determine the aspirin-induced urticaria phenotype.
In the rat stomach, evidence has been provided that capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves (CSSN) are involved in a local defense mechanism against gastric ulcer. In the present study capsaicin or resiniferatoxin (RTX), a more potent capsaicin analogue, was used to elucidate the role of these sensory nerves in gastric mucosal protection, mucosal permeability, gastric acid secretion and gastrointestinal blood flow in the rat. In the rat stomach and jejunum, intravenous RTX or topical capsaicin or RTX effected a pronounced and long-lasting enhancement of the microcirculation at these sites, measured by laser Doppler flowmetry technique. Introduction of capsaicin into the rat stomach in very low concentrations of ng-microg x mL(-1) range protected the gastric mucosa against damage produced by topical acidified aspirin, indomethacin, ethanol or 0.6 N HCl. Resiniferatoxin exhibited acute gastroprotective effect similar to that of capsaicin and exerted marked protective action on the exogenous HCl, or the secretagogue-induced enhancement of the indomethacin injury. The ulcer preventive effect of both agents was not prevented by atropine or cimetidine treatment. Capsaicin given into the stomach in higher desensitizing concentrations of 6.5 mM markedly enhanced the susceptibility of the gastric mucosa and invariably aggravated gastric mucosal damage evoked by later noxious challenge. Such high desensitizing concentrations of capsaicin, however, did not reduce the cytoprotective effect of prostacyclin (PGI2) or beta-carotene. Capsaicin or RTX had an additive protective effect to that of atropine or cimetidine. In rats pretreated with cysteamine to deplete tissue somatostatin, capsaicin protected against the indomethacin-induced mucosal injury. Gastric acid secretion of the pylorus-ligated rats was inhibited with capsaicin or RTX given in low non-desensitizing concentrations, with the inhibition being most marked in the first hour following pylorus-ligation. Low intragastric concentrations of RTX reduced gastric hydrogen ion back-diffusion evoked by topical acidified salicylates. It is concluded that the gastropotective effect of capsaicin-type agents involves primarily an enhancement of the microcirculation effected through local release of mediator peptides from the sensory nerve terminals. A reduction in gastric acidity may contribute to some degree in the gastric protective action of capsaicin-type agents. The vasodilator and gastroprotective effects of capsaicin-type agents do not depend on vagal efferents or sympathetic neurons, involve prostanoids, histaminergic or cholinergic pathways.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is an important antineoplastic agent. However, the associated cardiotoxicity, possibly mediated by the production of reactive oxygen species, has remained a significant and dose-limiting clinical problem. Our hypothesis is that the hematopoietic/megakaryocytopoietic growth factor thrombopoietin (TPO) protects against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity and might involve antiapoptotic mechanism exerted on cardiomyocytes.
In vitro investigations on H9C2 cell line and spontaneously beating cells of primary, neonatal rat ventricle, as well as an in vivo study in a mouse model of DOX-induced acute cardiomyopathy, were performed. Our results showed that pretreatment with TPO significantly increased viability of DOX-injured H9C2 cells and beating rates of neonatal myocytes, with effects similar to those of dexrazoxane, a clinically approved cardiac protective agent. TPO ameliorated DOX-induced apoptosis of H9C2 cells as demonstrated by assays of annexin V, active caspase-3, and mitochondrial membrane potential. In the mouse model, administration of TPO (12.5 microg/kg IP for 3 alternate days) significantly reduced DOX-induced (20 mg/kg) cardiotoxicity, including low blood cell count, cardiomyocyte lesions (apoptosis, vacuolization, and myofibrillar loss), and animal mortality. Using Doppler echocardiography, we observed increased heart rate, fractional shortening, and cardiac output in animals pretreated with TPO compared with those receiving DOX alone.
These data have provided the first evidence that TPO is a protective agent against DOX-induced cardiac injury. We propose to further explore an integrated program, incorporating TPO with other protocols, for treatment of DOX-induced cardiotoxicity and other forms of cardiomyopathy.
There is growing evidence that the ergot-derived dopamine agonists cabergoline and pergolide can cause fibrotic cardiac valvulopathy. Data on other fibrotic reactions and nonergot-derived dopamine agonists are sparse. Aim of this study was to investigate whether there are signals that dopamine agonists are related to cardiac and other fibrotic reactions. We identified all reports of fibrotic reactions at the heart, lung, and retroperitoneal space associated with dopamine agonists within the US Adverse Event Reporting System database. Disproportionality analyses were used to calculate adjusted reporting odds ratios (RORs). For ergot-derived dopamine agonists (bromocriptine, cabergoline, pergolide), the RORs of all reactions under study were increased, whereas no such increases were observed for nonergot-derived drugs (apomorphine, pramipexole, ropinirole, rotigotine). Fibrotic reactions due to ergot-derived dopamine agonists may not be limited to heart valves. For nonergot-derived dopamine agonists, no drug safety signals were evident.
Hepatic Veno-occlusive Disease (VOD) and Budd Chiari syndrome (BCS) have been reported as fatal complications of Dacarbazine therapy. Peripheral eosinophilia and eosinophilic infiltrates after repeated Dacarbazine therapy in some cases were interpreted as evidence of an allergic drug reaction. Since no mention of an allergic drug reaction is to be found in other reports on veno-occlusive disease or Budd Chiari syndrome due to Dacarbazine, the pathophysiological mechanism of these fatal complications of Dacarbazine remain to be elucidated. We describe a case of VOD due to Dacarbazine which showed peripheral eosinophilia after the first cycle of Dacarbazine treatment with no prior possibility of sensibilization, along with signs of a toxic drug reaction. This observation suggests that peripheral eosinophilia, so far interpreted as a sign of an allergic reaction induced by Dacarbazine, can be observed together with obvious signs of toxic drug reaction, thus providing further evidence of a toxic mechanism of Dacarbazine-induced VOD or BCS.
Although the induction of polycystic kidney disease by neonatal glucocorticoid treatment has been extensively documented, there are no data on induction of polycystic kidney disease with fetal exposure to glucocorticoids. We injected groups of pregnant Swiss Webster albino mice subcutaneously with 250 mg/kg of hydrocortisone acetate on individual days from days 1 to 19 of gestation. A control group received an equal volume of saline. Histologic analysis of 1,522 kidneys from the offspring of these animals revealed no evidence of polycystic kidneys in the control group or in offspring of animals injected before day 11 of pregnancy. A bimodal distribution of cystic kidney disease was noted in the remaining animals, with highest prevalence after injection on day 12 (50.8%) and day 17 (34.3%). We conclude that 250 mg/kg of glucocorticoids may induce polycystic kidney disease in utero, but possibly only during critical periods of metanephric development.
Prenatal cocaine exposure has been associated with a variety of adverse neurological effects. Three recent studies found evidence that prenatal cocaine exposure is associated with abnormal auditory electrophysiology, suggesting abnormal processing of auditory information. The present study used the auditory brainstem response to evaluate the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure on hearing in an animal model (Long-Evans rat). We report that prenatal cocaine exposure can cause elevated ABR thresholds and latency-intensity curves consistent with a recruitment-type sensorineural hearing loss.
As melatonin has been found to play a role in the mechanisms of cardiovascular regulation, we designed the present study to evaluate whether the evening ingestion of the pineal hormone might interfere with the antihypertensive therapy in hypertensive patients well-controlled by nifedipine monotherapy.
Forty-seven mild to moderate essential hypertensive outpatients taking nifedipine GITS 30 or 60 mg monotherapy at 08.30 h for at least 3 months, were given placebo or melatonin 5 mg at 22.30 h for 4 weeks according to a double-blind cross-over study. At the end of each treatment period patients underwent a 24 h noninvasive ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) during usual working days; sleeping period was scheduled to last from 23.00 to 07.00 h.
The evening administration of melatonin induced an increase of blood pressure and heart rate throughout the 24 h period (DeltaSBP = + 6.5 mmHg, P < 0.001; DeltaDBP = + 4.9 mmHg, P < 0.01; DeltaHR = + 3.9 beats min-1, P < 0.01). The DBP as well as the HR increase were particularly evident during the morning and the afternoon hours.
We hypothesize that competition between melatonin and nifedipine, is able to impair the antihypertensive efficacy of the calcium channel blocker. This suggests caution in uncontrolled use of melatonin in hypertensive patients. As the pineal hormone might interfere with calcium channel blocker therapy, it cannot be considered simply a dietary supplement.
Aripiprazole (AP), a dopamine (DA) D(2) receptor partial agonist, has recently been used to reduce schizophrenic symptoms, while tetrabenazine (TBZ), a DA depletor, has been used to treat hyperkinesias in Huntington's disease (HD). The aim of this study is to define the role of AP on chorea, motor performance, and functional disability, and to compare the effects of AP vs. TBZ in a small study of six patients with HD. Both AP and TBZ increased the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale (UHDRS) chorea score in a similar way. However, AP caused less sedation and sleepiness than TBZ and was better tolerated by the patients on the trial. Moreover, AP showed a slight but not significant improvement of depression in the patients as compared to TBZ. A larger group of patients and a longer period of observation are an important prerequisite for further evaluations of AP's therapeutic use.
Meso-tetra-hydroxyphenyl-chlorine (mTHPC) is among the most powerful photosensitizers available for photodynamic therapy (PDT). However, the mechanisms leading to cell death are poorly understood. We here focused on changes at DNA and RNA levels after treatment with the liposomal mTHPC derivative Foslipos in vitro.
After determination of darktoxicity, laser conditions and uptake kinetics, PC-3 prostate carcinoma cells were subjected to PDT with Foslipos, followed by assessment of cell numbers directly (TP0) or 1h (TP1), 2h (TP2), 5h (TP5) and 24h (TP24) after illumination. Nucleic acids had been extracted for evaluation of RNA amounts and integrity as well as for estimation of abasic sites as a measure for DNA damage. Furthermore, expression changes of 84 genes related to oxidative stress were investigated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction.
Already at TP0, the number of dead cells was significantly higher after PDT versus controls and at TP24 more than 90% of cells had been destroyed. PDT resulted in a severe damage of both RNA and DNA. Gene expression analyses revealed an impact of PDT on pathways for oxidative and metabolic stress, heat shock, proliferation and carcinogenesis, growth arrest, inflammation, DNA repair and apoptosis signaling.
Mechanisms of Foslipos-mediated PDT comprise a combination of acute and delayed lethal effects in PC-3 cells. The latter may include death processes initiated by nucleic acid damage, activation of stress and growth arrest genes in combination with a reduced capability to adequately cope with oxidative toxicity. Our results will help to better understand molecular photodynamic effects.
The anticonvulsant drug valproic acid (VPA) is suspected to be a developmental toxicant in humans, inducing primarily neural tube defects. The mechanism for this effect is unknown, but it has been suggested that the drug may act via a deficiency of the vitamin folic acid. We examined this possibility by concurrent treatment of rat embryos in a whole embryo culture system with VPA and folinic acid (FA), a folic acid derivative. Groups of CD rat embryos were treated with various concentrations of VPA, various concentrations of FA, or a combination of a teratogenic dose of VPA plus various levels of FA. At the end of the 44 hour culture period, each embryo was evaluated for viability (presence of a heartbeat), yolk sac circulation, presence of any malformations, morphological score, crown-rump and head lengths, as well as DNA and protein contents. The anticonvulsant did not decrease viability but did decrease yolk sac circulation and all growth and developmental endpoints in a dose-responsive manner. There was also a dose-related increase in the incidence of open neural tubes. The addition of FA alone had no significant effect on growth and development. When various concentrations of FA were added simultaneously with a teratogenic dose of VPA, there was no decrease in the incidence of open neural tubes. Growth and developmental endpoints were altered in a somewhat random fashion but were never increased to the control level. The lack of attenuation by FA was not due to instability of the compound in the culture system, nor was there a difference in the amount of FA present in the exocoelomic fluid of VPA-treated and control embryos.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We investigated the effects of globin digest (GD) and its active ingredient Trp-Thr-Gln-Arg (WTQR) on galactosamine/lipopolysaccharide (GalN/LPS)-induced liver injury in imprinting control region (ICR) mice.
The effects of WTQR and GD on the liver injury were examined by measuring the survival rate, serum aminotransferase activities, hepatic components, antioxidant enzyme activities, histopathological analysis, serum levels and hepatic gene expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2), and nitric oxide (NO) or inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) p65 content in GalN/LPS-treated ICR mice. RAW264 mouse macrophages were used to confirm the anti-inflammatory effects of WTQR and GD on the macrophages.
WTQR and GD increased the survival rate, suppressed the serum aminotransferase activities, serum levels and hepatic gene expression of TNF-α, MIP-2, and NO or iNOS, and nuclear NF-κB p65 content in GalN/LPS-treated mice; decreased the oxidized glutathione content, increased the superoxide dismutase activity, and decreased the histopathological grade values of the hepatocyte necrosis and lobular inflammation in GalN/LPS-injured liver; and suppressed the release levels and gene expression of TNF-α, MIP-2, and NO or iNOS, and nuclear NF-κB p65 content in LPS-stimulated RAW264 macrophages. WTQR and GD may improve the antioxidant defense system and inflammatory status in GalN/LPS-injured liver.
These findings indicate that WTQR and GD have hepatoprotective effects on GalN/LPS-induced liver injury in ICR mice.
Ticlopidine, a platelet aggregation inhibitor, has been approved to decrease the risk of thrombotic stroke. We describe a 75-year-old white woman who developed acute renal failure 10 days after initiating ticlopidine therapy. A renal biopsy revealed interstitial infiltrates containing lymphocytes and eosinophils. To our knowledge this is the first report of ticlopidine-induced acute interstitial nephritis.
Recently, kidney fibrosis following transplantation has become recognized as a main contributor of chronic allograft nephropathy. In transplantation, transient ischemia is an inescapable event. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a critical role in ischemia and reperfusion (I/R)-induced acute kidney injury, as well as progression of fibrosis in various diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, and ureteral obstruction. However, a role of ROS/oxidative stress in chronic kidney fibrosis following I/R injury remains to be defined. In this study, we investigated the involvement of ROS/oxidative stress in kidney fibrosis following kidney I/R in mice. Mice were subjected to 30 min of bilateral kidney ischemia followed by reperfusion on day 0 and then administered with either manganese (III) tetrakis(1-methyl-4-pyridyl) porphyrin (MnTMPyP, 5 mg/kg body wt ip), a cell permeable superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetic, or 0.9% saline (vehicle) beginning at 48 h after I/R for 14 days. I/R significantly increased interstitial extension, collagen deposition, apoptosis of tubular epithelial cells, nitrotyrosine expression, hydrogen peroxide production, and lipid peroxidation and decreased copper-zinc SOD, manganese SOD, and glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase activities in the kidneys 16 days after the procedure. MnTMPyP administration minimized these postischemic changes. In addition, MnTMPyP administration significantly attenuated the increases of alpha-smooth muscle actin, PCNA, S100A4, CD68, and heat shock protein 47 expression following I/R. We concluded that kidney fibrosis develops chronically following I/R injury, and this process is associated with the increase of ROS/oxidative stress.
Macular degeneration is a common cause of blindness in the elderly. To identify rare coding variants associated with a large increase in risk of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), we sequenced 2,335 cases and 789 controls in 10 candidate loci (57 genes). To increase power, we augmented our control set with ancestry-matched exome-sequenced controls. An analysis of coding variation in 2,268 AMD cases and 2,268 ancestry-matched controls identified 2 large-effect rare variants: previously described p.Arg1210Cys encoded in the CFH gene (case frequency (fcase) = 0.51%; control frequency (fcontrol) = 0.02%; odds ratio (OR) = 23.11) and newly identified p.Lys155Gln encoded in the C3 gene (fcase = 1.06%; fcontrol = 0.39%; OR = 2.68). The variants suggest decreased inhibition of C3 by complement factor H, resulting in increased activation of the alternative complement pathway, as a key component of disease biology.
In previous studies severe, acute hypertension damaged the endothelium in proximal coronary arteries and selectively potentiated constriction of the artery to serotonin. In the present study we investigated the role of several mechanical factors and of oxygen radicals in this response.
To test the role of mechanical factors in the response to acute hypertension, the effect of different magnitudes of elevation of perfusion pressure and the rate of the rise in perfusion pressure were studied. Pharmacologically induced increases in blood pressure were produced by infusion of angiotensin II or phenylephrine. The role of oxygen radicals was tested by measuring responses to serotonin before and after increases in perfusion pressure in dogs treated with a combination of superoxide dismutase and catalase or with deferoxamine.
In open-chest anesthetized dogs the diameter of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LADCA) was measured using sonomicrometer crystals, and the LADCA was perfused at a constant pressure of 80 mmHg from a reservoir. Responses to serotonin were measured at this perfusion pressure before and after an abrupt increase in perfusion pressure.
Intracoronary serotonin (5 or 50 micrograms/min) produced a dose-dependent constriction of the LADCA while increasing coronary flow. Abruptly increasing the coronary perfusion pressure from 80 to 120, 150 or 200 mmHg augmented the constriction to serotonin twofold, whereas increases in perfusion pressure to 100 mmHg had no effect. Increasing coronary pressure slowly (over a 4-min period) from 80 to 200 mmHg augmented constriction to serotonin. Inducing acute hypertension (coronary pressure 200 mmHg) pharmacologically with angiotensin II also augmented constriction to serotonin, whereas phenylephrine-induced hypertension did not. Superoxide dismutase, a scavenger of superoxide anions and catalase, a scavenger of hydrogen peroxide, prevented the augmented constriction to serotonin following a pressure increase. Deferoxamine, which prevents generation of hydroxyl radicals from superoxide anions and hydrogen peroxide, also prevented the enhanced constriction to serotonin following an acute pressure increase.
Moderate physiological increases in pressure, induced either mechanically or pharmacologically, can augment the responses to serotonin. Oxygen-derived free radicals, particularly hydroxyl radicals, might be involved in the abnormal response to serotonin following an abrupt increase in coronary pressure.
Two patients developed a syndrome closely simulating the 'lupoid' form of chronic active hepatitis during prolonged therapy with macrocrystalline nitrofurantoin. Symptoms and biochemical indices of hepatocellular necrosis abated rapidly after discontinuation of drug therapy, but smooth muscle and antinuclear antibodies remained detectable more than 1 year later. The serologic features of the disease and a strongly positive lymphocyte transformation test in one of the patients suggest that the disorder may have been immunologically mediated.
This study investigated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of the selegiline transdermal system (STS) administered in a dose range of 6 mg/24 hours to 12 mg/24 hours for treating major depressive disorder (MDD).
Patients meeting DSM-IV criteria for MDD (N = 265) were randomly assigned to blinded treatment with STS or a matching placebo patch for 8 weeks. Patients failing to meet or maintain protocol-defined therapeutic response criteria at predetermined time points had their STS (or placebo) dose increased. Assessments were conducted at weeks 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 8. Patients were not required to follow a tyramine-restricted diet. The study ran from September 2001 through August 2002.
Selegiline transdermal system treatment resulted in significantly greater improvement (p < or = .05) compared with placebo treatment on the 3 depression rating scales: the 28-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D28) (primary outcome measure), the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale, and the Inventory for Depressive Symptomatology-Self Rated. The treatment effect measured by the HAM-D28 was modest, primarily due to insomnia side effects. The antidepressant efficacy of STS was substantiated further by the significantly greater improvement in core depression symptoms (HAM-D Bech-6 subscale). The side effects of highest incidence were application site reactions and insomnia. There were no safety concerns based on routine clinical laboratory and electrocardiogram monitoring, and there were no occurrences of hypertensive crisis.
Results of this double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose titration trial provide evidence of short-term efficacy, safety, and tolerability of STS in the dose range of 6 mg/24 hours to 12 mg/24 hours for treatment of MDD. Selegiline transdermal system has an improved margin of safety compared with oral monoamine oxidase inhibitors and represents a useful addition to the existing array of antidepressants.
The sensation of pain protects the body from serious injury. Using exome sequencing, we identified a specific de novo missense mutation in SCN11A in individuals with the congenital inability to experience pain who suffer from recurrent tissue damage and severe mutilations. Heterozygous knock-in mice carrying the orthologous mutation showed reduced sensitivity to pain and self-inflicted tissue lesions, recapitulating aspects of the human phenotype. SCN11A encodes Nav1.9, a voltage-gated sodium ion channel that is primarily expressed in nociceptors, which function as key relay stations for the electrical transmission of pain signals from the periphery to the central nervous system. Mutant Nav1.9 channels displayed excessive activity at resting voltages, causing sustained depolarization of nociceptors, impaired generation of action potentials and aberrant synaptic transmission. The gain-of-function mechanism that underlies this channelopathy suggests an alternative way to modulate pain perception.
Bleomycin-induced fibrosis is extensively used to model aspects of the pathogenesis of interstitial pulmonary fibrosis. This study aimed to determine the benefic effects and mechanisms of simvastatin on bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice.
Bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis mice were administered with simvastatin in different doses for 28 days. We measured inflammatory response, fibrogenic cytokines and profibrogenic markers in both bleomycin-stimulated and control lungs, and correlated these parameters with pulmonary fibrosis.
Simvastatin attenuated the histopathological change of bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis and prevented the increase of lung hydroxyproline content and collagen (I and III) mRNA expression induced by bleomycin. Moreover, simvastatin down-regulated the increased expression of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) induced by bleomycin at both gene and protein levels. Simultaneously, the accumulation of neutrophils and lymphocytes and the increased production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in bronchial alveolar lavage fluid were inhibited by simvastatin in early inflammatory phase after bleomycin infusion. The higher dose of simvastatin was associated with a more significant reduction in these inflammatory and fibrotic parameters. Furthermore, the inactivation of p38, RhoA and Smad2/3 signaling pathways was observed during simvastatin administration.
Simvastatin attenuated bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis, as indicated by decreases in Ashcroft score and lung collagen accumulation. The inhibitory effect of simvastatin on the progression of pulmonary fibrosis may be demonstrated by reducing inflammatory response and production of TGF-beta1 and CTGF. These findings indicate that simvastatin may be used in the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis.
During postoperative prophylaxis of thrombosis using subcutaneous low-dose heparin thrombocytopenia and consumption coagulopathy without manifest haemorrhage were observed in a female patient with gynaecologic problems on the tenth postoperative day. Using gel-electrophoresis, demonstration of cross-linked fibrin derivatives, which occur only after contact with thrombin, was proof that disseminated intravascular coagulation must have been present. Cancellation of heparin prophylaxis was sufficient for regression of the haemostatic disorder. Platelet function tests performed two months later showed as the only reproducible abnormality that the patient's plasma caused inhibition of desaggregation of normal platelets only when heparin was present. The remarkably close chronologic connection of heparin prophylaxis with thrombocytopenia and consumption coagulopathy suggests a possible causal connection. However, at present the possibly heterogeneous aetiology cannot be explained satisfactorily.
The profound segmental antinociception that epidural opioids offer has increased their use over the last 2 decades. Though side effects may accompany the use of epidural opioids, clinicians have found that the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages. The following case report outlines a patient's postoperative course in which she experienced respiratory depression while receiving epidural opioids. The pharmacokinetics of lipophilic vs hydrophilic opioids in relation to the occurrence of respiratory depression is discussed.
