ATF3 is a member of the basic leucine zipper/cyclic adenosine monophosphate responsive element binding protein family of transcription factors. There is overwhelming evidence that it is a stress inducible factor acting in a signal-type and cell-type dependent manner, and it is involved in cell proliferation and survival. We found that ATF3 was differently expressed in an in vitro prostate cancer tumor progression model and we investigated the possible role of ATF3 in prostate cancer.
ATF3 up-regulation in vivo/in vitro and androgen regulation were assessed by immunohistochemistry and immunoblot analysis. Results after forced ATF3 transfection were evaluated by proliferation assay and cell cycle analysis.
Immunohistochemistry and immunoblot analysis revealed ATF3 up-regulation in prostate cancer in vitro and in vivo, and stimulation of expression by androgens. Antiandrogen treatment decreased ATF3 expression in androgen sensitive cells but acted as a stimulator in long-term androgen ablated cells representing a model for therapy refractory disease. Expression in tumors increased with higher Gleason scores and highest expression was observed in samples of therapy refractory tumor tissue. Forced ATF3 over expression in a prostate cancer cell line induced cell proliferation and accelerated cell cycle progression from G1 to S-phase.
These data provide new insight into the role of ATF3 in prostate cancer development and/or progression. They indicate that ATF3 is an androgen regulated gene that is highly expressed in prostate tumors and stimulating cell proliferation. It represents a possible target for prostate cancer therapy.
The purpose of this study was to assess the utility of inhaled nitric oxide (NO), a selective pulmonary vasodilator, for predicting the safety and acute hemodynamic response to high-dose oral nifedipine in primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH).
A significant decrease in pulmonary vascular resistance with an oral nifedipine challenge is predictive of an improved prognosis, and potential clinical efficacy in PPH. However, the required nifedipine trial carries significant first-dose risk of hypotension. While inhaled NO has been recommended for assessing pulmonary vasodilator reserve in PPH, it is not known whether it predicts the response to nifedipine.
Seventeen patients with PPH undergoing a nifedipine trial were assessed for hemodynamic response to inhaled NO at 80 parts per million for 5 minutes. The nifedipine trial consisted of 20 mg of nifedipine hourly for 8 hours unless limited by hypotension or intolerable side effects. Patients were classified as responders and nonresponders with positive response defined as > or =20% reduction in mean pulmonary artery pressure (mPA) or pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) with the vasodilator administration.
NO was safely administered to all participants. Seven of 17 (41.2%) responded to NO, and 8 of the 17 to nifedipine (47.1%). Nifedipine was safely administered in 14 of the 17. Three suffered either mild or severe hypotension, including one death. All NO responders also responded to nifedipine, and 9 of the 10 NO nonresponders were nifedipine nonresponders, representing a sensitivity of 87.5%, specificity of 100%, and overall predictive accuracy of 94%. All NO responders tolerated a full nifedipine trial without hypotension. There was a highly significant correlation between the effects of NO and nifedipine on PVR (r=0.67, p=0.003).
The pulmonary vascular response to inhaled NO accurately predicts the acute hemodynamic response to nifedipine in PPH, and a positive response to NO is associated with a safe nifedipine trial. In patients comparable with those evaluated, a trial of nifedipine in NO nonresponders appears unwarranted and potentially dangerous.
With the current epidemic of cocaine abuse, there have been many clinical reports of cocaine toxicity, including stroke. Autopsy findings were reported in only one case of intracerebral hemorrhage associated with cocaine abuse. We describe the autopsy toxicological findings in a case of sudden death in a young person due to intracerebral hemorrhage associated with cocaine abuse. In view of the present epidemic of cocaine abuse, cocaine toxicity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of intracerebral hemorrhage. We suggest that the pharmacodynamic effects of cocaine on the cerebral vasculature is the most likely cause.
Etomidate is a popular anaesthetic induction agent, but it frequently causes myoclonic movements. Although both benzodiazepines and opioids reduce myoclonus, there has been no comparative study between these agents. Thus, we conducted a prospective, randomized study to compare midazolam and remifentanil as pre-treatment agents for reducing etomidate-induced myoclonus in 90 adults undergoing surgery. Patients were pre-treated before the etomidate injection, either with saline (Group C), midazolam 0.5 mg/kg (Group M) or remifentanil 1 microg/kg (Group R). Both Groups M and R showed a significantly lower incidence of myoclonus compared with Group C (17%, 17% and 77%, respectively). The incidence of myoclonus was not significantly different between Groups M and R, but 10% (n = 10) of the patients in Group R experienced remifentanil-related side-effects. We conclude that midazolam is probably a better choice than remifentanil for reducing etomidate-induced myoclonus during anaesthesia induction.
Ecstasy-induced fulminant hepatic failure is associated with high mortality. If complicated by cerebral oedema, orthotopic liver transplantation is the only established treatment. We report a case of combined ecstasy/cocaine-induced fulminant hepatic failure presenting with severe rhabdomyolysis, myocardial infarction and multiorgan failure. Transplantation was declined by the transplant surgeons because of a history of intravenous drug abuse. As excessive hyperammonaemia (318 mumol/l) and refractory transtentorial herniation developed, treatment with a new liver detoxification device combining high-flux haemodialysis and adsorption (FPSA-Prometheus) was initiated. Within a few hours of treatment, ammonia levels normalised. Cerebral oedema was greatly reduced by day 4 and hepatic function gradually recovered. Following neurologic rehabilitation for ischaemic sequelae of herniation, the patient was discharged from hospital with only minimal deficits. In conclusion, efficient extracorporeal detoxification may be an option for reversal of hyperammonaemia and refractory cerebral oedema in ecstasy/cocaine-induced acute liver failure.
Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase) deficiency is an autosomal recessive inherited disorder and may cause sudden unexpected infant death. We reported the first case of molecular diagnosis of FBPase deficiency, using cultured monocytes as a source for FBPase mRNA. In the present study, we confirmed the presence of the same genetic mutation in this patient by amplifying genomic DNA. Molecular analysis was also performed to diagnose another 12 Japanese patients with FBPase deficiency. Four mutations responsible for FBPase deficiency were identified in 10 patients from 8 unrelated families among a total of 13 patients from 11 unrelated families; no mutation was found in the remaining 3 patients from 3 unrelated families. The identified mutations included the mutation reported earlier, with an insertion of one G residue at base 961 in exon 7 (960/961insG) (10 alleles, including 2 alleles in the Japanese family from our previous report [46% of the 22 mutant alleles]), and three novel mutations--a G-->A transition at base 490 in exon 4 (G164S) (3 alleles [14%]), a C-->A transversion at base 530 in exon 4 (A177D) (1 allele [4%]), and a G-->T transversion at base 88 in exon 1 (E30X) (2 alleles [9%]). FBPase proteins with G164S or A177D mutations were enzymatically inactive when purified from E. coli. Another new mutation, a T-->C transition at base 974 in exon 7 (V325A), was found in the same allele with the G164S mutation in one family (one allele) but was not responsible for FBPase deficiency. Our results indicate that the insertion of one G residue at base 961 was associated with a preferential disease-causing alternation in 13 Japanese patients. Our results also indicate accurate carrier detection in eight families (73%) of 11 Japanese patients with FBPase deficiency, in whom mutations in both alleles were identified.
Oral contraceptive (OC) use increases venous thrombosis (VTE) risk and causes activated protein C (APC) resistance. Plasma glucosylceramide (GlcCer) deficiency is associated with VTE and GlcCer functions as an APC anticoagulant cofactor. Because estradiol decreases GlcCer in cultured cells, we hypothesized OC use would decrease plasma GlcCer and contribute to APC resistance. In a pilot study, seven female adults alternatively took second and third generation OCs and plasma samples were analyzed for GlcCer using high performance liquid chromatography and for APC sensitivity using modified prothrombin time assays. Second and third generation OC usage decreased the APC sensitivity ratio by 8.1% +/- 4.7% (P = 0.004) and 11.7% +/- 8.2% (P = 0.013) and plasma GlcCer levels by 10.1% +/- 6.8% (P = 0.008) and 11.0% +/- 5.1% (P = 0.002), respectively. The plasma GlcCer level correlated with the sensitivity of plasma to APC (P = 0.017, r = 0.51, n = 21 plasma samples). Thus, both second and third generation OC usage decreased plasma GlcCer which could cause a reduction in the plasma sensitivity to APC/protein S, thereby potentially increasing VTE risk.
Chronic stimulant use can produce a paranoid psychosis that is similar to acute paranoid schizophrenia. While this phenomenon has been systematically explored in amphetamine abusers, it has been relatively unexplored in a systematic fashion in cocaine abusers.
The experience of cocaine-induced psychosis was evaluated in 55 individuals consecutively admitted for treatment of DSM-III-R cocaine dependence. Each subject was interviewed about their experiences of psychosis while intoxicated by means of a standardized, semistructured interview.
Fifty-three percent (29/55) of those interviewed reported experiencing transient cocaine-induced psychosis. There was no significant difference in lifetime amount of cocaine use or amount of cocaine use in the month before admission between those who experienced psychosis and those who did not. The psychosis-positive group used significantly more cocaine in the year prior to admission (p less than or equal to .02) and had a longer duration of use (p less than or equal to .01). Males were significantly (p less than or equal to .05) more likely than females to develop psychosis. Ninety percent (26/29) developed paranoid delusions directly related to drug use. Ninety-six percent (28/29) of the subjects experienced hallucinations: 83% (24/29), auditory hallucinations; 38% (11/29), visual hallucinations; and 21% (6/29), tactile hallucinations. Twenty-seven percent (15/55) of subjects developed transient behavioral stereotypies.
Cocaine-induced paranoia is a common experience among chronic users. Amount and duration of use are related to its development. Implications for a kindling model of cocaine-induced psychosis will be discussed.
Cyclosporine A (CsA)-associated oxidative stress has been proposed as an important mechanism of renal injury. This study was designed to examine whether N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a well-known antioxidant, affects Klotho, antiaging gene, expression and its signaling pathway in an experimental model of chronic CsA nephropathy.
Mice maintained on a low-sodium diet were given vehicle (olive oil, 1 mL/kg/day), CsA (30 mg/kg/day), NAC (150 mg/kg/day), or a combination of CsA and NAC for 4 weeks. The effect of NAC on CsA-induced renal injury was evaluated with basic parameters, histopathology, and markers of oxidative stress [8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) excretion and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) expression]. The influence of NAC on Klotho and its signal pathway (p-AKT and p-FoxO1) in CsA-treated mouse kidney was evaluated with immunohistochemistry and/or immunoblot.
Concomitant administration of CsA and NAC significantly improved renal function and attenuated tubulointerstitial fibrosis, and these changes were accompanied by decreased urinary 8-OHdG level and increased MnSOD expression. NAC treatment preserved Klotho gene expression compared with CsA treatment alone (P < 0.05), and this correlated with urinary 8-OHdG excretion (r = -0.934) and MnSOD expression (r = 0.873, P < 0.001 for both). Concomitant treatment of CsA and NAC translocated FoxO1 from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, implicating dephosphorylation of FoxO1 by NAC in p-AKT/p-FoxO1 pathway.
NAC treatment preserves Klotho expression and modifies p-AKT/p-FoxO1 pathway in chronic CsA nephropathy.
Buffered cephalothin, cefamandole, and cephapirin were compared with respect to their tendency to produce phlebitis. Two grams of each agent was administered every 6 h for 4 days to 12 healthy volunteers in a double-blind crossover fashion. Approximately 50% of intravenous sites developed mild (grade 1) phlebitis and 25% developed moderate (grade 2) phlebitis. The frequency of grade 1 inflammation did not differ significantly among the three cephalosporins. The proportion of individuals eventually exhibiting grade 2 phelebitis was highest with cefamandole, lowest with cephalothin (P = 0.07), and intermediate with cephapirin; however, cephapirin required a substantially greater number of doses to produce grade 2 phelebitis than did the other two drugs. These findings, together with the results of other reports, suggest that interpretation of the phlebitogenic potential of these antibiotics must be made with caution.
The authors assessed whether individual differences in drinking history as well as lifetime incidence of comorbid cocaine or marijuana use disorder underlie differential patterns of brain atrophy in subjects with alcohol dependence.
Segmented magnetic resonance images were used to compare whole brain cerebral gray matter and white matter in 134 male subjects age 30-50 with alcohol dependence, either alone or with comorbid cocaine or marijuana use disorder.
Across all subjects, drinking history variables correlated negatively with both gray matter and white matter after age was controlled. Alcohol-dependent subjects with no comorbid substance use disorder (N=51) showed a steeper negative correlation between age and the gray matter/white matter ratio than did alcohol-dependent subjects with a comorbid lifetime cocaine use disorder diagnosis (N=50). Alcohol-dependent subjects with comorbid cocaine use disorder tended to have a steeper negative correlation between age and white matter (adjusted for intracranial volume) than did alcohol-dependent subjects with no comorbid substance use disorder. After age and the greater estimated cumulative alcohol consumption of alcohol-dependent subjects with comorbid cocaine use disorder were controlled in a multiple regression analysis, however, comorbid cocaine use disorder did not account for any independent variance in any volumetric measure.
Brain atrophy among subjects with alcohol dependence reflects individual differences in exposure to alcohol, and the data provide mixed evidence that comorbid cocaine use disorder may exacerbate white matter atrophy in alcoholism.
Halothane (2-bromo-2-chloro-1,1,1-trifluoro-ethane) is an inhaled anesthetic that induces severe, idiosyncratic liver injury, i.e., "halothane hepatitis," in approximately 1 in 20,000 human patients. We used known human risk factors (female sex, adult age, and genetics) as well as probable risk factors (fasting and inflammatory stress) to develop a murine model with characteristics of human halothane hepatitis. Female and male BALB/cJ mice treated with halothane developed dose-dependent liver injury within 24 h; however, the liver injury was severe only in females. Livers had extensive centrilobular necrosis, inflammatory cell infiltrate, and steatosis. Fasting rendered mice more sensitive to halothane hepatotoxicity, and 8-week-old female mice were more sensitive than males of the same age or than younger (4-week-old) females. C57BL/6 mice were insensitive to halothane, suggesting a strong genetic predisposition. In halothane-treated females, plasma concentration of tumor necrosis factor-alpha was greater than in males, and neutrophils were recruited to liver more rapidly and to a greater extent. Anti-CD18 serum attenuated halothane-induced liver injury in female mice, suggesting that neutrophil migration, activation, or both are required for injury. Coexposure of halothane-treated male mice to lipopolysaccharide to induce modest inflammatory stress converted their mild hepatotoxic response to a pronounced, female-like response. This is the first animal model of an idiosyncratic adverse drug reaction that is based on human risk factors and produces reproducible, severe hepatitis from halothane exposure with lesions characteristic of human halothane hepatitis. Moreover, these results suggest that a more robust innate immune response underlies the predisposition of female mice to halothane hepatitis.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-binding protein (PBP), also known as thyroid hormone receptor-associated protein 220/vitamin D receptor-interacting protein 205/mediator 1, an anchor for multisubunit mediator transcription complex, functions as a transcription coactivator for nuclear receptors. Disruption of the PBP gene results in embryonic lethality around embryonic day 11.5 by affecting placental and multiorgan development. Here, we report that targeted deletion of PBP in liver parenchymal cells (PBP(Liv-/-)) results in the abrogation of hypertrophic and hyperplastic influences in liver mediated by constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) ligands phenobarbital (PB) and 1,4-bis-[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]benzene, and of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity. CAR interacts with the two nuclear receptor-interacting LXXLL (L, leucine; X, any amino acid) motifs in PBP in a ligand-dependent manner. We also show that PBP interacts with the C-terminal portion of CAR, suggesting that PBP is involved in the regulation of CAR function. Although the full-length PBP only minimally increased CAR transcriptional activity, a truncated form of PBP (amino acids 487-735) functioned as a dominant negative repressor, establishing that PBP functions as a coactivator for CAR. A reduction in CAR mRNA and protein level observed in PBP(Liv-/-) mouse liver suggests that PBP may regulate hepatic CAR expression. PBP-deficient hepatocytes in liver failed to reveal PB-dependent translocation of CAR to the nucleus. Adenoviral reconstitution of PBP in PBP(Liv-/-) mouse livers restored PB-mediated nuclear translocation of CAR as well as inducibility of CYP1A2, CYP2B10, CYP3A11, and CYP7A1 expression. We conclude that transcription coactivator PBP/TRAP220/MED1 is involved in the regulation of hepatic CAR function and that PBP deficiency in liver abrogates acetaminophen hepatotoxicity.
BAD, a pro-apoptotic protein of the Bcl-2 family, has recently been identified as an integrator of several anti-apoptotic signaling pathways in prostate cancer cells. Thus, activation of EGFR, GPCRs or PI3K pathway leads to BAD phosphorylation and inhibition of apoptosis. Increased levels of BAD in prostate carcinomas have also been reported. It appears contradictory that instead of limiting expression of pro-apoptotic protein, prostate cancer cells choose to increase BAD levels while keeping it under tight phosphorylation control. Analysis of the effect of BAD on prostate cancer xenografts has shown that increased BAD expression enhances tumor growth, while knockdown of BAD expression by shRNA inhibits tumor growth. Tissue culture experiments demonstrated that increased BAD expression stimulates proliferation of prostate cancer cells. These results suggest that increased expression of BAD provides a proliferative advantage to prostate tumors, while BAD dephosphorylation increases sensitivity of prostate cancer cells to apoptosis. Combination of proliferative and apoptotic properties prompts prostate cancer cells to be "addicted" to increased levels of phosphorylated BAD. Thus, kinases that phosphorylate BAD are plausible therapeutic targets; while monitoring BAD phosphorylation could be used to predict tumor response to treatments.
A 57-year-old woman developed features of Cushing's syndrome after resection of a Duke's C adenocarcinoma of the sigmoid colon. Biochemical and endocrine investigation indicated ectopic production of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) as the cause for her condition. Hepatic metastases were detected by computed tomography (CT) scan. Histology of the original tumour displayed neuroendocrine characteristics but no definite evidence of ACTH synthesis. Treatment was instituted to control her hypercortisolism, and chemotherapy initiated to reduce the production of ectopic hormone. A clinical, biochemical and radiological response was obtained with complete resolution of her Cushing's syndrome. The tumour relapsed after several months with distant metastases, but no further endocrine abnormality was noted. A review of ectopic ACTH producing adenocarcinoma is given along with a discussion of the major pathological and therapeutic features of the case.
Reported is the case of a delayed cerebral necrosis in a patient with an eosinophil pituitary adenoma who had undergone radiation therapy. Neuroradiological tests were performed in order to verify the possible existence of a lateral sellar extension of the neoplasm. The administration of ketamine before this examination, presumably caused the onset of an acute temporal syndrome. Surgery was performed without delay, and a delayed cerebral necrosis of the right temporal lobe was found.
To investigate the protective effect of nifedipine, a dihydropyridine calcium-channel blocker, on renal function (glomerular and tubular) in patients treated with gentamicin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic.
Thirty-two patients with gentamicin sensitive upper urinary tract infection have been screened and randomized to two groups. The placebo group was given gentamicin and placebo, and the intervention group gentamicin and nifedipine. Gentamicin was given in slow intravenous injection every 12 hours for 10 days, and nifedipine 10 mg orally, 3 times a day.
Nifedipine administration during gentamicin therapy promoted primarily the glomerular filtration. In 62% of the patients treated with nifedipine creatinine clearance increased significantly by the end of the study. In the placebo group, 69% of the patients had a creatinine clearance significantly below the baseline at the end of the study. The decrease in creatinine clearance by more than 50% from the initial values was found in 2 patients (1 in each group). There was a significant increase in gammaGT/creatinine clearance ratio in both groups at the end of therapy, indicating that nifedipine did not prevent the brush-border membranous enzyme release caused by gentamicin.
Nifedipine has positive effects on renal hemodynamics in patients treated with gentamicin. Most likely, the mechanism of action is an increase in glomerular filtration caused by preglomerular vasodilatation.
A 35-year-old woman with a previously repaired atrial septal defect was referred for preoperative evaluation before laparoscopic surgery. The patient was asymptomatic, and a transesophageal echocardiographic examination revealed a probable thrombus attached to the tricuspid valve. The patient's history included therapy with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue and deep venous thrombosis five months earlier. The tricuspid valve thrombus disappeared after anticoagulant therapy. Warfarin was initiated for prophylaxis. During the follow-up, the patient was event-free during laparoscopic surgery and pregnancy (when warfarin was switched to acetylsalicylic acid) and gave birth to a healthy term baby. Because etiological investigations revealed no reason for the tricuspid valve thrombus, it was considered to be related to the procoagulant state induced by hormonal treatment. The patient was scheduled for close follow-up.
A 49-years-old female with a history of multiple sclerosis and on medication with azathioprine over 5 years amounting to a cumulative dosage of 45 g presented with fatigue and sinus tachycardia.
Haematological analysis revealed a pancytopenia with a sustained normochromic anemia (hemoglobin 6,2 g/dl), a mild leukopenia (leucocytes 3500/ microl) and thrombocytopenia (platelets 22000/ microl) requiring platelet substitution. Bone marrow aspirate revealed a dysplasia of all three lineages with reduced thrombopoiesis and ineffective erythropoiesis. Cytogenetic analysis detected a complex aberrant clone including loss of the critically deleted regions in 5q31 and 7q31, as well as structural changes of 12p. The diagnosis was refractory cytopenia with multilineage dysplasia according to the WHO classification of myelodysplastic syndromes.
While allogeneic sibling transplantation was planned the patient developed spontaneous recurrent subdural haematoma and died due to persistent bleeding refractory to platelet substitution.
Treatment with azathioprine may - depending on its cumulative dosage - lead to pancytopenia and subsequent development of myelodysplasia or secondary leukaemia, respectively. Complex genetic alterations involving chromosome 7 are characteristic. Long-lasting treatment with azathioprine needs critical assessment.
Transverse myelopathy is one of the rare complications following administration of intrathecal chemotherapy. We report two cases of transverse myelopathy following administration of intrathecal methotrexate and cytarabine arabinoside. One patient was a 17-year-old Malay man who had lymphoblastic lymphoma in the leukaemic phase, while the other patient was a 40-year-old Malay man with relapsed Hodgkin's lymphoma. Both cases demonstrated variability in onset of symptoms, clinical progression and final outcome from the complication.
The author studied the use of intravenous Propofol for the relief of pain. He demonstrated that Propofol and 10 mg of Lidocaine intravenously decreased moderate or severe pain from 31.6% to 9% and that increasing the dose of Lidocaine did not significantly decrease the pain further. Fentanyl did not produce a statistically significant further diminution of the pain from the level of relief obtained with Propofol.
Cardiac fibrosis contributes to the pathogenesis of atrial fibrillation (AF). The molecular mechanisms underlying the cardiac fibrosis remain unclear. However, Ras association domain family 1 isoform A (RASSF1A) is a regulatory tumor suppressor, which is important for pathogenesis of cardiac fibrosis and fibroblasts activation. Moreover, DNA methylation plays a central role in the maintenance of cardiac fibrosis. DNA methyltransferases 3A (DNMT3A) is a critical participant in the epigenetic silencing of regulatory genes. Here, we report that the downregulation of RASSF1A in cardiac fibrosis is associated with DNMT3A. Treatment of cardiac fibroblasts with DNMT3A inhibitor 5-AzadC blocked proliferation. 5-AzadC also prevented the loss of RASSF1A expression that occurs during activated cardiac fibroblasts. To determine the underlying molecular mechanisms, we hypothesized that cardiac fibrosis is controlled by DNMT3A. We demonstrated that downregulation of RASSF1A is associated with cardiac fibrosis and fibroblasts activation. Knockdown of DNMT3A elevated RASSF1A expression in activated cardiac fibroblasts. Moreover, we investigated the effect of RASSF1A on the Ras/ERK pathway. Upregulation of p-ERK1/2 was detected in activated cardiac fibroblasts with decreased RASSF1A expression. Our results have shown that DNMT3A likely plays an essential role in RASSF1A mediated upregulation of ERK1/2 in rat cardiac fibrosis. DNMT3A and RASSF1A may serve as a new mechanism for cardiac fibrosis.
Grb7 has potential importance in the progression of cancer. We have previously identified a novel peptide that binds to the SH2 domain of Grb7 and inhibits its association with several different receptor tyrosine kinases. We have synthesised the Grb7 peptide, G7-18NATE, with two different cell penetrating peptides, Penetratin and Tat. In this study, we have shown that both Penetratin- and Tat-conjugated G7-18NATE peptides are able to inhibit the proliferation of SK-BR-3, ZR-75-30, MDA-MB-361 and MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. There was no significant effects on breast cancer MCF-7cells, non-malignant MCF 10A or 3T3 cells. In addition, there was no significant inhibition of proliferation by Penetratin or Tat alone or by their conjugates with arbitrary peptide sequence in any of the cell lines tested. We determined the EC50 of G7-18NATE-P peptide for SK-BR-3 cell proliferation to be 7.663 x 10(-6) M. Co-treatment of G7-18NATE-P peptide plus Doxorubicin in SK-BR-3 breast cancer cells resulted in an additional inhibition of proliferation, resulting in 56 and 84% decreases in the Doxorubicin EC50 value in the presence of 5 x 10(-6) and 1.0 x 10(-5) M G7-18NATE-P peptide, respectively. Importantly, the co-treatment with Doxorubicin and the delivery peptide did not change the Doxorubicin EC50. Since Grb7 associates with ErbB2, we assessed whether the peptide inhibitor would have a combined effect with a molecule that targets ErbB2, Herceptin. Co-treatment of Herceptin plus 1.0 x 10(-5) M G7-18NATE-P peptide in SK-BR-3 cells resulted in a 46% decrease in the Herceptin EC50 value and no decrease following the co-treatment with Herceptin and penetratin alone. This Grb7 peptide has potential to be developed as a therapeutic agent alone, in combination with traditional chemotherapy, or in combination with other targeting molecules.
Presently marketed antiparkinsonism drugs are potent anticholinergic agents that, while effective in treating extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), also are productive of or can exacerbate a number of side effects associated with psychotropic drugs. Some of these include gastrointestinal disturbances, visual difficulties, and tardive dyskinesia. A double-blind study was carried out to assess the efficacy (and adverse effects) of amantadine hydrochloride--an agent without appreciable anticholinergic activity--for the treatment of drug-induced EPS. Amantadine was found to be comparable in effect to benztropine mesylate, but with fewer side effects. The potential role of amantadine may be in the treatment of patients with drug-induced EPS for whom medication with anticholinergic properties is contraindicated.
