The reason behind the initiation of autoimmunity, which may have a role in autism, is not well understood. There is an association between some autoimmune disorders and complement (C) 4B null allele. We aimed to study the association between C4B null allele and autism. In addition, we are the first to investigate the association between this allele and a family history of autoimmune diseases in autistic children. Therefore, we examined the frequency of C4B null allele, by quantitative real-time PCR, in 80 autistic patients and 80 healthy matched-children. The frequency of C4B null allele was significantly higher in autistic patients (37.5%) than healthy controls (8.75%), P<0.001. The frequency of autoimmune diseases in families of autistic children (40%) was significantly higher than healthy children (10%), P<0.001. In addition, a family history of autoimmunity had a significant risk for association with autism (odds ratio=6, 95%, CI=2.5-14.1). C4B null allele had a significant risk for association with autism (odds ratio=6.26, 95% CI=2.55-15.36) and with a family history of autoimmunity (odds ratio=21, 95% CI=6.5-67.8).
the link of C4B null allele to autism and to a family history of autoimmunity may indicate its possible contributing role to autoimmunity in autism.
Pain is a well-known complication of intravenous administration of propofol, and to find out the optimal method to decrease this pain, we studied 4 methods of delivering propofol.
The study took place at Jordan University Hospital, Amman, Jordan between November 2004 and March 2005 on 200 patients. The patients were divided into 4 groups, group I (n=50), the control group, propofol 1% was given alone. Group II (n=50), patients received propofol 1% premixed with 40 mg of lidocaine. Group III (n=50), patients received propofol 1% 60 seconds after giving 40 mg of lidocaine. Group IV (n=50), patients had venous occlusion for 60 seconds with the use of lidocaine 1% (40 mg), followed by release of the occlusion and administration of the propofol. Pain was assessed during injection and categorized into: no pain, pain, and pain with behavioral changes.
In group I (control), 35 patient complained of pain, compared to 26 in group II, 23 in group III, and 7 patients in group IV, with a significant reduction in the incidence and intensity of pain in group II, III, and IV compared with the control (p<0.005). The best reduction of intensity and incidence was achieved in group VI, when compared with groups I, II and III (p<0.005), with no statistical difference between group II and III when compared with each other.
Of the 4 methods studied, the optimal method to decrease the incidence and intensity of pain resulting from propofol injection is to inject lidocaine while applying venous occlusion for 60 seconds prior to administering propofol.
Chance observation of hypokalemia in a patient given intravenous terbutaline for management of premature labor led us to review retrospectively the medical records of all patients in whom terbutaline was similarly used as a tocolytic agent. All 18 patients in whom serum electrolyte levels were determined during terbutaline infusion had serum potassium levels less than 3.5 mEq/L. Although the duration of hypokalemia following the cessation of terbutaline infusion could not be retrospectively determined, collateral evidence suggests that serum potassium levels may return to normal range within approximately 30 minutes following discontinuation of the infusion of terbutaline. Serum levels of potassium during infusion of terbutaline could not be correlated in our 18 patients with either duration of infusion or amount of terbutaline infused, or with the amount of intravenous potassium that may have been simultaneously administered. Anesthesiologists should be aware that hypokalemia is associated with intravenous infusion of terbutaline as a tocolytic agent in the management of premature labor.
In a 43-year-old woman, 1 ml of 5% fluorescein diluted with 10 ml of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was injected into the subarachnoid space at the L4-L5 level to evaluate nasal CSF leakage. After the injection, amnesia and grand mal seizure developed following a low-back pain spreading through the right leg. The patient was treated with antiedematous and anticonvulsant drugs. CSF drainage and vigorous hydration were performed. The patient recovered without sequelae. It was concluded that intrathecal fluorescein should be used with caution.
Fifty-two patients with cirrhosis receiving continuous administration of propranolol in doses reducing the heart rate by 25% were studied. The doses and plasma levels varied widely - 185 +/- 98 mg/day (mean +/- SD) and 208 +/- 153 ng/ml, respectively. These values were significantly correlated. No significant correlation was found between the dose of the drug or plasma level and the liver function tests. Although propranolol significantly decreased cardiac output and the hepatic venous pressure gradient, no correlation was found between drug dose or plasma level and these haemodynamic effects.
Humans are continually exposed to various environmental carcinogens. Cancers may arise as a result of exposure to carcinogenic chemicals, ionizing radiation or a combination thereof. However, the mechanism of combined carcinogenesis has been only deduced from oncogenic actions of individual agents. Here, we analyzed experimental mammary carcinogenesis caused by a combination of radiation and a chemical carcinogen, 1-methyl-1-nitrosourea (MNU). Seven-week-old female Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into 4 groups: control, g gamma-irradiated (2 Gy), MNU-treated (40 mg/kg, i.p.) and combined treatment of radiation with subsequent MNU after 3 days. Rats with palpable tumors were sacrificed at 50 weeks of age to collect tumors for histologic typing and mutational analysis of the H-ras gene codon 12. The combined treatment induced adenocarcinomas, but not fibroadenomas, more efficiently than radiation or MNU alone. The H-ras mutation was not seen in radiation-induced carcinomas and was specific to MNU-induced carcinomas in individually treated groups. In the combined treatment group, H-ras-mutated, but not nonmutated, tumors were more frequent and developed significantly earlier than in the MNU-treated group. Significantly higher numbers of cells were stained for activated c-Myc protein in g gamma-ray- and combined treatment-induced cancers than in MNU-induced cancers. These results indicate that combined exposure to the 2 carcinogens elicits an unexpected cooperativity in which pre-irradiation enhances mammary carcinogenesis predominantly through the oncogenic pathway involving H-ras, possibly by synergism with c-Myc activation.
Valvular heart disease associated with the use of anorectic agents is a recently described clinical entity. We report the case of a 46-year-old woman with severe regurgitation of the mitral, aortic and tricuspid valves who had been taking fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine for two years. Surgical treatment was required with replacement of three valve by mechanical prostheses. The previous history of treatment with anorectic agents, the echocardiographic morphology of the injured valves and the macroscopic and histopathologic findings strongly suggested an association between the anorectic agents and the valvular disease of the patient.
Trastuzumab is widely used for the treatment of HER2-positive breast cancer. Despite encouraging clinical results, a significant fraction of patients are, or become, refractory to the drug. To overcome this, trastuzumab-DM1 (T-DM1), a newer, more potent drug has been introduced. We tested the efficacy and mechanisms of action of T-DM1 in nine HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines in vitro and in vivo. The nine cell lines studied included UACC-893, MDA-453 and JIMT-1, which are resistant to both trastuzumab and lapatinib.
AlamarBlue cell-proliferation assay was used to determine the growth response of breast cancer cell lines to trastuzumab and T-DM1 in vitro. Trastuzumab- and T-DM1-mediated antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) was analysed by measuring the lactate dehydrogenase released from the cancer cells as a result of ADCC activity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Severe Combined Immunodeficient (SCID) mice were inoculated with trastuzumab-resistant JIMT-1 cells to investigate the tumour inhibitory effect of T-DM1 in vivo. The xenograft samples were investigated using histology and immunohistochemistry.
T-DM1 was strongly growth inhibitory on all investigated HER2-positive breast cancer cell lines in vitro. T-DM1 also evoked antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) similar to that of trastuzumab. Outgrowth of JIMT-1 xenograft tumours in SCID mice was significantly inhibited by T-DM1. Histologically, the cellular response to T-DM1 consisted of apoptosis and mitotic catastrophe, the latter evidenced by an increased number of cells with aberrant mitotic figures and giant multinucleated cells.
Our results suggest mitotic catastrophe as a previously undescribed mechanism of action of T-DM1. T-DM1 was found effective even on breast cancer cell lines with moderate HER2 expression levels and cross-resistance to trastuzumab and lapatinib (MDA-453 and JIMT-1).
Beta-blocker use is associated with coronary artery spasm after cocaine administration but also decreases mortality in patients with myocardial infarction or systolic dysfunction. We conduct a retrospective cohort study to analyze the safety of beta-blockers in patients with positive urine toxicology results for cocaine.
The cohort consisted of 363 consecutive telemetry and ICU patients who were admitted to a municipal hospital and had positive urine toxicology results for cocaine during a 5-year period (307 patients). Fifteen patients with uncertain history of beta-blocker use before admission were excluded. The primary outcome measure was myocardial infarction; secondary outcome measure was inhospital mortality. Logistic regression analysis using generalized estimating equations models and propensity scores compared outcomes.
Beta-blockers were given in 60 of 348 admissions. The incidence of myocardial infarction after administration of beta-blocker was significantly lower than without treatment (6.1% versus 26.0%; difference in proportion 19.9%; 95% confidence interval [CI] 10.3% to 30.0%). One of 14 deaths occurred in patients who received beta-blockade (incidence 1.7% versus 4.5% without beta-blockade; difference in proportion 2.8%; 95% CI -1.2% to 6.7%). Multivariate analysis showed that use of beta-blockers significantly reduced the risk of myocardial infarction (odds ratio 0.06; 95% CI 0.01 to 0.61).
In our cohort, administration of beta-blockers was associated with reduction in incidence of myocardial infarction after cocaine use. The benefit of beta-blockers on myocardial function may offset the risk of coronary artery spasm.
Sets of 2-[2-(dimethylamino)ethyl]-1,2-dihydro-3H- dibenz[de,h]isoquinoline-1,3-diones with amino and actylamino groups at each of the eight positions on the anthracene nucleus were synthesized from appropriately substituted anthracenes. Their evaluation in in vitro antitumor and cardiotoxicity assays revealed a very strong dependence of potency on the position of substitution. Certain compounds, including the 4-, 5-, 7-, and 9-amino derivatives, showed significantly higher potency than the unsubstituted parent compound, azonafide. Among them, 7-aminoazonafide had low cardiotoxicity relative to cytotoxicity. In general, the acetylamino analogues were less potent than the amino derivatives against tumor cells and neonatal rat heart myocytes; however, 5-(acetylamino)azonafide was highly cardiotoxic. 9-Aminoazonafide was more efficacious than azonafide or amonafide against P388 leukemia in mice. Statistically significant correlations were made between the ability of amino analogues to increase the transition melt temperature (delta Tm) of DNA and their potency against solid tumors, leukemia cells, or cardiac myocytes.
The mechanisms involved in ethinyl estradiol-induced cholestasis are controversial. Basal bile flow was reduced by ethinyl estradiol administration, with a half time (t1/2) of 12.5 +/- 0.6 h. In contrast, initial taurocholate uptake was not significantly reduced until 3 days to 59% of control and to 13 and 10% of control at 5 and 7 days, respectively. The t1/2 was 4.3 +/- 0.1 days. These physiological changes were correlated with measurement of protein mass and steady-state mRNA for Na(+)-K(+)-adenosinetriphosphatase (Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase), Na(+)-dependent taurocholate transporter, organic anion transporters, and membrane lipid fluidity. Ethinyl estradiol significantly decreased Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity and membrane fluidity. However, neither Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase alpha-subunit nor beta-subunit mass was altered by ethinyl estradiol administration. In contrast, protein content of the Na(+)-dependent taurocholate transporter was significantly reduced to 21% of control (P < 0.001) at 5 days. The Na(+)-dependent taurocholate transporter was identified in sinusoidal membrane fractions as a doublet with a molecular size estimated to be 51 and 56 kDa. Although both bands were reduced with ethinyl estradiol treatment, the 56-kDa band was decreased more rapidly and to a greater extent than the 51-kDa band. The estimated t1/2 of 4.8 +/- 0.6 days for the doublet was similar to that for Na(+)-dependent taurocholate uptake. The organic anion transporter protein mass was similarly reduced with time of ethinyl estradiol administration to 21% of control (P < 0.01) at 5 days. Ethinyl estradiol also rapidly decreased the steady-state mRNA levels of Na(+)-dependent and organic anion transporters to approximately 50% and 15% of control at 5 days, respectively. These studies indicate early generalized abnormalities of the sinusoidal membrane lipid fluidity, Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity, and bile acid transport protein content.
Patients taking biguanides on a continuous basis sometimes develop vitamin B12 deficient megaloblastic anaemia. The prevalence of this side effect has not been estimated.
We screened 600 patients with type 2 diabetes treated with biguanides (phenformin or metformin) for a mean of 11.8 years (SD: 3.6 years) with complete blood counts, red cell indices and red cell morphology. If this showed macrocytosis, we measured total serum vitamin B12 and antiparietal cells antibodies (APCA). Patients with macrocytosis and low serum vitamin B12 levels were treated with cyanocobalamin 1 mg injection daily for seven days.
Fifty-four (9%) of the patients had megaloblastic anaemia with low serum total vitamin B12 levels, only three (0.5%) also had abnormally raised APCA. All 54 patients responded to cyanocobalamin with a reticulocyte increase within 10 days.
Annual screening for megaloblastic anaemia in patients on long term treatment with biguanides may be worthwhile. The anaemia is easily remediable and does not necessitate withdrawal of the drug.
The authors describe two patients who were being treated with baclofen for tardive dyskinesia. One patient developed withdrawal symptoms after baclofen was stopped, and the other developed a manic attach while receiving the drug. The authors review the literature concerning these side effects and explore the possible mechanisms responsible for these effects.
The carcinogenicity and promoting effect of phenylbutazone were investigated in inbred DONRYU rats. In the carcinogenicity study, both sexes were administered the chemical at dietary levels of 0 (control), 0.125, or 0.25% for 2 years. Toxic lesions were associated with phenylbutazone treatment in the kidney and digestive tract, appearing to have an adverse effect on life expectancy. Various tumors were detected in all groups including the controls. With the exception of pheochromocytoma in the female high-dose group, no statistically significant increase in yield of any tumors, including leukemia, was apparent in the treated groups of either sex when the data were analyzed by Fisher's exact probability and/or chi-square tests. Application of an age-adjusted statistical analysis revealed a slight positive effect regarding the occurrence of pheochromocytomas, neoplastic liver nodules, and leukemias in females. However, these tumors are commonly observed to develop spontaneously in this rat strain, and no such effect was apparent in the male groups. In addition, no differences in incidences of relevant preneoplastic lesions were evident between control and treated groups. Thus phenylbutazone showed no carcinogenic activity in DONRYU rats when given continuously in the diet for 2 years. For the investigation of promoting effect, phenylbutazone was given as a dietary supplement for 2 years subsequent to initiation with N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea or N-propyl-N-nitrosourea. No enhancement of nitrosourea-induced leukemogenesis was apparent, although a slight promoting effect was demonstrated for renal and thyroid tumorigenesis.
The effects of a single intravenous injection of 100 mg/kg puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) on renal protein, electrolyte, and fluid excretion as well as inulin and lithium clearances in rats were investigated under basal conditions, after iso-oncotic blood volume expansion with bovine serum albumin (BSA) and during infusion of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP). All treated rats developed severe proteinuria 7-28 days after injection. On day 17, the protein excretion of the PAN group was 1,050 +/- (SE) 118 micrograms/(min x kg body weight) compared with 42.3 +/- 3.9 micrograms/(min x kg body weight) in the control group. Hypoproteinemia, edema or ascites were not observed. The renal protein excretion increased dramatically after BSA infusion and even more during ANP infusion in the PAN group. The PAN-treated animals lost about 62% of the infused BSA during the time of the experiment. No significant changes in protein excretion were observed in the controls. Both groups had similar basal excretions of urine volume, sodium, chloride, and potassium and responded to the BSA and PAN infusions with comparable increases in these parameters. The glomerular filtration rate was slightly, but not significantly higher in the PAN group during the control periods. Increases after BSA and ANP occurred in both groups, reaching significance only in the control group. Proximal tubular function was slightly impaired in PAN-treated rats as judged from a lower increase of the fractional excretion of lithium after BSA. Mean arterial blood pressure was higher in the PAN group (136.2 +/- 2.4 vs. 127.0 +/- 2.2 mm Hg) and fell in both groups to a comparable degree after BSA infusion. A further fall in blood pressure occurred after ANP infusion. Plasma ANP immunoreactivity was not different between the groups and increased after BSA infusion. Our data demonstrate that severe glomerular lesion as indicated by proteinuria can be observed after PAN administration without impairment of distal tubular function as judged from sodium and fluid excretion, and therefore support the view that the sodium retention observed in nephrotic syndrome is due to a separate intrarenal defect rather than a consequence of protein loss.
Nitrofen induces heart hypoplasia together with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) in rats. Intracellular oxidative stress might be one of the mechanisms of action of the teratogen, and vitamin A has been shown to reverse in part these effects when administered simultaneously or shortly after it. This study aims at testing the hypothesis that vitamin A and other antioxidant vitamins, such as E and C, could improve myocardial development even when administered late in gestation, a likely useful period for prenatal medication.
Time-mated Sprague-Dawley female rats were exposed to either vehicle (control) or 100 mg of nitrofen (experimental) on day 9.5 of gestation. In 3 additional groups, the animals were exposed to vitamin A (total 15000 IU), vitamin E (total 150 IU), or vitamin C (total 150 IU) on days 16, 17, and 18. The fetuses were recovered on day 21, and randomly selected hearts of those with CDH were processed for histologic studies (hematoxylin-eosin and periodic acid-Schiff stainings), DNA and protein contents, and ki-67 (proliferation) and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin end labeling (apoptosis) studies. The differences among groups were assessed by analysis of variance with Bonferroni/Dunn post hoc tests and a threshold of significance of P < .05.
Nitrofen induced heart hypoplasia in terms of decreased heart/body weight, cell mass (less DNA and protein), and proportion of proliferating cells with increased apoptosis. Vitamin C alleviated weight hypoplasia and the 3 vitamins were able to restore cell mass and to reestablish near-normal figures of proliferation and apoptosis.
Antioxidant vitamins A, E, and C given late in gestation alleviate heart hypoplasia that accompanies CDH in the rat model. This timing suggests that the beneficial effects are exerted on the maturational phase of development.
To observe the effect of compound Puerarin on collagen IV of streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.
Diabetic nephropathy rats were induced by intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (STZ). Rats were allocated randomly to control group (10), diabetes model group (10), Vitamin C group (10), Puerarin group (10), vitamin C plus Puerarin group (10). The study period lasted for 12 weeks. During and after the treatment, the general state, blood glucose levels, glycosylated hemoglobin, blood urea nitrogen, serum collagen IV, blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, urinary albumin excretion rate of the 24-hour, and clearance rate of creatinine collagen IV protein were determined by immunohistochemistoche analysis as well as type the gene expression of collagen IV alpha 1 mRNA were determined by in situ hybridization analysis in the kidney tissue of different groups.
(1) Diabetes mellitus and renal function lesion occurred in the four groups. (2) Vitamin C and Puerarin could improve the general conditions of diabetic Rats, decrease blood urea nitrogen [(8.68 +/- 0.43), (7.98 +/- 0.47) and (5.76 +/- 0.82) micromol/L, serum creatinine [(74.68 +/- 8.20), (75.52 +/- 7.98) and (58.66 +/- 6.65) mmol/L], and urinary albumin excretion rate of the 24-hour [(18.40 +/- 0.37), (17.24 +/- 0.30) and (9.97 +/- 1.27) mg/24 h x 10(-3)]; increase clearance rate of creatinine [(0.59 +/- 0.21), (0.61 +/- 0.14) and (0.69 +/- 0.32) ml/min], the expression of collage IV absorbance [(111.56 +/- 14.61), (110.78 +/- 9.69) and (95.44 +/- 9.97) ] in the diabetic Rats were significantly inhibited at the same time.
The compound Puerarin might have some functions on preventing ren by inhibiting expression of type IV collagen.
Gene transcript changes after exposure to the heart toxin, bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane (CEM), were analyzed to elucidate mechanisms in cardiotoxicity and recovery. CEM was administered to 5-week-old male F344/N rats at 0, 200, 400, or 600 mg/kg by dermal exposure, 5 days per week, for a total of 12 doses by study day 16. Heart toxicity occurred after 2 days of dosing in all 3 regions of the heart (atrium, ventricle, interventricular septum) and was characterized by myofiber vacuolation, necrosis, mononuclear-cell infiltration, and atrial thrombosis. Ultrastructural analysis revealed that the primary site of damage was the mitochondrion. By day 5, even though dosing was continued, the toxic lesions in the heart began to resolve, and by study day 16, the heart appeared histologically normal. RNA was extracted from whole hearts after 2 or 5 days of CEM dosing. After a screen for transcript change by microarray analysis, dose-response trends for selected transcripts were analyzed by qRT-PCR. The selected transcripts code for proteins involved in energy production, control of calcium levels, and maintenance of heart function. The down-regulation of ATP subunit transcripts (Atp5j, ATP5k), which reside in the mitochondrial membranes, indicated a decrease in energy supply at day 2 and day 5. This was accompanied by down-regulation of transcripts involved in high-energy consumption processes such as membrane transport and ion channel transcripts (e.g., abc1a, kcnj12). The up-regulation of transcripts encoding for temperature regulation and calcium binding proteins (ucp1 and calb3) only at the 2 low exposure levels, suggest that these adaptive processes cannot occur in association with severe cardiotoxicity as seen in hearts at the high exposure level. Transcript expression changes occurred within 2 days of CEM exposure, and were dose-and time-dependent. The heart transcript changes suggest that CEM cardiotoxicity activates protective processes associated energy conservation and maintenance of heart function.
The most extensive investigations of treatment of New World cutaneous leishmaniasis have been performed against L. panamensis disease in Colombia, and the relative value of regimens shown there may be instructive for disease from other areas. In Colombia, a 90-95% cure rate was achieved with three different drug regimens: The standard regimen of pentavalent antimony (20 mg/ kg/day for 20 days parenterally) A short course of pentamidine (3 mg/kg every other day for four injections intramuscularly The marketed combination of topical paromomycin (15%)-MBCl (12%) for 10 days, plus antimony (20 mg/kg/day parenterally) for 7 days. My view is that all these regimens could be chosen as first-line therapy for cutaneous disease in Colombia. The antimony regimen has the advantage of established use; the disadvantages are cost, requirement for injections each day for 20 days, and considerable morbidity in the last two weeks of therapy. The pentamidine regimen has the advantage of a short time course; the disadvantages are lack of experience with this new regimen and frequent, although moderate, morbidity. The combined topical-parenteral regimen has the advantage of requiring few and nontoxic injections; the primary disadvantage is that the regimen is novel and its efficacy has not been confirmed. It would be expected that cases of lesions in other areas caused by L. braziliensis complex would respond in a similar manner to these regimens. To date, however, only the efficacy of the standard antimonial regimen has been confirmed. In certain regions of Central America, other regimens may be effective. Thus, ketoconazole appears to be effective for the more rapidly self-curing forms of disease (cutaneous disease caused by L. mexicana and L. panamensis from Central America), and a short course of antimony may be effective against L. braziliensis in Guatemala.
Retinoids have many pharmacological activities, including anti-inflammatory action and antiangiogenesis, effected through the regulation of various gene transcriptions. In this study, we investigated the effect of Am-80, one of the retinoic acid derivatives, on hapten-induced contact hypersensitivity in BALB/c mice. After application of 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNFB) to the ears of the mice, severe contact hypersensitivity with marked infiltration of inflammatory cells and hypertrophy of the epidermis was caused. The thickness of the ears increased biphasically and reached a peak 3 and 24 h after the DNFB challenge. Am-80 significantly inhibited ear thickness in the late-(24 h), but not the early-phase (3 h) reaction in a dose-dependent manner. In a histopathological study, obvious depression of edema and infiltration of inflammatory cells was observed in the ears of mice treated with Am-80. Am-80 inhibited the levels of expression in mice ears of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), but not tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) or interleukin-4 (IL-4). Furthermore, Am-80 inhibited the antigen-induced production of some cytokines, including IFN-gamma and IL-6, but not IL-4, in vitro. Therefore, Am-80 inhibited hapten-induced contact hypersensitivity through the direct inhibition of inflammatory cytokines such as IFN-gamma and IL-6.
A multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel group study of diltiazem in essential hypertension was carried out in 77 patients (40 diltiazem, 37 placebo) with stable supine diastolic blood pressure (BP) between 95 and 110 mm Hg. Patients were withdrawn from previous antihypertensive therapy for at least 4 weeks, titrated to the optimal dose, and followed for a total of 12 weeks during therapy. A diltiazem dose of 360 mg/day was required in 85% of the patients. Average BP in all positions was significantly (p less than 0.0001) reduced by diltiazem compared with placebo. With diltiazem, average supine BP fell from 156/100 mm Hg at baseline to 141/87 at end titration and 145/90 mm Hg at week 12, whereas average standing BP fell from 152/101 mm Hg to 136/90 and 143/91 mm Hg, respectively, at those times. There was no significant change in heart rate at week 12. Diltiazem tended to be more effective in older patients, but caused no increase in orthostatic BP drop. There were no statistically significant changes in BP in the placebo group. Two patients receiving placebo and 1 patient receiving diltiazem discontinued therapy as a result of adverse effects, and overall, side effects were only slightly more common with diltiazem treatment. Thus, diltiazem was effective and well tolerated single therapy for mild to moderate systemic hypertension and appears to compare favorably to most agents being used.
The correlation between high serum tricyclic antidepressant concentrations and central nervous system side effects has been well established. Only a few reports exist, however, on the relationship between the serum concentrations of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and their toxic effects. In some cases, a high serum concentration of citalopram (> 600 nmol/L) in elderly patients has been associated with increased somnolence and movement difficulties. Widespread cognitive disorders, such as delirium, have not been previously linked with high blood levels of SSRIs. In this report, we describe a patient with acute hyperkinetic delirium connected with a high serum total fluoxetine (fluoxetine plus desmethylfluoxetine) concentration.
A 36-year-old woman developed mania in association with bupropion treatment. The literature regarding the etiological relationship of bupropion to secondary mania is reviewed.
The relationship between blood levels of HSP72, HSP72+HSP73, and HSP90 and genotypes of three polymorphisms of the HSP70 family, HSPA1L (2437T/C) and HSPA1B (2074G/C and 1267A/G) as well as GSTT1 and GSTM1 polymorphisms was studied in 82 men chronically exposed to mercury. Of these, 40 men were exposed to mercury for more than 10 years (group 1) and 42 developed chronic mercuric intoxication (group 2). The groups differed significantly by TT (p=0.004) and TC (p=0.007) genotypes of HSPA1L gene locus 2437T/C. Differences in the heat shock protein content associated with HSP70 gene polymorphism were detected only for HSPA1B gene locus 2074G/C and consisted in reduction of HSP90 (p=0.020) and HSP72 (p=0.056) for GG genotype in group 2 in comparison with group 1. Combination of GSTT1(+)/GSTM1(0/0) genotypes was associated with reduction of the protein levels, while variants including GSTT1(0/0) were associated with a significant elevation thereof.
Although depression is highly comorbid with substance use disorders, little is known about the clinical course and outcomes of methamphetamine (MA) users with depressive symptoms and syndromes. In this study of MA-dependent individuals entering psychosocial treatment, we predicted that (1) depressive symptoms would decline during treatment, an effect that would vary as a function of MA use and (2) depression diagnoses post-treatment would be associated with poorer outcomes. Participants (N = 526) were assessed for depression, substance use, and psychosocial outcomes at baseline, treatment discharge, and 3-year follow-up. Depressive symptoms declined significantly during treatment, an effect that was greatest among those who abstained from MA. Major depression at follow-up was associated with poorer MA use outcomes and impairment across multiple domains of functioning. The findings highlight the relationship of depressive symptoms and diagnoses to treatment outcomes, and suggest a need for further studies of depression in populations using MA.
Acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) is a known cause of acute renal failure in children. In most instances, drug therapy is the offending agent. Although granuloma formation has been observed in drug-induced interstitial nephritis, it is not a commonly associated manifestation. This is a case of a 15-year-old white female with Tetralogy of Fallot and pulmonary atresia who developed acute renal failure secondary to drug-induced interstitial nephritis and renal granulomas. In addition to interstitial edema with eosinophils and lymphocytes, her renal biopsy showed interstitial granulomas, immune complexes within tubular basement membranes, and the unusual feature of multinucleated giant cells engulfing tubules. Her acute renal failure resolved after the withdrawal of antibiotics and the initiation of intravenous steroid therapy.
The main principles of obesity treatment are dietetic nutrition, physical activity and psychotherapy. Drug therapy is adjuvant, time limited and can be applied only with the mentioned therapeutic measures. An ideal antiadipose agent induces a potent decrease of body mass on the account of fat depot, it can be administered for a prolonged time without developing resistance, it should not be accompanied by significant side effects, and it has no negative effects on the obesity-related diseases. ANTI-OBESITY AGENTS: Nowadays, there are mainly two groups of drugs in use, having different mechanisms of action: appetite suppressors and fat resorption inhibitors. From the first group of drugs the most suitable is dexfenfluramine, which is applied in obese nervous and tense subjects and in cases of compulsive food intake whereas fat resorption inhibitors (tetrahydrolipstatin, orlistat) are especially recommended to obese patients with accompanying hyperlipoproteinemia. Insulin-dependent form of diabetes is an indication for administration of drugs from this group.
Of course, before applying drugs it is necessary to thoroughly consider indications and especially contraindications of their action. In respect to the treatment duration, three-month treatments are mainly recommended. Prolonged courses are acceptable only if well-controlled studies are in question.
The effects of acute changes in plasma magnesium concentration on the threshold for lidocaine-induced seizures were evaluated in mechanically ventilated rats receiving 70% nitrous oxide and 30% oxygen. In experiment 1, male rats were intravenously administered either 0.9% sodium chloride (group I) or 5.0% magnesium sulfate to elevate plasma magnesium levels to 5.8 +/- 0.1 (group II) or 10.5 +/- 1.0 mg/dl (group III). In experiment 2, pregnant rats were intravenously administered either 0.9% sodium chloride (normomagnesemia) or magnesium sulfate, resulting in a plasma magnesium concentration of 7.8 +/- 1.4 mg/dl. Thirty minutes later, a continuous intravenous infusion of lidocaine (2.3 mg/kg per minute) was begun in both experiments. Biparietal electroencephalographic activity was monitored continuously. At the onset of electroencephalographic seizure activity, arterial plasma magnesium and lidocaine concentrations were measured. In groups I and III (experiment 1), brain parenchymal magnesium was also assayed. There were no differences in plasma lidocaine concentrations (in experiments 1 or 2) between saline solution and hypermagnesemic groups at onset of seizures. Brain magnesium level was unaltered by magnesium sulfate infusion. We conclude that acute administration of magnesium sulfate alters neither brain magnesium level nor the plasma lidocaine concentration associated with onset of electroencephalographic seizures.
