We tested the efficacy of three selective agonists of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) receptor, EP2 (CP-536,745-01), EP2/4 (CP-043,305-02), and EP4 (CP-044,519-02), in two models of acute and chronic kidney failure. In the nephrotoxic mercury chloride (HgCl(2)) rat model of acute kidney failure systemically administered EP4 agonist reduced the serum creatinine values and increased the survival rate. Although the EP2 or the EP2/4 agonist did not change the serum creatinine values, the EP2 receptor agonist increased the survival rate. Histological evaluation of kidneys from EP4-treated rats indicated less proximal tubular necrosis and less apoptotic cells. In a rat model of chronic renal failure, the three receptor agonists decreased the serum creatinine and increased the glomerular filtration rate at 9 weeks following therapy. Kidneys treated with the EP4 agonist had less glomerular sclerosis, better preservation of proximal and distal tubules and blood vessels, increased convoluted epithelium proliferation and less apoptotic cells. Nephrectomy had no influence on the expression of the EP4 receptor, whereas EP2 receptor expression was reduced by 50% and then corrected following treatment with EP2 and EP2/4 receptor agonists. These findings suggest that PGE(2) has an important role in acute kidney failure via the EP4 receptor, whereas in chronic kidney failure both EP2 and EP4 receptors are equally important in preserving the progression of chronic kidney failure. Thus, agonism of EP2 and EP4 receptors may provide a basis for treating acute and chronic kidney failure.
Previous studies have reported increased risk of myocardial infarction (MI) after increases in ambient particulate matter (PM) air pollution concentrations in the hours and days before MI onset.
We hypothesized that acute increases in fine PM with aerodynamic diameter < or = 2.5 microm (PM(2.5)) may be associated with increased risk of MI and that chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and diabetes may increase susceptibility to PM(2.5). We also explored whether both transmural and nontransmural infarctions were acutely associated with ambient PM(2.5) concentrations.
We studied all hospital admissions from 2004 through 2006 for first acute MI of adult residents of New Jersey who lived within 10 km of a PM(2.5) monitoring site (n = 5,864), as well as ambient measurements of PM(2.5), nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, and ozone.
Using a time-stratified case-crossover design and conditional logistic regression showed that each interquartile-range increase in PM(2.5) concentration (10.8 microg/m3) in the 24 hr before arriving at the emergency department for MI was not associated with MI overall but was associated with an increased relative risk of a transmural infarction. We found no association between the same increase in PM(2.5) and nontransmural infarction. Further, subjects with COPD appeared to be particularly susceptible, but those with diabetes were not.
This PM-transmural infarction association is consistent with earlier studies of PM and MI. The lack of association with nontransmural infarction suggests that future studies that investigate the triggering of MI by ambient PM(2.5) concentrations should be stratified by infarction type.
The occurrence of major neurologic disturbances is a rare complication of intrathecal cytotoxic drug administration. We describe the case of a 30-year old man with relapsed lymphoblastic lymphoma and CNS involvement who was treated by systemic chemotherapy (ESHAP) and intrathecal injections of methotrexate, cytarabine, thiotepa and hydrocortisone. Thereafter he developed persistent paraplegia with sensory and sphincteric insufficiency. The role of the drug in causing this syndrome was suspected when more common causes, such as a meningeal carcinomatosis, had been excluded by means of CNF analysis and radiological examinations. We review this and other published cases and discuss the possible pathogenesis, as well as the clinical and paraclinical findings in paraplegia following intrathecal chemotherapy. Patients particularly at risk are those who receive intrathecal chemotherapy for over CNS disease rather than as prophylaxis, those who receive several injections and patients who are concomitantly treated with radiotherapy to the brain or systemic high-dose methotrexate or cytarabine.
Previous studies of left ventricular performance (LVP) in depressed patients receiving tricyclic antidepressants have been performed on patients without severe heart disease. This study reports the effect of imipramine hydrochloride on LVP, assessed by radionuclide angiography, in a group of depressed patients with notable preexisting left ventricular dysfunction. Ejection fraction was measured at rest by first-pass radionuclide angiography before and after treatment with imipramine. Ejection fraction was unchanged during treatment, but seven of 15 patients experienced orthostatic hypotension of such severity that administration of the drug had to be discontinued. Plasma concentrations of the drug were essentially twice those usually seen. It is important to appreciate that although imipramine does not further impair resting LVP, this does not mean it is without risk. The physician must watch carefully for orthostatic hypotension when using imipramine in depressed patients with impaired LVP.
5-n-Butyl-7-(3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoylamino)pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine) (OT-7100) is a pyrazolopyrimidine derivative with potential analgesic effects. Exclusively limited elevations in serum levels of aspirate- and alanine-aminotransferase were abnormally observed in a clinical study, in contrast to no toxicological potential to experimental animals. The aim of this study was to clarify the mechanism responsible for species-specific hepatotoxicity of this model compound. OT-7100 was primarily metabolized to a carboxylic acid derivative and an amino derivative (5-n-butyl-pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine, M-5) by hydrolysis in humans and rats. In human liver, pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine derivative M-5 was further metabolized to mainly M-23OH (a C-3-position hydroxyl derivative, 3-hydroxy-5-n-butyl-pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine). Studies with recombinant cytochrome P450s (P450s), correlation analysis using a panel of human liver microsomes as well as immunoinhibition with anti-P450 antibodies collectively suggested that human liver microsomal P450 1A2 preferentially metabolized M-5 to predominantly M-23OH. Human liver microsomes were capable of activating M-5 to a covalently bound metabolite faster than rat liver microsomes: reduced glutathione prevented the bindings. A cysteine adduct derivative of M-23OH at the C-6-position was structurally confirmed. On the contrary, rat liver microsomal P450 1A2 could metabolize M-5 to equally M-23OH, M-22OH (a C-6-position hydroxyl derivative, 6-hydroxy-5-n-butyl-pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidine), or an unknown metabolite. These results suggest that differences in the regiospecific metabolic function of human and rat P450 1A2 would be responsible for the human-specific metabolic activation of the primary metabolite of OT-7100 to a proximate form. It is presumed that hepatotoxicity associated with OT-7100 could be likely related to the formation of a human-specific reactive metabolite from M-23OH. OT-7100 activation by inducible P450 1A2 may therefore exhibit marked individual differences.
Sotalol is a betablocker with additional antiarrythmic properties. Its pharmacokinetic properties may lead to increased serum levels of the drug in patients with reduced kidney function. We report on a case in which kidney failure in a patient using sotalol for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation gave rise to torsade de pointes ventricular tachycardia and, eventually, sudden death. Gradual prolongation of the QT interval suggested an overdose of sotalol. Sotalol has been commonly used in cases of angina pectoris and hypertension. The recently published SWORD study has, however, changed the indications for its use, and sotalol should now only be used in cases of severe supraventricular and ventricular arrythmias.
A 76-year-old male was admitted with Braunwald IIIB unstable angina and treated with intravenous heparin. Coronary angiography 20 days later revealed a severe stenosis in the left circumflex artery. During coronary angioplasty thrombus developed in the circumflex artery, extended in the left main and lead to its occlusion. Normal left coronary artery patency and flow were achieved after intracoronary and intravenous administration of abciximab, and multiple stenting. Platelet-count decrease and an ELISA assay documented the presence of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis syndrome (HITTS). HITTS should be suspected after acute thrombus formation during coronary angioplasty.
This study is aimed to demonstrate that renal impairment caused by administration of amikacin (AMK) alone can be lessened by co-administration of piperacillin (PIPC). The patients in the present study were divided into three groups. In "group P" and "group A", PIPC alone and AMK alone were administered, respectively. In "group P+A", PIPC and AMK were co-administered. Dosage of AMK was individualized based upon the therapeutic drug monitoring method, and that of PIPC was adjusted depending upon the creatinine clearance of a patient. In group A, urinary concentrations of beta 2-microglobulin and lysozyme, and urinary excretion of beta 2-microglobulin, lysozyme and gamma-GTP per day were significantly higher (p less than 0.05) than those in group P. These differences were not observed, however, between group P and group P+A. The trough value of AMK, 11 days after AMK administration, was significantly higher in group A (p less than 0.05) than that in group P+A. Incidence of renal impairment, as judged from urinary excretion of beta 2-microglobulin per day and urinary lysozyme concentration, was significantly higher in group A (p less than 0.05) than that in group P+A. These findings indicate that co-administration of PIPC with AMK can lessen the renal impairment caused by administration of AMK alone.
Preterm birth affects 12% of all births in the United States. Recent studies support the hypothesis that progesterone supplementation reduces preterm birth in a select group of women (ie, those with a prior spontaneous birth at <37 weeks of gestation). Despite the apparent benefits of progesterone in this high-risk population, the ideal progesterone formulation is unknown. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists Committee on Obstetric Practice believes that further studies are needed to evaluate the use of progesterone in patients with other high-risk obstetric factors, such as multiple gestations, short cervical length, or positive test results for cervicovaginal fetal fibronectin. When progesterone is used, it is important to restrict its use to only women with a documented history of a previous spontaneous birth at less than 37 weeks of gestation because unresolved issues remain, such as optimal route of drug delivery and long-term safety of the drug.
1. The aim of the present study was to analyse the possible lack of uniformity in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial hypertrophy. 2. Data obtained for isovolumic hearts isolated from 20 rats treated with ISO (0.3 mg/kg over 8 days) were divided into two groups (H1, n = 10; H2, n = 10) according to the volume (mean+/-SD) needed to change left ventricle diastolic pressure from 0 to 40 mmHg (H1, 184+/-30 microL; H2, 108+/-14 microL). Eight control rats (C; 165+/-37 microL) were used for comparison. 3. In addition to ventricular distensibility differences, the groups differed in terms of myocardial mass (mean+/-SEM: H1, 181+/-3 mg > H2, 166+/-3 mg > C, 136+/-3 mg; P < 0.001), of relaxation constant (H2, 43+/-4 msec > H1, 28+/-2 msec; P = 0.0012) and of maximum developed circumferential stress (C, 145+/-9 kdyn/cm2 = H1, 137+/-6 kdyn/cm2 > H2, 110+/-4 kdyn/cm2; P = 0.002). 4. Our results show that ISO-induced myocardial hypertrophy is not homogeneous. Data obtained for H2, taken as a whole and compared with H1 (smaller myocardial mass and impairment of relaxation, elastic stiffness and force generation), suggest that, in some animals, myocardial necrosis and reparative fibrosis may prevail over the stimulus for myocyte growth. The lack of uniformity of ISO-induced myocardial hypertrophy has not been previously reported and may have contributed to the divergence observed in the literature regarding the functional characteristics of the present model.
Coadministration of entacapone with levodopa attenuates motor complications in experimental models of Parkinson's disease. The mechanisms underlying entacapone effects are unknown. We investigated the effect of entacapone, on: long-duration response (LDR) to levodopa, levodopa-induced postsynaptic pharmacodynamic mechanisms and molecular changes in hemiparkinsonian rats. 6-Hydroxydopamine-unilaterally lesioned rats were treated with levodopa (25 mg/kg)+vehicle; levodopa+entacapone (30 mg/kg) or saline, twice daily for 22 days. The LDR and the apomorphine-induced rotations were measured. In situ hybridization was performed measuring the expression of striatal preproenkephalin, preprodynorphin and dopamine D-3 receptor mRNAs, subthalamic cytochrome oxidase mRNA and nigral glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA. Entacapone potentiated the LDR but did not modify either the apomorphine-induced rotational behavior or the molecular changes. Our results suggest that the effects of entacapone on levodopa-induced motor response are not mediated by postsynaptic mechanisms and that administration of entacapone is not able to normalize the molecular alterations induced by levodopa in the basal ganglia.
The high incidence of erectile dysfunction (ED) in diabetes highlights a need for effective treatment strategies. Resveratrol, an activator of silent information regulator 2-related enzymes 1 (sirtuin1, SIRT1), has received attention for its valuable effects in cancer, neurodegenerative diseases, longevity and cardiovascular disease. To explore the effects of resveratrol in diabetes-induced ED, resveratrol was administered to rats with streptozocin (65 mg kg(-1))-induced diabetes. Erectile function, cavernous structure, tissue protein expression of silent information regulator 2-related enzymes 1 (sirtuin1, SIRT1), p53 and forkhead transcription factor O 3a (FOXO3a), superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in the corpora cavernosa were studied. We found that SIRT1 was expressed in cavernosal tissue, and it was downregulated in the corpora of diabetic rats. The administration of resveratrol upregulated the expression of SIRT1 and restored erectile function. In contrast, resveratrol downregulated the expression of p53 and FOXO3a, which regulate apoptosis and oxidative stress. Furthermore, the resveratrol-treated group showed an improvement in smooth muscle content, SOD activity and MDA levels when compared with the diabetic group. Therefore, the ability of resveratrol to improve diabetes-induced ED is likely related to its activation of SIRT1 expression, thus causing the suppression of apoptosis and resistance towards oxidative stress.
RESULTS from previous studies have suggested that breast cancer risk correlates with total lifetime exposure to estrogens and that early-life 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure or diets high in fat can also increase cancer risk.
Because both TCDD and diet affect the estrogen pathway, we examined how TCDD and a high-fat diet (HFD) interact to alter breast cancer susceptibility.
We exposed pregnant female FVB/NJ mice (12.5 days postcoitus) to 1 microg/kg TCDD or vehicle; at parturition, the dams were randomly assigned to a low-fat diet (LFD) or a high-fat diet (HFD). Female offspring were maintained on the same diets after weaning and were exposed to 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene on postnatal days (PNDs) 35, 49, and 63 to initiate mammary tumors. A second cohort of females was treated identically until PND35 or PND49, when mammary gland morphology was examined, or PND50, when mammary gland mRNA was analyzed.
We found that maternal TCDD exposure doubled mammary tumor incidence only in mice fed the HFD. Among HFD-fed mice, maternal TCDD exposure caused rapid mammary development with increased Cyp1b1 (cytochrome P450 1B1) expression and decreased Comt (catechol-O-methyltransferase) expression in mammary tissue. Maternal TCDD exposure also increased mammary tumor Cyp1b1 expression.
Our data suggest that the HFD increases sensitivity to maternal TCDD exposure, resulting in increased breast cancer incidence, by changing metabolism capability. These results provide a mechanism to explain epidemiological data linking early-life TCDD exposure and diets high in fat to increased risk for breast cancer in humans.
RASSF2 can bind directly to K-Ras and function as a negative effector of Ras protein. RASSF2A is the only isoform of RASSF2 that contains CpG islands in its promoter and it has been reported to be inactivated by its promoter methylation in several human cancers. In the present study, we investigated the correlation of RASSF2A expression with its promoter methylation in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Expression of RASSF2A was down-regulated in 80% (4/5) of NPC cell lines. Decreased RASSF2A expression was also observed in NPC primary tumors compared with normal nasopharyngeal epithelia. Promoter methylation of RASSF2A could be detected in all the RASSF2A-silenced cell lines (4/5) of the NPC cell lines and 50.9% (27/53) of primary tumors, but not in any of the normal epithelia. RASSF2A-methylated cases showed a significantly lower level of RASSF2A expression than unmethylated cases. Loss of RASSF2A expression can be greatly restored by the methyltransferase inhibitor 5-aza-dC in NPC cell lines. In addition, patients with methylated RASSF2A presented a higher frequency of lymph node metastasis (p < 0.05). Ectopic expression of RASSF2A in RASSF2A-silenced and -methylated NPC cell line CNE2 shows that RASSF2A could inhibit cell cycle progression, colony formation and cell migration, which provided further evidence that RASSF2A is a candidate tumor suppressor gene. In conclusion, RASSF2A, a candidate tumor suppressor gene (TSG), is frequently inactivated by its promoter methylation and this aberrant methylation correlates with lymph node metastasis in NPC.
Cyclophosphamide, an alkylating agent, disturbs the oxidant and antioxidant balance that is associated with several unwanted toxic effects and induction of secondary cancers. Astaxanthin is a powerful antioxidant and possess several beneficial effects against various human diseases and physiological disorders. The present study was aimed to investigate the effects of astaxanthin against cyclophosphamide-induced oxidative stress, DNA damage, cell death and induction of GST-P foci in rat liver. Further attempt has been made to study the influence of astaxanthin on antioxidant response element (ARE) and the transcription factor Nrf2 (nuclear factor E(2)-related factor 2) in the induction of phase-II enzymes NAD(P)H: quinine oxidoreductase-1(NQO-1) and Hemoxygenase-1 (HO-1). Both pre- and post-treatment with astaxanthin (25mg/kg) decreased cyclophosphamide-induced oxidative stress and DNA damage in the liver as evident from the restoration in malondialdehyde and glutathione level as well as modified comet assay parameters. Significant decrease in the number as well as area of GST-P foci in rat hepatocytes was observed with astaxanthin post-treatment. Treatment with astaxanthin significantly decreased the expression of p53 and p38 as compared to cyclophosphamide treated group. It was further observed that the level of Nrf2 and phase-II enzymes, i.e. NQO-1 and HO-1 were increased with astaxanthin treatment. The present study confirms that astaxanthin is a potent antioxidant and attenuates oxidative stress, DNA damage, cell death as well as induction of early hepatocarcinogenesis in rat induced by cyclophosphamide. Our results provide the evidence that one of the mechanism of chemoprotection offered by astaxanthin is mediated through Nrf2-ARE pathway.
Neonatal exposure to estrogenic chemicals causes irreversible complex damage to the hypothalamus-pituitary-gonadal axis and reproductive system in females. Some lesions are noted after maturation as delayed adverse effects. We investigated the characteristics and dose dependence of delayed effects using female rats neonatally exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES). Female Donryu rats were subcutaneously injected with a single dose of DES of 0 (control), 0.15, 1.5, 15, 150, or 1,500 µg/kg bw after birth. All except the lowest dose had estrogenic activity in a uterotrophic assay. All rats at 1500 µg/kg and some at 150 µg/kg showed abnormal morphologies in the genital tract, indicating they were androgenized before maturation. Although no morphological abnormalities were noted at 15 µg/kg or lower, onset of persistent estrus was significantly accelerated in the 1.5, 15, and 150 µg/kg groups with dose dependency, and the latest onset was from seventeen to twenty-one weeks of age at 1.5 µg/kg. The neonatal exposure to DES increased uterine adenocarcinoma development only at 150 µg/kg, although uterine anomalies were detected at 1,500 µg/kg. These results indicate that neonatal exposure to DES, which exerts estrogenic activity in vivo, induces delayed adverse effects in female rats in a dose-dependent manner. Early onset of persistent estrus appears to be the most sensitive parameter.
Heavy metals can negatively influence the reproduction due to the fact that they are able to impair the immune reactions including autoantibody production in susceptible individuals. In such a way the infertility could be also caused by altered pathologic immune reaction.
To investigate the in vitro lymphocyte reaction after stimulation with metals and production of gamma interferon and antisperm antibodies in supernatants after lymphocyte stimulation in patients with infertility and with proven antisperm antibodies in their serum. The cause of antisperm antibodies presence was not determined.
The diagnosis of metal allergy was performed by the lymphocyte proliferation method modified for metals (MELISA) in supernatants of tissue cultures of lymphocytes without the antigen stimulation and after stimulation with mercury chloride, the in vitro production of gamma interferon and antisperm antibodies was studied by ELISA.
More than 50% of patients were reacting to mercury, iron, aluminium and silver as mean by lymphocyte reactivity. When compared the lymphocyte reaction in patients with and without mercury allergy we found that the lymphocytes of patients with mercury intolerance produced less gamma interferon and more antisperm antibodies in supernatants after mercury stimulation of their lymphocytes.
In patients with metal intolerance diagnosed by the MELISA test the release of metal ions from dental materials can be one of the stimulating factors which may adversely affect fertility.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) promotes tissue fibrosis through the Smad3 signaling pathway. While phosphorylation is known to regulate Smad3 function, recent in vitro studies have suggested that acetylation may also regulate Smad3 function. This study investigated Smad3 acetylation in renal fibrosis. TGF-beta1 stimulation of renal fibroblasts and tubular epithelial cells induced Smad3 acetylation and phosphorylation. Resveratrol, an activator of the Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) dependent protein deacetylase SIRT1, reversed acetylation but not phosphorylation of Smad3 and inhibited TGF-beta1-induced up-regulation of collagen IV and fibronectin mRNA levels. Knockdown of SIRT1 expression abolished the inhibitory effect of resveratrol, and co-immunoprecipitation studies provide direct evidence of an interaction between acetylated Smad3 and SIRT1. The role of Smad3 acetylation in renal fibrosis was then examined in the unilateral ureteric obstruction (UUO) model. Immunoprecipitation studies showed acetylation and phosphorylation of Smad3 by day 2 UUO, which was sustained to day 7 in association with development of interstitial fibrosis. Resveratrol inhibited acetylation but not phosphorylation of Smad3 at day 2 UUO, and resveratrol treatment inhibited interstitial fibrosis at day 7 UUO. In conclusion, these studies support a pathological role for Smad3 acetylation in renal fibrosis and suggest that deacetylation of Smad3 may be a novel therapeutic target for fibrotic disease.
We report a 54-year-old man with vitamin B12 deficiency myelopathy limited to the upper extremity region. He was well until October, 1995, when he had an onset of exertional dyspnea and general fatigue. Then he noted tingling sensation in bilateral upper extremities in March, 1996. He had undergone total gastrectomy due to gastric ulcer 15 years ago. Neurological examination revealed superficial and vibratory sensory loss in the upper extremities distal to elbows, and pseudoathetoid movement of the left fingers. Otherwise neurological examination was unremarkable. Laboratory examination revealed macrocytic anemia, and low serum vitamin B12. However, serum folate was within the normal range. In SEP studies, median nerve stimulation evoked peripheral N9 and N13 potentials, but not cortical N20 one. Posterior tibial nerve stimulation elicited normal responses. MEP, VEP, needle EMG, and nerve conduction studies gave normal findings. T2-weighted MRI showed high signal intensity lesions at the C1-Th1 level in the posterior column, especially in the cuneate fascicles. The gracile fascicles were spared. This is a very rare case of myelopathy due to vitamin B12 deficiency presenting only sensory disturbances in both upper extremities. The lesions limited in the cuneate fascicle were confirmed by electrophysiological, and neuroradiological examinations.
To determine whether the baroreflex control of heart rate is altered during acute myocardial ischaemia, the baroreflex slope was measured at the control state, during coronary occlusion, and at the recovery phase in nine conscious dogs. The baroreflex slope was obtained by relating the R-R interval to the preceding systolic pressure during phenylephrine-induced transient hypertension. The baroreflex slope was reduced during coronary occlusion (18.8 +/- 3.8 ms.kPa-1, mean +/- SE) compared with that at the control state (41.4 +/- 6.0 ms.kPa-1). This reduction in the baroreflex slope during coronary occlusion was also present after propranolol, which suggests that this reduction of the slope during myocardial ischaemia is not due to a simultaneous increase in beta-adrenergic activity. These results suggest that the reflex originating from the cardiac receptors may modulate heart rate response to arterial baroreceptor stimulation.
A total of 45 patients with locally advanced and/or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were treated in a phase II trial with high-dose i.v. infusions of 24 g hydroxyurea over 24 h, with 50 mg/m2 i.v. cisplatin 8 h after the start of hydroxyurea infusion. Hydroxyurea, a cell-cycle-specific inhibitor of ribonucleotide reductase, inhibits DNA repair by depleting nucleotide pools. We gave hydroxyurea to achieve steady-state levels of greater than or equal to 1 mM and to potentiate therapy by inhibiting repair of DNA damage produced by cisplatin. Among 21 patients with squamous cell lung cancer, there were 1 complete response (CR), 2 partial responses (PR) and 3 minor responses (MR). Of 13 patients with adenocarcinoma of the lung, 2 had MRs; of 11 patients with large-cell anaplastic lung cancer, none responded. The dominant toxicity was nausea and vomiting, which was manageable and mainly related to cisplatin. The response rate in squamous cell lung cancer was similar to responses obtained with cisplatin alone. The relative ineffectiveness of high-dose 24-h infusions of hydroxyurea in inhibiting repair of DNA damage produced by cisplatin may be due to the low growth fraction of human NSCLC. The high-dose hydroxyurea approach may be more applicable in tumours with a high growth fraction.
Troglitazone, a thiazolidinedione class antidiabetic drug, was withdrawn from the market because of its severe idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity. It causes a mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), which may in part contribute to its hepatotoxicity. In the present study, the mechanism of troglitazone mitochondrial toxicity was investigated in isolated rat liver mitochondria. Mitochondrial swelling induced by 10 μM troglitazone was attenuated by bromoenol lactone (BEL), an inhibitor of Ca²+-independent phospholipase A₂ (iPLA₂). In contrast, that induced by 50 μM troglitazone was exacerbated by BEL. This exacerbation was diminished by addition of 2mM glutathione, an antioxidant. Oxygen consumption by state 3 respiration in isolated mitochondria was also decreased by troglitazone, but it was not affected by BEL. Mitochondrial swelling induced by 10 μM troglitazone was completely attenuated in the absence of Ca²+ while that induced by 50 μM troglitazone was not affected. Addition of 1 μM cyclosporin A (CsA), an inhibitor of MPT pores, completely attenuated swelling induced by 10 μM troglitazone while it only partly diminished that induced by 50 μM troglitazone. Thus, the MPT induced by 10 and 50 μM troglitazone are regulated by different mechanism; the MPT induced by 10 μM troglitazone is regulated by the activation of iPLA₂ and caused by the opening of CsA-regulating MPT pores followed by accumulation of Ca²+ in mitochondria, while that induced by 50 μM troglitazone is partly regulated by reactive oxygen species and mainly caused by the opening of CsA-insensitive MPT pores.
The hemoglobin vesicle (HbV) is an artificial oxygen carrier in which a concentrated Hb solution is encapsulated in lipid vesicles. Our previous studies demonstrated that HbV is metabolized by the mononuclear phagocyte system, and the lipid components are excreted from the liver. It is well-known that many hepatically-metabolized and -excreted drugs show altered pharmaceutics under conditions of liver impairment, which results in adverse effects. The aim of this study was to determine whether the administration of HbV causes toxicity in rats with carbon tetrachloride induced liver cirrhosis. Changes in plasma biochemical parameters, histological staining and the pharmacokinetic distribution of HbV were evaluated after an HbV injection of the above model rats at a putative clinical dose (1400 mgHb/kg). Plasma biochemical parameters were not significantly affected, except for a transient elevation of lipase, lipid components and bilirubin, which recovered within 14 days after an HbV infusion. Negligible morphological changes were observed in the kidney, liver, spleen, lung and heart. Hemosiderin, a marker of iron accumulation in organs, was observed in the liver and spleen up to 14 days after HbV treatment, but no evidence of oxidative stress in the plasma and liver were observed. HbV is mainly distributed in the liver and spleen, and the lipid components are excreted into feces within 7 days. In conclusion, even under conditions of hepatic cirrhosis, HbV and its components exhibit the favorable metabolic and excretion profile at the putative clinical dose. These findings provide further support for the safety and effectiveness of HbV in clinical settings.
This is a case of a 28-yr-old man who underwent general anaesthesia for emergency repair of a right lid laceration and lacrimal apparatus. Following induction of anaesthesia and local nasal application of phenylephrine (0.25%) he developed transient elevation of blood pressure, which was treated immediately with labetalol. Subsequently the patient developed acute pulmonary oedema which responded to treatment with morphine and furosemide. The diagnosis of pulmonary oedema was confirmed by blood gas studies, chest x-ray and serial echocardiograms. Subsequent investigation revealed that he was a cocaine user, as the urine tested positive for cocaine. Considering that the patient was young and otherwise healthy and that the hypertension was transient, it is unlikely that phenylephrine was the main cause of pulmonary oedema. Cardiac morbidity was most likely precipitated by the interaction of phenylephrine-induced hypertension with a cocaine-depressed myocardium.
The adrenergic beta-receptor blocking drug, alprenolol, was given together with atropine to 15 patients during neurolept analgesia (NLA) in order to prevent adrenaline-induced cardiac arrhythmias. Four patients operated on without adrenergic beta-receptor blockade formed the control group. Three of them developed tachyarrhythmias, ventricular tachycardia, multifocal ventricular extrasystoles and supraventricular tachycardia. All these arrhythmias were terminated by the adrenergic beta-receptor blocking drug, propranolol. The fourth patient developed a temporary sinus tachycardia which did not require any treatment. The adrenergic beta-receptor blockade induced a slight increase in pulse rate with almost no change in arterial blood pressure. The incidence of arrhythmias due to adrenaline infiltration was much less in this group. There was one supraventricular tachycardia and scattered ventricular extrasystoles in two other patients. NLA alone does not protect the heart against adrenaline-induced arrhythmias. It does, however, seem to be compatible with an adrenergic beta-receptor blockade, which in turn provides partial protection against adrenaline-induced arrhythmias. The occasionally developing arrhythmias can then be terminated with specific adrenergic beta blockers.
Interleukin-1β is a key pro-inflammatory cytokine that has been associated with chronic inflammation and inflammation-related cancer initiation and progression. There are inter-individual differences in IL1B expression which may be due to single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the regulatory regions of the gene. We have previously shown that a SNP located in the promoter of the IL1B gene (the IL1B T-31C SNP) was associated with lung cancer risk. Interestingly, the presence of the C allele was also associated with reduced IL1B expression in normal lung tissue of lung cancer patients. In the present study, we found that differential binding patterns of nuclear proteins to oligonucleotide probes containing the IL1B -31C allele compared to those with the T allele were due to specific binding of the transcription factor Yin Yang 1 (YY1). We further found evidence that specific recruitment of YY1 to the -31C region of the IL1B promoter regulated IL1B gene expression using siRNA directed towards YY1. The results indicate that the presence of a C allele at the -31 position may lead to decreased expression of the IL1B gene due to a specific binding of YY1 in lung epithelial cells. Our study provides functional significance of allelic variation at a single locus in the IL1B promoter and contributes to understanding the regulation of IL1B in inflammation-related carcinogenesis.
Studies on spontaneous lipid chemiluminescence, the concentration of malonic dialdehyde and Schiff bases in the zone of ischemia and myocardial infarction in rats with myocardial infarction induced by coronary occlusion have shown that obsidan (propranolol) inhibits free radical lipid peroxidation. The drug increases the animals' survival rate, improves the ECG readings, diminishes the size of the infarct zone, reduces the number of postcoronary occlusion arrhythmias, and exerts an antifibrillatory action. Inhibition of free radical lipid peroxidation plays a role in the therapeutic effect of obsidan.
The present study examined the interactions of local anesthetics (LA) and calcium channel blockers (CCBs) on rhythmicity of heart using in vivo and in vitro experiments. ECG recordings were made from the anesthetized rats for in vivo preparations and spontaneously beating isolated rat right atrial potential for the in vitro experiments. The in vivo experiments with LA showed dose-dependent bradycardia with lignocaine (LIG, 100-500 microg/kg) and bupivacaine (BUP, 10-100 microg/kg). BUP was 4-5 times more potent than LIG. Verapamil (VML) and diltiazem (DTZ), CCBs also produced dose (10-100 microg/kg) -dependent bradycardia. However, none of them affected the PR/QT interval or QRS complex. Further, LA-induced bradycardia was potentiated by CCBs. In addition, flattening of P-wave in ECG was observed with doses (10-25 microg/kg) of LA in the presence of CCBs. Similarly, the in vitro experiments demonstrated a concentration-dependent decrease in atrial rate by BUP or VML. The BUP-induced decrease was potentiated in the presence of VML. Thus, the results suggest that CCBs potentiate the LA-induced bradycardia by involving pacemaker activity. Further, the flattening of P-wave in ECG serves as an early indicator of the cardiotoxicity produced by these drugs.
Nuclear receptor corepressor (N-CoR) is a critical regulator of neural stem cell differentiation. Nuclear localization of N-CoR is a feature of undifferentiated neural stem cells and cytoplasmic translocation of N-CoR leads to astrocytic differentiation. Comparative proteomic analysis of microdissected glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) specimens and matched normal glial tissue reveals increased expression of N-CoR in GBM. In GBM primary cell cultures, tumor cells with nuclear localization of N-CoR demonstrate an undifferentiated phenotype, but are subject to astroglial differentiation upon exposure to agents promoting phosphorylation of N-CoR and its subsequent translocation to the cytoplasm. Treatment of glioma cell lines with a combination of retinoic acid and low-dose okadaic acid decreases the corepressor effect of N-CoR and has a striking synergistic effect on growth inhibition. The identification of N-CoR in GBM provides insights into the tumorigenesis process and supports the development of differentiation-based therapeutic strategies.
The incidence of End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) is approximately 50% higher in men than women. In order to understand the molecular basis of this gender disparity, we examined sex specific gene expression patterns in control and diseased, human and murine kidney samples. Using the Affymetrix platform we performed comprehensive gene expression analysis on 42 microdissected human kidney samples (glomeruli and tubules). We identified 67 genes with gender biased expression in healthy human kidneys and 24 transcripts in diseased male and female human kidneys. Similar analysis performed in mice using male and female control and doxorubicin induced nephrotic syndrome kidneys identified significantly larger number of differentially expressed transcripts. The majority of genes showing gender biased expression either in diseased human and murine kidneys were different from those differentially expressed in healthy kidneys. Only 9 sexually dimorphic transcripts were common to healthy human and murine kidneys and five showed differential regulation in both human and murine diseased kidneys. In humans, sex biased genes showed statistical enrichment only to sex chromosomes while in mice they were enriched to sex chromosomes and various autosomes. Thus we present a comprehensive analysis of gender biased genes in the kidney. We show that sexually dimorphic genes in the kidney show species specific regulation. Our results also indicate that male and female kidneys respond differently to injury. These studies could provide the basis for the development of new treatment strategies for men and women with kidney disease.
