This study was undertaken to explore the protective influence of mannitol against the glycerol model of myohemoglobinuric acute renal failure. Three hypotheses were tested: (1) mannitol confers cytoprotection by acutely blunting renal hypoperfusion, thereby improving tubular cell energetics; (2) as an hydroxyl radical (OH.) scavenger, mannitol mitigates Fe-driven lipid peroxidation and, hence, decreases tubular cell necrosis; and (3) mannitol prevents intrarenal heme pigment trapping, decreasing cast formation. Rats were injected with 50% glycerol (10 mL/kg im), followed immediately by an iv mannitol (1.25 mL/100 g over 1 h) or sham infusion. Mannitol induced a brisk diuresis (approximately 5.7 mL/2 h; approximately 35 mg of heme protein excreted), whereas glycerol controls were anuric. Mannitol did not significantly increase postglycerol RBF (2.8 mL/min), and it paradoxically worsened cellular energetics, halving cortical ATP concentrations at 1 h. However, this adverse effect on ATP was transient, correlating with active diuresis. Glycerol did not induce convincing in vivo lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde; conjugated diene assay), and mannitol did not block Fe-driven in vitro lipid peroxidation of isolated brush border membrane vesicles. Na benzoate, an OH. scavenger, conferred no in vivo or in vitro protection. However, Na2SO4, not an OH. scavenger, reproduced the diuretic and in vivo protective effects of mannitol. Purified myoglobin infusion (35 mg) largely negated the beneficial action of mannitol. It was concluded that mannitol confers functional but not cytoprotection against the glycerol acute renal failure model, it acutely worsens renal bioenergetics, and its protective influence is probably due to a diuretic, not an antioxidant, effect.
Colchicine causes both muscle and peripheral nerve toxicity of subacute onset in patients with renal insufficiency. We report three cardiac transplant recipients, treated with colchicine for cyclosporin A (CyA)-induced gout, who developed acute weakness due to colchicine myoneuropathy. The onset of disabling weakness occurred over a 1-2 week period. All three patients had concomitant renal insufficiency and an elevated serum creatine kinase and two elevated CyA levels at the time of presentation. Electromyography revealed features of myopathy and motor axonal neuropathy in all three patients. Two underwent muscle biopsy which confirmed the presence of sarcoplasmic vacuoles characteristic of colchicine-induced myopathy. All patients rapidly improved with either colchicine dose reduction or drug discontinuation. In conclusion, cardiac transplant recipients treated with CyA and colchicine may be at increased risk of developing colchicine-induced myoneuropathy especially in the setting of concurrent renal insufficiency. In patients with post-transplantation gouty arthritis, other treatment modalities are suggested; and if colchicine is administered, the dose should be reduced, CyA levels should be monitored closely and patients should be assessed for signs of neuromuscular toxicity.
In Taiwan, oral cancer has causally been associated with environmental carcinogens. Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, a cell adhesion molecule with a key role in inflammation and immunosurveillance, was implicated in carcinogenesis by facilitating instability in the tumor environment. The current study explored the combined effect of ICAM-1 gene polymorphisms and exposure to environmental carcinogens on the susceptibility of developing oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and the clinicopathological characteristics of the tumors.
Four single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the ICAM-1 gene from 595 patients with oral cancer and 561 non-cancer controls were analyzed by a real-time PCR. We found that the ICAM-1 rs5498 polymorphism and the TAGG or TACG haplotype of 4 ICAM-1 SNPs (rs3093030, rs5491, rs281432, and rs5498) combined were associated with oral-cancer susceptibility. Among 727 smokers, ICAM-1 polymorphisms carriers with the betel-nut chewing habit had a 27.49-36.23-fold greater risk of having oral cancer compared to ICAM-1 wild-type (WT) carriers without the betel-nut chewing habit. Among 549 betel-nut chewers, ICAM-1 polymorphisms carriers who smoked had a 9.93-14.27-fold greater risk of having oral cancer compared to those who carried the WT but did not smoke. Finally, patients with oral cancer who had at least 1 T allele of ICAM-1 rs5491 or 1 G allele of rs281432 were at lower risk of developing an advanced clinical stage (III/IV) (p<0.05), compared to those patients with AA or CC homozygotes.
Our results suggest that the ICAM-1 rs5498 SNP and either of 2 haplotypes of 4 SNPs combined have potential predictive significance in oral carcinogenesis. Gene-environment interactions of ICAM-1 polymorphisms, smoking, and betel-nut chewing might alter oral-cancer susceptibility. ICAM-1 rs5491 and rs281432 may be applied as factors to predict the clinical stage in OSCC patients.
Tsc-22 is a novel tumor suppressor gene that represents a new class of transcription factors that has transcriptional repressor activity. We found Tsc-22 downregulation in livers from B6C3F1 mice following treatment for 2 weeks with carcinogenic doses of the antianxiety drug oxazepam (2500 ppm) or the peroxisome proliferator Wyeth-14,643 (500 ppm) but not with two other carcinogens such as o-nitrotoluene or methyleugenol or three noncarcinogens including p-nitrotoluene, eugenol, or acetaminophen. The expression of Tsc-22 was also repressed in B6C3F1 mouse liver tumors that were induced by several chemicals from 2-year carcinogenicity studies as well as in spontaneous liver tumors. To identify potential Tsc-22 target genes in mouse liver, we transfected small interference RNA (SiRNA) designed to inhibit Tsc-22 into murine liver BNL-CL.2 cells. We selected two potential transcriptional targets of Tsc-22, growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible gene 45 beta (Gadd45b) and leucine zipper, putative tumor suppressor 2 (Lzts2) to test based on our previous complementary DNA microarray studies, showing that expression of these cancer-associated genes was increased when Tsc-22 was repressed. SiRNA treatment of BNL-CL.2 cells with Tsc-22 oligonucleotides but not nonspecific oligonucleotides decreased RNA and protein expression of Tsc-22 by 80-90%, while expression of Gadd45b gene, but not Lzts2, was increased over time after an initial decrease. Treatment of these cells with oxazepam for 48 h also resulted in decreased Tsc-22 and increased Gadd45b expression. These data provide evidence that Tsc-22 is a suppressor of Gadd45b expression, which may contribute to an early antiapoptotic response.
Based on the inactive metabolite approach, three different classes of soft drugs were designed and synthesized. Their cardiovascular effects and duration of actions were studied in anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats compared to the traditional drugs. During the experiments ECG (leads II, aVF) and beat-to-beat blood pressure (BP) from the left carotid artery were recorded (except during the anticholinergic studies). The soft anticholinergic methoxycarbonylphenylcyclopentyl-N,N-dimethyltropinium methyl sulfate was as potent as atropine in the prevention of carbachol induced bradycardia; however, its action only lasted up to 15-30 min, compared to 2 h of that of atropine. In the isoproterenol-induced tachycardia model, while bufuralol at an i.v. dose of 3.8 mumol/kg (1 mg/kg) diminished heart rate (HR) for at least 2 h, the effects of the soft drugs lasted for only 30-40 min at equimolar doses. The methyl-, ethyl-, isopropyl-, and tert-butyl ester-analogs of the carboxylic acid metabolite of bufuralol showed the highest beta-blocking potencies (i.e., 30-50% of that of bufuralol). When these compounds were infused for 10 min at doses ranging from 2-4 mumol/kg/min, they caused a 20-40% decrease in HR and a 30-40% reduction in mean arterial pressure (MAP). These effects were similar to those elicited by esmolol at a dose of 20 mumol/kg/min in respect of the kinetics and in the extent of the reductions in heart rate and MAP. The isopropyl-, the sec-butyl-, and the neopentyl-esters of the acidic metabolite of amiodarone, with plasma hydrolytic half-lives of 60, 240 and 300 min, were tested in the benzene/adrenaline induced ventricular tachycardia (VT) model of the rat. All drugs were administered at a dose of 5 mumol/kg i.v. bolus immediately followed by an infusion at 15 mumol/kg/h for 2 h. It was found, that amiodarone resulted a complete suppression of VTs at 30 min after the start of drug administration, but its effect lasted up to the total course of the experiment (up to 180 min). On the contrary, both the sec-butyl and the isopropyl-analog resulted in complete suppression of VTs already during the first benzene/adrenaline challenge after drug administration (i.e., at 5 min). However, their effects disappeared between 15 and 30 min after discontinuation of the drug infusions in accordance with the enzymatic inactivation (ester hydrolysis) of these soft drugs. All these three classes of soft cardioactive drugs are good examples for highly potent but short acting drugs whose side effects might also be reduced via the retrometabolism based drug design.
A total of 151 galactose tolerance tests (GTT) and liver biopsies were performed in a consecutive study of 45 psoriatic patients with methotrexate-induced liver fibrosis; of these, 23 had cirrhosis. Most patients with an abnormal liver histology had a normal GTT. We conclude that an oral GTT is not sensitive enough to reveal methotrexate-induced liver fibrosis or cirrhosis. The results indicate that the histological changes in methotrexate-induced liver fibrosis and cirrhosis may be of a rather non-aggressive nature.
Bortezomib synergizes with melphalan in preclinical and early clinical studies. Updated data from our phase 1/2 study assessing the safety and efficacy of bortezomib plus melphalan in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (MM) are presented. Bortezomib (0.7, 1.0, or 1.3 mg/m(2)) on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and oral melphalan (0.025-0.25 mg/kg) on days 1-4 of a 28-day cycle were administered. Hematologic toxicities defined the maximum tolerated dose as bortezomib 1.0 mg/m(2) and melphalan 0.10 mg/kg. Because dose-limiting toxicities were attributed to the more myelosuppressive melphalan, cohorts 9 and 10 with higher bortezomib (1.3 mg/m(2)) and lower melphalan (0.025 and 0.10 mg/kg) doses were added. Responses occurred in 32/46 (70%) evaluable patients: two complete (4%), five near-complete (11%), 16 partial (35%), and nine minimal (20%). Complete and near-complete responses were observed only with higher bortezomib doses. Response rates were similar in patients with prior melphalan or bortezomib. Median progression-free survival was 9 months (range, 1-24), and overall survival was 32 months (range, 1-54). The most common grade 3/4 hematologic adverse events (AEs) were neutropenia (31%/0%), thrombocytopenia (25%/2%), and anemia (13%/0%). Grade 4 tumor lysis syndrome was reported in one patient. Fewer grade 3/4 hematologic AEs were reported in cohorts 9 and 10 than in cohorts receiving lower bortezomib and higher melphalan doses. In conclusion, bortezomib plus melphalan is a steroid- and immunomodulatory drug-free regimen that may provide a treatment alternative for elderly patients and patients with significant comorbidity.
Although depression is a well recognised component of the benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome there have, as yet, been no convincing reports of mania. We report two cases of mania induced by abrupt discontinuation of lorazepam. Both cases were treated by reintroduction of the benzodiazepine followed by gradual dose reduction.
Pharmaceuticals are continuously dispersed into the environment, as a result of human and veterinary use, and have become a relevant environmental concern. In the present study, the acute toxicity of three therapeutic agents (diazepam, clofibrate, and clofibric acid) and a detergent, sodium dodecylsulphate (SDS), to the euryhaline fish Gambusia holbrooki was evaluated. Special attention was devoted to oxidative stress parameters. G. holbrooki males, captured in the estuary of the Minho River (NW Portugal), were exposed for 96 h to the selected compounds. The following oxidative stress biomarkers were evaluated in gills and liver tissues: reduced and oxidised glutathione, lipid peroxidation, and several antioxidant enzymes, namely (1) total and selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase (GPx), (2) glutathione reductase (GRed), (3) copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu-ZnSOD) and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), and (4) glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs). In the particular case of diazepam, swimming behaviour was also evaluated. The obtained results indicate an overall diminished oxidative stress response caused by SDS and diazepam. Oxidative-based alterations were observed after exposure to clofibrate and clofibric acid, with modifications of several enzymatic activities. Diazepam caused evident behavioural changes: animals showed dark pigmentation and also abnormal postures, namely lethargy and anomalous movement.
The present study evaluated the protective effect of fish oil in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. The results of the present study indicate that the IPH administration decreases the activities of membrane-bound ATPases compared to control animals. Fish oil pretreatment brought about significant increase in the activity of these membrane-bound ATPases in IPH (isoproterenol hydrochloride)-treated animals. Significant increase in serum potassium level with concomitant decrease in the values of sodium, magnesium, and calcium were observed in IPH-treated rats compared to control rats, fish oil pretreatment reversed these changes to near normal. Significant elevation of sodium and calcium levels with concomitant decrease in the levels of potassium and magnesium were observed in the myocardial tissue of IPH-administered rats compared to control rats, fish oil pretreatment followed by IPH administration brought these levels to near normal. The levels of lipid peroxidation (LPO) in both serum and tissue were increased in IPH-treated rats compared with control rats, whereas pretreatment with fish oil in IPH-treated rats maintained near-normal LPO levels. The results of the present study reveals that the pretreatment of fish maintains the activities of membrane-bound ATPases and the mineral levels at near normal by the inhibition of lipid peroxidation.
The optimum intrathecal dose of hyperbaric levobupivacaine for spinal anaesthesia during elective caesarean section has not yet been investigated.
A total of 30 parturients undergoing elective caesarean section were included in this prospective, randomised, double-blind study. Parturients received either 7.5, 10 or 12.5 mg hyperbaric 0.5% levobupivacaine intrathecally. Analgesic, sensory and motor block characteristics as well as maternal and fetal levobupivacaine plasma concentrations were determined.
Of the parturients receiving 7.5 mg levobupivacaine 40% required supplementary intravenous opioid analgesics intraoperatively and none achieved complete motor block. Compared to 7.5 mg levobupivacaine, 10 and 12.5 mg significantly prolonged duration of effective analgesia postoperatively (median: 45 vs. 81 and 96 min, respectively). Both maternal and fetal levobupivacaine plasma concentrations were low, with dose-dependent, statistically significant differences in maternal plasma concentrations.
Levobupivacaine 7.5 mg did not provide satisfactory intraoperative analgesia in all parturients. There were no statistically significant differences between 10 and 12.5 mg levobupivacaine with respect to analgesic, sensory and motor block characteristics. Therefore, based on these data, 10 mg levobupivacaine is recommended for parturients undergoing elective caesarean section with spinal anaesthesia.
We report a female patient with a diagnosis of a not otherwise specified psychotic disorder (DSM-IV) who developed hypomania shortly after the introduction of olanzapine treatment.
5-Azacytidine was administered to young adult male Fischer rats. Tumors were found in 31 out of 70 rats that had received 5-azacytidine and survived 18 months from the start of the experiment. Several rats had multiple primary tumors. In the rats that were tested for complete carcinogenicity a variety of tumor types was found. These included acute leukemia and malignant reticuloendotheliosis, and tumors of the testis, skin, and bronchus. No hepatic tumors were found in the group that was tested for hepatic tumor initiation. Hepatocellular carcinomas were found only in the group that was examined for hepatic tumor promotion by receiving a prior initiating dose of diethylnitrosamine. No tumors were found in the age controls. Thus, in these initial experiments, 5-azacytidine appeared to be a complete carcinogen, inducing tumors in several organs, and a tumor promoter but not a complete carcinogen for the liver.
Human malignant pleural mesothelioma (HMPM) is highly resistant to conventional therapy, and therefore novel therapies are required. We previously reported that overexpression of the FUSE-binding protein-interacting repressor (FIR), a c-myc transcriptional repressor, induces apoptosis via c-Myc suppression, and is thus a suitable cancer therapy. In the current preclinical trial, a fusion gene deleted non-transmissible Sendai virus vector encoding FIR (SeV/ΔF/FIR) was prepared and its cytotoxic activity against an orthotopic xenograft model of HMPM, in combination with cisplatin, was assessed. SeV/ΔF/FIR and a fusion gene deleted non-transmissible Sendai virus vector encoding green fluorescent protein (SeV/ΔF/GFP) were prepared. The transduction efficiency of these agents in terms of dose-dependent cytotoxicity and/or apoptosis induction was then assessed in a few HMPM cells. Combination therapy with SeV/ΔF/FIR plus cisplatin was evaluated in vitro and in a mouse model. SeV/ΔF/FIR significantly reduced cell viability in three HMPM cell lines but was less effective in non-tumor immortalized mesothelial cells. SeV/ΔF/FIR cytotoxicity was partly due to apoptosis induction via c-Myc suppression. In addition, SeV/ΔF/FIR showed synergistic antitumor effects in combination with cisplatin, as was revealed by isobologram analysis in MSTO-211H. Moreover, combination therapy with SeV/ΔF/FIR plus cisplatin demonstrated significant tumor reduction and improvement in survival rate in an animal model. Combination therapy with SeV/ΔF/FIR plus cisplatin has therapeutic potential against HMPM. SeV/ΔF/FIR plus cisplatin will be an attractive modality against HMPM in the future.
This study compared naloxone and nalbuphine when administered for treatment of side effects after epidural morphine, 5 mg, given for postcesarean analgesia. Patients requesting treatment for pruritus or nausea randomly received, in a double-blind fashion, up to three intravenous doses of either naloxone 0.2 mg (group 1; n = 20) or nalbuphine 5 mg (group 2; n = 20). The incidence of vomiting, the severity of nausea and pruritus, and the degree of sedation and pain were assessed before and 30 min after each dose. The first dose of nalbuphine decreased the incidence of vomiting (P < 0.005) and the severity of nausea and pruritus (P < 0.01), whereas naloxone caused no significant changes. Sedation scores increased after nalbuphine (P < 0.05) and remained unchanged after naloxone, whereas pain scores increased after naloxone (P < 0.01) and were unchanged after nalbuphine. Eighteen patients in group 1 and 12 in group 2 received a second dose, and 8 and 4 patients, respectively, a third dose. Other than decreased pruritus after the second dose with both drugs, no further changes occurred. We conclude that nalbuphine is superior to naloxone for the treatment of side effects after epidural morphine. However, persistent symptoms may require supplemental therapy, as repeated doses proved less effective than the initial dose.
The osteoporosis is a systemic disease of multicausal etiopathogenesis. A progressive bone loss and qualitative alterations in the macro- and micro-architecture of the remaining bones, resulting in a loss of strength of bones to such an extent that even very modest traumas will cause fractures characterize it. Three forms are defined (i) postmenopausal appearing after the menopause, (ii) senile appearing with advancing age, and (iii) the idiopathic forms. Severe osteoporosis is declared when the patients suffer vertebral or femoral fractures without any trauma during a treatment with anti-reabsorptive medicines of at least 1-year. The treatment of osteoporosis is based on various categories of pharmaca, such as bisphosphonates, selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs), diaminobutyric acid (DABA), parathyroid hormone (PTH), estrogens and non-hormonal drugs. The teriparatide, the recombinant human (rh)PTH(1-34), is identical in amino acid sequence until the 34th (N-terminal) amino acid of the endogenous, human PTH. It is produced in E. coli using the recombinant DNA technology. It is a pharmacon having a strong trophic-anabolic action on the bone tissue, assuring both the inhibition of the bone loss, and the formation of new bones of good quality. It acts as a stimulant of the osteoblast functions, and at the same time, increases the absorption of calcium from the intestine, and also the renal reabsorption of calcium, and decreases the excretion of phosphates in the kidney. This study summarizes our own experience with the use of rhPTH(1-34) in the treatment of senile patients with severe osteoporosis. Our sample consisted of 40 elderly women of the mean age of 78+/-5 years, having severe osteoporosis. They displayed a columnar T-score>-3.5 and femoral T-score>-2.5, had been under antireabsorptive treatment since at least 12 months. In particular, 15 patients were treated with Alendronate (70 mg/week), 10 of them with Risedronate (35 mg/week), and 15 of them with Raloxifene (60 mg/day). These patients in our study were treated for 1 year with 20 microg/day of rhPTH (1-34), injected subcutaneously, and supplemented also with a daily dose of 1g of calcium and 800 IU of Vitamin D, per os. At start of this treatment (time t(0)), after 6 months (time t(6)) and after 12 months (time t(12)) patients underwent a bone mineral density (BMD) analysis (Dexa-Lunar-DPX-P) on the lumbar vertebral column, (L1-L4 zone), as well as a femoral BMD. We applied also quality of life (QoL) questionnaire of the European Foundation for Osteoporosis (QUALEFFO), and evaluated also the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Our final considerations are that the teriparatide therapy increases significantly the bone mass density, expressed in terms of T-Score, reduces the occurrence of new fractures, improves the QoL, and decreases also the consumption of NSAIDs.
Muscle weakness and tenderness together with a rise in serum creatine kinase (C.K.) were noted in five uraemic patients treated with 1-2 g of clofibrate ('Atromid-S') daily. Excessive accumulation of both total and free serum chlorophenoxyisobutyric acid (C.P.I.B.), the active circulating metabolite after clofibrate therapy, was found in three patients in whom it was sought. It is suggested that chronic renal failure should be regarded as a contraindication to the use of clofibrate for the treatment of any coexisting hyperlipidaemia. If such therapy is contemplated it must be cautiously instituted at low dosage and the patient monitored by regular assessment of serum C.K. and levels of both total and free C.P.I.B.
Patients that have benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS) may occasionally experience an atypical development in their course when treated with drugs such as carbamazepine. Three patients with electroclinical patterns consistent with BECTS showed seizure exacerbation during oxacarbazepine (OXC) therapy. Two manifested atypical absences, neuropsychological disturbances, and generalized spike-and-wave discharges in their electroencephalograms (EEGs) that became continuous during sleep. The third patient showed, during OXC therapy, more frequent partial motor seizures which ended with ictal vomiting and post-ictal obnubilation. EEGs recorded during sleep showed discontinuous paroxysmal activity in the right centrotemporal area. Symptoms were reversed following discontinuation of the OXC therapy. Although electroclinical findings were consistent with a BECTS diagnosis, all patients had some atypical features. Our observations show that BECTS patients, in particular those presenting with atypical findings, might be at risk for developing paradoxical reactions to OXC therapy. We suggest that OXC should be included in the list of drugs that may cause electroclinical deterioration in these patients.
Recombinant human lactoferrin (RHLF) was tested for its ability to prevent non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)-induced intestinal injury in rats and mice. Acute and chronic models using indometacin, naproxen and diclofenac were used. Measurements were made of intestinal bleeding and inflammation. Orally administered RHLF was effective at preventing acute NSAID-induced increases in gut bleeding and myeloperoxidase activity. Oral RHLF was also effective at blocking some chronic manifestations of indometacin usage. Protection by RHLF of the intestinal tract from NSAIDs appears to be linked to attenuation of neutrophil migration to the intestine, and is independent of prostaglandins and nitric oxide. RHLF does not bind to the NSAID or interfere with the NSAID biological activity. We conclude that orally administered RHLF is effective at preventing NSAID-induced intestinal injury in rodents and should be investigated for this potential therapeutic use in man.
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of domperidone, a peripheral dopaminergic antagonist, in diabetic patients with symptomatic orthostatic hypotension. Nine patients were admitted to the hospital, placed on a diet containing 150 mEq sodium, and studied for periods of 4 hours, on different days, in the following conditions: (1) supine position, (2) upright posture (UP), (3) UP after 10 mg domperidone, intravenously in bolus, and (4) UP after 3 days of domperidone, 30 mg orally. Before domperidone the mean blood pressure observed in supine position of 132 +/- 37/75 +/- 6 mm Hg fell to 75 +/- 22/57 +/- 13 mm Hg after 2 hours in UP. Acute domperidone did not change the blood pressure response to UP. After 3 days of oral domperidone and in UP for 2 hours, the mean blood pressure value of 89 +/- 21/61 +/- 8 mm Hg was higher than that before domperidone (p less than 0.05), with relief of symptoms in all patients. This blood pressure response to UP has been maintained in six patients who completed 6 months of therapy. No differences were observed in plasma renin activity, aldosterone, sodium, and potassium and in 4-hour urinary excretion of aldosterone, epinephrine, norepinephrine, and dopamine, determined during the UP tests. Administration of domperidone for 3 days reduced the falls in creatinine clearance and the urinary excretion of sodium and potassium induced by UP but did not alter the blood pressure and aldosterone dose-response curves to angiotensin II. Although the mechanism of action is not defined, it is concluded that domperidone is effective for the treatment of orthostatic hypotension in patients with diabetes.
Clinical observations over the past 15 years incriminated first fenfluramine and recently dexfenfluramine in the provocation of primary pulmonary hypertension. Limited animal toxicology data tend to support this inference. The basis for respiratory pathology of high-altitude pulmonary malfunction, which reaches its maximal level in high-altitude pulmonary edema, evolves from and depends upon the occurrence of pulmonary hypertension. For this reason we hypothesize that high altitude and these two anorexic medications constitute a potentially synergistic combination, of which physicians treating patients for high-altitude illness, as well as those prescribing the drugs, should be aware.
Zinger officinale has been used as a traditional source against gastric disturbances from time immemorial. The ulcer-preventive properties of aqueous extract of ginger rhizome (GRAE) belonging to the family Zingiberaceae is reported in the present study. GRAE at 200 mg kg(-1) b.w. protected up to 86% and 77% for the swim stress-/ethanol stress-induced ulcers with an ulcer index (UI) of 50 ± 4.0/46 ± 4.0, respectively, similar to that of lansoprazole (80%) at 30 mg kg(-1) b.w. Increased H(+), K(+)-ATPase activity and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) were observed in ulcer-induced rats, while GRAE fed rats showed normalized levels and GRAE also normalized depleted/amplified anti-oxidant enzymes in swim stress and ethanol stress-induced animals. Gastric mucin damage was recovered up to 77% and 74% in swim stress and ethanol stress, respectively after GRAE treatment. GRAE also inhibited the growth of H. pylori with MIC of 300 ± 38 μg and also possessed reducing power, free radical scavenging ability with an IC(50) of 6.8 ± 0.4 μg mL(-1) gallic acid equivalent (GAE). DNA protection up to 90% at 0.4 μg was also observed. Toxicity studies indicated no lethal effects in rats fed up to 5 g kg(-1) b.w. Compositional analysis favored by determination of the efficacy of individual phenolic acids towards their potential ulcer-preventive ability revealed that between cinnamic (50%) and gallic (46%) phenolic acids, cinnamic acid appear to contribute to better H(+), K(+)-ATPase and Helicobacter pylori inhibitory activity, while gallic acid contributes significantly to anti-oxidant activity.
Seven patients with chloroquine retinopathy were examined ten years after their therapy with chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine, or both, had been discontinued and an additional five patients with chloroquine retinopathy were similarly examined from two to eight years after their therapy had been discontinued. Visual acuity, visual fields, and ophthalmoscopic examinations were compared to those performed at the time therapy was discontinued. These long-term observations confirmed the previously published observations based on short-term studies that chloroquine retinopathy tends to remain stable after therapy is discontinued, although a few patients in the early stages of retinopathy may show regression and occasionally a patient with a more advanced stage of the disease may show progression.
Increased frequencies of structural and numerical chromosomal aberrations have been observed in the lymphocytes of benzene-exposed workers. Similar aberrations occurring in bone-marrow cells may contribute to the increased incidence of leukemia seen in these populations. Fluorescence in situ hybridization with chromosome-specific DNA probes is a relatively new technique which shows promise for the identification of aneuploidy-inducing agents. In these studies, fluorescence in situ hybridization with several chromosome-specific DNA probes was used to investigate the ability of the benzene metabolite hydroquinone to induce hyperdiploidy in interphase human lymphocytes. Using a classical satellite probe specific for human chromosome 9, a significant dose-related increase in the frequency of cells containing 3 or more hybridization regions was observed following the in vitro exposure of lymphocytes to hydroquinone at concentrations from 75 to 150 microM. At the 100-microM concentration of hydroquinone, the frequency of nuclei containing 3 or more hybridization regions was determined using probes for chromosomes 1, 7 and 9. Significantly higher frequencies of affected nuclei were observed using the chromosome 1 and 9 probes when compared to the chromosome 7 probe. To establish whether this difference was due to the nonrandom involvement of these chromosomes in hydroquinone-induced hyperdiploidy or to chromosomal breakage within the chromosomal region targeted by these probes, a multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization approach was developed using probes to two adjacent regions on chromosome 1. Using this tandem-labeling approach, the frequency of nuclei with multiple hybridization regions and the origin of the regions was determined by scoring slides labeled simultaneously with the chromosome 7 alpha satellite probe and the adjacent alpha and classical satellite probes for chromosome 1. The results of these studies confirmed that hydroquinone exposure resulted in a significant increase in hyperdiploid nuclei, but indicated that the different frequency of nuclei containing 3 or more hybridization regions observed using the chromosome 1 and 7 probes, was due to breakage within the chromosomal region targeted by the chromosome 1 classical satellite probe. These results indicate that hydroquinone may contribute significantly to the numerical and structural aberrations observed in benzene-exposed workers. In addition, the multicolor fluorescence in situ hybridization approach utilized in these studies promises to be a powerful technique for the detection of chromosomal breakage occurring in interphase human cells.
Diets high in fructose cause hypertriglyceridemia and insulin resistance in part due to simultaneous induction of gluconeogenic and lipogenic genes in liver. We investigated the mechanism underlying the unique pattern of gene induction by dietary fructose. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=6 per group) were meal-fed (4h/d) either 63% (w/w) glucose or 63% fructose diet. After two weeks, animals were killed at the end of the last meal. Nuclear SREBP-1 was 2.2 times higher in fructose-fed rats than glucose-fed rats. Nuclear FoxO1 was elevated 1.7 times in fructose group, but did not reach significance (P=0.08). Unexpectedly, no difference was observed in nuclear ChREBP between two groups. However, ChREBP DNA binding was 3.9x higher in fructose-fed animals without an increase in xylulose-5-phospate, a proposed ChREBP activator. In conclusion, the gene induction by dietary fructose is likely to be mediated in part by simultaneously increased ChREBP activity, SREBP-1 and possibly FoxO1 protein in nucleus.
The older proton pump inhibitor (PPI) omeprazole and the newer PPIs lansoprazole, rabeprazole, and pantoprazole are approved for the acute and maintenance treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
On the basis of the results of randomized clinical trials, this study sought to estimate healing and relapse rates in acute and maintenance treatment of GERD with the newer PPIs compared with omeprazole, the histamine2-receptor antagonist ranitidine (the most frequent non-PPI comparator in studies of PPIs), and placebo.
A search of MEDLINE was conducted to identify randomized, controlled clinical trials that included a PPI in > or =1 treatment arm and assessed the healing of erosive esophagitis endoscopically. The primary outcome for studies of acute therapy was healing rate, and the primary outcome for studies of maintenance therapy was relapse rate.
Fifty-three studies were identified, of which 38 involved acute therapy (12 excluded) and 15 maintenance therapy. None of the studies of pantoprazole met the inclusion criteria for maintenance therapy. The 8-week overall healing rate ratios in the comparison of newer PPIs with omeprazole 20 mg/d were as follows: lansoprazole 30 mg/d, 1.02 (95% CI, 0.98-1.06): rabeprazole 20 mg/d, 0.93 (95% CI, 0.87-1.00); and pantoprazole 40 mg/d, 0.98 (95% CI, 0.90-1.07). In the comparison of any PPI with ranitidine 300 mg/d, the ratios were as follows: lansoprazole, 1.62 (95% CI, 1.46-1.76); rabeprazole, 1.36 (95% CI, 1.20-1.54); pantoprazole, 1.60 (95% CI, 1.33-1.96); and omeprazole, 1.58 (95% CI, 1.41-1.78). Relapse rates over 1 year of treatment were similar between lansoprazole and rabeprazole. Compared with ranitidine, there were statistically significant differences in the rates of resolution of heartburn symptoms (P < 0.002), ulcer healing (P < 0.05), and relapse (P < 0.01). Similar results were seen in the comparison of PPIs with placebo in terms of rates of resolution of heartburn symptoms (P < 0.01), ulcer healing (P < 0.001), and relapse (P < 0.006).
In this study, the newer PPIs were of similar efficacy to omeprazole in terms of heartburn control, healing rates, and relapse rates. All the PPIs were superior to ranitidine and placebo in healing erosive esophagitis and decreasing relapse rates.
