A 22-year-old woman had been suffering from blepharoptosis and fatigabilities of both shoulders for a year. She had been administered phenytoin since age 4 to prevent febrile convulsion. On admission, she had bilateral blepharoptosis with left one being more severely affected. Her pupils and eye movement were normal. Other cranial nerve functions were normal. Her both deltoid muscles were mildly weak. A repetitive stimulation study revealed a 35% decline of the evoked responses recorded from either the orbicularis oculi or the abductor pollicis brevi muscle. Antibody activity for acetylcholine receptor was higher than normal range. Her blepharoptosis transiently disappeared after an intravenous administration of 5mg of edrophonium. She was diagnosed as having myasthenia gravis. Her myasthenic signs had continued one month after phenytoin withdrawal, then an extended thymectomy was done. The thymus was histologically hypertrophic. Although a direct blocking at a neuromuscular junction by phenytoin has been reported in animal experiments, our case is not likely to be affected by this effect. Since a large population of young epileptic patients needs a long-term phenytoin therapy, detailed investigation is necessary to elucidate how frequently they manifest myasthenia gravis.
A 60-year-old Caucasian female presented with stage IIA (T2N0M0) estrogen- and progesterone-negative and HER2-positive breast cancer. She was started on an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen of docetaxel, carboplatin, and trastuzumab (TCH). She tolerated the first two cycles of the TCH regimen well. However, 3-4 days after the third and fourth cycles, she developed acute pancreatitis. Elevated pancreatic enzymes and abdominal computed tomography (CT) imaging findings confirmed the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis. Common causes of pancreatitis were ruled out. Given the time course it was assumed that the chemotherapy was the cause of pancreatitis in our patient. The patient did not receive any further docetaxel and carboplatin chemotherapy but continued on adjuvant trastuzumab alone for a planned duration of 1 year without any recurrence of acute pancreatitis.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the protective effects of icariin on the learning and memory abilities in Alzheimer's disease model rats and explore its protection mechanisms. Beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is a key etiology in Alzheimer's disease and targeting on Abeta production and assembly is a new therapeutic strategy. Six-month (400-600 g) Wistar rats were unilaterally injected with amyloid beta-protein fragment 25-35 (Abeta(25-35)) 10 microg (5 g/l, 2 microl) into the right hippocampus. The day following Abeta injection, icariin 30, 60 or 120 mg/kg was administered by gavage for 14 days. The ability of spatial learning and memory of the animals was tested by the Morris water maze. In place navigation test, icariin significantly decreased the mean escape latency and searching distance. In the space probing test, icariin increased remarkably the searching time and searching distance in the quadrant where the platform was originally located. All tests indicated icariin improved the ability of spatial learning and memory in Alzheimer's disease model rats. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry and real time RT-PCR analysis showed that icariin significantly reduced the contents of Abeta(1-40) and the mRNA levels of beta-secretase in the hippocampus and increased the mRNA level of superoxide dismutase-2, but it had no apparent effects on the immunostain and mRNA level of amyloid protein precursor. These results demonstrate that icariin can improve the learning and memory abilities in Abeta(25-35)-induced Alzheimer's disease rats. The mechanisms appear to be due to the decreased production of insoluble fragments of Abeta through suppression of beta-secretase expression.
New possibilities with medications for the treatment of cocaine dependence have begun to emerge. For example, in a randomised controlled study, disulfiram succeeded for the first time in significantly reducing cocaine consumption. In October 2003, a phase IIb study was started in the USA testing active immunisation against cocaine dependence. There is also an ongoing study in Switzerland testing methylphenidate treatment in combination with cognitive behavioural therapy. Pilot studies indicate that vigabatrin, selegiline, and topiramate are promising candidates for further clinical substance testing.
The Translocator Protein (TSPO), previously known as the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor, is a ubiquitous drug- and cholesterol-binding protein that is up regulated in several types of cancer cells. TSPO drug ligands (e.g., diazepam) induce or inhibit tumor cell proliferation, depending on the dose and tissue origin. We have previously shown that TSPO is expressed in Ehrlich tumor cells and that diazepam increases proliferation of these cells in vitro. Here, we investigated the in vivo effects of diazepam on Ehrlich tumor growth and the role of TSPO in mediating this process. Oral administration of diazepam to mice (3.0mg/kg/day for 7 days) produced plasma and ascitic fluid drug concentrations of 83.83 and 54.12 nM, respectively. Diazepam increased Ehrlich tumor growth, likely due to its ability to increase tumor cell proliferation and Reactive Oxygen Species production. Radioligand binding assays and nucleotide sequencing revealed that Ehrlich tumor cell TSPO had the same pharmacological and biochemical properties as TSPO described in other tumor cells. The estimated K(d) for PK 11195 in Ehrlich tumor cells was 0.44 nM and 8.70 nM (low and high binding site, respectively). Structurally diverse TSPO drug ligands with exclusive affinity for TSPO (i.e., 4-chlordiazepam, Ro5-4864, and isoquinoline-carboxamide PK 11195) also increased Ehrlich tumor growth. However, clonazepam, a GABA(A)-specific ligand with no affinity for TSPO, failed to do so. Taken together, these data suggest that diazepam induces in vivo Ehrlich tumor growth in a TSPO-dependent manner.
Mercuric chloride (HgCl₂), which induces kidney toxicity, constitutes a potential threat to human health. In addition to direct toxic effects, kidney inflammatory events take place during the HgCl₂-induced nephropathy. There is no information currently available about the role of angiotensin II (Ang II) in this inflammatory process. Accordingly, the aim of this study was to determine the expression of Ang II and Ang II-associated inflammatory molecules, i.e. intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and mono-cyte/macrophage infiltration (ED-1), in HgCl₂-induced nephropathy. Three groups of Sprague Dawley rats that were to receive HgCl₂ (2.5 mg HgCl₂/kg BW, by gavage) were utilized: one had received Losartan at 30 mg/kg BW; one had received Enalapril at 30 mg/kg BW; and one had received distilled water, in each case daily for 3 days prior to the HgCl₂ exposure. For these studies, an extra set of controls treated with saline solution in place of HgCl₂ and water in place of the test drugs was employed. Renal biopsies were obtained 96 h after HgCl₂ injection and the expressions of Ang II, ICAM-1, iNOS, and ED-1 were analyzed by indirect immunoflourescence while tubular damage was assessed via histopathology. An increased expression of Ang II, ICAM-1, iNOS, and ED-1 as well as increases in tubular necrosis were observed in all HgCl₂-animals. Treatments with Losartan or Enalapril diminished the induced expressions as well as the extent of tubular damage. The data here suggest that Ang II is involved in the pro-inflammatory events during HgCl₂-induced nephropathy, and that this is probably mediated, in part, by Ang II receptors Type 1 (AT-1).
The aim of the study was to evaluate the predictive value of HER2 and topoisomerase IIalpha gene (TOP2A) for the efficacy of epirubicin in the adjuvant setting of breast cancer patients.
In the Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group trial 89D, 980 pre- and postmenopausal primary patients were randomly allocated to either CMF (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil; n = 500) or CEF (cyclophosphamide, epirubicin, and fluorouracil; n = 480) times 9, between January 1990 and November 1999. Tumor tissue was retrospectively identified from 805 patients and was analyzed for HER2-positivity and for TOP2A-amplifications and deletions.
HER2-positivity was found in 33% of the 805 investigated tumors and was not a predictive marker for epirubicin sensitivity. TOP2A changes were identified in 23% of the 773 investigated tumors: 12% had TOP2A amplifications and 11% had TOP2A deletions. We found that patients with TOP2A amplification had an increased recurrence-free (RFS; hazard ratio [HR], 0.43; 95% CI, 0.24 to 0.78) and overall survival (OS; HR, 0.57; 95% CI, 0.29 to 1.13), respectively if treated with CEF compared with CMF, and that patients with TOP2A deletions had an almost identical hazard ratio (RFS: HR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.36 to 1.11; OS: HR, 0.56; 95% CI, 0.30 to 1.04). This is in contrast to patients with a normal TOP2A genotype for whom similar outcome was observed in both treatment arms (RFS: HR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.70 to 1.17; OS: HR, 0.88; 95% CI, 0.66 to 1.17).
TOP2A amplification-and possibly deletion-seems to be predictive markers for the effect of adjuvant epirubicin containing therapy in primary breast cancer, but a final conclusion has to await a confirmative study or a meta-analysis.
Paroxysmal extreme pain disorder (PEPD), previously known as familial rectal pain (FRP, or OMIM 167400), is an inherited condition characterized by paroxysms of rectal, ocular, or submandibular pain with flushing. A genome-wide linkage search followed by mutational analysis of the candidate gene SCN9A, which encodes hNa(v)1.7, identified eight missense mutations in 11 families and 2 sporadic cases. Functional analysis in vitro of three of these mutant Na(v)1.7 channels revealed a reduction in fast inactivation, leading to persistent sodium current. Other mutations in SCN9A associated with more negative activation thresholds are known to cause primary erythermalgia (PE). Carbamazepine, a drug that is effective in PEPD, but not PE, showed selective block of persistent current associated with PEPD mutants, but did not affect the negative activation threshold of a PE mutant. PEPD and PE are allelic variants with distinct underlying biophysical mechanisms and represent a separate class of peripheral neuronal sodium channelopathy.
Oenothera paradoxa (EP) preparations are commonly used in folk medicine to treat skin diseases, neuralgia, and gastrointestinal (GI) disorders. Several reports suggested that EP preparations exhibit potent anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities both in vitro and in vivo. Here, we aimed to characterize the action of EP pomace polyphenol extract in mouse model of colitis. We analyzed the composition of EP pomace polyphenol extract using reversed phase HPLC system and ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) system coupled with a quadrupole-time of flight (Q-TOF) MS instrument. Then, we used a well-established animal model of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis to determine the anti-inflammatory action of EP pomace polyphenol extract. We also investigated the effect of the EP pomace polyphenol extract on pro-inflammatory (IL-1β and TNF-α) cytokine mRNA levels and hydrogen peroxide concentration in the inflamed colon. Administration of EP pomace polyphenol extract significantly improved macroscopic and microscopic damage scores, as well as myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in TNBS-treated mice. The anti-inflammatory effect of the extract was observed after intracolonic and oral administration and was dose-dependent. Significant reduction of tissue hydrogen peroxide level after treatment with EP pomace polyphenol extract suggests that its therapeutic effect is a result of free radical scavenging. This novel finding indicates that the application of the EP pomace polyphenol extract in patients with inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) may become an attractive supplementary treatment for conventional anti-inflammatory therapy.
Calcitriol therapy suppresses serum levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH) in patients with renal failure but has several drawbacks, including hypercalcemia and/or marked suppression of bone turnover, which may lead to adynamic bone disease. A new vitamin D analogue, 22-oxacalcitriol (OCT), has been shown to have promising characteristics. This study was undertaken to determine the effects of OCT on serum PTH levels and bone turnover in states of normal or impaired renal function.
Sixty dogs were either nephrectomized (Nx, N = 38) or sham-operated (Sham, N = 22). The animals received supplemental phosphate to enhance PTH secretion. Fourteen weeks after the start of phosphate supplementation, half of the Nx and Sham dogs received doses of OCT (three times per week); the other half were given vehicle for 60 weeks. Thereafter, the treatment modalities for a subset of animals were crossed over for an additional eight months. Biochemical and hormonal indices of calcium and bone metabolism were measured throughout the study, and bone biopsies were done at baseline, 60 weeks after OCT or vehicle treatment, and at the end of the crossover period.
In Nx dogs, OCT significantly decreased serum PTH levels soon after the induction of renal insufficiency. In long-standing secondary hyperparathyroidism, OCT (0.03 microg/kg) stabilized serum PTH levels during the first months. Serum PTH levels rose thereafter, but the rise was less pronounced compared with baseline than the rise seen in Nx control. These effects were accompanied by episodes of hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia. In animals with normal renal function, OCT induced a transient decrease in serum PTH levels at a dose of 0.1 microg/kg, which was not sustained with lowering of the doses. In Nx dogs, OCT reversed abnormal bone formation, such as woven osteoid and fibrosis, but did not significantly alter the level of bone turnover. In addition, OCT improved mineralization lag time, (that is, the rate at which osteoid mineralizes) in both Nx and Sham dogs.
These results indicate that even though OCT does not completely prevent the occurrence of hypercalcemia in experimental dogs with renal insufficiency, it may be of use in the management of secondary hyperparathyroidism because it does not induce low bone turnover and, therefore, does not increase the risk of adynamic bone disease.
We have previously shown that intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of amyloid-beta (Abeta)1-40 produces oxidative stress and cholinergic dysfunction, as well as learning and memory deficits, in rats. In the present study, effects of a newly synthesized azaindolizinone derivative, spiro[imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine-3,2-indan]-2(3H)-one (ZSET1446), were assessed in rats with learning deficits induced by Abeta1-40 or scopolamine. The i.c.v. infusion of Abeta1-40 caused impairments in spontaneous alternation behavior in a Y-maze task, spatial reference and short-term memory in a water-maze task, and retention of passive-avoidance learning. Abeta1-40-infused rats also showed reduction in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in the medial septum and hippocampus, but not in the basal forebrain and cortex, and a decrease in glutathione S-transferase (GST)-like immunoreactivity in the cortex. Nicotine-stimulated acetylcholine (ACh) release in Abeta1-40-infused rats was lower than that in vehicle-infused rats. Oral administration of ZSET1446 at the dose range of 0.01 to 1 mg/kg ameliorated Abeta1-40-induced learning impairment in Y-maze, water-maze, and passive-avoidance tasks. ZSET1446 reversed the decrease of ChAT activity in the medial septum and hippocampus, GST-like immunoreactivity in the cortex, and nicotine-stimulated ACh release of Abeta1-40-treated rats to the levels of vehicle-infused control rats. Furthermore, 0.001 to 0.1 mg/kg ZSET1446 showed ameliorative effects on learning impairments caused by scopolamine in a passive-avoidance task. These results suggest that ZSET1446 may be a potential candidate for development as a therapeutic agent to manage cognitive impairment associated with conditions such as Alzheimer's disease.
Deletions and/or mutations of p53 are relatively rare and late events in the natural history of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). However, it is unknown whether p53 signaling is functional in B-CLL and if targeted nongenotoxic activation of the p53 pathway by using nutlin-3, a small molecule inhibitor of the p53/MDM2 interaction, is sufficient to kill B-CLL cells. In vitro treatment with nutlin-3 induced a significant cytotoxicity on primary CD19(+) B-CLL cells, but not on normal CD19(+) B lymphocytes, peripheral-blood mononuclear cells, or bone marrow hematopoietic progenitors. Among 29 B-CLL samples examined, only one was resistant to nutlin-3-mediated cytotoxicity. The induction of p53 by nutlin-3 in B-CLL samples was accompanied by alterations of the mitochondrial potential and activation of the caspase-dependent apoptotic pathway. Among several genes related to the p53 pathway, nutlin-3 up-regulated the steady-state mRNA levels of PCNA, CDKN1A/p21, GDF15, TNFRSF10B/TRAIL-R2, TP53I3/PIG3, and GADD45. This profile of gene activation showed a partial overlapping with that induced by the genotoxic drug fludarabine. Moreover, nutlin-3 synergized with both fludarabine and chlorambucil in inducing B-CLL apoptosis. Our data strongly suggest that nutlin-3 should be further investigated for clinical applications in the treatment of B-CLL.
Lovastatin is a popular drug for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. Few serious complications are associated with its use although rhabdomyolysis with renal failure has been reported when lovastatin is combined with cyclosporine or other drugs following transplantation. We report the case of a patient who developed hepatopathy and rhabdomyolysis accompanied by acute renal failure after 4 weeks of lovastatin monotherapy. The pathogenesis and treatment of these complications are also discussed.
A case of angioedema secondary to propranolol therapy in a patient with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is reported.
A 54-year-old Caucasian woman with chronic HCV infection started treatment with ribavirin and peginterferon alfa-2a. Four months later, oral propranolol hydrochloride 20 mg three times daily was initiated due to an episode of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT). One month later, the patient developed a diffuse pruritic rash. Hydroxyzine and loratadine were prescribed for several days to treat the rash. Three weeks later, she arrived at the emergency department with generalized edema and a severe pruritic erythematous swelling that affected the face, forearms, hands, and lower extremities. The patient was diagnosed with angioedema. Blood tests revealed an increased eosinophil count (910 cells/microL), elevated aspartate transaminase and alanine transaminase concentrations (109 and 104 IU/L, respectively), and a high HCV RNA load (1,450,000 IU). Peginterferon alfa-2a, ribavirin, and propranolol were discontinued. A few days later, the edema and cutaneous lesions disappeared. Six months after the resolution of the angioedema, the patient was seen again in the emergency department because of another episode of PSVT. Oral propranolol 20 mg twice daily was reintroduced to control the tachycardia. Two days later, a similar episode of diffuse edematous swelling developed. At that time, the only drug she was taking was propranolol. Propranolol was discontinued, and the patient's symptoms spontaneously resolved.
A 54-year-old Caucasian woman with chronic HCV infection developed propranolol-induced angioedema.
Sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (SALS) causes progressive muscle weakness because of the loss of motor neurons. SALS has been associated with exposure to environmental toxins, including pesticides and chemical warfare agents, many of which are organophosphates. The enzyme paraoxonase 1 (PON1) detoxifies organophosphates and the efficacy of this enzyme varies with polymorphisms in the PON1 gene. To determine if an impaired ability to break down organophosphates underlies some cases of SALS, we compared the frequencies of PON1 polymorphisms in SALS patients and controls and investigated gene-environment interactions with self-reported pesticide/herbicide exposure. The PON1 coding polymorphisms L55M, Q192R and I102V, and the promoter polymorphisms -909c>g, -832g>a, -162g>a and -108c>t, were genotyped in 143 SALS patients and 143 matched controls. Statistical comparisons were carried out at allele, genotype and haplotype levels. The PON1 promoter allele -108t, which reduces PON1 expression, was strongly associated with SALS. Overall, promoter haplotypes that decrease PON1 expression were associated with SALS, whereas haplotypes that increase expression were associated with controls. Coding polymorphisms did not correlate with SALS. Gene-environment interactions were identified at the allele level for some promoter SNPs and pesticide/herbicide exposure, but not at the genotype or haplotype level. In conclusion, some PON1 promoter polymorphisms may predispose to SALS, possibly by making motor neurons more susceptible to organophosphate-containing toxins.
To compare the therapeutic effects of proton pump inhibitors (PPI) and histamine 2 receptor antagonists (H2RA) on gastroduodenal ulcers under continuous use of low-dose aspirin.
Sixty patients who had a gastroduodenal ulcer on screening endoscopy but required continuous use of low-dose aspirin were randomly assigned to receive PPI (lansoprazole 30 mg, n = 30) or H2RA (famotidine 40 mg or if famotidine had been administered before assignment, ranitidine 300 mg, n = 30). The therapeutic effects were evaluated by endoscopy after 8-wk treatment. The presence or absence of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) was determined by urea breath test before treatment. Abdominal symptoms were compared with the gastrointestinal symptom rating scale (GSRS) questionnaire before and after treatment.
Twenty-six patients in the PPI group and 26 patients in the H2RA group, excluding dropouts, were analyzed. There were no significant differences in median age, sex, underlying disease, smoking status, H. pylori infection, prevalence of ulcers before treatment, and lesion site between the two groups. The therapeutic effects were endoscopically evaluated as healed in 23 patients (88.5%) and not healed in 3 patients in the PPI group and as healed in 22 patients (84.6%) and not healed in 4 patients in the H2RA group. Abdominal symptoms before treatment were uncommon in both groups; the GSRS scores were not significantly reduced after treatment as compared with before treatment.
The healing rate of gastroduodenal ulcers during continuous use of low-dose aspirin was greater than 80% in both the PPI group and the H2RA group, with no significant difference between the two groups.
Nephrotoxicity is one of the main side effects of calcineurin-inhibitors. The influence of tacrolimus on the renal vasculature has not been well described. We have therefore examined the effects of tacrolimus on renal functional parameters as well as the contribution of the NO-system in a model of ischemic acute renal failure (ARF). Induction of ARF was achieved by clamping both renal arteries of female Sprague-Dawley rats. During the experiment, RBF, GFR, MAP, RVR and FENa were determined during infusion of vehicle, TAC, TAC and the NOS-activator L-arginine, and TAC and NOS-inhibition due to L-NMMA. TAC induced a significant rise in RVR with further decrease of RBF and GFR. Simultaneous L-arginine-infusion could reverse these effects during the infusion without complete restoration to preischemic levels. NOS-inhibition increased MAP and RBF without any effect on GFR. FENa did not differ significantly between the groups. Tacrolimus in the situation of ischemic acute renal failure causes vasoconstriction of pre- and postglomerular vessels with a further deterioration of renal function. L-arginine abolishes the functional deterioration, most likely due to increased NO-liberation.
Hypotension in brain-dead organ donors is considered a determinant factor of graft viability. The aim of this study was to elucidate the role of hypotension in brain-death associated impairment of hepatic microcirculation and function. Male Sprague-Dawley rats with an intracranial balloon were used. Group I (n = 7) served as sham controls. In group II (n = 7) brain death was induced through inflation of an intracranial balloon. In group III (n = 7) hypotension without brain death was induced by means of pentobarbital. In group II, a steep rise of arterial pressure was followed by a fall to a lower level (P < 0.01, vs. group I). Also in group III arterial pressure was lower (P < 0.01, vs. group I). In group II, bile production was diminished (P < 0.05). Impaired sinusoidal perfusion (P < 0.01) and enhanced leukocyte endothelium interaction (P < 0.05) were documented in hepatic microvasculature. Electron microscopic analysis revealed vacuolization of hepatocytes; these changes were not observed in group III. Brain death induces specific changes of liver microcirculation, function and histomorphology. Independent of associated hypotension, brain death per se impairs donor liver graft quality.
Amtolmetin guacyl (MED15) is a new non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) which shares anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic activity with the other drugs of the NSAID family but which shows, unexpectedly, strong gastroprotective activity similar to misoprostol. This effect has been attributed to the presence in its molecule of a vanillic moiety responsible for stimulation of capsaicin receptors present throughout the length of the gastrointestinal tract. MED15 shows antispasmodic activity in the bowel against a number of agonists and compares favourably with reference compounds. In in vivo indomethacin-induced rat ileitis, MED15 heals better than 5-aminosalicylic acid and sulfasalazine, as well as down-regulating intestinal wall myeloperoxidase content. In acetic acid-induced colitis in the rat, levels of malondialdehyde were found to be more markedly reduced with MED15 than with 5-aminosalicylic acid. In contrast with the effect in the stomach, MED15 protective effect in the bowel appears to be unrelated to nitric oxide (NO) production. The MED15 enteroprotective effect is related to stimulation of intestinal capsaicin receptors as demonstrated by the loss of protective effect in the presence of capsazepine, a specific receptor antagonist of capsaicin. In conclusion, following the favourable results obtained in animal models and notwithstanding the pharmacological effects typical of an NSAID, MED15 may rationally be proposed for the treatment of various human colitis conditions and Crohn's disease.
For general anaesthesia, patients usually receive a combination of drugs, all of which are classified as gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) agonists, with two notable exceptions - ketamine and nitrous oxide (laughing gas, N(2)O) - which are antagonists of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors. At clinically relevant doses both ketamine and N(2)O, like other NMDA antagonists, have the potential to induce psychotomimetic reactions in humans and to cause pathomorphological changes in cerebrocortical neurons in rat brain. Because drug combinations used in clinical anaesthesia sometimes include both ketamine and N(2)O, we undertook experiments to evaluate whether augmented neurotoxicity results from their combined use. Ketamine and N(2)O were administered alone or in combination by various dosing regimens to adult female rats for a duration of 3 h and the severity of cerebrocortical neurotoxic changes was quantified histologically. Because GABA agonists are known to protect against the psychotomimetic and neurotoxic effects of NMDA antagonists, we also evaluated whether the combined neurotoxicity of ketamine+N(2)O can be prevented by certain commonly used GABA agonists. When ketamine and N(2)O were used in combination the neurotoxic reaction was enhanced to a degree much greater than can be explained by simple additivity. The apparent synergistic interaction was particularly striking when low doses of the agents were combined, the degree of toxic synergism at higher doses being masked by a ceiling effect. GABA agonists protected against ketamine/N(2)O neurotoxicity. It is recommended that this information be taken into consideration in the selection of drugs to be used in multi-agent protocols for general anaesthesia.
The role of alpha-class mammalian glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) in the protection of many cell types, including vascular smooth muscle cells, against oxidant damage has been demonstrated, but the role of GSTs in the endothelial cell is not well studied. In order to examine the role of GSTs in the endothelial cell, a stable transfection of mouse pancreatic islet endothelial cells (MS1) with cDNA of mGSTA4-4, mouse isozyme of GSTs with activity in vascular wall, was established. Transfected cells demonstrated significantly higher GSTs enzyme activity and expressed significantly increased resistance to the cytotoxicity of allylamine, acrolein, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE), and H(2)O(2) (P < 0.05). A significantly higher rate of proliferation and lower baseline level of intracellular malondialdehyde (MDA) and 4-HNE were present when compared to wild-type or vector-transfected MS1 endothelial cells (P < 0.05). Transfection protected MS1 endothelial cells from 4-HNE and H(2)O(2) induced apoptosis by inhibiting phosphorylation of c-Jun N-terminal kinases (p-JNK) and consequent activation of p53 and Bax. In early human fibrous atherosclerotic plaques, immunohistochemical studies demonstrated marked induction of hGSTA4-4 in endothelial cells overlying plaque, and in proliferating plaque vascular smooth muscle cells. Our results indicate that endothelial cell mGSTA4-4 can play a key role in protecting blood vessels against oxidative stress and, thus, is likely to be a critical defense mechanism against oxidants that act as atherogens.
Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) is a well-recognized complication of cyclosporine (CyA) therapy. Transplant recipients with this complication are frequently switched to tacrolimus, although this drug has also been implicated. We report a case of a renal transplant recipient who developed severe graft dysfunction due to biopsy-proven HUS after receiving CyA. Renal function and hemolytic parameters improved with discontinuation of the drug, but they deteriorated again after commencement of tacrolimus 15 days later. A second transplant biopsy demonstrated fresh lesions diagnostic of HUS. Hemolytic parameters resolved with discontinuation of tacrolimus. This is the first report of metachronous HUS being caused in a renal transplant by both CyA and tacrolimus. We therefore believe that caution should be exercised when using tacrolimus as rescue therapy in patients with CyA-induced HUS.
Bradykinin has been suggested to be involved in allergic diseases. In this study, we tested the effect of FK3657 ((E)-3-(6-acetamido-3-pyridyl)-N-[N-[2,4-dichloro-3-[(2-methyl-8-quinolinyl)-oxymethyl]phenyl]-N-methylaminocarbonylmethyl]acrylamide), an orally active non-peptide bradykinin B(2) receptor antagonist, on allergic airway disease models in guinea pigs. FK3657 given orally inhibited bradykinin-induced or dextran sulfate (an activator of kinin-kallikrein cascade)-induced bronchoconstriction and plasma extravasation in the lower airways (trachea and main bronchi) and nasal mucosa of guinea pigs with ED(50) of 0.04-0.23 mg/kg. In the antigen-induced dual asthmatic response model of guinea pigs, FK3657 significantly attenuated the late phase asthmatic response, but not the immediate asthmatic response. FK3657 also significantly inhibited the 2,4-tolylene diisocyanate (TDI)-induced plasma extravasation in nasal mucosa of TDI-sensitized guinea pigs. These results suggest that oral FK3657 may be useful for asthma or allergic rhinitis as a therapeutic drug.
Four weeks high dose spironolactone treatment (Aldactone Searle, 100 mg q. i. d.) significantly enhanced the TSH (delta max. 8.5 +/- 4.1 vs. 4.6 +/- 3.1 microunits/ml, P less than 0.05) and T3 (delta max. 32 +/- 27 vs. 11 +/- 16 ng/100 ml, P less than 0.05) responses to an intravenous TRH/LH-RH bolus injection in 6 eumenorrhoeic euthyroid hypertensive women, without affecting basal serum TSH, T3 or T4 levels or the basal and stimulated LH, FSH and prolactin values (P greater than 0.10). The mean serum testosterone, 17-hydroxyprogesterone and oestradiol levels were also similar before and during therapy. Spironolactone, possibly by virtue of its antiandrogenic action, may exert its enhancing effect on pituitary-thyroid function by modulating the levels of receptors for TRH in the thyrotrophs or by altering the T3 receptor in the pituitary permitting a greater response to TRH.
There is a continued need for orally bioavailable anticancer compounds that exhibit good efficacy against breast cancer. STX140, a derivative of 2-methoxyestradiol (2-MeOE2), has been shown to have excellent oral bioavailability and significantly reduces tumor growth. A new micronized formulation of STX140 has now been developed and its pharmacokinetics (PK) in rats and effect on MDA-MB-231 breast cancer growth in nude mice was investigated.
For the PK studies, female Wistar rats were treated orally with STX140 in two separate vehicles (10% tetrahydrofuran (THF) in propylene glycol (PG) or 0.5% methyl cellulose (MC) in saline) and plasma samples taken for high performance liquid chromatography analysis over 48 h. For the tumor efficacy studies, female nude mice were inoculated with MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells and then treated orally with a range of doses of STX140.
The PK studies demonstrated that the THF/PG vehicle resulted in a greater oral bioavailability of STX140 compared to the 0.5% MC vehicle. However, this was not translated to the tumor efficacy studies where STX140 at 20 mg/kg in either vehicle caused a significant reduction in tumor volume.
The new micronized formulation of STX140 is orally bioavailable and efficacious at inhibiting MDA-MB-231 breast tumor growth.
Systemic mastocytosis (SM) is a myeloid neoplasm characterized by increased survival and accumulation of neoplastic mast cells (MCs). In most patients, the D816V-mutated variant of KIT is detectable. We report here that heat shock protein 32 (Hsp32), also known as heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), is a novel KIT-inducible survival factor in neoplastic MCs. As assessed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), immunocytochemistry, and Western blotting, the KIT D816V(+) MC line HMC-1.2 as well as highly enriched primary neoplastic MCs were found to express Hsp32 mRNA and the Hsp32 protein. Moreover, KIT D816V and stem cell factor (SCF)-activated wild-type KIT were found to induce Hsp32 promoter activity, expression of Hsp32 mRNA, and expression of the Hsp32 protein in Ba/F3 cells. Correspondingly, the KIT D816V-targeting drug PKC412 decreased the expression of Hsp32 as well as proliferation/survival in neoplastic MCs. The inhibitory effects of PKC412 on the survival of HMC-1.2 cells were counteracted by the HO-1 inductor hemin or lentiviral-transduced HO-1. Moreover, 2 Hsp32-targeting drugs, pegylated zinc protoporphyrin (PEG-ZnPP) and styrene maleic acid copolymer micelle-encapsulated ZnPP (SMA-ZnPP), were found to inhibit proliferation and to induce apoptosis in neoplastic MCs. Furthermore, both drugs were found to cooperate with PKC412 in producing growth inhibition. Together, these data show that Hsp32 is an important survival factor and interesting new therapeutic target in neoplastic MCs.
