An 8-year-old asthmatic child on theophylline was anesthetized with enflurane in nitrous oxide and oxygen. He developed a generalized muscle rigidity after intravenous succinylcholine. Although the maximum rectal temperature was 37.9 degrees C, a marked elevation in muscle-derived enzymes and myoglobinuria were observed. The relations among theophylline which is a derivative of xanthines, inhalation anesthetics, and myoglobinuria are discussed.
Pathological examination was carried out on 16 male Sprague-Dawley rats received single i. v. injection of 60 mg/kg of streptozotocin (SZ) at 5 weeks of age and maintained for 22 months. Insulinoma (63%), renal adenoma (50%), hepatocellular tumor (69%), cholangioma (31%) and Leydig cell tumor (56%) were found in a high incidence, and therefore occurrence of these tumors was considered to be attributable to the treatment with SZ. In addition to these tumors, though in a low incidence, various such tumors as leukemia, reticulum cell sarcoma, mammary tumor and glioma were also found.
To investigate the molecular mechanism of inflammatory response in the mouse liver caused by exposure to CeCl₃, we measured the liver indices, and cerium content, evaluated the liver histopathological section, detected serum biochemical parameters of liver function, and the immunoglobulin M (IgM) content, analyzed the liver mRNA and protein expression levels of Toll-like receptor 2, 4 (TLR2, TLR4), and inflammatory cytokines in liver using real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The results showed that exposure to CeCl₃ decreased body weight and caused cerium accumulation in the mouse liver and histopathological changes of liver (such as inflammatory cell infiltration). Furthermore, biochemical assays suggested that CeCl3 could promote the activities of alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, pseudocholinesterase, and leucine aminopeptidase, decrease serum IgM, upregulate the levels of TLR2, TLR4, nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), NF-κBp52, NF-κBp65, NF-κB-inducing kinase (NIK), IκB kinase α (IKK-α), IκB kinase β (IKK-β), and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) expression, and suppress NF-κB-inhibiting factor (IκB) and interleukin-2 (IL-2) expression in liver. Taken together, the inflammation of mice liver caused by exposure to CeCl₃ might be closely associated with the alteration of inflammatory cytokine expressions in the mouse liver, the signal-transducing events happening in CeCl₃-induced macrophages of liver sequentially might occur via activation of TLRs→TNF-α→NIK→IκB kinase (including IKK1, IKK2)→NF-κB (including NF-κBP52, NF-κBP65)→ inflammation.
Tetracycline hydrochloride (TC), 30-70 mg/kg infused intravenously in dogs in the course of a few minutes, reduced clearance of inulin (Cin) and p-aminohippuric acid (CPAH) on an average to less than 5% of control. In spite of increased intrarenal pressure (approximately 50 mm Hg), electromagnetically recorded renal blood flow was preserved, indicating that the reduction of Cin and CPAH resulted from tubular obstruction, not renal vasoconstriction. The metabolic rate of the cortex and outer medulla fell to 69% of control after TC, as measured by the heat accumulation rate. Further reduction to basal metabolic level (30% of control) was reversibly produced by elevating ureteral pressure, suggesting that the high metabolic rate was caused by continued active reabsorption of sodium chloride at about half the control rate. Thus Cin greatly underestimated glomerular filtration rate in the TC-damaged kidney. From these results and the observation of TC-containing casts in the medullary tubules, we conclude that TC caused tubular obstruction and that leakage of inulin and PAH from the tubules occurred mainly distally to the major sodium-reabsorbing tubular segments.
Bexarotene is the first synthetic retinoid X receptor-selective retinoid (rexinoid) approved for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL). However, little is known about the signalling pathways by which it exerts its anticarcinogenic effect.
To characterize the effects of bexarotene in CTCL cell lines and elucidate the underlying molecular pathways of its antineoplastic effect.
The cell lines Hut-78, HH and MJ were used. Cell viability was assessed with the XTT assay. The self-renewal potential of cells after bexarotene treatment was studied with the methylcellulose clonogenic assay. Flow cytometry was used to analyse the effects on cell cycle, Ki-67 expression and apoptosis induction. Cell cycle and apoptosis-related protein expression were determined by Western blot and immunofluorescence.
Bexarotene induced a loss of viability and more pronounced inhibition of clonogenic proliferation in HH and Hut-78 cells, whereas the MJ line exhibited resistance. Bexarotene upregulated and activated Bax in sensitive lines, although not enough to signal significant apoptosis. Instead, all data point to the inhibition of proliferation, rather than apoptosis, as the main mechanistic action of the rexinoid. Bexarotene signals both G(1) and G(2)/M arrest by the modulation of critical checkpoint proteins. We further found that bexarotene activates p53 by phosphorylation at Ser15, which influences the binding of p53 to promoters for cell cycle arrest, induces p73 upregulation, and, in concordance, also modulates some p53/p73 downstream target genes, such as p21, Bax, survivin and cdc2. Bexarotene-mediated ataxia telangiectasia mutated protein (ATM) activation in all studied lines suggests that ATM is likely to be the p53/p73 upstream activator.
Our data indicate for the first time that bexarotene exerts its effect in CTCL mainly by triggering the p53/p73-dependent cell cycle inhibition pathway, probably by upstream ATM activation. Therefore, bexarotene-modulated genes represent potential biomarkers to assess the response to treatment of patients with CTCL.
We report 2 cases of mesenteric venous thrombosis in men taking estrogen for carcinoma of the prostate. The possible relationship between the estrogen therapy and mesenteric venous thromboses is stressed, as well as the potential danger of resumption of estrogen therapy without anticoagulation postoperatively.
Previous work has shown that puerarin (Pur), extracted from the dried root of Pueraria lobata (Wild) Ohwi, increases cerebral blood flow in dogs and attenuates cerebral and spinal cord injury resulting from ischemia and reperfusion in rats and rabbits. The present study further demonstrates the neuroprotective effects of Pur on cerebral ischemic injury in rats and the mechanisms underlying the protective effects. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) for 50 min followed by reperfusion for 24 h. Pur (50, 100 mg/kg, i.p) was administered at the onset of MCAo. Twenty-four hours after reperfusion, neurological deficits were evaluated in Pur- and vehicle-treated rats. The infarct volume and edema ratios were assessed from stained brain slices. The results showed that Pur (100 mg/kg) markedly decreased the infarct volume by 34 % ( P < 0.01) in cerebral cortex and improved the neurological functions ( P < 0.05) after MCAo. Furthermore, flow cytometric analysis of annexin-V and PI labeling cells showed that the percentages of apoptosis and necrosis in the dorsolateral cortex were significantly reduced by 38.6 % and 28.5 % ( P < 0.01 and P < 0.05) following treatment with Pur (100 mg/kg) in MCAo rats. Caspase-3 activity, a biochemical marker of apoptosis, was significantly inhibited after treatment with Pur in the dorsolateral cortex. In agreement with this result, the expression of the X-chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) was obviously up-regulated after administration of Pur (100 mg/kg), while caspase-3 gene was down-regulated in the dorsolateral cortex. These results suggest that the neuroprotection of puerarin against cerebral ischemia is associated with anti-apoptosis.
Thiopental may be used for sedation before intubation in newborn infants. A boy, born at 33 weeks of gestation (gw); birth weight 2435 g, was prescribed thiopental 3 mg/kg before intubation. He developed temporary hypotension and oxygen desaturation, and remained unconscious for longer than expected with a suppressed electroencephalography for 48 h. Serum thiopental concentration was 82, 59, 42 and 32 micromol/L after 20 min and 6, 24 and 68 h respectively. Serum concentrations from five newborn infants at the same time points after intubation with the same thiopental dose were used as reference values, and indicated a 10-fold overdose in the index case. The cause of the overdose could not be identified. The infant recovered; cerebral magnetic resonance imaging at the age of 42 gw and psychomotor development at 2 years were normal. These results show that thiopental concentrations are variable in neonates and there is a high risk of dosage error as no specific paediatric formulation is available.
Well-designed procedures and continuous education are required to prevent errors and adverse events during drug delivery to newborn infants. To develop a safe method of administration for thiopental, an extended pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study in neonates is warranted.
The molecular properties of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein are briefly discussed. This molecule has been shown in in vitro experiments to have both a stabilizing effect on vascular permeability and antiinflammatory properties. We were able to demonstrate these two effects in vivo in guinea pigs (skin, Evan's Blue extravasation) and in rats (paw, carrageenan induced inflammation). Further experiments were performed in rats relating to possible therapeutic indications for alpha 1-acid glycoprotein: (1) inhibitory effect on brain edema formation after experimental stroke, (2) therapeutic effect in the puromycin aminonucleoside-induced minimal change nephrosis, (3) improvement of vital parameters in hemorrhagic-hypovolemic shock, (4) increase in survival rate in septic peritonitis, and (5) promising effects in burn-induced remote lung injury. The high content of sialic acid and the high negative charge of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein are believed to be major contributors to its stabilizing effect on vascular permeability. The protein is bound to the glycocalyx of the endothelial cells (and presumably to structures of the glomerular basement membrane), thereby hindering the passage of other polyanionic molecules through the vascular wall. The antiinflammatory/immunomodulatory effect of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein appears mainly due to suppression of polymorphonuclear neutrophils. This action is dependent on the glycan part of the molecule, which is highly variable (microheterogeneity). It is obvious that there are differences between the different glycan forms as far as the antiinflammatory property of the protein is concerned. Together with data in the literature, the results presented here suggest a variety of potential indications for therapeutic use of alpha 1-acid glycoprotein in humans.
Clonidine-induced delirium has rarely been reported. To the best of our knowledge, there are six related case reports in the literature. We describe one such case here and review the six previously published cases. Clonidine may induce a variety of psychological side effects ranging from depression to acute hallucination and delirium. However, there are no clearly identifiable risk factors for the development of severe psychological side effects, including dose of medication, duration of treatment, and predisposing mental illness. Treatment for clonidine-induced delirium involves cessation of the medication and patient observation. Given the large clinical burden of hypertension and the not uncommon requirement for polypharmacy to achieve blood pressure goals, heightened clinical awareness of this potential side effect appears justified.
Daunorubicin and doxorubicin are anthracyclines that have efficacy against malignancies such as breast cancer, lung cancer, lymphoma, and leukemia. Their adverse effects are similar. The most serious is cardiotoxicity, which often limits the total cumulative dose that can be administered. Introduction of a liposomal formulation for both agents allows tumor selectivity by accumulating the drug in tumor tissue, thus increasing the tolerated dose. Liposomal doxorubicin is commonly associated with palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome (PPES), although no reports of PPES were found in the literature related to liposomal daunorubicin (L-DNR). Two patients developed PPES while receiving high-dose L-DNR. The symptoms were self-limiting and resolved within a few weeks.
We report a disorder resembling Guillain-Barre syndrome, occurring on initiation of simvastatin, in a 58-year-old man, who had experienced a similar but milder episode after starting pravastatin 6 months earlier. This case suggests that acute polyradiculoneuropathy may represent a rare but serious side-effect of statin treatment. It also raises the issue of the pathophysiology of acute neuropathy on statin exposure, with a hypersensitivity reaction resulting in an immune-mediated process being possible instead of the hypothesized mitochondrial dysfunction in chronic cases.
Anagrelide, a selective thrombocytopenic agent, is administered to treat a variety of hematologic disorders. Despite limited clinical experience with this drug, serious cardiovascular events, including congestive heart failure, have been reported. The proposed mechanism of cardiotoxicity is attributed to inhibition of phosphodiesterase, resulting in positive inotropic activity and vasodilation. A 48-year-old woman with polycythemia vera developed cardiotoxicity manifested by congestive heart failure and palpitations. It was suspected to be temporally related to titrating dosages of anagrelide.
The relationship between serum calcium and magnesium levels and neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) was studied in schizophrenic patients. The 16 patients in whom EPS developed had a significantly lower mean drug-free calcium level than the six patients in whom EPS did not develop. In patients in whom EPS developed, drug-free serum calcium and magnesium levels together correlated significantly with the neuroleptic dosage at which EPS first developed; lower calcium and magnesium values predicted EPS at lower dosages. We have previously shown that both serum calcium and magnesium levels were significantly lower during neuroleptic treatment than in the drug-free state. In this study, a similar trend was observed, but the calcium value tended to be, and the magnesium value was significantly lower at the onset of neuroleptic-induced EPS than during the mean of an entire pimozide trial.
A series of 4(3H)-quinazolinones structurally related to 2-methyl-3-o-tolyl-4(3H)-quinazolinone (methaqualone, 3) were synthesized and evaluated for anticonvulsant activity. Preliminary screening of these compounds revealed that 2-[2-oxo-2-(4-pyridyl)ethyl]-3-aryl-4(3H)-quinazolinones 6l and 8i, 8k, and 8p-r having a single ortho substituent on the 3-aryl group had the most promising anticonvulsant activity. Compounds 6l and 8i possessing 3-o-tolyl and 3-o-chlorophenyl groups, respectively, showed good protection against MES- and scMet-induced seizures, combined with relatively low neurotoxicity after intraperitoneal administration in mice. They also exhibited low toxicity in tests for determining the mean hypnotic dose (HD50) and the median lethal dose (LD50). Although these compounds were markedly more potent as anticonvulsants when administered orally in mice and rats, they were also more neurotoxic. This neurotoxicity was particularly acute in oral tests with rats, which resulted in marginal protective indices. In drug differentiation tests, compound 6l was ineffective against seizures induced by bicuculline, picrotoxin, and strychnine, while 8i showed some protection against picrotoxin-induced seizures.
Perinatal Pb exposure may modulate arterial tone through nitric oxide (NO) and cyclooxygenase products. To investigate this, Wistar dams received 1000 ppm of Pb or sodium acetate (control) in drinking water during pregnancy and lactation. Curves were constructed in phenylephrine-precontracted intact and/or denuded rings of thoracic aortas of weaned (23-day-old) male pups from their responses to N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, NO synthase inhibitor) and ACh in the absence or presence of indomethacin (10(-5)M, cyclooxygenase inhibitor) or L-NAME (3 x 10(-7)M and 3 x 10(-4)M). Blood lead concentration and systolic blood pressure (SBP) were higher in intoxicated than control pups (blood lead microg/dl: control < 3.0, Pb 58.7 +/- 6.5*; SBP mmHg: control 111.4 +/- 2.3, Pb 135.5 +/- 2.4*). In L-NAME-treated rings maximal responses increased in Pb-exposed rats, and were higher in intact than in denuded aortas (contraction [% of phenylephrine] intact: control 184.3 +/- 23.7, Pb 289.1 +/- 18.3*; denuded: control 125.1 +/- 4.5, Pb 154.8 +/- 13.3*). ACh-induced relaxation in intact aortas from Pb-exposed rats presented rightward shift in L-NAME presence (EC50 x 10(-7)M: control 1.32 [0.33-5.18], Pb 4.88 [3.56-6.69]*) but moved left under indomethacin (EC50 x 10(-7)M: control 8.95 [3.47-23.07], Pb 0.97 [0.38-2.43]*). *p < 0.05 significant relative to the respective control; N = 7-9. Endothelium removal abolished ACh-induced relaxation. Perinatal Pb exposure caused hypertension associated with alterations in the production and/or release of basal and stimulated endothelium-derived relaxing factors-NO and constricting cyclooxygenase products. These findings may help explain the contribution of NO and cyclooxygenase products to the etiology and/or maintenance of Pb-induced hypertension and could ultimately lead to therapeutic advantages in plumbism.
Prenatal exposed to an anti-inflammatory drug is a major problem for the developing central nervous system. It is not well known the effect of prenatal exposed to a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug on the hippocampus. Total neuron number in one side of the cornu ammonis (CA) and gyrus dentatus (GD) of the hippocampal formation in control and drug-treated (diclofenac sodium, DS) groups of male rats was estimated using the optical fractionator technique. Each main group has also two subgroups that are 4 weeks old (4W-old) and 20 weeks old (20W-old). In CA, no significant difference between 4W-old DS-treated and their control was found, but a significant difference was observed between 20W-old DS-treated and their controls. A decreasing of neuron number was 12% for 20W-old DS-treated group. In GD, a decreasing of the granule cell number in 4W-old of DS-treated group was seen but an increasing of granule cell number was found in the 20W-old drug-treated rats in comparison to its control group, 7% and 9%, respectively. Although an increasing of neuron number in CA at the control group was seen with age, from 4th week to 20th week (10%), age-dependent substantial granule cell decline (17%) was observed in GD. No age effect on the total cell numbers of CA and GD of the drug-treated groups was seen in comparison to 4W-old week and 20W-old. A pronounced neuron loss observed in the drug-treated group may be attributed to the neurotoxicity of diclofenac sodium (DS) on the developing hippocampal formation. Age-dependent neuron increase in the CA of 20W-old and neuron decline in GD of 20W-old control groups may be a result of a dual effect of saline injection during the fetal life, since these animals were exposed to a stress of 15-day-period of saline injection, prenatal stress. The reason of no age effect on CA and GD cell number in the drug-treated groups may be attributed to the depletion of the progenitor cells due to neurotoxicity of DS in the fetal life of these animals.
In a randomized study the effect of an early prophylactic indomethacin treatment on the incidence of the patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in very low birth weight infants (VLBWI) and their postnatal course were investigated. 19 VLBWI (weight 1221 +/- 158 g, gestational age 28.2 +/- 1.3 weeks) received 0.2 mg/kg indomethacin 3 times p.o. in 12 h intervals beginning on the 3rd day of life. 22 VLBWI with comparable weight (1250 +/- 154 g, gestational age 28.4 +/- 1 weeks), mode of delivery and postnatal adaptation served as controls. PDA was diagnosed clinically and by a decreased ratio of the systolic time intervals preejection period (PEP)/left ventricular ejection time (LVET) less than 0.3. PDA were seen in 7 indomethacin treated VLBWI and in 13 newborns of the control group. A symptomatic PDA developed in 4 infants of the latter group only. The indomethacin group was characterized by an increased ratio PEP/LVET from day 3 to 5 as an evidence for a diminished ductal shunt. Their weight loss was 3% lower and they regained their birth weight 5 days earlier. Otherwise, there were no differences in mortality and morbidity. Despite the proven efficacy of an early indomethacin treatment its use is recommended only for infants with a high risk for a PDA substantiated by a low ratio PEP/LVET less than or equal to 0.24 at the 3rd day of life.
Preclinical and clinical studies suggest that females may be less vulnerable to cocaine's toxic effects than males. The pharmacokinetics of intravenous cocaine (0.2 and 0.4 mg/kg) were measured in 12 men and 22 women with a history of cocaine abuse, matched with respect to age and body mass index (BMI). Women were studied during the follicular and the luteal phases of the menstrual cycle. There were no differences between men and women in pharmacokinetic measures [peak plasma cocaine levels (Cmax), elimination half-life (T 1/2 min), area under the curve (AUC)] or cardiovascular or subjective effects "high" measures. Heart rate increases were cocaine dose-related (p < .01-.02) and also did not differ between men and women. Cocaine's pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic effects were similar in men and women, and in women during the follicular and mid-luteal phases of the menstrual cycle.
This case report describes an episode of transient global amnesia that occurred during a migraine attack, which had been treated with vasoconstrictors. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a small lesion with an ischemic appearance in the right thalamus.
Topiramate is an FDA-approved second generation antiepileptic drug with actions on voltage-dependent sodium and calcium channels and GABA and excitatory amino acid receptors. There has only been one prior pediatric case report of topiramate toxicity. We report a 33-month-old girl with persisting neurologic symptoms after acute ingestion of topiramate.
A 33-month-old girl was found at her sitter'shouse with a bottle of topiramate (100-mg tablets). She presented to the emergency department 3 days post-ingestion. The child appeared confused and was only able to crawl. At one point, she looked directly at mother and asked, "Where is my mommy?" She had visual hallucinations and screamed while pointing to objects on the wall. Neurologic exam was notable for the slurred speech and severe ataxia. All laboratory testing, urine chemical dependency screen, CSF, chest X-ray, head CT, and EEG showed no abnormalities. Topiramate level on the third day post-ingestion was 9.4 mcg/mL, and 4.2 mcg/mL on the fourth day. Patient became oriented to family and regained normal gait on the fourth day. Her slurred speech persisted until the sixth day after ingestion.
Topiramate is an anti-epileptic drug with multifactorial mechanisms of action not entirely understood. We report here a 33-month-old girl with prolonged neurologic symptoms including hallucination, slurred speech, and severe ataxia after acute topiramate ingestion. This is the first pediatric case report of hallucination and prolonged neurologic symptoms with acute topiramate ingestion.
Prostate cancer (PrCa) displays resistance to radiotherapy (RT) and requires radiotherapy dose escalation which is associated with greater toxicity. This highlights a need to develop radiation sensitizers to improve the efficacy of RT in PrCa. Ionizing radiation (IR) stimulates pathways of IR-resistance and survival mediated by the protein kinase Akt but it also activates the metabolic energy sensor and tumor suppressor AMP-Activated Protein Kinase (AMPK). Here, we examined the effects of the polyphenol resveratrol (RSV) on the IR-induced inhibition of cell survival, modulation of cell cycle and molecular responses in PrCa cells.
Androgen-insensitive (PC3), sensitive (22RV1) PrCa and PNT1A normal prostate epithelial cells were treated with RSV alone (2.5-10 μM) or in combination with IR (2-8 Gy). Clonogenic assays, cell cycle analysis, microscopy and immunoblotting were performed to assess survival, cell cycle progression and molecular responses.
RSV (2.5-5 μM) inhibited clonogenic survival of PC3 and 22RV1 cells but not of normal prostate PNT1A cells. RSV specifically sensitized PrCa cells to IR, induced cell cycle arrest at G1-S phase and enhanced IR-induced nuclear aberrations and apoptosis. RSV enhanced IR-induced expression of DNA damage (γH2Ax) and apoptosis (cleaved-caspase 3) markers as well as of the cell cycle regulators p53, p21(cip1) and p27(kip1). RSV enhanced IR-activation of ATM and AMPK but inhibited basal and IR-induced phosphorylation of Akt.
Our results suggest that RSV arrests cell cycle, promotes apoptosis and sensitizes PrCa cells to IR likely through a desirable dual action to activate the ATM-AMPK-p53-p21(cip1)/p27(kip1) and inhibit the Akt signalling pathways.
Cytoxan (cyclophosphamide) given to rats intraperitoneally produced a severe cystitis within four hours with marked inflammatory edema and hemorrhagic ulcerations of the mucosa. An in vivo staining test with methylene blue showed deep staining of the urothelium as has been demonstrated with other types of urothelial injuries; uninjured urothelium does not stain. The cytoxan cystitis is probably not due to cytoxan itself, but to a breakdown product acrolein, an aldehyde appearing in the urine. Rat experiments demonstrated that acrolein instilled intravesically produced a cystitis similar to that found with cytoxan injected intraperitoneally. The cystitis due either to cytoxan or acrolein was prevented by simultaneous intravesical administration of an aldehyde inactivating agent, acetylcysteine (mucomyst).
We describe a case of massive oral niacin overdose that resulted in severe persistent hypotension without the manifestation of cutaneous flushing. This case is the highest overdose of niacin reported in the literature to date and the first time severe persistent hypotension has been attributed to niacin. A 56-year-old male with a history of schizophrenia presented to the emergency department after orally ingesting 11,000 mg of niacin. The patient cited an Internet resource that recommended high-dose niacin for therapy of schizophrenia as the reason for his ingestion. He stopped his psychiatric medications several weeks prior to his niacin overdose. At presentation, the patient was alert and normothermic. His pulse was 68 beats per minute and his blood pressure was initially 92/41 mmHg. Hypotension with a blood pressure of 58/40 developed over the next few hours and persisted despite intravenous infusion of over 4 liters of normal saline. The physical exam was otherwise unremarkable, specifically without signs of an allergic reaction or cutaneous flushing. He required intravenous dopamine infusion for 12 hours to support a mean arterial blood pressure greater than 60 mmHg. Evaluation for other etiologies of hypotension was unrevealing. Serum niacin levels were 8.2 ug/ mL and 5.6 ug/mL at 48 and 96 hours post ingestion, respectively, giving an apparent T1/2 of 87 hours. Massive overdose of niacin appears to be capable of causing severe, persistent hypotension in the absence of cutaneous flushing. In this case, the ingestion of a dietary supplement based on Internet advice led to a severe adverse reaction.
There is now some evidence that autism may be accompanied by abnormalities in the inflammatory response system (IRS). Products of the IRS, such as proinflammatory cytokines, may induce some of the behavioral symptoms of autism, such as social withdrawal, resistance to novelty and sleep disturbances. The main aim of the present study was to examine whether autism is accompanied by an activation of the IRS.
We measured the production of interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, the IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA), interferon (IFN)-gamma and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha by whole blood and the serum concentrations of IL-6, the IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) and IL-1RA.
This study showed a significantly increased production of IFN-gamma and IL-1RA and a trend toward a significantly increased production of IL-6 and TNF-alpha by whole blood of autistic children. There were no significant differences in the serum concentrations of IL-6, IL-2R and IL-1RA between autistic and normal children.
These results suggest that autism may be accompanied by an activation of the monocytic (increased IL-1RA) and Th-1-like (increased IFN-gamma) arm of the IRS. It is hypothesized that increased production of proinflammatory cytokines could play a role in the pathophysiology of autism.
Thirty-four patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, who were treated with flurbiprofen at a maximum dose of 4 mg/kg/day, had statistically significant decreases from baseline in 6 arthritis indices after 12 weeks of treatment. Improvements were seen in the number of tender joints, the severity of swelling and tenderness, the time of walk 50 feet, the duration of morning stiffness and the circumference of the left knee. The most frequently observed side effect was fecal occult blood (25% of patients); however, there was no other evidence of gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding in these patients. One patient was prematurely discontinued from the study for severe headache and abdominal pain. Most side effects were mild and related to the GI tract.
Hyperkalemia has recently been recognized as a complication of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAID) such as indomethacin. Several recent studies have stressed the renal sparing features of sulindac, owing to its lack of interference with renal prostacyclin synthesis. We describe 4 patients in whom hyperkalemia ranging from 6.1 to 6.9 mEq/l developed within 3 to 8 days of sulindac administration. In all of them normal serum potassium levels reached within 2 to 4 days of stopping sulindac. As no other medications known to effect serum potassium had been given concomitantly, this course of events is suggestive of a cause-and-effect relationship between sulindac and hyperkalemia. These observations indicate that initial hopes that sulindac may not be associated with the adverse renal effects of other NSAID are probably not justified.
No clinical trial has yet focused on contrast-mediated nephrotoxicity in patients with chronic renal failure exclusively undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare the effect of contemporary contrast media on nephrotoxicity in this high-risk patient population.
This prospective, randomized, double-blind, comparative clinical trial randomly selected 939 patients with chronic renal failure undergoing coronary angiography with potential PCI to receive either the iso-osmolar contrast medium iodixanol or the low-osmolar contrast medium iomeprol. Of those 939 patients, 615 received diagnostic angiography only and were not included in the primary study analysis, but were followed up in a registry. Three hundred twenty-four patients underwent PCI, of which one-half received iodixanol or iomeprol, respectively, and were included in the primary study analysis. The primary end point was the peak increase in S-creatinine during hospitalization for PCI. Maximum increase in S-creatinine after PCI was lower than expected and thus impaired the power of the study. It was not significantly different between the 2 contrast groups (0.19+/-0.40 mg/dL for iodixanol and 0.21+/-0.34 mg/dL for iomeprol; P=0.53). Albeit contrast media-induced nephropathy rates were lower with iodixanol (22.2% compared with 27.8% for iomeprol), this difference was not statistically different (P=0.25). Subgroup analysis suggested a favorable outcome regarding nephrotoxicity in patients who received higher contrast volumes (>340 mL) in the iodixanol group (P(interaction)=0.016).
Routine use of iso-osmolar contrast medium is not associated with a significant reduction of nephrotoxicity compared with low-osmolar contrast medium in patients with chronic renal failure undergoing PCI. However, a positive effect was seen in the iso-osmolar contrast group for patients receiving high amounts of contrast medium, which awaits confirmation of a specifically designed randomized clinical trial. Clinical Trial Registration- clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00390585.
