Daptomycin is a new biosynthetic antibiotic which belongs to a new class of drugs known as lipopeptides. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of daptomycin and vancomycin on tobramycin-induced nephrotoxicity. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were treated during 4 and 10 days with either saline (NaCl, 0.9%) or tobramycin at doses of 4 and 40 mg/kg per day (given every 12 h [q12h] intraperitoneally). Each treatment was combined with saline, daptomycin at a dose of 20 mg/kg per day (given q12h subcutaneously), and ancomycin at a dose of 50 mg/kg per day (given q12h subcutaneously). Daptomycin and vancomycin had no effect on the intracortical accumulation of tobramycin. Daptomycin did not accumulate in renal tissue even after 10 days of treatment. Tobramycin given at a dose of 40 mg/kg per day during 10 days induced a significant inhibition of sphingomyelinase activity in the renal cortex (P less than 0.01) and increased cellular regeneration (P less than 0.01), as measured by the incorporation of [3H]thymidine into DNA of the renal cortex. These changes were minimal when daptomycin was combined with tobramycin. Histologically, signs of tobramycin toxicity were also less severe in the presence of daptomycin. The intracortical accumulation of vancomycin was not modified by tobramycin. The sphingomyelinase activity was significantly more inhibited (P less than 0.01) when vancomycin was associated with tobramycin (4 and 40 mg/kg) without affecting the rate of [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA. Histologically, signs of tobramycin toxicity were not affected by vancomuycin, but the cellular vacuolizations which were also observed in vancomycin-treated animals were still present in the proximal tubular cells of animals that were treated with the combination vancomycin-tobramycin. This study strongly suggests that daptomycin protects animals from tobramycin-induced nephrotoxicity but that vancomycin may enhance the effect of tobramycin. We conclude that daptomycin is safe and protects kidney cells from tobramycin-induced nephrotoxicity.
Vinorelbine seems to cause less neurotoxicity than other vinca alkaloids because of its selective activity on mitotic cells over axonal microtubules. Clinical trials report very mild peripheral neurotoxicity with distal paresthesiae and there are no reports of myelopathy in these series of patients. The authors describe a patient who developed a rare event of myelopathy while on vinorelbine for non-small-cell lung cancer.
18-Methoxycoronaridine, a novel iboga alkaloid congener, reduces drug self-administration in animal models of addiction. Previously, we proposed that these effects are mediated by the ability of 18-methoxycoronaridine to inhibit nicotinic alpha3beta4 acetylcholine receptors. In an attempt to identify more potent 18-methoxycoronaridine analogs, we have tested a series of 18-methoxycoronaridine congeners by whole-cell patch clamp recording of HEK 293 cells expressing recombinant nicotinic alpha3beta4 receptors or glutamate NR1/NR2B N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. The congeners exhibited a range of inhibitory potencies at alpha3beta4 receptors. Five congeners had IC(50) values similar to 18-methoxycoronaridine, and all of these were ineffective at NMDA receptors. The congeners also retained their ability to reduce morphine and methamphetamine self-administration. These data are consistent with the importance of nicotinic alpha3beta4 receptors as a therapeutic target to modulate drug seeking. These compounds may constitute a new class of synthetic agents that act via the nicotinic alpha3beta4 mechanism to combat addiction.
Five oxazole-containing macrolides isolated from the marine sponge Chondrosia corticata were evaluated for their anti-proliferative activity in a panel of human solid cancer cell lines. (19Z)-Halichondramide ((19Z)-HCA), a novel trisoxazole-containing macrolide, exhibited the highest potency among the macrolides, with IC50 values in the submicro-molar ranges. Prompted by the high potency of growth inhibition of cancer cells, we investigated the mechanism of action of the anti-proliferative activity of (19Z)-HCA in human A549 lung cancer cells. (19Z)-HCA induced cell cycle arrest in the G2/M phase, and this event was highly correlated with the expression of checkpoint proteins, including the up-regulation of p53 and GADD45α and the down-regulation of cyclin B1, cyclin A, CDC2, and CDC25C. In addition, the growth inhibition by (19Z)-HCA was associated with the suppression of mTOR and its downstream effector molecules 4EBP1 and p70S6K. The modulation of mTOR signaling by (19Z)-HCA was found to be mediated by the regulation of upstream proteins, including the down-regulation of Akt and p38 MAPK and the up-regulation of AMPK. These data suggest the potential of (19Z)-HCA to serve as a candidate for cancer chemotherapeutic agents derived from marine organisms by virtue of arresting the cell cycle in the G2/M phase and the modulation of mTOR/AMPK signaling pathways.
Thalidomide as a single agent (200-400 mg/day) was administered in fourteen cases of refractory myeloma, from March 2001 till February 2002. The median age was 71 years (range 58 to 85 years), and the efficacy of thalidomide was observed in cases receiving treatment for at least three consecutive months. Response was evaluated in February 2002, according to the criteria for assessment of response described by Kakimoto et al. At the time of evaluation, two cases were in the PR2 state, one in PR3, two were stable, and three were PD. Evaluation of the response was not possible in six cases in whom treatment had to be discontinued due to intolerable side effects. The response to thalidomide was variable, with some cases responding well even to a low dose (200 mg/day) while a few others showed an early relapse due to the refractory nature of the disease in its response to the drug. The efficacy of treatment seemed to be correlated with the maturation pattern of myeloma cells. Side effects included neurological complications like somnolence, physiological symptoms such as constipation and so on, etc but all were relieved with symptomatic treatment. The drug was well tolerated in geriatric patients. Neutropenia was a dose limiting factor with half of the cases (7/14) presenting with severe neutropenia (grade 3-4), but a response was observed in all of them on administration of G-CSF. Thromboembolism occurred in two cases, the cause of which is not clear. These results suggest that thalidomide is a well tolerated drug and can be considered as a mainstay in the therapy of refractory myeloma.
Functional modulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptors by Zn(2+), pentobarbital, neuroactive steroid alphaxalone, and flunitrazepam was studied in the cerebral cortex and cerebellum of rats undergoing status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine. Under control conditions, Zn(2+) dose-dependently inhibited muscimol-stimulated uptake of (36)Cl(-) in cortical and cerebellar membranes. However, Zn(2+) inhibition of stimulated (36)Cl(-) uptake was selectively decreased in the cortex (but not in the cerebellum) 1 to 2 h after the onset of status epilepticus. This loss of Zn(2+) response in the cortex appeared to be selective to Zn(2+) only, because pentobarbital-, alphaxalone-, or flunitrazepam enhancement of muscimol-stimulated (36)Cl(-) uptake did not change in this brain region either at 1 or 2 h after seizures. Because this loss of Zn(2+) response in the cortex was apparent only about 1 h after the onset of status epilepticus but not earlier, we tested whether status epilepticus was critical for the development of the loss of Zn(2+) response. We found that, in rats where status epilepticus was terminated by diazepam within 30 min after seizure onset, Zn(2+) response was preserved in the cortex. These findings suggest that continuous seizures of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus caused a rapid and selective decrease in Zn(2+) inhibition of GABA(A) receptor function in the cortex. The possible relevance of such rapid seizure-induced GABA(A) receptor plasticity in the cerebral cortex is discussed.
PTEN is a dual lipid and protein phosphatase that antagonizes PI3K as well as other signaling pathways and regulates cellular survival and growth. However, its potential role in cardiac ischemia/reperfusion injury remains unknown. We established a transgenic mouse model with inducible and cardiac specific deletion of Pten gene (Pten(CKO)) in adult heart via tamoxifen dependent Cre-loxP mediated DNA recombination. 3 weeks after tamoxifen induced PTEN inactivation, elevated PI3K activity was observed in the Pten(CKO) hearts as determined from downstream AKT signaling. No significant differences in cardiac function as well as chamber size were observed between Pten(CKO) and Control animals based on echocardiography. In response to 30 min ischemia followed by 120 min reperfusion in Langendorff preparations, Pten(CKO) hearts developed significantly better function recovery than Control animals. At 60 min post reperfusion, the recovery of LVDP reached 77.9% of pre-ischemia basal in Pten(CKO) hearts vs 44.2% of Control (p<0.01). Consistent with the observed functional improvement, TTC staining revealed a significant reduction in infarct size in Pten(CKO) hearts compared with Control (24.2% vs 39.7%, p<0.05). Pten(CKO) hearts had significantly fewer apoptosis positive cardiomyocytes after I/R injury as identified by TUNEL staining. Furthermore, ERK activity and BCL-2 expression were not affected at basal but became significantly higher after ischemia/reperfusion in Pten(CKO) hearts. These data indicate that PTEN may play a role in ischemia/reperfusion injury by inhibiting anti-apoptotic survival signals. Inhibiting PTEN may serve as a potential approach to exert cardiac protection against ischemia reperfusion injury.
Effect of UM-272, a dimethyl propranolol has been studied in experimental myocardial necrosis induced by isoproterenol (ISP, 85 mg/kg, SC X 2 days) in rats. Administration of ISP caused increased serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and decreased myocardial glycogen, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) creatine phosphate (CP) and glycolysis through phosphofructokinase (PFK). Myocardial tissue lactate was markedly increased. All these changes resulted in development of myocardial necrosis as calculated from the CPK depletion from the injured myocardium. Rats given UM-272 (10 mg/kg or 20 mg/kg i.p.) 5 days before and 2 days during ISP administration showed significant improvement in all the parameters studied. Furthermore, UM-272 (20 mg/kg X 7 days) in control rats caused a significant (P less than .001) increase in ATP and CP content of the myocardium while other parameters remained unaltered. It would appear from the present study that the cardioprotective effect in ISP induced injury is not related to beta blockade as UM-272 is devoid of beta-blocking properties.
The disposition and metabolism of o-benzyl-p-chlorophenol (BCP) were studied in male Fischer-344 rats. Three days after oral administration of [14C]BCP at 10, 100, or 1000 mg/kg, more than 90% of each dose was excreted in urine and feces. Comparison of disposition after intravenous, dermal, or oral administration indicated that BCP was not completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract or skin. Biliary excretion of BCP was dose-dependent, with proportionally less BCP-derived radioactivity being excreted in the bile as the dose was raised. The results also indicated that enterohepatic circulation was involved in BCP disposition. The major in vivo metabolites were glucuronyl conjugates of BCP and hydroxy-BCP. Glutathione conjugates were also present in urine. In vitro metabolism studies support the observation that microsomal oxidation and glutathione and glucuronyl conjugation play major roles in BCP metabolism. Spleen, kidney, and liver contained the highest tissue concentrations of BCP-derived radioactivity. The presence of more nonextractable BCP-derived radioactivity in kidney than in liver is compatible with the hypothesis that covalent binding of BCP to renal tissue may be associated with BCP-induced nephrotoxicity.
The reinforcing effects of D(1-like) and D(2-like) agonists, and their capacity to modify cocaine self-administration, were compared in rats with extensive cocaine self-administration experience. Cocaine (0.01-1.0 mg i.v.) dose-dependently maintained responding under a fixed ratio (FR) 5 schedule of reinforcement, and an inverted U-shaped function characterized the relationship between unit dose and self-administration behavior. When substituted for cocaine, the D(1-like) agonists SKF 82958 (0.001-0.032 mg i.v.) and SKF 77434 (0.001-0.1 mg i.v.) did not maintain responding above levels observed during saline substitution. In contrast, the D(2-like) agonists quinelorane (0.001-0.1 mg i.v.) and 7-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin (7-OH-DPAT; 0.01-0.32 mg i.v.) reliably maintained i.v. self-administration behavior that was characterized by inverted U-shaped dose-effect functions. Pretreatment with the D(1-like) agonists SKF 82958 and SKF 77434 (0.1-1.0 mg/kg i.p.) shifted the dose-effect function for cocaine self-administration downward, whereas pretreatment with the D(2-like) agonists quinelorane (0.01 mg/kg i.p.) and 7-OH-DPAT (0.32-1.0 mg/kg i.p.) shifted the cocaine dose-effect function to the left. Effects of D(1-like) and D(2-like) agonists on patterns of responding maintained by cocaine (0.32 mg i.v.) also differed: D(1-like) agonists increased the latency to the first response but did not otherwise alter patterns of cocaine self-administration, whereas D(2-like) agonists increased the intervals between self-administered cocaine injections. The results suggest that D(2-like) agonists, but not D(1-like) agonists, have prominent reinforcing effects and enhance the effects of self-administered cocaine in rats with extensive cocaine self-administration experience. Consequently, D(2) receptor-related neuronal mechanisms may be especially important in mediating the abuse-related effects of cocaine.
The oxidative stress imposed by nutritional variations in selenium (Se) has plausible role in reproductive toxicology and affects the reproductive potential. Also, the expression of heat shock proteins (HSPs) is a highly regulated event throughout the process of spermatogenesis and is modulated by stressful stimuli. This prompted us to investigate the possibility that Se-induced oxidative stress may affect the fertility status by altering the expressions of the constitutive and inducible HSP70 proteins, having crucial role in spermatogenesis. Different Se status-deficient, adequate, and excess, male Balb/c mice were created by feeding yeast-based Se-deficient diet (group I) and deficient diet supplemented with Se as sodium selenite at 0.2 and 1 ppm Se (group II and III) for a period of 8 weeks. After completion of the diet-feeding schedule, a significant decrease in the Se and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) levels was observed in the Se-deficient group (I), whereas Se-excess group (III) demonstrated an increase. Increased levels of reactive oxygen species, malondialdehyde, and alterations in the redox status in both groups I and III indicated oxidative-stressed conditions. There was an overall reduced fertility status in mice supplemented with Se-deficient and Se-excess diet. The mRNA and protein expression of HSP70 was found to be elevated in these two groups, whereas the expression patterns of HSP70-2 and MSJ-1 demonstrated a reverse trend. In vitro CDC2 kinase assay showed reduced kinase activity in group I and group III. These findings suggest that Se-induced oxidative stress by differentially regulating various HSP70s can affect its downstream factors having crucially important role in differentiation of germ cells and completion of spermatogenesis. Therefore, it can provide an insight into the mechanism(s) by which the oxidative stress-induced reproductive toxicity can lead to increased apoptosis/growth arrest and infertility. This will thus add new dimensions to the molecular mechanism underlying the human male infertility and open new vistas in the development of various chemo-preventive methods.
Human PNAS-4 (hPNAS-4), as a pro-apoptotic gene, can inhibit tumor growth when overexpressed in some malignant cells. Poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) was used as a gene transfer vector due to the advantage of sustained release, nontoxicity and biodegradability. In this study, we aimed to investigate the effect of PLGA nanoparticles encapsulating hPNAS-4 combined with cisplatin (DDP) on ovarian carcinoma. Expression of hPNAS-4 was determined by RT-PCR. Mice bearing intraperitoneal ovarian carcinomas were treated with PBS, pVAX-PLGA nanoparticles (P-P), pVAX-hPNAS-4-PLGA nanoparticles (PhP-P), DDP and PhP-P plus DDP, respectively. Intraperitoneal tumors were weighed to assess the antitumor efficacy. The percentage of proliferative cells and apoptotic cells was evaluated by Ki-67 staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling. The anti-angiogenic effects were detected by CD31 staining and the alginate-encapsulate assay. Overexpression of hPNAS-4 was detected by RT-PCR in the PhP-P and PhP-P plus DDP groups. PhP-P exerted significant antitumor activity through induction of apoptosis, inhibition of cell proliferation and suppression of angiogenesis, compared with treatment with P-P or PBS alone. The combination of PhP-P with DDP showed enhanced antitumor activity compared with therapy of PhP-P or DDP alone. PLGA encapsulating hPNAS-4 combined with DDP may have promising applications in the therapy of ovarian cancer.
Psychosis is an uncommon but well-recognised complication of short-term corticosteroid administration. We report a case of steroid-induced psychosis subsequent to a bimaxillary osteotomy.
Hypotension is common after mivacurium injection in healthy patients. This hemodynamic event had not been investigated in hypertensive patients characterized by more intense hemodynamic instability. In this open-label, multicenter, randomized, and controlled study, we sought to determine whether mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) and heart rate variations were larger in hypertensive versus normotensive patients after a bolus dose of mivacurium injected over 10 or 30 s. After the induction of anesthesia with fentanyl and etomidate, normotensive (n = 149) and hypertensive (n = 57) patients received a single dose of mivacurium 0.2 mg/kg injected over 10 or 30 s by random allocation. Heart rate and MAP were recorded electronically. The incidence of hypotension (defined as a 20% MAP decrease from the control value before mivacurium injection) was 21% and 36% (10-s injection) or 11% and 10% (30-s injection) in the Normotensive and Hypertensive groups, respectively. In Hypertensive patients, the maximum decrease in MAP was significantly greater when mivacurium was injected over 10 s compared with 30 s: 20% vs 11%, respectively (P = 0.002). This difference was not observed in Normotensive patients. Hypotension after rapid (e.g., 10 s) mivacurium injection was more frequent and more pronounced in Hypertensive than in Normotensive patients.
When mivacurium (0.2 mg/kg) is injected rapidly (e.g., 10 s) the incidence and the intensity of hypotension are greater in hypertensive patients than in healthy patients.
DNA restriction, molecular cloning, and sequencing methods have been used to characterize the mutation leading to the methemoglobinemia HbM Iwate. It could be demonstrated that the HbM Iwate defect is caused by a point mutation involving a transition from C to T in the first position of codon 87 of the alpha 1-globin gene. Furthermore, the HbM Iwate mutation can directly be identified upon RsaI digestion. This direct detection of the mutation on the gene level is of significant advantage for differential diagnostic purposes.
Antibiotic therapy for staphylococcal endocarditis is based on in vitro susceptibility, antibiotic efficacy in experimental endocarditis, and clinical experience. Native valve endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus in non-addicts is treated with four to six weeks of a penicillinase-resistant penicillin, a cephalosporin, or vancomycin. An aminoglycoside can be added for the initial three to five days, but longer-term multiple-drug therapy (adding an aminoglycoside and rifampin) is reserved for unresponsive infection. Right-sided native valve endocarditis in addicts usually responds to less vigorous therapy than that for native valve endocarditis in non-addicts. Vancomycin is the drug of choice for endocarditis due to methicillin-resistant S. aureus. Intrinsic methicillin-resistance in Staphylococcus epidermidis is often cryptic, requiring special tests for detection. Methicillin-resistant S. epidermidis is the major cause of prosthetic valve endocarditis. Vancomycin, rifampin, and gentamicin therapy for two weeks, followed by vancomycin plus rifampin, is recommended for treating this infection. Despite potent antimicrobial therapy, surgery is important in the therapy of complicated endocarditis, particularly prosthetic valve endocarditis.
Tetanus-induced heterosynaptic depression in the hippocampus is a key cellular mechanism in neural networks implicated in learning and memory. A growing body of evidence indicates that glial cells are important modulators of synaptic functions, but very little is known about their role in heterosynaptic plasticity. We examined the role of glial cells in heterosynaptic depression, knowing that tetanization and NMDA application caused depression of synaptic field responses (fEPSPs) and induced Ca2+ rise in glial cells. Here we report that chelating Ca2+ in a glial syncytium interfered with heterosynaptic depression and NMDA-induced fEPSP depression, suggesting that Ca2+ activation of glial cells is necessary for heterosynaptic depression. The NMDA-induced Ca2+ rise in glial cells was sensitive to tetrodotoxin and reduced by the GABAB antagonist CGP55845. Both heterosynaptic depression and simultaneous Ca2+ activation of glial cells were prevented by CGP55845, suggesting an involvement of the GABAergic network in glial activation and heterosynaptic depression. Also, the GABAB agonist baclofen caused both a Ca2+ rise in glial cells and fEPSP depression. Heterosynaptic depression, as well as NMDA- and baclofen-induced depression, were attenuated by an A1 antagonist, cyclopentyl-theophylline, whereas glial cell activation was not, indicating a role of adenosine downstream of glial activation. Finally, heterosynaptic depression requires ATP degradation because ectonucleotidase inhibitors reduced this plasticity. Our work indicates that Ca2+ activation of glial cells is necessary for heterosynaptic depression, which involves the sequential interaction of Schaffer collaterals, the GABAergic network, and glia. Thus, glial and neuronal networks are functionally associated during the genesis of heterosynaptic plasticity at mammalian central excitatory synapses.
Since Ca++-overloading is a major problem after myocardial reperfusion we studied the effects of Diltiazem on the left ventricular diastolic function in the early days following coronary thrombolysis. Twelve patients who had myocardial reperfusion by intracoronary urokinase in acute myocardial infarction were admitted to the study. Previous infarct, cardiogenic shock or late thrombolysis (greater than 4 h from symptoms onset) were exclusion criteria. All subjects were evaluated at control cardiac catheterization 5-8 days after the acute ischemia. Simultaneous left ventricular angiography and high-fidelity pressure recordings by means of a tip-micromanometer and angiographic catheter were performed at rest and after intravenous Diltiazem administration (16 mg over 2' + 0.008 mg/Kg/min). Indexes of myocardial relaxation and early ventricular filling were impaired at rest but improved significantly after Diltiazem (Tab. II). Isovolumic relaxation period fell from 92 +/- 8 msec to 77 +/- 12 msec (p less than .01), T constant of isovolumic pressure decay decreased from 61 +/- 7 msec to 55 +/- 7 msec (p = ns), first-third of filling rate increased from 64 +/- 7% to 79 +/- 6% (p less than .01). On the other hand, indexes of left ventricular compliance were altered after coronary reperfusion (left ventricular end-diastolic compliance 17 +/- 13 mmHg-1. 10(-3), modulus of chamber stiffness .045 +/- .008) but but did not change after calcium-blocker therapy. In conclusion, post-thrombolysis diastolic function is severely impaired at rest, probably because of raised intracellular Ca++ and delayed asynchronous relaxation. Diltiazem improves energy-dependent early diastole, but does not affect ventricular compliance.
Chemosensory disorders as a side effect of dipyridamole treatment have not been previously described. A case of dysgeusia during treatment with dipyridamole for congestive heart failure is reported.
Cigarette smoke exposure in utero and during early postnatal development increases the incidence of asthma and airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) later in life, suggesting that a possible critical period of developmental sensitivity exists in the prenatal and early postnatal periods.
We investigated mechanisms of susceptibility during critical developmental periods to sidestream smoke (SS) exposure and evaluated the possible effects of SS on neural responses.
We exposed three different age groups of mice to either SS or filtered air (FA) for 10 consecutive days beginning on gestation day (GD) 7 by maternal exposure or beginning on postnatal day (PND) 2 or PND21 by direct inhalation. Lung function, airway substance P (SP) innervation, and nerve growth factor (NGF) levels in broncho alveolar lavage fluid were measured after a single SS exposure on PND59.
Methacholine (MCh) dose response for lung resistance (R(L)) was significantly elevated, and dynamic pulmonary compliance (C(dyn)) was significantly decreased, in the GD7 and PND2 SS exposure groups compared with the FA groups after SS exposure on PND59. At the same time points, the percent area of SP nerve fibers in tracheal smooth muscle and the levels of NGF were significantly elevated. MCh dose-response curves for R(L) and C(dyn), SP nerve fiber density, and the level of NGF were not significantly changed in the PND21 exposure group after SS exposure on PND59.
These results suggest that a critical period of susceptibility to SS exposure exists in the prenatal and early postnatal period of development in mice that results in increased SP innervation, increased NGF levels in the airway, and enhanced MCh AHR later in life.
Ifosfamide (IFO) chemotherapy has been reported to result in deToni-Debré-Fanconi syndrome in a minority of patients only, but evaluation of tubular transport capacities has identified a substantial number of patients as having subclinical tubular dysfunction. After completion of combination chemotherapy employing IFO (n = 37) or IFO plus cisplatinum (CPL) (n = 27), glomerular and tubular function was assessed in 64 patients by the urinary excretion of transferrin, IgG, albumin, alpha 1-microglobulin (A1M) and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase. Sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was performed in 21 patients. The determination of urinary marker proteins was compared with the glomerular filtration rate, the fractional phosphate and percent amino acid reabsorption. A reduced glomerular filtration rate was observed in 9.8% of patients. Tubular dysfunction was frequent, with a predominance of renal amino acid (57%) and A1M (48%) loss. IFO-mediated renal toxicity was dose dependent. CPL treatment resulted in significant enhancement of tubular toxicity induced by IFO, whereas concomitant gentamicin therapy did not affect tubular function. Measurement of urinary protein cannot replace other tests for tubular dysfunction in IFO-treated patients, because the spectrum of IFO-induced nephrotoxicity includes dysfunction of different and independent transport mechanisms of the proximal tubular system. Increased urinary A1M excretion is an important indicator of impaired tubular protein reabsorption.
Chemotherapy with oxazaphosphorines, such as cyclophosphamide (CYP), is often limited by unacceptable urotoxicity. Without uroprotection, hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) becomes dose-limiting. To compare the uroprotective efficacy of classical 2-mercaptoethanesulfonic acid (Mesna) treatment with dexamethasone in CYP-induced HC, male Wistar rats (150-200 g; N = 6 in each group) were treated with saline or Mesna (40 mg/kg, ip) immediately and 4 and 8 h after ip administration of CYP (200 mg/kg). One, 2 or 3 doses of Mesna were replaced with dexamethasone (1 mg/kg, ip). The animals were sacrificed 24 h later. Cystitis was evaluated by determining the changes in bladder wet weight (BWW) and by macroscopic and microscopic analysis. CYP treatment induced a marked increased in BWW (162%, P<0.05), which was significantly inhibited by treatment with 3 doses of Mesna (P<0.05; 80%). The replacement of 1 or 2 doses of Mesna with dexamethasone reduced the increase in BWW by 83.3 and 95%, respectively. Macroscopic analysis of the bladder of rats with CYP-induced HC showed severe edema and hemorrhage, confirmed by microscopic analysis, that also showed mucosal erosion, inflammatory cell infiltration and ulcerations. The replacement of 1 or 2 doses of Mesna with dexamethasone inhibited the CYP-induced increase in BWW and almost abolished the macroscopic and microscopic alterations, with no significant difference between the effects of Mesna and dexamethasone, indicating that both drugs were efficient in blocking HC. However, although the replacement of all Mesna doses with dexamethasone reduced the edema, it did not prevent HC, suggesting that Mesna is necessary for the initial uroprotection.
