The effects of oxybutynin, an anticholinergic and antispasmodic agent, on the cardiovascular system were studied in comparison with those of atropine in anesthetized dogs. Oxybutynin (0.1-10 mg/kg, i.v.) caused a transient hypotension, tachycardia, increases in femoral, stomach, mesenteric and common carotid arterial blood flows and a decrease in renal arterial blood flow. Atropine (0.1-10 mg/kg, i.v.) caused a stronger and more prolonged hypotension with bradycardia, accompanied by weaker blood flow changes than those by oxybutynin. In open-chest dogs, oxybutynin caused increases in cardiac output and coronary sinus outflow and decreases in heart rate and left ventricular pressure. The agent augmented dLVP/dt/P at doses up to 3 mg/kg, i.v., but reduced it at 10 mg/kg, i.v. Atropine caused stronger cardiosuppressive responses than those of oxybutynin. Coronary sinus outflow was decreased by atropine, unlike in the case of oxybutynin. The pressor responses of norepinephrine, epinephrine and tyramine were potentiated by pretreatment with oxybutynin (15 mg/kg, i.v.). However, pressor or depressor responses induced by histamine, isoproterenol, serotonin and DMPP were unaffected by oxybutynin. Intraarterial injections of oxybutynin, atropine and papaverine caused femoral and renal arterial vasodilations dose-dependently, in the following order of potency: papaverine greater than oxybutynin greater than atropine. In the isolated blood-perfused canine papillary muscle preparation, oxybutynin and atropine caused a negative inotropic action, whereas papaverine caused a positive inotropic action. From the above results, it is suggested that oxybutynin has milder cardiosuppressive and hypotensive effects than atropine in terms of potency and duration of action, and in addition, oxybutynin has a vasodilating action probably ascribable to its anticholinergic and antispasmodic actions.
The Royal College of General Practitioners' Oral Contraception Study is a continuing cohort survey of the effects of oral contraceptives on the health of users. Neurotic depression is associated with the oestrogen content of combined oral contraceptives, but the risk is small in general, and there is no excess risk associated with oestrogen doses of 35 micrograms or less. It now appears likely that, in the long-term, oral contraceptives are not associated with any increased risk of gallbladder disease, although there is an acceleration of the disease in those women susceptible to it. The progestogen activity of combined oral contraceptives is associated with an increased risk of hypertension and arterial disease. Duration of use no longer seems to influence the occurrence of the latter. Cigarette smoking by oral contraceptive users is the predominant associated risk factor for the occurrence of arterial diseases. Non-smokers using low-progestogen-dose brands may safely use oral contraceptives, probably up to the age of 45 years. In the author's opinion, there is no convincing evidence that oral contraceptive use increases the risk of breast cancer. The evidence for an association with cervical cancer is firmer, but, if confirmed, is unlikely to affect more than one in 3000 users a year. Increased safety in the use of oral contraceptives in future is likely to be achieved through the use of tests which will allow the adjustment of dose to be made to each patient's particular requirements.
This article reviews progress in the Royal College of General Practitioners' Oral Contraception (OC) Study, an ongoing cohort survey of the effects of OCs on the health of users. since the study was launched in 1968, 1400 general practitioners in the UK have recruited 23,000 OC users and 23,000 matched controls who have never used OCs. At present, 19,000 women remain under observation. 36% of study subjects who discontinued OC use cited intercurrent morbidity, chiefly psychological depression, as the reason. Neurotic depression is associated with the estrogen content of combined OCs, but the risk is small and there is no excess risk associated with estrogen doses of 35 mcg or less. Although OC use is linked with gallbladder disease in women susceptible to this disease, there are no more cases reported in OC users than in nonusers. Also observed has been a strong interrelationship between the progestogen dose of OCs, the lowering of high density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels, and the rate of arterial disease. Duration of use does not seem to influence the incidence of arterial disease; cigarette smoking among OC users is the major associated risk factor. The risk of dying from an arterial disease is greater for an OC user with the disease than a nonuser with the disease. The increased risk of death from a circulatory disease associated with OC use is further significantly linked to the parity of the affected woman. The data suggest that nonsmokers ca safely use low progestogen dose OCs up to age 45 years. Although study data suggest a 3-fold increased risk of breast cancer in OC users ages 30-35 years, these results are attributed to chance. Evidence of an association between OC use and cervical cancer is stronger, but it is unlikely that more than 1 in 3000 users/year would be affected. There is increasing recognition that most women receive a higher steroid dose than they need. Development of a simple test capable of determining steroid absorption and metabolism would facilitate individualized dose adjustments.
We report here the identification of a new human homeobox gene, PITX3, and its involvement in anterior segment mesenchymal dysgenesis (ASMD) and congenital cataracts in humans. The PITX3 gene is the human homologue of the mouse Pitx3 gene and is a member of the RIEG/PITX homeobox gene family. The protein encoded by PITX3 shows 99% amino-acid identity to the mouse protein, with 100% identity in the homeodomain and approximately 70% overall identity to other members of this family. We mapped the human PITX3 gene to 10q25 using a radiation-hybrid panel. A collection of 80 DNA samples from individuals with various eye anomalies was screened for mutations in the PITX3 gene. We identified two mutations in independent patients. A 17-bp insertion in the 3'-end of the coding sequence, resulting in a frame shift, occurred in a patient with ASMD and cataracts, and a G-->A substitution, changing a codon for serine into a codon for asparagine, in the 5'-end of the gene occurred in a patient with congenital cataracts. Both mutations cosegregate with the disease phenotype in families, and neither were found in up to 300 control individuals studied. Further expression analysis of Pitx3 in the mouse supports a unique role in early ocular development, with later expression extending to the midbrain, tongue, incisors, sternum, vertebrae and limbs. These data strongly suggest a role for PITX3 in ASMD and cataracts and provide new evidence of the contribution of the RIEG/PITX gene family to the developmental program underpinning normal eye formation.
To provide information on the central hemodynamic effects of intrathecal sufentanil after a standard intravenous preload using thoracic bioimpedance monitoring to obtain noninvasive measurements of cardiac index (CI), stroke index (SI), and systemic vascular resistance (SVR). To compare hemodynamic parameters after intrathecal sufentanil labor analgesia to those after a standard dose of epidural bupivacaine in laboring parturients.
Randomized, double-blind study.
Labor and delivery unit in a university hospital.
40 ASA status I parturients were randomized into two groups receiving analgesia with combined spinal-epidural technique. Group SUF received 10 micrograms of intrathecal sufentanil followed by 12 ml of saline through an epidural catheter; Group BUP received 2 ml of intrathecal saline followed by 12 ml of 0.25% epidural bupivacaine. Heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), and thoracic bioimpedance monitoring were recorded. Pain scores, fetal HR, and side effects were noted.
No significant changes from baseline were seen in CI, SI, or SVR index. Mean arterial pressure was lower in Group BUP at 10 and 20 minutes after induction of analgesia. Mean HR was lower in Group SUF at 20 and 30 minutes after induction. Two patients in Group SUF and four patients in Group BUP experienced hypotension requiring ephedrine. Pain scores were lower in Group SUF at 10 minutes after induction of analgesia; subsequent pain scores and duration of analgesia were similar. Fourteen patients in Group SUF experienced itching.
No significant differences in CI, SI, or SVR index were seen after either method of analgesia. A few patients in both groups experienced hypotension requiring treatment with ephedrine. Both techniques of labor analgesia appear to provide effective pain relief but care must be taken with either method to monitor maternal BP.
Eighty-four patients with severe psoriasis who required methotrexate (MTX) therapy have been reviewed. A total of 134 liver biopsies were performed. The lack of correlation between alcohol intake and the use of potential hepatotoxic drugs with pretreatment liver biopsies is noted. A review of 30 patients who had liver biopsies performed before and after MTX treatment showed no statistically significant difference between the histological grades before and after treatment. Nor was there any absolute correlation between the cumulative MTX doses and the histological changes of follow-up biopsies. In this group of patients, 15 (50%) developed fibrosis, which was severe in 2 patients, after 3,431 mg MTX average dose. Cirrhosis was observed in 3 patients (10%) after 1,667 mg MTX average dose. Follow-up liver biopsies are recommended for patients treated with MTX.
The aim of the present study was to assess the incidence of abnormal QTc interval values in a population of subjects on a long-term methadone maintenance treatment, as a single therapy, and with methadone dosages ranging between 10 and 600 mg/daily (mean+/-SD=87+/-76).
Basal ECG recordings were carried out in 83 former heroin addicts on long-term successful methadone maintenance therapy for at least 6 months, while no other known QT-prolonging agent was being administered.
Eighty-three percent of the subjects had a more prolonged QT interval than the reference values for persons of the same sex and age. Only 2 patients displayed a QTc interval of >500 ms. No correlation emerged between QTc values and methadone dosages.
Patients on long-term methadone maintenance treatment show longer than expected QTc interval values. This data, associated with the finding that methadone is a rather potent inhibitor of HERG potassium channels and that it may induce torsade de pointes in predisposed subjects, supports the recommendation that patients entering methadone treatment (MT) are screened for cardiac risk factors. ECG might be considered in ongoing MT patients especially before starting QT-prolonging medications.
1. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of an intact baroreceptor reflex mechanism in the expression of the cardiovascular response to 8-OH-DPAT and to determine whether there are any differences between the activation of central alpha 2-adrenoreceptors and 5-HT1A receptors in this respect. To this end, the effects of 8-OH-DPAT and clonidine have been assessed on blood pressure, heart rate, ECG and cardiac contractility indices in conscious sino-aortic baroreceptor denervated (SAD) rats and their sham-operated controls. 2. In both sham-operated and SAD rats, intravenous (i.v.) administration of 8-OH-DPAT (32 micrograms kg-1) and clonidine (8 micrograms kg-1) produced falls in systemic blood pressure, left ventricular systolic pressure and dP/dtmax. 3. 8-OH-DPAT produced similar bradycardia in each group of rats; in contrast, clonidine had a greater effect in the SAD animals. Increases of the PQ interval mirrored the heart-rate changes with both compounds. 4. No significant changes in end diastolic blood pressure or in the myocardial contractility indices dP/dtmax/P and Vmax were evident. 5. This study provides support for the view that i.v. 8-OH-DPAT lowers blood pressure and heart rate through a central mechanism. The effects occur independently of an intact baroreceptor reflex and are not associated with effects on myocardial contractility. 8-OH-DPAT shows close qualitative similarities to clonidine in this model.
Nitrendipine and cilazapril are two new antihypertensive drugs with different mechanisms of action. Nitrendipine is a calcium antagonist of the dihydropyridine class which decreases directly the smooth muscle tone. Cilazapril is a new long-lasting inhibitor of angiotensin-converting enzyme which suppresses the peripheral vasoconstrictor effect of angiotensin I by inhibiting its transformation in angiotensin II. The goal of the present study was to assess the effects on hemodynamics and regional blood flows (measured with radioactive microspheres) of cilazapril and nitrendipine given alone or in combination. Cilazapril (3 mg/kg) and nitrendipine (0.3 mg/kg) were given intravenously to conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats first alone, then in combination. Both cilazapril and nitrendipine decreased mean arterial pressure to the same extent. Cilazapril increased regional blood flow only in the kidney without changing total cardiac output. In contrast, nitrendipine increased regional blood flow in nearly every organ and markedly enhanced total cardiac output. Cilazapril redistributed the cardiac output distribution toward the kidney, and nitrendipine did not change the cardiac output distribution. The combination of both nitrendipine and cilazapril produced a stronger antihypertensive effect than each drug alone. The peripheral vasodilatation with the combination was not as marked as with nitrendipine alone but was associated with the same redistribution of the cardiac output toward the kidney as with cilazapril. We conclude that after acute intravenous administration the combination of cilazapril and nitrendipine produced hemodynamic effects which cannot be induced by each drug used alone. Such a therapeutic profile may be useful in patients with high blood pressure or heart failure.
It is well established that pregnancy and puerperium, surgery and trauma may often trigger thrombotic events even in the normal population. On the other hand, patients with congenital deficiency of clotting inhibitors may develop spontaneous thrombotic episodes, although they become often symptomatic when one of the above-mentioned triggering factors is present. We found this to be true in 40 out of 81 symptomatic patients with congenital defects of coagulation inhibitors. In six (15%) of these cases medications (mainly oral contraceptives) triggered the thrombotic event. The incidence of pharmacological factors as a cause of thrombosis is commonly maintained to be low. This study indicates that this is not so and underlines the potential importance of drugs, particularly oral contraceptives, in the pathogenesis of thrombotic events in patients with congenital defects of clotting inhibitors.
6 patients with deep vein thrombosis triggered by drug therapy, that is oral contraceptives in 5 and the anticonvulsant tranexamic acid in 1, are described. These cases were among 40 symptomatic patients out of a total group of 81 with congenital coagulation inhibitor defects studied over 10 years at the Institute of Medical Semiotics, Padua, Italy. The 5 women with deep vein thrombosis ranged in age from 20-34, and had typically taken oral contraceptives containing 35 mcg ethinyl estradiol in combined or phasic preparations, for 1 to 8 cycles. One women, however, had been prescribed sequential pills containing 50 mcg mestranol. Another had taken oral contraceptives with impunity for 3 years, but developed deep vein thrombosis after taking tranexamic acid for 10 days. All recovered after heparin or oral anticoagulant therapy, except a 21 year old whose condition evolved into complete ileo-caval obstruction up to the renal veins, and was treated with urokinase. the congenital defects involved were 3 probable heterozygous true deficiencies of antithrombin III (low ATIII antigen and activity); a decreased protein C antigen to factor X antigen ratio; a heparin cofactor II deficiency; and a type I protein S deficiency (low free protein S, with normal total protein S and normal levels of C4B-bp.) While 5 of these 6 women had family histories of thromboembolic disease, the drug was prescribed without knowing that they were heterozygous for a coagulation inhibitor deficiency. The incidence of drug-induced thromboembolism was low in this series overall, where most of the events were triggered by surgery or trauma.
Indiscriminate use of agrochemicals worldwide, particularly, persistent organic pollutants (POPs), is of concern. Endosulfan, a POP, is used by various developing/developed nations and is known to adversely affect the development and the hormonal profiles of humans and animals. However, little is known about the molecular players/pathways underlying the adverse effects of endosulfan. We therefore analyzed the global gene expression changes and subsequent adverse effects of endosulfan using Drosophila. We used Drosophila melanogaster keeping in view of its well annotated genome and the wealth of genetic/molecular reagents available for this model organism. We exposed third instar larvae of D. melanogaster to endosulfan (2.0 μg mL(-1)) for 24 h and using microarray, we identified differential expression of 256 genes in exposed organisms compared to controls. These genes are associated with cellular processes such as development, stress and immune response and metabolism. Microarray results were validated through quantitative PCR and biochemical assay on a subset of genes/proteins. Taking cues from microarray data, we analyzed the effect of endosulfan on development, emergence and survival of the organism. In exposed organisms, we observed deformities in hind-legs, reminiscent of those observed in higher organisms exposed to endosulfan. In addition, we observed delayed and/or reduced emergence in exposed organisms when compared to their respective controls. Together, our studies not only highlight the adverse effects of endosulfan on the organism but also provide an insight into the possible genetic perturbations underlying these effects, which might have potential implications to higher organisms.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis is a common parasitic disease in Iran, especially in Isfahan. First line treatment for this disease is antimonial compounds; however, owing to the intermittent failure of this treatment and its significant side-effects alternative therapeutic measures have been advocated.
Evaluating the efficacy of pentoxifylline plus glucantime in the treatment of cutaneous leishmaniasis.
This double-blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial with simple sampling was performed on 64 patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis referred to the Skin Diseases & Leishmaniasis Research Center from an endemic foci of L. major in Isfahan. The patients randomly were divided into two groups. One group was treated with systemic Glucantime (20 mg pentavalent antimony/kg/day) combined with pentoxifylline (400 mg three times daily) and the other group were treated with Glucantime (20 mg pentavalent antimony/kg/day) plus placebo (three tablets daily) for 20 days. Follow up lasted 3 months. Response to treatment was grouped as complete improvement (lesions had been flattened, no induration, and epidermal creases had appeared), partial improvement (reduction in lesion size, but without the appearance of epidermal creases) and poor response (no reduction in lesion size).
Of 64 participants, 32 patients in the trial group and 31 patients in the control group were followed for 3 months. One patient in group B discontinued withdrew. After this time, complete improvement, partial improvement and poor response to treatment were 81.3%, 12.5% and 6.2% in the trial group and 51.6%, 29% and 19.4% in the control group, respectively. We also observed no adverse effect resulting from pentoxifylline.
The result obtained by two therapeutic methods indicates that combined therapy with Glucantime and pentoxifylline is more effective than Glucantime alone (P < 0.05).
We examined the effects of JP-1302 (a selective alpha2C antagonist), BRL-44408 (a selective alpha2A antagonist) and yohimbine (a non-selective alpha2 antagonist) on haloperidol-induced bradykinesia and catalepsy in mice to elucidate the role of alpha2 adrenoceptor subtypes in modifying extrapyramidal motor disorders. JP-1302 (0.1-1 mg/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently ameliorated haloperidol-induced bradykinesia in the pole-test and reversed the catalepsy time increased by haloperidol. Antibradykinetic and anticataleptic actions of JP-1302 were statistically significant at 0.3 and 1 mg/kg, and these doses did not alter the ambulatory distance, rearing or center-perimeter residence time in the open-field test. BRL-44408 (1-10 mg/kg, s.c.) and yohimbine (0.3-3 mg/kg, i.p.) also ameliorated haloperidol-induced bradykinesia and catalepsy. However, both agents significantly decreased ambulatory distance and rearing in the open-field test, possibly reflecting their anxiogenic actions associated with alpha2A antagonism. The present study shows for the first time that blockade of alpha2C receptors can alleviate antipsychotic-induced extrapyramidal motor disorders without affecting gross behaviors.
This study was designed to evaluate the anxiolytic efficacy of buspirone in patients with a diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) with coexisting mild depressive symptoms.
Patients who participated in this multicenter study scored >/= 18 on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A) and between 12 and 17 on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D). Following a 7- to 10-day placebo lead-in phase, patients who continued to qualify were randomly assigned to receive either buspirone titrated from 15 to 45 mg/day (N = 80) or placebo (N = 82) for the next 6 weeks. 121 patients completed 6 weeks of treatment. The primary efficacy measure was the HAM-A, taken weekly during the study.
Buspirone-treated patients averaged a 12.4-point reduction from their baseline total HAM-A score of 24.9, while their counterparts on placebo averaged a 9.5-point reduction from their mean baseline total HAM-A score of 25.6. This 2.9-point difference in HAM-A reductions between treatment groups was significantly different (p < .03). Buspirone patients decreased their HAM-D scores by an average 5.7 points from their mean baseline total HAM-D score of 15.8, while placebo patients decreased their HAM-D scores by an average 3.5 points from their mean baseline score of 16.3 (p < .05). Overall, the incidence of adverse events was similar for both treatment groups, but buspirone-treated patients reported significantly more nausea, dizziness, somnolence, and sweating than placebo patients.
Buspirone is superior to placebo in improving anxiety and depressive symptoms in GAD patients who have coexisting depressive symptoms.
Transient neurologic symptoms occurred in a five-year-old child after discontinuation of epidural analgesia with bupivacaine and morphine, which had been established for two days after thoracotomy. The symptoms resolved within 12 hours with acetaminophen.
Oxidative stress is a major contributor to the development of vascular dysfunction found in various pathological conditions. Quercetin, one of the potent antioxidant bioflavonoid compounds, has been shown to alleviate oxidative injury by modulation of gene expression leading to suppression of production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species and conferring an antiapoptotic activity. The aim of the present study was to investigate the protective effects of quercetin in a model of phenylhydrazine (PHZ)-induced oxidant stress, vascular dysfunction and hemodynamic disturbance in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered quercetin orally (25 or 50mg/kg/day) for 6 days. On day four, all animals except those in the normal control group, were administered PHZ intraperitoneally. The results showed that PHZ induced severe hemolysis. The mean arterial pressure and hindlimb vascular resistance of PHZ-control rats were markedly decreased compared to normal controls. Treatment with quercetin significantly improved arterial blood pressure and peripheral vascular resistance. Vascular responsiveness to bradykinin, acetylcholine, and phenylephrine in PHZ-control rats was dramatically suppressed and quercetin restored these responses in a dose-dependent manner. Quercetin partially protected blood glutathione, suppressed plasma malondialdehyde levels, and largely suppressed nitric oxide metabolites and superoxide anion production. These results provide the first evidence for the role of the flavonoid, quercetin, in the alleviation of vascular dysfunction in an animal model of PHZ-induced oxidant stress.
Inorganic mercury (mercuric chloride--HgCl(2)) induces in mice an autoimmune syndrome (HgIA) with T cell-dependent polyclonal B cell activation and hypergammaglobulinemia, dose- and H-2-dependent production of autoantibodies targeting the 34 kDa nucleolar protein fibrillarin (AFA), and systemic immune-complex deposits. The organic mercury species methylmercury (MeHg) and ethylmercury (EtHg--in the form of thimerosal) induce AFA, while the other manifestations of HgIA seen after treatment with HgCl(2) are present to varying extent. Since these organic Hg species are converted to the autoimmunogen Hg(2+) in the body, their primary autoimmunogen potential is uncertain and the subject of this study. A moderate dose of HgCl(2) (8 mg/L drinking water--internal dose 148 micro gHg/kg body weight [bw]/day) caused the fastest AFA response, while the induction was delayed after higher (25 mg/L) and lower (1.5 and 3 mg/L) doses. The lowest dose of HgCl(2) inducing AFA was 1.5 mg/L drinking water which corresponded to a renal Hg(2+) concentration of 0.53 micro g/g. Using a dose of 8 mg HgCl(2)/L this threshold concentration was reached within 24 h, and a consistent AFA response developed after 8-10 days. The time lag for the immunological part of the reaction leading to a consistent AFA response was therefore 7-9 days. A dose of thimerosal close to the threshold dose for induction of AFA (2 mg/L drinking water--internal dose 118 micro gHg/kg bw per day), caused a renal Hg(2+) concentration of 1.8 micro g/g. The autoimmunogen effect of EtHg might therefore be entirely due to Hg(2+) formed from EtHg in the body. The effect of organic and inorganic Hg species on T-helper type 1 and type 2 cells during induction of AFA was assessed as the presence and titre of AFA of the IgG1 and IgG2a isotype, respectively. EtHg induced a persistent Th1-skewed response irrespectively of the dose and time used. A low daily dose of HgCl(2) (1.5-3 mg/L) caused a Th1-skewed AFA response, while a moderate dose (8 mg/L) after 2 weeks resulted in a balanced or even Th2-skewed response. Higher daily doses of HgCl(2) (25 mg/L) caused a balanced Th2-Th1 response already from onset. In conclusion, while metabolically formed Hg(2+) might be the main AFA-inducing factor also after treatment with EtHg, the quality of the Hg-induced AFA response is modified by the species of Hg as well as the dose.
n-Hexane and methyl n-butyl ketone share a common metabolite, 2,5-hexanedione, a potent neurotoxin. Neurotoxic effects to both peripheral and central nervous systems may occur after occupational exposure or recreational abuse of n-hexane. Initial clinical manifestations include numbness and tingling sensation in the toes and fingers, followed by progressive weakness and areflexia, particularly in the distal limbs. Chronic low-dose n-hexane exposure, often observed in industrial workers, apparently causes axonal loss with sensory impairment. Subacute high-dose n-hexane exposure, often observed in glue-sniffers, can cause axonal swelling and secondary demyelination with muscle wasting and weakness. Electrophysiological studies demonstrate prominent prolongation of distal latencies, slowing of nerve conduction velocities, and conduction block with temporal dispersion particularly in severely intoxicated patients. Pathological hallmarks include giant axonal swelling with secondary demyelination and relative loss of large myelinated fibers. Giant axons are accumulated by 10 nm neurofilaments. The clinical course tends to be biphasic with "coasting" for 2-3 months, followed by a slow recovery for about 1-2 years after cessation of exposure to n-hexane. Prognosis is usually favorable. Severely affected patients may develop sequelae of muscle wasting, foot drop, and spasticity. Increased awareness of the n-hexane neurotoxicity in industrial workers and glue sniffers as well as use of safe solvents and adequate ventilation systems are important for preventing n-hexane toxicity.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1, Ccl2) expression is increased in livers of patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and in murine models of steatohepatitis. Several studies in rodents indicate that MCP-1 contributes to liver steatosis induced by feeding a high-fat diet. However, the extent of MCP-1 involvement in the widely utilized methionine-choline-deficient (MCD) diet model of steatohepatitis has not been determined. We tested the hypothesis that MCP-1 contributes to steatohepatitis in mice fed the MCD diet. MCP-1-deficient mice on a C57Bl/6J background and age-matched C57Bl/6J mice were fed either MCD diet or control diet for 4 weeks. MCP-1 deficiency did not affect steatohepatitis, as indicated by liver histopathology, nor did it affect serum alanine aminotransferase activity, hepatic triglyceride levels, hepatic inflammatory gene induction, or macrophage accumulation in mice fed the MCD diet. MCP-1 deficiency reduced the expression of the profibrogenic genes, pro-collagen 1a1, connective tissue growth factor, and transforming growth factor-β, in mice fed the MCD diet. MCP-1 deficiency significantly reduced collagen deposition and α-smooth muscle actin protein levels in the livers of mice fed the MCD diet. The results indicate that MCP-1 does not contribute to liver steatosis or inflammation in the MCD diet model of steatohepatitis. Rather, the data suggest that MCP-1 contributes to fibrosis in mice fed the MCD diet, independent of effects on steatosis and inflammation.
The purpose of this study was to characterize the concentration-dependent induction of apoptosis by anticancer drugs in vitro.
The apoptosis- and necrosis-inducing potential of the anticancer drugs cladribine (CDA), cytarabine (ARA-C), cisplatin (CDDP), and 5-fluorouracil (5FU) were studied in vitro in the human leukemia cell lines HSB2 and Jurkat using a flow-cytometry assay that permits the simultaneous quantification of vital, apoptotic, and necrotic cells by double-staining with fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled Annexin-V and propidium iodide. The results were fit to different multicompartmental models and the sensitivity of the cell lines to apoptosis and necrosis was estimated.
A time- and dose-dependent decrease in vital cells as well as an increase in apoptotic and necrotic cells was observed in HSB2 cells upon continuous incubation with 10(-5)-10(-7) MCDA, 10(-5)-10(-8) MARA-C, 5 x10(-5)-5 x 10(-6) M CDDP, and 10(-4)-10(-5) M 5FU, whereas no effect was observed relative to controls upon incubation with 10(-8)-10(-9) M CDA, 10(-9) M ARA-C, 10(-7)-10(-8) M CDDP, or 10(-6)-10(-9) M 5FU. In Jurkat cells, apoptosis- and necrosis-inducing effects were observed at 10(-4)-5 x 10(-6) M CDA, 10(-5)-10(-7) M ARA-C, 5 x 10(-5)-5 x 10(-6) M CDDP, and 10(-4)-10(-5) M 5FU. In all experiments, apoptotic cells reached a peak after 6-48 h of drug exposure. These data were best fit by a model in which vital cells became irreversibly apoptotic by a direct pathway and necrotic by an irreversible indirect pathway following the apoptotic state (mean R = 0.9876; range 0.9510-0.9993; mean modified Akaike's information criterion 3.88; range 1.86-5.82) and the rate constants of either pathway (Kva and Kan, respectively) were assessed. The sensitivity of both cell lines to apoptosis and necrosis (expressed as EC50 and Emax values) induced by the anticancer drugs could be calculated from the sigmoidal concentration-effect curves. Furthermore, it was shown that drug treatment (10(-6) M CDA or 10(-6) M ARA-C) potentiated the apoptosis-inducing effects of irradiation (6 Gy) but not its necrosis-inducing potential.
This study demonstrates that CDA, ARA-C, CDDP, and 5FU possess concentration-dependent apoptosis-inducing potential in the cell lines studied. The cytotoxic mechanism and cell-killing potential of these drugs is different, which is reflected by different EC50 and Emax values. Furthermore, a method for pharmacodynamic modeling is introduced that permits a quantitative approach for the assessment of the sensitivity of tumor cells to anticancer drugs and combined treatments.
Chronic isoproterenol administration produces a rapid, highly reproducible rodent model of cardiac hypertrophy. Yet, despite widespread use of this model, the effects of isoproterenol on in vivo cardiac function and substrate metabolism are unknown. Isoproterenol (5 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) was infused for 7 days in male Wistar rats (n = 22). In vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed that left ventricular mass increased by 37% and end-diastolic and systolic volumes increased by 33% and 73%, respectively, following isoproterenol infusion. Cardiac function at the base of the left ventricle was normal, but apical ejection fraction decreased from 90% to 31% and apical free wall thickening decreased by 94%, accompanied by increased fibrosis and inflammation. Myocardial palmitate oxidation rates were 25% lower, and citrate synthase and medium chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase activities were reduced by 25% and 29%, respectively, following isoproterenol infusion. Fatty acid transporter protein levels were 11-52% lower and triglyceride concentrations were 55% lower in isoproterenol-infused rat hearts. Basal glycolysis and glycogen concentration were not changed, yet insulin stimulated glycolysis was decreased by 32%, accompanied by 33% lower insulin stimulated glucose transporter, GLUT4, protein levels in rat hearts following isoproterenol infusion, compared with controls. In conclusion, isoproterenol infusion impaired in vivo cardiac function, induced hypertrophy, and decreased both fatty acid and glucose metabolism, changes similar in direction and magnitude to those found in the rat heart following moderate severity myocardial infarction.
Hierarchical modeling has been proposed as a solution to the multiple exposure problem. We estimate associations between metabolic syndrome and different components of antiretroviral therapy using both conventional and hierarchical models.
We use discrete time survival analysis to estimate the association between metabolic syndrome and cumulative exposure to 16 antiretrovirals from four drug classes. We fit a hierarchical model where the drug class provides a prior model of the association between metabolic syndrome and exposure to each antiretroviral.
One thousand two hundred and eighteen patients were followed for a median of 27 months, with 242 cases of metabolic syndrome (20%) at a rate of 7.5 cases per 100 patient years. Metabolic syndrome was more likely to develop in patients exposed to stavudine, but was less likely to develop in those exposed to atazanavir. The estimate for exposure to atazanavir increased from hazard ratio of 0.06 per 6 months' use in the conventional model to 0.37 in the hierarchical model (or from 0.57 to 0.81 when using spline-based covariate adjustment).
These results are consistent with trials that show the disadvantage of stavudine and advantage of atazanavir relative to other drugs in their respective classes. The hierarchical model gave more plausible results than the equivalent conventional model.
Preeclampsia (PE) is known to represent an exaggerated maternal inflammatory response to pregnancy. Lipoxin A(4) (LXA(4)), considered as an endogenous stop signal in inflammation, has been extensively studied pre clinically for its inflammatory pro-resolving effects. Thus, in the current study, we tested the effect of BML-111 (synthetic analogue of LXA(4)) on experimental PE rats induced by low-dose endotoxin (LPS) and of LXA(4) on human extravillous trophoblast cell line (TEV-1). In vivo experiment results showed that systolic blood pressure, 24 h-urinary albumin excretion, serum TNF-α and IL-8 levels and morphologic damage of placenta and kidney caused by LPS were all effectively alleviated by BML-111. LXA(4) also inhibited LPS-triggered apoptosis, activation of NF-κB, TNF-α and IL-8 mRNA and protein expression in TEV-1 cells. At the same time, BML-111 protected the cells from LPS-reduced proliferation. The current study demonstrated for the first time that LXA(4) could alleviate the symptoms of PE in endotoxin exposed rats.
In this study the tumour-promoting activity of a carbamate fungicide, mancozeb, has been observed following topical application on mouse skin in a two-stage initiation--promotion protocol for carcinogenesis. Female Swiss albino mice were initiated with a single subcarcinogenic dose (52 micrograms) of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene painted on the interscapular region. Seven days after initiation the mice underwent topical application of mancozeb (100 mg/kg body wt) three times per week as promoter. Development of tumours was observed after 12 weeks of mancozeb application in 1/14 animals and 100% tumorigenesis was recorded after 17 weeks of mancozeb application. On histological examination, these tumours were found mostly to be benign in nature, e.g. squamous cell papillomas and keratocanthomas.
Resveratrol, which belongs to a class of polyphenolic compounds called stilbenes, is proposed to have anti-aging effects.
This research has focused on the effects of resveratrol on oxidant/antioxidant systems and also copper and zinc concentrations in rats.
The control group consisted of 12 male Wistar albino rats, 10-12 weeks of age, weighing approximately 284 g. The experimental group consisted of 12 male Wistar albino rats, in the same age, weighing 282 g. Before the experimental procedure, a training period was performed for control and experimental groups, systolic arterial blood pressures and heart rates were recorded. Body weights were measured also. The experimental group was administered resveratrol (20 mg/kg) in drinking water for six weeks. At the end of the study, blood glucose levels, red cell superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase activities, copper, zinc concentrations in plasma and red cells, also, malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations in plasma were determined in both groups.
At the end of the study, statistically significant increases in SOD and catalase activities, and also in plasma copper and red cell zinc concentrations and statistically significant decreases in body weight, blood glucose, blood pressure, lipid peroxidation product MDA concentration and plasma zinc, red cell copper concentrations were found in resveratrol administered group.
Resveratrol administration affected oxidant/antioxidant systems and their cofactors significantly.
To report the first case of transient central nervous system toxicity after administration of high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) in the Middle East.
A 10-year-old boy was diagnosed with osteosarcoma of the proximal end of the left tibia. He underwent primary amputation and was started on adjuvant chemotherapy, which included administration of HDMTX. He developed acute cerebral toxicity after the 5th dose of HDMTX in the form of diplopia, seizures and disorientation. He recovered completely without any complication or neurological sequelae.
The acute cerebral toxicity associated with HDMTX was completely reversible and without any sequelae.
