All the relevant risk factors contributing to breast cancer etiology are not fully known. Exposure to organochlorine pesticides has been linked to an increased incidence of the disease, although not all data have been consistent. Most published studies evaluated the exposure to organochlorines individually, ignoring the potential effects exerted by the mixtures of chemicals.
This population-based study was designed to evaluate the profile of mixtures of organochlorines detected in 103 healthy women and 121 women diagnosed with breast cancer from Gran Canaria Island, and the relation between the exposure to these compounds and breast cancer risk.
The most prevalent mixture of organochlorines among healthy women was the combination of lindane and endrin, and this mixture was not detected in any affected women. Breast cancer patients presented more frequently a combination of aldrin, dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) and dichlorodiphenyldichloroethane (DDD), and this mixture was not found in any healthy woman. After adjusting for covariables, the risk of breast cancer was moderately associated with DDD (OR = 1.008, confidence interval 95% 1.001-1.015, p = 0.024).
This study indicates that healthy women show a very different profile of organochlorine pesticide mixtures than breast cancer patients, suggesting that organochlorine pesticide mixtures could play a relevant role in breast cancer risk.
The contribution of hemodynamic changes to the pathogenesis of accelerated fibrinolysis in liver disease was investigated in rats. In animals with hepatic lesions induced by a 7-week inhalation of carbon tetrachloride there was a significant increase in blood t-PA activity and PAI activity, with no significant change in portal pressure. Following a 10-min portal vein occlusion there was a marked increase in portal pressure and t-PA activity and a significant decrease in PAI activity. Following ligation of both portal vein and hepatic artery, t-PA activity increased to a higher extent and PAI activity was reduced to a lesser extent than changes found in portal-stenosed rats. Our data suggest that high t-PA circulating levels in liver disease could be related not only to the reduced t-PA clearance as a consequence of liver injury but also to hemodynamic changes.
Theophylline has been a mainstay of asthma therapy despite its narrow therapeutic index, which makes toxicity a common problem. To study toxicity in children, we reviewed hospital laboratory records (1980 to 1988) and identified cases (n = 163) with theophylline concentrations of > 133 mumol/L (24 micrograms/ml). We reviewed these cases for symptoms of theophylline intoxication; we were interested in associating symptoms with serum drug concentrations and in understanding how intoxication occurred. The median patient age was 3.0 years; 40/163 were younger than one year. Males were 90/163 patients (55%). Patients were classified by pattern of ingestion: 20 patients had acute ingestions; 17 patients had an acute ingestion while on chronic medication; and 126 patients became toxic on chronic therapy. Symptoms were absent in 44/150 patients (29%) with theophylline concentrations of 139 to 278 mumol/L (25-50 micrograms/ml); concentrations of > 278 mumol/L (50 micrograms/ml) were always associated with symptoms. The most common clinical symptoms were tachycardia (47%) and vomiting (52%); both occurred more frequently with higher theophylline concentrations (P < 0.002 and P < 0.01). Nine patients had seizures, including five who were previously neurologically normal. Seizures developed with a theophylline concentration of < 278 mumol/L (50 micrograms/ml) in four of these five patients. There was no association between seizures and patient age or between seizures and a particular pattern of theophylline use. In 105/126 cases of intoxication associated with chronic use, the cause of the intoxication could not be determined. Appropriate management of theophylline toxicity can occur only if toxicity is recognized.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We describe a patient in whom possible coronary artery spasm occurred during the infusion of trimetaphan. A 55-year-old man with a meningioma was scheduled for surgical excision of the tumour. He denied any previous history of chest pain. Anaesthesia was maintained with nitrous oxide (67%) in oxygen. The blood pressure before commencement of the surgery was 114/70 mmHg, and the pulse rate was 60 beats min-1. The blood pressure rose to 152/94 mmHg (the pulse rate to 62 beats min-1) during incision of the scalp, and intravenous infusion of trimetaphan was initiated. The blood pressure gradually decreased to 113/58 mmHg (the pulse rate 64 beats min-1) 10 min after start of this infusion, and premature ventricular contractions were evident on the electrocardiogram. Trimetaphan was withheld, and lignocaine was given intravenously. The premature ventricular contractions disappeared but ST segments were elevated. Glyceryl trinitrate was then infused intravenously. The ST segments remained elevated for 5 min, were depressed for 2 min and finally became isoelectric. There were no wide swings in blood pressure or pulse rate during the event. Post-operative laboratory examination revealed no evidence of myocardial infarction. Recovery of the patient was uneventful.
A randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study was conducted on 66 healthy patients aged 10-61 years undergoing elective ear, nose and throat surgery to assess the incidence and severity of pain associated with intravenous (i.v.) injection of diluted nalbuphine HCl given during induction of general anaesthesia, and to determine the efficacy of adding lignocaine (2 mg mL-1) to nalbuphine to reduce this pain. Injection of saline produced pain of low intensity in 15% of patients and a withdrawal response in 3% of patients. Injection of nalbuphine mixed with lignocaine produced a significantly higher incidence (36%; P < 0.025) and severity (P < 0.025) of pain than saline, but a similar number of responses (6%) to pain. The diluted nalbuphine alone produced the highest incidence (61%) of pain (P < 0.01 vs. saline, P = NS vs. nalbuphine with lignocaine), which was most severe (P < 0.01 vs. saline, P < 0.025 vs. nalbuphine with lignocaine), and caused the highest number (27%) of withdrawal responses (P < 0.01 vs. saline, P < 0.025 vs. nalbuphine with lignocaine). We conclude that diluted nalbuphine 2 mg mL-1 produces pain on i.v. injection into peripheral veins, and that this can be significantly reduced by adding lignocaine 2 mg mL-1 to the solution.
Incentive motivation for cocaine, elicited by cocaine-associated stimuli, is thought to be involved in craving and relapse. To examine the role of the basolateral amygdala complex (BLC) in this phenomenon, we assessed the effects of post-training BLC lesions on extinction of cocaine-seeking behavior and cocaine-conditioned place preference (CPP) and the effects of pre-training BLC lesions on acquisition of cocaine-CPP. In Experiment 1, rats were first trained to self-administer cocaine and then received bilateral infusions of the excitotoxin, N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA, 0.12 M; 0.3 microl/side), or vehicle into the BLC. They were then tested repeatedly for extinction of cocaine-seeking behavior (i.e. nonreinforced responses in the presence of cocaine-paired stimuli). Subsequently, they were trained and tested for acquisition of cocaine-CPP (i.e. increased time spent in a previously cocaine-paired, relative to a saline-paired, environment). Locomotion and compartment entries were also measured. In Experiment 2, rats were first trained and tested for cocaine-CPP, and then received NMDA or vehicle infusions into the BLC. Subsequently, they were tested repeatedly for extinction of cocaine-CPP. Post-training BLC lesions retarded extinction of cocaine-seeking behavior and cocaine-CPP, whereas pre-training lesions disrupted acquisition of cocaine-CPP. These effects did not appear to be related to changes in general activity. We suggest that pre-training BLC lesions disrupted acquisition of cocaine-CPP by impairing assignment of incentive value to cocaine-paired stimuli, whereas post-training BLC lesions disrupted extinction of cocaine-conditioned behaviors by impairing the assessment of the current incentive value of cocaine-paired stimuli.
Labetalol, a combined alpha-beta-adrenergic antagonist, is one of the new group of beta-adrenergic blockers reduces peripheral and coronary vascular resistances while preserving cardiac output. Unlike alpha-adrenergic blockers, labetalol tends to reduce heart rate during rest and exercise. The drug is a potent antihypertensive agent which has been used by mouth and by vein to treat mild, moderate, and severe hypertension, including hypertensive emergencies. Labetalol has a hemodynamic profile which makes it an attractive agent for treating myocardial ischemia. The drug reduces blood pressure, left ventricular wall tension, heart rate, and contractility while preserving or even augmenting coronary blood flow. Studies with labetalol in hypertensive patients with angina have shown it to be more effective than placebo in reducing angina attacks and blood pressure while improving exercise tolerance. The drug appears to have antianginal and antihypertensive effects comparable to atenolol and propranolol. Side effects of treatment are observed and most are related to alpha- and beta-adrenergic blockade. Labetalol also appears to be effective for treatment of normotensive patients with angina and for silent myocardial ischemia. It has no apparent effects on serum lipids and lipoproteins. Labetalol appears to be a useful drug for treating the hypertensive heart and its many complications.
Ten patients who take hydroxy-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, or statin medications, and experience adverse reactions are described. All patients experienced various manifestations of hypersensitivity while receiving the drugs. One patient is described with hypersensitivity pneumonitis, which was graphically demonstrated by both high resolution computerized axial tomography and open lung biopsy.
Rats or mice acutely exposed to high concentrations of ozone show an immediate and significant weight loss, even when allowed free access to food and water. The mechanisms underlying this systemic response to ozone have not been previously elucidated. We have applied the technique of global gene expression analysis to the livers of C57BL mice acutely exposed to ozone. Mice lost up to 14% of their original body weight, with a 42% decrease in total food consumption. We previously had found significant up-regulation of genes encoding proliferative enzymes, proteins related to acute phase reactions and cytoskeletal functions, and other biomarkers of a cachexia-like inflammatory state in lungs of mice exposed to ozone. These results are consistent with a general up-regulation of different gene families responsive to NF-kappaB in the lungs of the exposed mice. In the present study, we observed significant down-regulation of different families of mRNAs in the livers of the exposed mice, including genes related to lipid and fatty acid metabolism, and to carbohydrate metabolism in this tissue, consistent with a systemic cachexic response. Several interferon-dependent genes were down-regulated in the liver, suggesting a possible role for interferon as a signaling molecule between lung and liver. In addition, transcription of several mRNAs encoding enzymes of xenobiotic metabolism in the livers of mice exposed to ozone was decreased, suggesting cytokine-mediated suppression of cytochrome P450 expression. This finding may explain a previously controversial report from other investigators more than 20 years ago of prolongation of pentobarbital sleeping time in mice exposed to ozone.
Captopril (0.15-10 mg/kg) administration in the anesthetized dog causes immediate hypotension concomitant with an increase in tonus of the assay tissue (cat terminal ileum) superfused with circulating blood (Vane's cascade method). The increase in cat terminal ileum tonus was antagonized by a bradykinin receptor antagonist, L-349b. Treatment of the animals with indomethacin blocked or reversed the hypotensive effect of captopril without affecting the increase in tonus of the cat terminal ileum. Captopril potentiated the hypotension induced by bradykinin injected intra-arterially, and indomethacin reduced the hypotensive effect of intra-arterially injected bradykinin. Addition of captopril or enalapril to the superfusing blood maintained at 37 degrees C in an extracorporeal circuit caused a long-lasting increase in the tonus of the cat terminal ileum. The present results support the hypothesis that immediate hypotension induced by captopril involves a prostaglandin-dependent component possibly resulting from increased bradykinin levels generated in the vicinity of captopril action.
We examined effects of theophylline withdrawal in 17 adult asthmatics whose symptoms were well controlled under a treatment of a combination of theophylline and inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate (iBDP). We measured daily symptoms, daily peak flow values, spirometry, peripheral blood eosinophil count (EOS), and serum eosinophil cationic protein (sECP) at intervals of 1-3 weeks for 3 months after theophylline withdrawal. Twelve patients experienced exacerbation of asthma (exacerbation group), whereas the remaining 5 patients exhibited no symptoms (stationary group). In the exacerbation group, forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV1) and percent vital capacity (% VC) gradually decreased until exacerbation of asthma, and the extent of these decreases within the first week after the withdrawal was greater compared with that at later than the third week. V25/HT decreased in both the exacerbation and stationary groups. In particular, the extent of the velocity of expiratory flow at 25% of the vital capacity/height (V25/HT) decrease in the exacerbation group was much greater than that of FEV1 or % VC in this group. Neither EOS nor sECP changed significantly during the clinical course in any patient. The rapid decrease in FEV1 and % VC after the withdrawal suggests that under treatment with iBDP, theophylline causes direct bronchodilating effects on smooth muscle, rather than anti-inflammatory effects. These results also suggest the importance of theophylline on peripheral as well as central airways.
The pharmacokinetics of lisdexamfetamine dimesylate, a long-acting prodrug stimulant, and its active moiety, d-amphetamine, including dose-proportionality and variability, were assessed in 20 healthy adults. Subjects received a single dose, sequentially, of 50, 100, 150, 200, and 250 mg of lisdexamfetamine dimesylate. Plasma lisdexamfetamine dimesylate and d-amphetamine were measured before dosing and 0.25 to 96 hours postdose. Dose-proportionality and intersubject and intrasubject variability of pharmacokinetic parameters were examined. Safety assessments included adverse events. All 20 subjects received 50 and 100 mg while 18, 12, and 9 subjects received 150, 200, and 250 mg of lisdexamfetamine dimesylate, respectively. Ten subjects were discontinued during the study for prespecified stopping rules (2 consecutive hourly readings of blood pressure: systolic >160 mm Hg or diastolic >100 mm Hg). Mean maximum observed plasma concentration (C(max)) and area under the concentration-time curve from time 0 to infinity (AUC(0-∞)) increased linearly and dose-dependently for d-amphetamine. Median time to C(max) ranged from 4 to 6 hours for d-amphetamine and 1.0 to 1.5 hours for lisdexamfetamine dimesylate. Intersubject and intrasubject variability over doses from 50 to 150 mg was low (<20%) for both C(max) and AUC(0-∞). Adverse events included nausea, dizziness, headache, psychomotor hyperactivity, and dysuria. These findings indicate that the pharmacokinetic parameters of d-amphetamine were dose-proportional and predictable over a wide range of lisdexamfetamine dimesylate doses.
Captopril is widely used for congestive heart failure and arterial hypertension. Its main side effects are cough, neutropenia, and renal injury. Liver dysfunction has rarely been described. We present a 71-year-old man with an acute myocardial infarction who developed high fever and progressive disturbance of liver function tests, hepatocellular and cholestatic, after beginning captopril. When other, more likely causes for his condition were ruled out, captopril was discontinued and the fever and liver dysfunction then quickly resolved. We recommend periodic laboratory follow-up in patients treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Ocular changes during treatment with amiodarone are almost universal but are rarely serious. In this article we describe three patients from a single electrophysiology practice in whom optic neuropathy developed during treatment with amiodarone. All three patients were more than 65 years of age. The doses of amiodarone ranged from 100 to 400 mg/day, and the time intervals between the initiation of the amiodarone therapy and the appearance of first symptoms of optic neuropathy were 5 to 19 months. Two patients had bilateral involvement, and one had only unilateral involvement. Whether this result was due solely to amiodarone therapy, to the underlying poor health of these patients, or to the combination of these two factors is uncertain. These findings prompt us to recommend that all patients who receive amiodarone undergo complete ophthalmologic examinations, including careful evaluation of the ocular fundus regularly during such therapy. No randomized study had been undertaken to determine the true incidence of complications associated with this medication.
A case report of a 20-year old nulliparous woman who developed a stroke after taking the oral contraceptive (OC) pill Niroday (norethindrone 1 mg and mestranol .05mg) for 2 years is presented. The patient was admitted to the University Hospital in Jamaica after falling and losing power in the right arm and leg. She was a nonsmoker in good general health and had never previously been hospitalized. She was conscious with mild dysphasia when examined and complained of severe generalized headaches. There was grade 1 power in the right arm and leg, and an upper motor neurone right facial palsy. The left plantar response was down-going and the right equivocal. Fundoscopy was normal. Most clinical findings were normal, but a left Carotid angiogram showed complete occlusion of the middle cerebral artery at its origin and later films showed a good collateral circulation from the anterior cerebral vessels in particular. The patient was treated with a low dose aspirin and the OCs were discontinued. Physiotherapy was instituted and continued on an outpatient basis on her discharge 3 weeks after admission with grade 3 power in the right leg and grade 2 in the right arm. After careful exclusion of other known causes of stroke, the evidence, supported by data from the literature, points to the contraceptive pill as the causative factor in the development of the thrombotic stroke. The widespread use of OCs in the Caribbean should alert clinicians to the possibility of future cases, and women at risk should use other forms of contraception.
Previous studies have shown that LR-90, a new inhibitor of AGE formation, prevented the development of experimental type 1 diabetic nephropathy. In this study, we examined the effects of LR-90 in the Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rat, a model of type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome, and investigated the mechanisms by which it may protect against renal injury.
Male ZDF rats were treated without or with LR-90 from age 13 to 40 weeks. Metabolic and kidney functions and renal histology were evaluated. AGE accumulation and the production of the receptor for AGE (AGER) were measured. Profibrotic growth factors, extracellular matrix proteins and intracellular signalling pathways associated with glomerular and tubular damage were also analysed.
LR-90 dramatically reduced plasma lipids in ZDF rats, with only modest effects on hyperglycaemia. Renal AGE, AGER and lipid peroxidation were all attenuated by LR-90. LR-90 significantly retarded the increase in albuminuria and proteinuria. This was associated with reduction in glomerulosclerosis and tubulointerstitial fibrosis, concomitant with marked inhibition of renal overproduction of TGF-beta1, connective tissue growth factor, fibronectin and collagen IV. Additionally, LR-90 downregulated the activation of key mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) in the renal cortex.
These results support our earlier studies on the renoprotective effects of LR-90 on type 1 diabetic nephropathy and provide further evidence that LR-90, an AGE inhibitor with pleiotrophic effects, may also be beneficial for the prevention of type 2 diabetic nephropathy, where multiple risk factors, such as hyperglycaemia, dyslipidaemia, obesity, insulin resistance and hypertension, contribute to renal injury.
Soybean transphosphatidylated phosphatidylserine (SB-tPS) was prepared from soybean phosphatidylcholine by transphosphatidylation using phospholipase D, and the fatty acids composition and pharmacological properties were compared with those of bovine brain cortex-derived phosphatidylserine (BC-PS) which was reported to improve cognitive disorders of senile dementia patients by oral administration (300 mg/day). The molecular species of SB-tPS are rich in linoleic and palmitic acids whereas those of BC-PS are stearic and oleic acids. Despite the differences in fatty acid composition, SB-tPS displayed significant activities on the increase in brain glucose concentrations in mice (79 mg/kg, i.v.) and the restoration of scopolamine-induced amnesia in rats (60 mg/kg, i.p.) as did BC-PS. These results suggest the possibility that SB-tPS may prevent and/or improve senile dementia by oral administration.
Eighty-one adult patients with bronchial asthma who suffered from an unstable peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) and asthmatic attacks that developed at irregular intervals in spite of inhaling beclometasone dipropionate (CAS 5534-09-8, BDP) in excess of 400 micrograms/day were treated with pranlukast (CAS 103177-37-3, Onon) 450 mg/day for 1 to 2 years and the clinical effects of its long-term administration were studied. The patients were divided into 3 groups: Group I with drug effect seen on peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) in a short-term; Group II showing long term PEFR improvement; and Group III with no sustained improvement in PEFR. Those in the first two groups continued oral medication for 2 years, while those of the third group withdrew from medication after one year and their clinical course was observed. The evaluation parameters were: PEFR, frequency of beta 2-stimulant inhalation, number of night time visits to health service facilities, quantity of inhalation steroids used, amount of oral steroids used at fixed intervals, peripheral eosinophil count, serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) concentration and FEV1.0. In Group I, the frequency of beta 2-stimulant inhalation, number of night time visits to health service facilities, quantity of inhalation steroids used, and the amount of oral steroids used at fixed intervals were reduced; and after two years, the frequency of beta 2-stimulant inhalation and quantity of inhalation steroids used were further reduced. In Group II, reductions were seen in the peripheral eosinophil count and serum ECP level. The asthmatic severity shifted from step 3 to 2 in 12 patients and from step 4 to 3 in 4 patients in Group I; and from step 3 to 2 in 3 patients in Group II. In Group III, an increase in the number of night time visits to health service facilities after the medication was interrupted and a rise in the serum ECP concentration were recognized.
The toxicity of Renografin 76% was compared with that of Hypaque 76% by selective injection of each into the right coronary artery of dogs. Renografin contains the chelating agents sodium citrate and disodium edetate, while Hypaque contains calcium disodium edetate and no sodium citrate. Ventricular fibrillation occurred significantly more often with Renografin, suggesting that chelating agents contribute to toxicity in coronary angiography.
Mesalamine extended-release capsules (Apriso [Salix Pharmaceuticals, Raleigh, NC, USA]) are the first once-daily mesalamine preparation approved by the US FDA for the maintenance of remission of ulcerative colitis (UC). Each mesalamine extended-release capsule contains granules of a mesalamine-polymer matrix that are coated with a pH-sensitive resin. This design begins releasing mesalamine (0.375 g) once the pH is more than 6 in the ileum and colon. Two clinical trials have reported that mesalamine extended-release capsules (1.5 g/day) maintained remission in 79% of patients with UC who were in clinical remission. Reported adherence with mesalamine extended-release capsules once daily was high (>90%) in these studies. This article examines the efficacy and safety of mesalamine extended-release capsules in the maintenance of remission in patients with UC.
We compared changes in antecubital venous plasma levels of norepinephrine (NE) and peroneal nerve muscle sympathetic activity (MSA) during and after nitroprusside (NP)-induced hypotension in nine healthy volunteers. During NP, MSA increased at 98.7%/min, peaked at 4 min at 399 +/- 77% (SE) of base line, and then decreased, so that at the end of the infusion MSA was 298 +/- 39% of base line. NE increased at 9.2%/min and peaked at 14.5 min at 231 +/- 31% of base line just before the end of the infusion. Percent increases of MSA and NE near the end of NP were not significantly different. The time-to-peak NE lagged the time-to-peak MSA by nearly 10 min. These results suggest that during increases of sympathetic outflow diffusion and washout of NE from neuroeffector junctions result in delayed increases in NE in the venous drainage; percent changes in MSA and NE during prolonged stable mild hypotension are similar. The findings provide conditional support for the use of changes in NE to indicate changes in sympathetic traffic.
The c-Src tyrosine kinase is a determinant of malignant cellular behavior in a variety of human cancers. We sought to determine the effect of suppressing c-Src expression on pancreatic adenocarcinoma chemosensitivity to gemcitabine.
PANC1, MIAPaCa2, BxPC3, and Capan2 pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell lines were studied. Expression of c-Src was determined by Western blot analysis. c-Src kinase activity was determined by in vitro kinase assay. RNA interference was used to suppress c-Src expression. Gemcitabine-induced cytotoxicity was determined by tetrazolium reduction assay and caspase profiling was performed. The effect of Src-specific siRNA on Akt activity was quantified.
Src expression and kinase activity in cell lines were directly correlated with gemcitabine chemoresistance. c-Src-specific siRNA suppressed c-Src expression and kinase activity. c-Src-specific siRNA increased gemcitabine-induced, caspase-mediated apoptosis. Akt activity was decreased by suppression of c-Src expression.
c-Src is a determinant of pancreatic adenocarcinoma chemoresistance and represents a potential target for therapeutic intervention.
