Heparin-induced thrombocytopaenia is a dreaded, although infrequent, complication of heparin therapy. We report two cases of heparin-induced thrombocytopaenia (HIT) type II occurring in a patient treated with standard (unfractionated) heparin and in another patient given a low-weight molecular heparin. The clinical course of the first patient illustrates the potentially severe thrombotic complications of HIT. Both cases were treated successfully by danaparoid sodium. Clues to the diagnosis and treatment are briefly discussed.
Calcineurin inhibitor-induced thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) has been described in up to 14% of solid-organ transplant recipients. Sirolimus has recently been described in two reports in association with TMA. Sirolimus is known to potentiate cyclosporine-induced nephrotoxicity, but such effect has not been shown with tacrolimus. We report two intestinal transplant patients who developed TMA while on a tacrolimus and sirolimus immunosuppressive regimen. This syndrome appeared soon after institution of or increase in sirolimus dosage and improved only after this medication was discontinued.
Computed tomography (CT) of the pituitary before and after bromocriptine treatment were performed in 10 patients with microprolactinoma. Intrapituitary low densities were demonstrated in 7 out of the 10 patients before bromocriptine. Low densities shrank in size and increased in density after normalization of the plasma prolactin (Prl) level following bromocriptine. At the same time, various degrees of empty sella were demonstrated in these patients and in 2 out of the 3 without noticeable changes before treatment. It was concluded that enhanced CT scans, especially sagittal reconstruction images, were very informative for the diagnosis of microprolactinoma and that bromocriptine reduced the size of the microprolactinoma and often led to empty sella.
To examine the relationship between the decrease in connexin 32 (Cx32) and induction of P450 isozymes in the early phase of clofibrate hepatocarcinogenesis, a total of 20 male F344 rats were initiated with a single intraperitoneal injection of 150 mg/kg of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) or given the saline vehicle alone and starting 2 weeks later given diet containing 0.18, 0.09, and 0% clofibrate for 6 weeks. All animals were subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy at week 3 and killed at week 8. Absolute and relative (ratios to body weight) liver weights were significantly increased in the DEN + clofibrate groups compared with the DEN-alone group. Diffuse hepatocellular hypertrophy with granular cytoplasmic eosinophilia characterized by a marked increase in peroxisomes and smooth endoplasmic reticulum, was observed in the clofibrate treated rats. Induction of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 4A1 and 2B1/2 was noted in the DEN + clofibrate groups, this being most marked in the CYP 2B1 case. Immunohistochemically, positive immunostaining for anti-CYP 4A1 and CYP 2B1 were observed diffusely and centrilobularly, respectively. The numbers and areas of Cx32-positive spots per hepatocyte in the centrilobular areas in the treated rats were significantly decreased in an essentially dose-dependent manner, but no changes were observed in periportal areas. The numbers and areas of foci positive for glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) were decreased in a dose dependent manner in the clofibrate treated groups. These results suggest that the CYP 2B1/2 induction and Cx32 decrease in centrilobular hepatocytes, similarly to those thought to be involved in the hepatic promotion mechanism of phenobarbital, may also play important roles in clofibrate actions in the liver, in addition to its causation of oxidative DNA injury.
Cardiac rate and rhythm were compared in 60 patients having dental extractions under conventional general anaesthesia using halothane, enflurane or isoflurane to supplement nitrous oxide in oxygen. The incidence of arrhythmia was higher in the halothane group when compared with both the enflurane (P less than 0.05) and the isoflurane (P less than 0.05) groups. Heart rates, measured at 1-min intervals, tended to be more rapid in the isoflurane group compared with the other two groups (P less than 0.001 in both instances), and patients anaesthetized with enflurane tended to have more rapid heart rates than those anaesthetized with halothane (P less than 0.001).
Propofol and ketamine may be paired for anesthesia induction and for total intravenous anesthesia. The nature of any sedative interactions occurring between propofol and ketamine are unknown. The combination when used for anesthesia induction in female patients was studied.
Quantal dose-response curves were determined in 180 female patients to whom the drugs were administered individually and in combination. Two minutes after administering the drugs, two endpoints were assessed. First, loss of response to verbal command (hypnosis) and then, in those who failed to respond to this endpoint, loss of response to a 5-s transcutaneous tetanus (anesthesia). Interactions were analyzed by fitting the data to a mathematical model in which response was analyzed in terms of the doses of the two drugs and an additional term included to describe nonadditive interactions. The incidences of apnea, arterial pressure, and heart rate changes during the first 5 min were recorded.
At the hypnotic endpoint, the ED50s were 1.10 mg/kg propofol (95% CIs 0.93-1.27), 0.39 mg/kg ketamine (95% CIs 0.27-0.46), and the combination of 0.63 mg/kg propofol and 0.21 mg/kg ketamine (95% CIs 0.53/0.18-0.73/0.24). At the anesthetic endpoint, the ED50s were 1.85 mg/kg propofol (95% CIs 1.58-2.36) 0.66 mg/kg ketamine (95% CIs 0.58-0.77), and the combination of 1.05 mg/kg propofol and 0.35 mg/kg ketamine (95% CIs 0.88/0.29-1.27/0.42). The effects were additive at both endpoints; there was no evidence of an interaction. The ED50s for apnea were 1.61 mg/kg propofol (95% CIs 1.39-1.94), greater than 0.85 mg/kg ketamine and for the combination 1.50 mg/kg propofol and 0.50 mg/kg ketamine (95% CIs 1.15/0.38-3.09/1.03). The addition of ketamine did not significantly alter the ED50 for apnea of propofol. There was a significant difference in the arterial pressures among the three groups (P < 0.001). Using the combination, the cardiostimulant effects of ketamine balanced the cardiodepressant effects of propofol. There was no change in arterial pressure or heart rate after the noxious stimulus.
When using the combination, doses were additive at hypnotic and anesthetic endpoints. Ketamine had no influence on the incidence of apnea after propofol, and the net hemodynamic effects were minimal.
The class III antiarrhythmic agent, azimilide, has been shown to inhibit dihydroalprenolol binding to the beta-adrenergic receptor of rat brain and heart in an in-vitro ligand-binding assay. Azimilide, was assessed for beta-adrenergic activity, either agonist or antagonist, in the isolated perfused guinea pig heart in comparison with class III reference agents and the class II agent, propranolol. Varying concentrations of compound (0.03-100 microM) were retrogradely perfused and the effects on corrected QT interval, baseline heart rate, and isoproterenol-stimulated heart rate were measured. Propranolol, dl-sotalol, azimilide, and d-sotalol inhibited isoproterenol-induced tachycardia with IC50 values (the concentration giving 50% inhibition of isoproterenol-stimulated heart rate) of 0.12, 1.4, 14.6, and 38.0 microM, respectively. Clofilium, dofetilide, and sematilide did not affect the action of isoproterenol. Dofetilide, clofilium, azimilide, sematilide, dl-sotalol, and d-sotalol increased the QTc interval approximately 20 ms at concentrations of 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, 3.0, 30.0, and 100.0 microM, respectively. The class III antiarrhythmic agents also slowed baseline heart rate and exhibited linear R-R and QT-interval relationships of similar slope. Azimilide's antagonism of isoproterenol in this isolated heart model may reflect a direct receptor interaction or a contribution from the bradycardic action of the compound, which distinguishes it from several other pure IKr-blocking class III antiarrhythmic agents.
The dopamine-containing projection from the ventral tegmental area of the midbrain to the nucleus accumbens is critically involved in mediating the reinforcing properties of cocaine. Although neurons in this area respond to rewards on a subsecond timescale, neurochemical studies have only addressed the role of dopamine in drug addiction by examining changes in the tonic (minute-to-minute) levels of extracellular dopamine. To investigate the role of phasic (subsecond) dopamine signalling, we measured dopamine every 100 ms in the nucleus accumbens using electrochemical technology. Rapid changes in extracellular dopamine concentration were observed at key aspects of drug-taking behaviour in rats. Before lever presses for cocaine, there was an increase in dopamine that coincided with the initiation of drug-seeking behaviours. Notably, these behaviours could be reproduced by electrically evoking dopamine release on this timescale. After lever presses, there were further increases in dopamine concentration at the concurrent presentation of cocaine-related cues. These cues alone also elicited similar, rapid dopamine signalling, but only in animals where they had previously been paired to cocaine delivery. These findings reveal an unprecedented role for dopamine in the regulation of drug taking in real time.
Vincristine was accidentally given intrathecally to a child with leukaemia, producing sensory and motor dysfunction followed by encephalopathy and death. Separate times for administering vincristine and intrathecal therapy is recommended.
We propose guidelines to evaluate the cumulative evidence of gene-environment (G × E) interactions in the causation of human cancer. Our approach has its roots in the HuGENet and IARC Monographs evaluation processes for genetic and environmental risk factors, respectively, and can be applied to common chronic diseases other than cancer. We first review issues of definitions of G × E interactions, discovery and modelling methods for G × E interactions, and issues in systematic reviews of evidence for G × E interactions, since these form the foundation for appraising the credibility of evidence in this contentious field. We then propose guidelines that include four steps: (i) score the strength of the evidence for main effects of the (a) environmental exposure and (b) genetic variant; (ii) establish a prior score category and decide on the pattern of interaction to be expected; (iii) score the strength of the evidence for interaction between the environmental exposure and the genetic variant; and (iv) examine the overall plausibility of interaction by combining the prior score and the strength of the evidence and interpret results. We finally apply the scheme to the interaction between NAT2 polymorphism and tobacco smoking in determining bladder cancer risk.
Sirtuins (SIRTs) are NAD(+)-dependent deacetylases that regulate metabolism and life span. We used peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to determine ex vivo whether insulin resistance/metabolic syndrome influences SIRTs. We also assessed the potential mechanisms linking metabolic alterations to SIRTs in human monocytes (THP-1) in vitro.
SIRT1-SIRT7 gene and protein expression was determined in PBMCs of 54 subjects (41 with normal glucose tolerance and 13 with metabolic syndrome). Insulin sensitivity was assessed by the minimal model analysis. Subclinical atherosclerosis was assessed by carotid intima-media thickness (IMT). In THP-1 cells exposed to high glucose or fatty acids in vitro, we explored SIRT1 expression, p53 acetylation, Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) activation, NAD(+) levels, and nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) expression. The effects of SIRT1 induction by resveratrol and of SIRT1 gene silencing were also assessed.
In vivo, insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome were associated with low PBMC SIRT1 gene and protein expression. SIRT1 gene expression was negatively correlated with carotid IMT. In THP-1 cells, high glucose and palmitate reduced SIRT1 and NAMPT expression and reduced the levels of intracellular NAD(+) through oxidative stress. No effect was observed in cells exposed to linoleate or insulin. High glucose and palmitate increased p53 acetylation and JNK phosphorylation; these effects were abolished in siRNA SIRT1-treated cells. Glucose- and palmitate-mediated effects on NAMPT and SIRT1 were prevented by resveratrol in vitro.
Insulin resistance and subclinical atherosclerosis are associated with SIRT1 downregulation in monocytes. Glucotoxicity and lypotoxicity play a relevant role in quenching SIRT1 expression.
The effects of a liquid nutritive and tonic drug (NTD) selected from a modification of the "Kai-xin-shou-yu-shen-qi-wan" prescription, on scopolamine-induced amnesia in mice were investigated using the passive avoidance and water-maze tasks. A popular NTD in Japan that contains 17 crude (natural) drug extracts together with synthetic drugs such as taurine, caffeine, various vitamins and ethanol, and the natural drug extracts is based on a prescription of "Kampo" origin in Chinese medicine. Scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) reduces the step-through latency of the passive avoidance test and fear reaction behavior at 24 and 48 h after treatment. A single oral administration of the NTD (10 ml/kg) increased the step-through latency and the fear reaction behavior score in scopolamine-treated mice. Administration of the natural drug extracts found in the NTD tended to extend the step-through latency in the retention test at 48 h, but not 24 h after the initial scopolamine trial. However, administration of the synthetic drugs found in the NTD did not improve either the step-through latency or the behavioral score. The NTD and the natural drug extracts also improved the scopolamine-induced spatial memory impairment as assessed using the Morris water-maze test. In contrast, the synthetic drugs did not affect the escape latencies. Both NTD and the synthetic drugs increased the locomotor activity in scopolamine-treated mice, whereas the natural drug extracts did not. These results suggest that NTD improves scopolamine-induced amnesia, and that this action is attributable to the natural drug extracts in the NTD.
3p deletion syndrome is a rare contiguous-gene disorder involving the loss of the telomeric portion of the short arm of chromosome 3 and characterized by developmental delay, growth retardation, and dysmorphic features. All reported cases have involved, at a minimum, the deletion of chromosome 3 telomeric to the band 3p25.3. Despite the presence of several genes in this region that are involved in neural development, a causative relationship between a particular transcript and the observed clinical manifestations has remained elusive. We have identified a child with characteristic physical features of 3p deletion syndrome and both verbal and nonverbal developmental delay who carries a de novo balanced translocation involving chromosomes 3 and 10. Fine mapping of this rearrangement demonstrates that the translocation breakpoint on chromosome 3 falls within the recently identified minimal candidate region for 3p deletion syndrome and disrupts the Contactin 4 (CNTN4) mRNA transcript at 3p26.2-3p26.3. This transcript (also known as BIG-2) is a member of the immunoglobulin super family of neuronal cell adhesion molecules involved in axon growth, guidance, and fasciculation in the central nervous system (CNS). Our results demonstrate the association of CNTN4 disruption with the 3p deletion syndrome phenotype and strongly suggest a causal relationship. These findings point to an important role for CNTN4 in normal and abnormal CNS development.
To develop computerized methods to monitor and recommend dosage changes for patients treated with excessive dosages of imipenem/cilastatin (I/C) and to determine the incidence of I/C-associated seizures in our patient population.
Prospective observational and interventional study of all patients admitted to LDS Hospital and treated with I/C from May 1, 1987, through June 30, 1991.
LDS Hospital, Salt Lake City, UT, a 520-bed, tertiary care center associated with the University of Utah School of Medicine.
Using a hospital information system we developed computerized algorithms to identify and monitor patients receiving I/C. These algorithms screened the computer-stored medical records of all inpatient admissions for I/C prescription orders. Computer-decision support algorithms estimated the renal function of each I/C-treated patient and provided suggestions when dosages were determined to be excessive. Additional computer-generated alerts identified patients who were receiving anticonvulsants concomitantly with I/C or whose therapy reflected dosage changes in the previous 24 hours. A list of all I/C-treated patients with alerts was reviewed daily by a clinical pharmacist and prescribing physicians were contacted if the computer-generated suggestions were clinically relevant.
The number and characterization of I/C-associated seizures.
From May 1, 1987, through June 30, 1991, we prospectively monitored 107,600 patients of whom 1951 were treated with I/C. The following risk factors for I/C-associated seizures were observed in the I/C-treated population: CNS disease (6 percent), seizure disorders (0.6 percent), and abnormal renal function (70 percent). The observational and interventional methods employed in this study resulted in 79 percent of the patients receiving I/C dosages appropriate for their corresponding renal function. During the 50-month study period, we detected four seizures (0.20 percent) in the I/C-treated patients. All 4 patients were receiving I/C dosages that were excessive with respect to their renal function.
Our rate of seizure (0.2 percent) was lower than the 1-2 percent rate reported in the literature despite the fact that more than 70 percent of the patients who received I/C had risk factors for seizure. We believe that appropriate dosing of I/C results in a low rate of associated seizures. Computer-assisted monitoring of I/C dosages in relation to renal function resulted in a reduced incidence of seizures.
Repeated moderate doses of methamphetamine (mAMPH) damage forebrain monoaminergic terminals and nonmonoaminergic cells in somatosensory cortex, and impair performance in a novelty preference task of object recognition (OR). This study aimed to determine whether the memory deficit seen after a neurotoxic mAMPH regimen results from damage to dopamine (DA) and/or serotonin (5-HT) terminals. Animals were given a neurotoxic regimen of mAMPH, p-chloroamphetamine (PCA, preferentially damages 5-HT terminals), d-amphetamine (d-AMPH, preferentially damages DA terminals), or saline. After 1 week, animals were trained and tested for OR memory. Rats treated with mAMPH showed no recognition memory during the short-term memory (STM) test, whereas both PCA- and d-AMPH-treated rats showed OR STM scores comparable to controls. After behavioral testing, the specificity of monoaminergic lesions was determined by postmortem [125I]RTI-55 binding to dopamine (DAT) and serotonin (SERT) transporter proteins. Tissue from a separate group of animals killed 3 days after drug treatment was processed for Fluoro-Jade (F-J) fluorescence histochemistry to detect damaged cortical neurons. mAMPH-treated rats showed reductions in striatal DAT and hippocampal (HC) and perirhinal (pRh) SERT, as well as degeneration of neurons in primary somatosensory cortex. In PCA-treated rats, HC and pRh SERT were substantially depleted, but striatal DAT and cortical neuron survival were unaffected. By contrast, d-AMPH-treated animals showed marked depletions in striatal DAT and cortical neurodegeneration, but HC and pRh SERT were unaffected. This pattern of results indicates that no single feature of mAMPH-induced neurotoxicity is sufficient to produce the OR impairments seen after mAMPH treatment.
We investigated the effects of vinyl chloride monomer exposure on the liver of 86 workers by measuring beta-glucuronidase, arylsulfatase A, adenosine deaminase, 5'-nucleotidase and routine liver function enzymes in the sera of the workers. In 21 of them, three or more of these parameters were raised, with a significant decrease in the level of blood glutathione and a significant increase in the enzyme activity level of glutathione S-transferase. Of these 21 workers, 14 had fatty liver infiltration, 8 of whom were also suffering from liver enlargement. Also, 4 workers had liver enlargement without fatty infiltration and 3 had enlarged spleens. The study highlights the need for vigilance in environmental monitoring and medical surveillance of workers exposed to this chemical.
Furosemide induces nephrocalcinosis in both humans and animals. We showed previously that parathyroidectomy protected against the development of furosemide-induced nephrocalcinosis in young rats, indicating a possible role for parathyroid hormone (PTH) in its pathogenesis. Calcimimetic agents such as NPS R-467 are potent and selective agonists at the calcium-sensing receptor in parathyroid glands and inhibit PTH secretion.
To determine whether NPS R-467 could, like parathyroidectomy, prevent furosemide-induced nephrocalcinosis, we studied 35 6-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats, divided into five groups. Group A served as control, group B received intraperitoneally furosemide (40 mg/kg), groups C, D, and E received furosemide and NPS R-467 intraperitoneally at doses of 10, 20, and 40 micromol/kg, respectively, daily for 8 days. During the last 3 days, animals were placed in metabolic cages for measurement of urine output, food, and water intake. Blood and kidneys were collected on day 8, 60 to 90 minutes after the last doses. Kidney calcium content was measured and nephrocalcinosis scoring (0 to 5) was assessed histologically.
Furosemide increased urine output and fluid intake, and decreased body weight gain similarly in all groups. Serum PTH levels (mean +/- SD) were significantly higher in furosemide-treated control animals (276 +/- 226 pg/mL vs. 64 +/- 21 pg/mL); NPS R-467 induced a dose-dependent decrease in PTH levels (52 +/- 51 pg/mL, 18 +/- 7 pg/mL, and 13 +/- 3 pg/mL in groups C, D, and E, respectively). Plasma Ca(2+) was slightly, but significantly lower in all three NPS R-467 treated groups (5.1 +/- 0.4 mg/dL, 4.8 +/- 0.3 mg/dL, and 4.5 +/- 0.3 mg/dL in groups C, D, and E, respectively) compared to 5.7 +/- 0.1 mg/dL and 5.5 +/- 0.2 mg/dL in groups A and B, respectively. Furosemide treatment induced a substantial increase in kidney calcium content (1819 +/- 664 microg/g dry weight vs. 126 +/- 26 microg/g dry weight) and nephrocalcinosis scoring (5.0 +/- 0.0 vs. 0.0 +/- 0.0). Treatment with NPS R-467 ameliorated the furosemide-induced increase in kidney calcium content (673 +/- 312 microg/g, 361 +/- 188 microg/g, and 563 +/- 291 microg/g) and nephrocalcinosis scoring (2.2 +/- 1.2, 0.7 +/- 0.8, and 1.0 +/- 1.2) in groups C, D, and E, respectively.
The calcimimetic agent NPS R-467 prevents the development of hyperparathyroidism and attenuates nephrocalcinosis in the furosemide-treated young rat.
To report a case of reversible seizures and mental status changes in a dialysis patient given preventive isoniazid therapy.
A 66-year-old woman on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) was given isoniazid prophylaxis following a purified protein derivative (PPD) reaction greater than 20 mm in duration. Oral administration of isoniazid 300 mg/d was started and four days later she was admitted to the hospital for confusion, lethargy, and focal seizures that began 24 hours after initiation of therapy. All medications were discontinued with the exception of oral pyridoxine 50 mg/d. Dialysis was withheld to determine if the seizures were medication induced rather than uremia related. Seizures and mental status changes were reversed with pyridoxine. Dialysis was restarted after the symptoms resolved.
Preventive therapy against tuberculosis with isoniazid should be stressed throughout the medical community. Isoniazid has adverse effects including hepatitis and peripheral neuropathy (common) and convulsions (rare). Our experience suggests that additional supplementation with pyridoxine 50 mg/d should be given routinely to prevent adverse reactions in uremic patients.
Cardiovascular complications of cocaine abuse include myocardial ischemia and infarction, dysrhythmias, cardiomyopathies and aortic dissection. The case in point pertains to a 26-year-old, Caucasian male, substance abuser who suffered a thoracic aortic dissection following the use of crack cocaine. The autopsy and histological findings showed a connective tissue abnormality including a focal microcystic medial necrosis and a fragmentation of the elastic fibers in the arterial walls. Blood concentrations of cocaine and benzoylecgonine, taken individually, were considered to be within a potentially toxic range. Blood concentrations of methadone also indicated use of this drug at the same time. The small amounts of morphine found in the blood and urine were compatible with heroine or morphine use more than 24 h before death.
Benzene is a widely used solvent, currently present in the industrial environment at concentrations in the order of ppm. A valid method of biological monitoring that is easy to perform is needed for assessing occupational exposures. Benzene is metabolized in the body by microsomal cytochrome P-450 mono-oxygenase system into benzene epoxide. Benzene epoxide is metabolized along three different pathways which end in the excretion of trans, trans muconic acid, S-phenyl-mercapturic (S-PMA) and different phenols. A new method has been developed to evaluate urinary S-PMA of subjects exposed to benzene. Human urine is acidified with HCl to PH 1 and passed through a Sep-Pak C18 cartridge. The cartridges are washed with diluted HCl and a mixture of water/methanol/acetic acid and then eluted with acidified chloroform. The eluate is dried and reconstituted with a buffer phosphate, then passed through an anionic exchange cartridge (SAX) which is washed with diluted buffer and diluted HCl. S-PMA is recovered by eluting with concentrated buffer and is transformed into S-phenyl-cysteine. Finally, S-phenyl-cysteine is detected by HPLC connected with a fluorescence detector (wavelengths: excitation 330 nm, emission 440 nm) after derivatization with o-phthalaldehyde (OPA) and 2-mercapto-ethanol (MCE). The detection limit of the method is about 0.5 micrograms/l, the recovery of S-PMA is 90.0% and the variation coefficient is 3.8%. The method was checked on urine samples of 8 male non-smokers and 10 smokers: median values of 1.3 and 9.2 micrograms/g creatinine respectively of S-PMA were obtained. A further analysis on urine samples of 66 occupationally exposed workers (smokers and non-smokers) revealed a median value of S-PMA of 46.6 micrograms/g creatinine, compared with a median environmental benzene exposure of 1.99 mg/m3. These results suggest that S-PMA can be regarded in the future as a useful indicator for monitoring individual and collective low-level benzene exposure.
To present two case reports of a rare but devastating injury after image-guided, lumbar transforaminal injection of steroids, and to explore features in common with previously reported cases.
Image (fluoroscopic and computed tomography [CT])-guided, lumbar transforaminal injections of corticosteroids have been adopted as a treatment for radicular pain. Complications associated with these procedures are rare, but can be severe.
An 83-year-old woman underwent a fluoroscopically guided, left L3-L4, transforaminal injection of betamethasone (Celestone Soluspan). A 79-year-old man underwent a CT-guided, right L3-L4, transforaminal injection of methylprednisolone (DepoMedrol). Both patients developed bilateral lower extremity paralysis, with neurogenic bowel and bladder, immediately after the procedures. Magnetic resonance imaging scans were consistent with spinal cord infarction. There was no evidence of intraspinal mass or hematoma.
These cases consolidate a pattern emerging in the literature. Distal cord and conus injury can occur following transforaminal injections at lumbar levels, whether injection is on the left or right. This conforms with the probability of radicular-medullary arteries forming an arteria radicularis magna at lumbar levels. All cases used particulate corticosteroids, which promotes embolization in a radicular artery as the likely mechanism of injury. The risk of this complication can be reduced, and potentially eliminated, by the utilization of particulate free steroids, testing for intra-arterial injection with digital subtraction angiography, and a preliminary injection of local anesthetic.
Two patients who were treated with lithium for psychiatric illness developed primary position downbeat nystagmus. Previous reports have suggested that lithium causes this type of nystagmus, but other known causes were present in most cases. Several months after stopping the lithium, one patient had marked resolution, while the second patient had only minimal improvement. Valproate sodium proved to be useful in suppressing the nystagmus in the second patient. Lithium carbonate is a cause of primary position downbeat nystagmus. The nystagmus may be permanent or require several months of abstinence for improvement.
The purpose of this study was to define the optimum dose of lignocaine required to reduce pain on injection of propofol. We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial on 310 patients undergoing anaesthesia. Patients were allocated to four groups according to the lignocaine dosage: group A (control), no lignocaine; group B, lignocaine 0.1 mg kg-1; group C, lignocaine 0.2 mg kg-1; group D, lignocaine 0.4 mg kg-1. Our results showed that a dose of lignocaine 0.1 mg kg-1 significantly reduced the incidence of pain and that there was no improvement when the dose was increased.
Tamoxifen (TAM), is widely used as a single agent in adjuvant treatment of breast cancer. Here, we investigated the effects of TAM in combination with tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) in estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha)-positive and -negative breast cancer cells. We showed that cotreatment with TAM and TRAIL synergistically induced apoptosis regardless of ER-alpha status. By contrast, cotreatment did not affect the viability of normal breast epithelial cells. Cotreatment with TAM and TRAIL in breast cancer cells decreased the levels of antiapoptotic proteins including FLIPs and Bcl-2, and enhanced the levels of proapoptotic proteins such as FADD, caspase 8, tBid, Bax and caspase 9. Furthermore, cotreatment-induced apoptosis was efficiently reduced by FADD- or Bid-siRNA, indicating the implication of both extrinsic and intrinsic pathways in synergistic apoptosis induction. Importantly, cotreatment totally arrested tumor growth in an ER-alpha-negative MDA-MB-231 tumor xenograft model. The abrogation of tumor growth correlated with enhanced apoptosis in tumor tissues. Our findings raise the possibility to use TAM in combination with TRAIL for breast cancers, regardless of ER-alpha status.
Enalapril (MK-421) was administered orally as a single dose of 2.5, 5.0, 10 and 20 mg to 13 patients with either essential or renovascular hypertension. At these doses, enalapril produced a moderate reduction in both supine and standing blood pressure as well as a significant reduction in angiotensin I-converting enzyme activity, an increase in peripheral plasma renin activity and a decrease in plasma aldosterone concentration 4 to 8 hours after administration of the drug. Plasma levels of prostaglandins E1 and E2 were unchanged. The calculated ratio of urinary Na/K was increased in the patients with renal artery stenosis after enalapril. Creatinine clearance was increased in the patients with essential hypertension and reduced in the patients with renal artery stenosis. No adverse effects occurred in these patients treated with single doses of enalapril.
