The pathogenic road map leading to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is still not completely understood; however, a large body of studies in the last few years supports the idea that beside the classic hallmarks of the disease, namely the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) and neurofibrillary tangles, other factors significantly contribute to the initiation and the progression of the disease. Among them, mitochondria failure, an unbalanced neuronal redox state, and the dyshomeostasis of endogenous metals like copper, iron, and zinc have all been reported to play an important role in exacerbating AD pathology. Given these factors, the endogenous peptide carnosine may be potentially beneficial in the treatment of AD because of its free-radical scavenger and metal chelating properties.
In this study, we explored the effect of L-carnosine supplementation in the 3xTg-AD mouse, an animal model of AD that shows both Aβ- and tau-dependent pathology.
We found that carnosine supplementation in 3xTg-AD mice promotes a strong reduction in the hippocampal intraneuronal accumulation of Aβ and completely rescues AD and aging-related mitochondrial dysfunctions. No effects were found on tau pathology and we only observed a trend toward the amelioration of cognitive deficits.
Our data indicate that carnosine can be part of a combined therapeutic approach for the treatment of AD.
Sections of rat kidney with bovine serum albumin nephritis were incubated either with a single component of complement or with several components in sequence and then reacted with granulocytes. The average number of granulocytes bound to a nephritic glomerulus was elevated in sections incubated with C4 or C3 and increases were most significant when C14, C142 or C1423 were incubated.
Catatonia is a often a complex syndrome. It has been divided into categories of simple and malignant, with the latter being a more severe form involving autonomic instability and/or fever and having a higher mortality rate.
There have been only two cases presented in the literature postulating benzodiazepine-withdrawal as a possible trigger for malignant catatonia. Here, the authors present a case of catatonia likely caused by abrupt benzodiazepine discontinuation; they also discuss neurobiological mechanisms relating to catatonia.
The authors report on a 60-year-old man with a history of depression and posttraumatic stress disorder who was brought to the emergency department with acute confusion, grimacing, stereotypy, refusal of food and water, muscle rigidity, mutism, and extreme negativism. He had recently and abruptly discontinued all psychotropic medication.
After administration of lorazapam, the patient was re-started on clonazepam, after which there was a complete and sustained resolution of catatonic symptoms and autonomic instability.
Catatonia may result from a wide variety of etiologies. Catatonia due to benzodiazepine-withdrawal is a rare but serious condition that may be difficult to distinguish from other causes of catatonia. The mechanism by which catatonia may be precipitated by benzodiazepine-withdrawal is unknown, but likely involves a rapid decrease in GABA transmission in the central nervous system.
Genital herpes is a common and painful infection. Its prevalence within the United States is estimated to be 40 million to 60 million people. Three medications, acyclovir, valacyclovir, and famciclovir, have been shown to reduce the duration and severity of the disease.
The authors report on the first known case of valacyclovir-induced psychosis with symptoms of mania in a young woman with no previous psychiatric history.
The patient presented with irritable mood and grandiose delusions 72 hours after starting valacyclovir for genital herpes. Valacyclovir treatment was stopped, and risperidone was initiated.
The symptoms continued after stopping the valacyclovir, but improved with risperidone.
There are reports of neuropsychiatric side effects with valacyclovir's structural analogs in elderly patients with renal dysfunction. Clinicians should be aware that valacyclovir may induce psychosis with manic presentation in young, healthy patients without a psychiatric history.
The purpose of these studies was to investigate the hemodynamic effects of carvedilol, a compound with combined properties of nonselective beta-adrenoceptor blockade and precapillary vasodilatation. The acute effects were studied with invasive technique (dye dilution) in 10 patients taking 25 mg orally and noninvasively (forearm plethysmography) in 10 patients taking 25 mg and in 10 patients taking 50 mg orally, all with essential hypertension. Significant reductions of systolic and diastolic blood pressure (p less than 0.05-0.001) were observed in all groups. Total peripheral resistance (TPR) did not change acutely whereas resistance in the forearm was reduced by 16% (p less than 0.05; invasive group). When a comparison with propranolol (80 mg x 2) was made in a randomized double-blind placebo controlled trial in 30 patients, carvedilol acutely reduced blood pressure significantly by 13/6 mg Hg (25 mg) and 17/10 mm Hg (50 mg) in contrast to propranolol. Resistance in the forearm fell significantly with 50 mg carvedilol, whereas propranolol caused a significant rise. After 4 weeks, both compounds had reduced blood pressure significantly. Blood flow was still reduced with propranolol in contrast to the findings with carvedilol. In conclusion, the summary of these studies shows that carvedilol given orally has a useful antihypertensive effect both acutely and during prolonged treatment, and it has an attractive hemodynamic profile, in agreement with the hemodynamic findings in essential hypertension.
Cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, an inducible form of COX, plays important roles in inflammatory lesions. We investigated effects of a COX-2 selective inhibitor, NS-398, on cisplatin (CDDP)-induced rat renal lesions. As compared with rats injected with a single dose of CDDP (6 mg/kg; CDDP group), rats who were treated everyday with NS-398 (3mg/kg) after the CDDP injection (inhibitor group), showed the declines of blood urea nitrogen and creatinine values, and the delay of the peak of regenerating renal epithelial cell number (demonstrable with 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine immunohistochemistry); these findings suggested cytoprotective effects of the inhibitor. Furthermore, the numbers of ED1-immunopositive macrophages and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA)-immunopositive myofibroblasts were lower in the inhibitor group than in the CDDP group; mRNA expression of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) was also decreased in the inhibitor group. Because the fibrotic area seen after CDDP injection were tended to decrease in the inhibitor group compared with the CDDP group, it was considered that the decreased number of infiltrating macrophages by the inhibitor might lead to the decreased production of TGF-β1, thereby resulting in the reduced number of α-SMA-positive myofibroblasts responsible for fibrosis. Collectively, although these differences between the CDDP and inhibitor groups were not always marked, the COX-2 inhibitor used in this study could ameliorate the CDDP-induced rat renal lesions.
Previous data have shown that apomorphine-induced respiratory depression can be reversed by the opiate antagonist, naloxone. The present study investigates the influence of naloxone on cardiovascular changes and vomiting elicited by apomorphine in dogs. In chloralose-anaesthetized animals, naloxone (0.02 mg/kg i.v.) failed to modify either the decrease in blood pressure and the biphasic changes (bradycardia followed by a long-lasting tachycardia in heart rate or the characteristics (occurrence, latency, duration) of the emesis elicited by apomorphine (200 micrograms/kg i.v.). In contrast, in conscious animals, naloxone (0.02 mg/kg i.v.) increased both the number and the duration (but not latency) of vomiting induced by a lower dose of apomorphine (30 micrograms/kg i.v.). These data show that apomorphine-induced vomiting and arterial hypotension do not involve opiate receptors.
A 1-year-old female presented with neuroleptic malignant syndrome probably caused by methylphenidate. She had defects in the supratentorial brain including the basal ganglia and the striatum (multicystic encephalomalacia) due to severe perinatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy, which was considered to be a possible predisposing factor causing neuroleptic malignant syndrome. A dopaminergic blockade mechanism generally is accepted as the pathogenesis of this syndrome. However, methylphenidate is a dopamine agonist via the inhibition of uptake of dopamine, and therefore dopaminergic systems in the brainstem (mainly the midbrain) and the spinal cord were unlikely to participate in the onset of this syndrome. A relative gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic deficiency might occur because diazepam, a gamma-aminobutyric acid-mimetic agent, was strikingly effective. This is the first reported patient with neuroleptic malignant syndrome probably caused by methylphenidate.
We report two cases of severe disorders after spinal puncture with injection of hydrosoluble material. The first case concerned a 36-year-old woman with intrathecal injection of 125 ml of hydrocortisone acetate. An intracranial occipital hematoma developed. The second case concerned a 26-year-old man with intrathecal injection of contrast media and hydrocortisone. A chemical meningitis occurred. In both cases the natural course was favorable. Both complications are well known but rare. A review of the literature is made with description of the mechanisms. Preventive therapeutic measures are reported.
Doxapram causes panic anxiety in humans. To determine whether doxapram alters corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), paraventricular nucleus of hypothalamus (PVN), or bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), we used immunohistochemistry to measure CRF peptide in these brain areas after doxapram injection. Doxapram injection significantly increased CRF-like immunoreactivity (CRF-IR) within the CeA, but not in the BNST or PVN, and this increase was significant 2h after injection. In addition, doxapram significantly increased CRF mRNA expression within the CeA, and this was most prominent 30min after injection. These results suggest that doxapram selectively increases CRF expression within the CeA, and that this is mediated by increased CRF gene transcription. This increase in CRF-IR within the CeA might explain the doxapram-induced anxiety reaction.
Present therapeutic approaches to control bladder pain are clinically and scientifically unsatisfactory, and pain in the lower urinary tract remains a challenge even to the skilled urologist. A randomized placebo controlled study was done to evaluate intravesical capsaicin for severe bladder pain. Followup was 6 months.
A total of 36 patients was prospectively randomized into those receiving 10 microM. intravesical capsaicin twice weekly for 1 month (group 1) or placebo (group 2). All patients had pelvic pain for at least 6 months, and had no urinary tract infection within the last 3 months, functional disorders of the lower urinary tract, or other vesical or urethral pathology. Pretreatment voiding pattern and pain score were recorded. Patients were evaluated immediately at the end of treatment (primary end point) and 6 months later (secondary end point).
Both groups were adequately homogeneous with regard to age, sex ratio, duration of disease, voiding pattern and pain score. At both end points group 1 had significant improvement in frequency and nocturia but no improvement in urgency. No change was noted in group 2. A significant decrease in pain score was found in group 1 at the primary (mean plus or minus standard deviation 3.22 +/- 0.42, p < 0.01) and secondary (3.83 +/- 0.47, p < 0.01) end points compared to before treatment (5.61 +/- 0.40, chi-square with 2 degrees of freedom 29.25, p < 0.0001). A significant improvement was also observed in the placebo group, in which the pretreatment pain score (5.47 +/- 0.37) was decreased at the primary (4.47 +/- 0.36, p < 0.01) and secondary (4.48 +/- 0.34, p < 0.01, chi-square with 2 degrees of freedom 12.71, p < 0.002) end points. There were no statistically significant differences between the 2 groups.
We confirmed the beneficial effect of intravesical instillation of capsaicin on voiding pattern in patients with hypersensitive disorders (frequency and nocturia). We could not confirm improvement in pain score after capsaicin treatment compared to placebo. Possibly a larger dose of capsaicin would be more effective in controlling pain and neurological disease of the bladder.
To examine the effects of chronic ouabain treatment on blood pressure (BP), sodium excretion, and renal dopamine D(1) receptor level, male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were treated with ouabain (27.8 microg kg(-1) d(-1)) intraperitoneally for 5 weeks, and systolic blood pressure (SBP) were recorded weekly. After 5 weeks, sodium excretion and dopamine D(1) receptor agonist fenoldopam-mediated natriuresis were measured, and the expression and phosphorylation levels of the renal cortical dopamine D(1) receptor were confirmed by Western blot analysis. The effects of ouabain on fenoldopam-mediated inhibition of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity were determined by colorimetric assays in human proximal tubular epithelial cells (HK-2 cells). After 5 weeks, the SBP in ouabain group was significantly higher than that in the control group (P < 0.01), but the sodium excretion and renal cortical D(1) receptor expression levels were reduced, and D(1) receptor phosphorylation levels were increased after ouabain treatment. Intravenous administration of fenoldopam caused an increased sodium excretion in control rats, but failed to induce natriuresis in ouabain-treated rats. In addition, fenoldopam induced a dose-respone (10(-9) to 10(-6) M) inhibition of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity in HK-2 cells,but these effects were significantly diminished in HK-2 cells pretreated with nanomolar concentration of ouabain for 5 days (P < 0.01). We propose that the ouabain-induced reduction of the renal dopamine D(1) receptor function serves as a mechanism responsible for sodium retention, and this contributes to the hypertension induced by chronic ouabain treatment.
No medication is currently approved for the treatment of cocaine dependence, but several preclinical and clinical reports suggest agonist-like medications, e.g., amphetamine analogues, may be a productive strategy for medication development.
This current proof-of-concept study sought to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of methamphetamine as a candidate treatment for cocaine dependence.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study served to evaluate three treatment conditions in 82 cocaine-dependent individuals: (1) placebo (0mg, 6x/day; n=27), (2) immediate release (IR) methamphetamine (5mg, 6x/day; n=30), (3) sustained release (SR) methamphetamine (30 mg first pill, 1x/day; 0mg 5x/day; n=25). The study employed a sequential, two-phase design (i.e., 4 weeks of medication and counseling followed by 4 weeks of medication/counseling plus a contingency management procedure).
Both preparation forms of methamphetamine were well-tolerated, with similar retention to placebo (0mg, 33%; 30 mg IR, 30%, 30 mg SR, 32%). Methamphetamine SR was associated with decreased sleep and increased weight loss. Medication adherence rates were high for the first dose of the day (95%), while adherence for subsequent capsules was lower. Those in the SR condition exhibited consistently lower rates of cocaine-positive urine samples (0mg, 60%; 30 mg IR, 66%; 30 mg SR, 29%), p<0.0001, and reported the greatest reduction in craving for cocaine, p<0.05.
SR methamphetamine significantly reduced cocaine use and craving. Additional research is warranted to develop and evaluate agonist-like medications that may effectively treat cocaine dependence.
The failure of 13-cis-retinoic acid to inhibit either the incidence or severity of bladder carcinoma in female Fischer rate initiated with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) suggests that inhibition of bladder carcinogenesis by natural and synthetic retinoids is carcinogen-class specific, and adds an element of complexity to approaches in chemoprevention.
To examine the safety of finasteride as used in general medical practice to treat benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH).
Information was collected on 14,772 patients who were included in an observational cohort study conducted using Prescription-Event Monitoring.
Finasteride was reported to have been effective in 60% of the patients in whom an opinion on efficacy was recorded. Impotence or ejaculatory failure was reported in 2.1% of the patients, decreased libido in 1% and gynaecomastia and related conditions in 0.4%. Impotence was the most frequent reason for stopping treatment with finasteride and was the most commonly reported adverse reaction to the drug. Of the patients included in the elderly cohort involved in this study, 819 (5.5%) died; none of these deaths was attributed to finasteride.
Impotence or ejaculatory failure, decreased libido and gynaecomastia in a small proportion of patients were associated with the use of finasteride. The results of this study strongly suggest that this drug is acceptably safe when used in accordance with the current prescribing information.
Holoprosencephaly (HPE) is a common congenital defect that results from failed or incomplete forebrain cleavage. HPE is characterized by a wide clinical spectrum, with inter- and intrafamilial variability. This heterogeneity is not well understood and it has been suggested that HPE involves a combination of multiple gene mutations. In this model, several mutated alleles or modifying factors are presumed to act in synergy to cause and determine the severity of HPE. This could explain the various clinical phenotypes. Screening for HPE-associated genes in humans suggests the involvement of NODAL or SHH signaling, or both. To test this multigenic hypothesis, we investigated the effects of chemical inhibition of these two main HPE signaling pathways in a chick embryo model. SB-505124, a selective inhibitor of transforming growth factor-B type I receptors was used to inhibit the NODAL pathway. Cyclopamine was used to inhibit the SHH pathway. We report that both inhibitors caused HPE-like defects that were dependent on the drug concentration and on the developmental stage at the time of treatment. We also investigated double inhibition of NODAL and SHH pathways from the onset of gastrulation by using subthreshold inhibitor concentrations. The inhibitors of the NODAL and SHH pathways, even at low concentration, acted synergistically to promote an HPE-like phenotype. These findings support the view that genetic heterogeneity is important in the etiology of HPE and may contribute to the phenotypic variability.
Peri-operative increase of oxygen delivery has been shown to reduce mortality in high-risk surgical patients. This study compares the effectiveness of dopexamine and dobutamine when used to increase cardiac output as part of a regimen to increase oxygen delivery. Sixteen surgical patients were randomly allocated to receive either dopexamine or dobutamine, which was increased to a stable dose defined as either oxygen delivery index > 600 ml/min/m2, or tachycardia > 20% above baseline, other dysrhythmias or angina. At this "stable" dose there were significant increases in cardiac index (2.4 +/- 0.2 vs 3.7 +/- 0.3 l/min/m2) and oxygen delivery (380 +/- 73 vs 579 +/- 40 ml/min/m2) in the dopexamine group (P < 0.05); but not the dobutamine group. Five out of eight patients receiving dopexamine and three out of eight receiving dobutamine reached target oxygen delivery. Three dobutamine patients, but no dopexamine patients, had angina or dysrhythmias. In preoperative high-risk surgical patients, dopexamine can allow greater increases in oxygen delivery than dobutamine, due to cardiac effects that limit the dobutamine infusion rate.
Experimental cerebral malaria (ECM) can be induced in C57B1 mice by infection with Plasmodium berghei K173 parasites. Behavioral changes shortly before they die of ECM may reflect disturbance of the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Folic acid elicits strong convulsive activity if the permeability of the BBB is increased. Administration of folic acid to mice during development of ECM induced convulsions. Interventions known to prevent fatal outcome from ECM, such as splenectomy or treatment with anti-CD4 or anti-CD8 monoclonal antibodies, also prevented sensitivity to folic acid-induced convulsions. In addition, infected mice with ECM and sensitive to folic acid-induced convulsions, recovered from this sensitivity after treatment with anti-T cell antibodies within 4 h. These data suggest that disturbance of the permeability of the BBB can be reversed and depends on the involvement of T cells.
Neuroleptic-related dysphoric reactions are well recognized in the context of psychiatric disorders, especially in association with extrapyramidal side effects. Very few controlled data exist regarding the effects of neuroleptics on the mood of psychiatrically "normal" subjects. In this study, the depressogenic effect of the neuroleptic drug pimozide was assessed in men without psychiatric disorders.
Eight men with developmental stuttering but no past or present psychiatric illness participated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study assessing the effect of 6 weeks of pimozide treatment on speech fluency and mood.
Four of the seven subjects who were compliant with the treatment developed marked depressive symptoms. No clear association was found between these reactions and pimozide dose, blood level, or degree of neurologic side effects. Symptoms abated soon after drug discontinuation.
Pimozide induced significant depressive symptoms in this group of psychiatrically normal men who stutter. Neuroleptic drugs may have a causal effect in the induction of depression in psychiatrically normal subjects, ostensibly independent of dose or severity of neurologic side effects.
The benzodiazepine temazepam was given to Charles River CD rats for 2 years in the diet at dosages of 10, 40, and 160 mg/kg day. An 18-month study was performed in Charles River CD-1 mice via dietary admixture at dosages of 10, 80, and 160 mg/kg/day. Mean body weights were significantly decreased for high dose rats of both sexes from Treatment Week 39 until termination. All drug treated male groups had a higher rate of mortality when compared to the male control groups, primarily due to deaths occurring between 19 to 24 months. Compound-related hepatic lipidosis accompanied by an increase in liver weights was observed at the high dose level in the 6- and 12-month and terminal sacrifices, as well as the middle dose level at the 12-month interim sacrifice. No evidence was found of compound induced carcinogenicity at any time period. Mortality for male mice was significantly higher in the two higher dose groups; this resulted from bite wounds associated with a drug-related increase in fighting behavior. An isolated finding of borderline statistical significance (p = 0.0556) was noted for hepatocellular adenomas in high dose female mice (4/100) at the 18-month terminal sacrifice. This incidence is well within the reported historical control range (0-14%). Minimal hepatoproliferative (hyperplastic nodules) and vascular effects (telangiectasis) were seen in the high dose male and female mice at the 18-month terminal sacrifice. Thus, these results were similar to those previously reported for oxazepam although meaningful effects on neoplasia did not occur with temazepam. Unlike in man, temazepam is primarily metabolized to oxazepam in the mouse and thus these results are not adverse with regard to human safety evaluation.
To assess the association between exposure to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and the occurrence of aplastic anemia.
A retrospective case-control study was conducted using data from the U.K. General Practitioners Research Database (GPRD). Cases were defined as patients diagnosed with aplastic anemia. For each case, up to three control patients were matched on age, sex, and medical practice. Cases and controls were compared with respect to AED use. The effects of duration of AED use were assessed. Characteristics of individual cases with AED use were reviewed.
The study population comprised 173 cases and 497 controls. AED use was more prevalent among cases (9.2%) than among controls (0.8%). After adjustment for confounders, the use of AEDs was significantly associated with aplastic anemia (adjusted odds ratio (OR), 9.5; 95% confidence interval (CI), 3.0-39.7). The most frequently used AEDs were carbamazepine (CBZ), valproic acid (VPA), and phenytoin. The 16 exposed cases were heterogeneous with respect to patient and exposure characteristics: the age of these patients varied from 1 to 92 years, and the duration of AED use varied from 17 days to 6.8 years.
This study indicates that use of AEDs, in particular CBZ and VPA, is associated with a ninefold increased risk of aplastic anemia. Physicians should be alert to the possibility of AED-associated aplastic anemia.
Recent reviews of the effects of lithium on renal function have generally concluded that no clinically significant effect on glomerular function is apparent even after many years. Yet, a handful of studies over the last 3 years indicate that a small percentage of lithium-treated patients may develop rising levels of creatinine in serum after a decade or more of treatment. In the current sample of 82 bipolar patients treated in an affective disorders clinic, 3 (3.7%) were found to have developed creatinine levels in serum greater than 2.0 mg/100 ml from baseline levels that were within normal limits. One of these patients has progressed to chronic renal failure and hemodialysis, making him the second probable reported case of lithium-induced chronic renal failure. No common risk factor for renal disease among these patients was apparent. As increasing numbers of patients are treated with lithium for a decade or more, previous conclusions as to the benign effects of long-term lithium treatment on renal function may need to be revised. Regular monitoring of creatinine levels in serum and medical consultation if the level rises and remains above 1.6 mg/100 ml are recommended.
The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) plays an important role in the pathogenesis and worsening of heart failure (HF). Blocking this system with angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in patients with HF and left ventricular dysfunction reduces mortality and morbidity and these drugs are currently recommended as standard therapy. A more recently developed class of drug, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) block the RAS at the receptor level, and may therefore provide more complete blockade. ARBs, either singly or in combination with ACE inhibitors, are currently being compared to either ACE inhibitor therapy alone or to placebo in randomized trials of patients with or at high risk of developing HF. With respect to large trials published to date directly comparing ARB versus ACE inhibitor therapy, neither the Losartan Heart Failure Survival Study (ELITE II) nor the Optimal Trial in Myocardial Infarction with the Angiotensin II Antagonist Losartan (OPTIMAAL) found differences in mortality or morbidity between the treatment groups. As regards combination ARB/ACE inhibitor therapy versus ACE inhibitor therapy alone, one completed study, the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT), found no differences in mortality but a decrease in HF-related hospitalizations in the combined therapy group. Four additional long-term trials (VALIANT, CHARM, ONTARGET, and TRANSCEND) should complete the totality of evidence regarding the role of ARBs in the treatment of HF. Since genetic polymorphisms affecting drug metabolizing enzymes or drug receptors are known to influence responses to drugs, exploration of these effects on treatment responses to ARBs and ACE inhibitors may provide for more targeted treatment of HF.
We compared the neuropsychological performance of patients with Parkinson's disease who were young at onset of the disease (mean age, 41.4 years) and had received prolonged L-dopa treatment (mean, 52.1 months) with nontreated patients of the same age. A similar comparison was made for patients who were older at onset of the disease (mean, 62.1 years). There were no significant differences in cognitive and memory functions between the L-Dopa-treated and untreated young patients, whereas the L-Dopa-treated patients in the older age group performed more poorly than untreated patients in some memory tests (Wechsler Memory Scale I: logical and visual) and cognitive functions (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale: similarities, block design, and cognitive flexibility). Treatment duration, disease duration, and mean L-Dopa dose were comparable for the two age groups. After linear effects of age and disease duration had been eliminated, the duration of L-Dopa treatment did not correlate with the cognitive variables studied. These observations suggest that treatment with L-Dopa may not be the cause of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease.
A series of experiments was devised to determine possible modifying effects of stress, aspirin, and sodium taurocholate on the activity of N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG) in the Buffalo rat stomach. MNNG is a well known, direct-reacting carcinogen, and has been a reliable agent for the experimental production of gastric adenocarcinoma. The authors were able to produce adenocarcinomas in rats, but found a great number of gastric leiomyosarcomas. These occurred only in the groups given MNNG in combination with stress, aspirin, or sodium taurocholate, and did not occur in experimental groups given either MNNG, stress, aspirin, or sodium taurocholate alone, and did not occur in the control group.
This laboratory unit has been working with the Nb rat prostate adenocarcinoma model for the last several years and has recently used this model system to study efficacy of various chemotherapeutic agents in FANFT-induced bladder carcinomas in this rat strain. The purpose of this project is to identify factors and chemotherapeutic agents that might be useful for treatment of human bladder carcinoma. It is proposed that the use of the Nb rat be utilized to develop a data base to advance understanding of the management of bladder carcinoma induced by FANFT ingestion in Nb rats. Conventional cytotoxic agents and new combination chemotherapy will be utilized intravesically and systemically.
