The composition of diesel engine exhaust (DEE) varies by engine type and condition, fuel, engine operation, and exhaust after treatment such as particle traps. DEE has been shown to increase inflammation, susceptibility to infection, and cardiovascular responses in experimentally exposed rodents and humans. Engines used in these studies have been operated at idle, at different steady-state loads, or on variable-load cycles, but exposures are often reported only as the mass concentration of particulate matter (PM), and the effects of different engine loads and the resulting differences in DEE composition are unknown.
We assessed the impacts of load-related differences in DEE composition on models of inflammation, susceptibility to infection, and cardiovascular toxicity.
We assessed inflammation and susceptibility to viral infection in C57BL/6 mice and cardiovascular toxicity in APOE-/- mice after being exposed to DEE generated from a single-cylinder diesel generator operated at partial or full load.
At the same PM mass concentration, partial load resulted in higher proportions of particle organic carbon content and a smaller particle size than did high load. Vapor-phase hydrocarbon content was greater at partial load. Compared with high-load DEE, partial-load DEE caused greater responses in heart rate and T-wave morphology, in terms of both magnitude and rapidity of onset of effects, consistent with previous findings that systemic effects may be driven largely by the gas phase of the exposure atmospheres. However, high-load DEE caused more lung inflammation and greater susceptibility to viral infection than did partial load.
Differences in engine load, as well as other operating variables, are important determinants of the type and magnitude of responses to inhaled DEE. PM mass concentration alone is not a sufficient basis for comparing or combining results from studies using DEE generated under different conditions.
Several genome-wide linkage studies have shown an association between diabetic nephropathy and a locus on chromosome 18q harbouring two carnosinase genes, CNDP1 and CNDP2. Carnosinase degrades carnosine (β-alanyl-L-histidine), which has been ascribed a renal protective effect as a scavenger of reactive oxygen species. We investigated the putative associations of genetic variants in CNDP1 and CNDP2 with diabetic nephropathy (defined either as micro- or macroalbuminuria) and estimated GFR in type 2 diabetic patients from Sweden.
We genotyped nine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and one trinucleotide repeat polymorphism (D18S880, five to seven leucine repeats) in CNDP1 and CNDP2 in a case-control set-up including 4,888 unrelated type 2 diabetic patients (with and without nephropathy) from Sweden (Scania Diabetes Registry).
Two SNPs, rs2346061 in CNDP1 and rs7577 in CNDP2, were associated with an increased risk of diabetic nephropathy (rs2346061 p = 5.07 × 10(-4); rs7577 p = 0.021). The latter was also associated with estimated GFR (β = -0.037, p = 0.014), particularly in women. A haplotype including these SNPs (C-C-G) was associated with a threefold increased risk of diabetic nephropathy (OR 2.98, 95% CI 2.43-3.67, p < 0.0001).
These data suggest that common variants in CNDP1 and CNDP2 play a role in susceptibility to kidney disease in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Head and neck cancer (HNC) is the eighth most common malignancy worldwide, comprising a diverse group of cancers affecting the head and neck region. Despite advances in therapeutic options over the last few decades, treatment toxicities and overall clinical outcomes have remained disappointing, thereby underscoring a need to develop novel therapeutic approaches in HNC treatment. Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD), a key regulator of heme biosynthesis, was identified from an RNA interference-based high-throughput screen as a tumor-selective radiosensitizing target for HNC. UROD knockdown plus radiation induced caspase-mediated apoptosis and cell cycle arrest in HNC cells in vitro and suppressed the in vivo tumor-forming capacity of HNC cells, as well as delayed the growth of established tumor xenografts in mice. This radiosensitization appeared to be mediated by alterations in iron homeostasis and increased production of reactive oxygen species, resulting in enhanced tumor oxidative stress. Moreover, UROD was significantly overexpressed in HNC patient biopsies. Lower preradiation UROD mRNA expression correlated with improved disease-free survival, suggesting that UROD could potentially be used to predict radiation response. UROD down-regulation also radiosensitized several different models of human cancer, as well as sensitized tumors to chemotherapeutic agents, including 5-fluorouracil, cisplatin, and paclitaxel. Thus, our study has revealed UROD as a potent tumor-selective sensitizer for both radiation and chemotherapy, with potential relevance to many human malignancies.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) and capecitabine (CAP) have separately shown significant antitumor activity in a wide range of solid tumors. A phase I study was conducted in order to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of their combination in patients with refractory solid tumors.
Fifteen patients with histologically confirmed inoperable solid neoplasms were enrolled. The patients' median age was 65 years, 10 were male, and 12 had a performance status score (WHO) of 0-1. PLD was administered on day 1 as a 1-hour intravenous infusion at escalated doses ranging from 35 to 40 mg/m(2). CAP was administered on days 1-14 per os, at escalated doses ranging from 1,600 to 1,800 mg/m(2), given as two daily divided doses. Treatment was repeated every 3 weeks.
At the dose of PLD 40 mg/m(2) and CAP 1,800 mg/m(2), all 3 enrolled patients presented DLTs [2 patients grade 3 palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE) and 1 patient grade 3 asthenia] and thus, the recommended MTD for future phase II studies is PLD 40 mg/m(2) and CAP 1,700 mg/m(2). A total of 57 treatment cycles were administered. Grade 2/3 neutropenia complicated 9 (17%) cycles and 1 patient was hospitalized for febrile neutropenia. There was no septic death. The main nonhematologic toxicity was PPE grade 2 in 3 (19%) patients and grade 3 in 4 (27%). PPE was the reason of treatment interruption for 3 patients. Other toxicities were mild and easily manageable. Two patients (16%) with partial response suffering from gastric cancer and 5 patients with (42%) stable disease were observed among 12 evaluable patients.
The results of this phase I study demonstrate that PLD and CAP can be combined at clinically effective and relevant doses. However, PPE is a common side effect and further investigation is warranted to define its precise role in the treatment of solid malignancies.
Oxazepam and related benzodiazepines are used in the treatment of anxiety. Carcinogenicity studies of oxazepam were performed with the F344 rat because of marked differences in tumor responses observed in NTP studies with B6C3F1 and Swiss-Webster mice compared to the results of Sprague-Dawley rat studies submitted to the FDA by a manufacturer to support registration of the drug. Groups of 50 male and 50 female F344/N rats were fed diets containing 0, 625, 2500, or 5000 ppm oxazepam for up to 105 weeks. A stop-exposure group of 50 males and 50 females received 10,000 ppm oxazepam in diet for 26 weeks, after which animals received control diet. All 5000- and 10, 000-ppm stop-exposure males died before the end of the study. Survival of 2500-ppm males and females was lower than that of controls. Body weight gains of 2500- and 5000-ppm males and females were less than those of controls. Male rats exposed to 2500 ppm had an increased incidence of renal tubule adenoma and hyperplasia. In addition, the incidences of renal tubule adenoma and hyperplasia were increased in the 10,000-ppm stop-exposure group. The incidences of nephropathy in exposed females were greater than those in controls, and the severity of nephropathy increased in exposed males. Epithelial hyperplasia and chronic inflammation of the nonglandular stomach were increased in males given 2500 and 5000 ppm and the incidence of ulcers of the nonglandular stomach in 2500-ppm males was also greater than that in controls. In males exposed to 5000 ppm, mineralization of the glandular stomach and erosion of the duodenum were observed. In females exposed to 2500 ppm, the incidences of epithelial hyperplasia, chronic inflammation, and ulcers of the nonglandular stomach and the incidence of erosion in the glandular stomach were increased. The incidences of centrilobular hepatocyte hypertrophy in males and females given 2500 and 5000 ppm were greater than those in controls. In summary, there was equivocal evidence of carcinogenicity in males based on increased renal tubule adenomas in groups which also had significantly enhanced nephropathy. There was no evidence of carcinogenicity of oxazepam in females given a diet containing 625, 2500, or 5000 ppm for 2 years or 10,000 ppm for 6 months.
Risk assessment of dioxins is currently based on induction of liver tumors in rats. The toxicity of dioxins is characterized by large sensitivity differences among animal species and even strains of the same species, which complicates the risk assessment. The significance of these differences in dioxin-induced carcinogenicity is not known. We therefore studied the liver tumor-promoting activity of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) in the sensitive Long-Evans (L-E) and the resistant Han/Wistar (H/W) rats differing >1000-fold in their sensitivity to the acute lethaity of TCDD. Female rats were partially hepatectomized, initiated with nitrosodiethylamine, and treated with TCDD for 20 weeks. Altered hepatic foci (AHF) were stereologically quantitated using glutathione S-transferase P as a marker. AHF were significantly (P < 0.001) and dose dependently increased in L-E rats at 10 and 100 ng/kg/day, but in H/W rats only at 1000 ng/kg/day and above, indicating a remarkable (approximately 100-fold) sensitivity difference between L-E and H/W rats. The same sensitivity difference but 10-fold less foci were observed between nonhepatectomized/noninitiated L-E and H/W rats. Induction of AHF was related to hepatotoxicity but not to cytochrome P4501A1 activity in the liver. Liver TCDD concentrations were similar in both strains. H/W rats are exceptionally resistant to induction of AHF by TCDD, and the resistance is associated with an altered transactivation domain of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor. Genetic differences may account for significant interindividual/intraspecies sensitivity differences in dioxin-induced carcinogenesis. Understanding the role of transactivation domain of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor in carcinogenesis is therefore likely to improve dioxin risk assessment.
The hypotensive drug clonidine, which stimulates central alpha-adrenergic receptors, was administered to psychiatric patients in a preliminary double-blind study. Two schizophrenic patients became more agitated and aggressive during the trial. The drug showed some antidepressant effects in three of five depressed patients. Clonidine withdrawal appeared to potentiate symptoms in a manic patient. Drug treatment reduced blood pressure and rapid eye movement sleep. Interpretation of behavioral effects of clonidine is limited by uncertainty about the balance of its pre- and postsynaptic effects.
Inhibitory neurosteroids, molecules generated in glia from circulating steroid hormones and de novo from cholesterol, keep seizures in check in epileptic animals. They can enhance inhibitory transmission mediated by gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors and have anticonvulsant action.
Solus par aqua (SPA) is a traditional health care therapy. Warm SPA may enhance immunity and cellular defense to protect body against diseases. The present study investigated whether the warm SPA could confer protection to neurogenic inflammation in rats. The rats were immersed in water where the body core temperatures were maintained at hyperthermia (41.5 degrees C) or normothermia (37 degrees C) for a period of 15min. After SPA for 1 or 6 days, neurogenic inflammation was induced by intravenous injection of capsaicin (90microg/kg) or substance P (SP; 3microg/kg). The plasma leakage and arterial pressures in rats after neurogenic inflammation were monitored. The extent of capsaicin- or SP-induced plasma leakage and hypotension was significantly attenuated in rats on day 1 after SPA hyperthermia. However, such resistance to neurogenic inflammation was not found on day 6 after hyperthermia. Western blotting analysis showed that the expression of heat shock protein 72 (HSP 72) in the trachea on days 1 and 2 after hyperthermia was 9.61-fold and 6.66-fold, respectively, of that in normothermia. Afterwards, the hyperthermia-induced HSP 72 upregulation gradually declined in a time-dependent manner. Thus, SPA hyperthermia may protect rats against neurogenic inflammation through modulation of HSP expression.
The outcome of patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) referred for liver transplantation (LT) is unknown. A high frequency of lamivudine-resistant (LAM-R) HBV infection may increase the risk of liver-related death pre-transplantation and prophylaxis failure post-transplantation. We evaluated the association of LAM-R HBV on pre-transplant survival and post-transplant outcomes in 35 consecutive HIV-HBV coinfected patients referred for LT between July 2000 and September 2002. At the time of referral, the median CD4 count was 273/mm, MELD was 14, and LAM-R HBV infection was present in 67%. Among these referred patients, 26% were listed, 29% not listed due to relative/absolute contraindications; 26% not listed as too early for LT; 9% not listed as too sick for LT; and 11% died during transplant evaluation. Of the 9 listed patients, 4 remained listed, 1 died 18 months post-referral, and 4 were transplanted (11% of total) 3 to 40 months after listing. Of 17 evaluated but not listed patients, 5 died (p=0.38 compared to listed group) and all deaths were liver-related. All the HBV-HIV coinfected patients, who were transplanted, are HBsAg negative and have undetectable HBV DNA levels on prophylactic therapy using hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) plus lamivudine, with and without tenofovir or adefovir, with median 33.1 months follow-up. Late referral and the presence of LAM-R HBV pre-transplantation are common in referred HIV-HBV patients. In HIV-HBV coinfected patients undergoing LT, HBV recurrence is successfully prevented with combination prophylaxis using HBIG and antivirals.
To examine the effects of dietary calcium supplementation on systemic and renal hemodynamics and glomerular injury in experimental hypertension, rats with desoxycorticosterone-salt hypertension were fed either standard chow, containing 1% calcium by weight, or chow supplemented with calcium carbonate to achieve a calcium content of 2% by weight. Ingestion of calcium carbonate failed to reduce systemic blood pressure, but was associated with increased proteinuria and morphologic evidence of glomerular injury. Micropuncture studies revealed that afferent arteriolar resistance was reduced and glomerular capillary pressure further increased in the high calcium group. Thus, calcium carbonate, in moderate amounts, not only failed to ameliorate systemic hypertension but, paradoxically, worsened intrarenal hypertension and injury in rats with mineralocorticoid-induced hypertension.
Thirty patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension entered a randomised double-blind parallel group study for 6 months to compare the effects of the new calcium channel blocker nicardipine 90 mg/day and propranolol 240 mg/day. Both drugs reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressures significantly in the supine and in standing positions. After 6 months of treatment, nicardipine had reduced the supine systolic and diastolic blood pressures by 16 and 17 mm Hg, respectively, and propranolol by 15 and 12 mm Hg. While propranolol treatment led to a marked decline in heart rate, nicardipine caused a small but statistically significant increase in heart rate throughout the study. Both drugs reduced blood pressure during maximal exercise, but propranolol had a greater effect. During exercise nicardipine did not affect the heart rate, whereas propranolol dramatically reduced it. Nicardipine did not produce any ECG changes at rest or during exercise. The side-effects for nicardipine were mild and were related to the vasodilatation induced by the drug. No abnormalities in routine blood chemical tests were found for either of the drugs. Nicardipine appears to be an effective single drug treatment for mild to moderate hypertension.
Effective inhibition of cell division by anesthetics occurs only when cells are exposed to concentrations more than twice those required for anesthesia. Neutropenia following prolonged inhalation of nitrous oxide seems to be caused by a different mechanism, in which the cobalt in B12 is oxidised to the trivalent form by chemical reaction with nitrous oxide. B12 is thereby inactivated and this interferes with folate metabolism and thymidine synthesis: the effect may be detected after only a few hours in vivo exposure of mammals to 50% nitrous oxide. Unlike lymphocytes, the random motility of human neutrophils is not decreased by in vitro exposure to concentrations of halothane required for anesthesia. Similarly there is no effect on chemotaxis to casein and phagocytosis with exposure up to 2% halothane.
A 34-year-old woman with HIV infection and no other opportunistic infections presented a classic sulfone syndrome, manifested by fever, rash, hemolytic anemia, and fulminant hepatitis due to dapsone hypersensitive reaction, with a fatal outcome. We believe this is the first reported fatal complication of dapsone in an HIV-infected patient. We to bring attention to this potentially fatal drug complication, which may become more common with widespread use of dapsone in HIV-infected patients. The package insert for dapsone recommends laboratory surveillance (hematologic and liver-related tests) during the first 4 to 6 weeks of therapy, and every 3 to 4 months thereafter. Our case report suggests that closer follow-up of patients receiving dapsone might be indicated.
The acute heavy exposure to sulfur mustard gas can lead to pulmonary fibrosis (PF). This study was performed to determine the cellular and protein content of BAL fluid in 24 patients with sulfur mustard gas-induced PF.
Twenty-four veterans with sulfur mustard gas-induced PF and 18 nonexposed veterans serving as control subjects were enrolled into the study.
Chest roentgenograms, pulmonary function tests (PFTs), tests for carbon monoxide diffusing capacity of the lung (DLCO), high-resolution CT scans of the chest, BAL via fiberoptic bronchoscopy, analyses of BAL fluids for cellular and protein constituents, and determinations of serum albumin and Ig levels were performed in all cases. A transbronchial lung biopsy was done in all patients following BAL.
Neutrophilic alveolitis was the predominant feature. Neutrophils (p = 0.0001) and eosinophils (p = 0.0001) were the predominant cell types in the BAL fluid of patients with PF. There was a strong correlation between the BAL fluid neutrophil count (p = 0.76; p = 0.0003) or its percentage (p = 0.77; p = 0.0003) and the degree of fibrosis. Of the BAL fluid Ig levels, only the IgG level in the study group was significantly higher than the IgG level of the control group (p = 0.0001). Of the PFT physiologic parameters, only the percentage of DLCO showed a significant correlation with the degree of fibrosis (p = -0.76; p < 0.001).
The cellular constituents of BAL fluid in patients with sulfur mustard gas-induced PF are very similar to the cellular constituents seen in patients with idiopathic PF, and this finding indicates the presence of an ongoing active alveolitis in PF.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP), a neurodegenerative disorder, can arise from single point mutations in rhodopsin, leading to a cascade of protein instability, misfolding, aggregation, rod cell death, retinal degeneration, and ultimately blindness. Divalent cations, such as zinc and copper, have allosteric effects on misfolded aggregates of comparable neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer disease, prion diseases, and ALS. We report that two structurally conserved low-affinity zinc coordination motifs, located among a cluster of RP mutations in the intradiscal loop region, mediate dose-dependent rhodopsin destabilization. Disruption of native interactions involving histidines 100 and 195, through site-directed mutagenesis or exogenous zinc coordination, results in significant loss of receptor stability. Furthermore, chelation with EDTA stabilizes the structure of both wild-type rhodopsin and the most prevalent rhodopsin RP mutation, P(23)H. These interactions suggest that homeostatic regulation of trace metal concentrations in the rod outer segment of the retina may be important both physiologically and for an important cluster of RP mutations. Furthermore, with a growing awareness of allosteric zinc binding domains on a diverse range of GPCRs, such principles may apply to many other receptors and their associated diseases.
Previous phenotyping of glucose homeostasis and insulin secretion in a mouse model of hereditary hemochromatosis (Hfe(-/-)) and iron overload suggested mitochondrial dysfunction. Mitochondria from Hfe(-/-) mouse liver exhibited decreased respiratory capacity and increased lipid peroxidation. Although the cytosol contained excess iron, Hfe(-/-) mitochondria contained normal iron but decreased copper, manganese, and zinc, associated with reduced activities of copper-dependent cytochrome c oxidase and manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase (MnSOD). The attenuation in MnSOD activity was due to substantial levels of unmetallated apoprotein. The oxidative damage in Hfe(-/-) mitochondria is due to diminished MnSOD activity, as manganese supplementation of Hfe(-/-) mice led to enhancement of MnSOD activity and suppressed lipid peroxidation. Manganese supplementation also resulted in improved insulin secretion and glucose tolerance associated with increased MnSOD activity and decreased lipid peroxidation in islets. These data suggest a novel mechanism of iron-induced cellular dysfunction, namely altered mitochondrial uptake of other metal ions.
Hypospadias is one of the most common urogenital congenital anomalies affecting baby boys. Prevalence estimates in Europe range from 4 to 24 per 10,000 births, depending on definition, with higher rates reported from the United States. Relatively little is known about potential risk factors, but a role for endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) has been proposed.
Our goal was to elucidate the risk of hypospadias associated with occupational exposure of the mother to endocrine-disruptor chemicals, use of folate supplementation during pregnancy, and vegetarianism.
We designed a case-control study of 471 hypospadias cases referred to surgeons and 490 randomly selected birth controls, born 1 January 1997-30 September 1998 in southeast England. Telephone interviews of mothers elicited information on folate supplementation during pregnancy and vegetarianism. We used a job exposure matrix to classify occupational exposure.
In multiple logistic regression analysis, there were increased risks for self-reported occupational exposure to hair spray [exposed vs. nonexposed, odds ratio (OR) = 2.39; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.40-4.17] and phthalate exposure obtained by a job exposure matrix (OR = 3.12; 95% CI, 1.04-11.46). There was a significantly reduced risk of hypospadias associated with of folate use during the first 3 months of pregnancy (OR = 0.64; 95% CI, 0.44-0.93). Vegetarianism was not associated with hypospadias risk.
Excess risks of hypospadias associated with occupational exposures to phthalates and hair spray suggest that antiandrogenic EDCs may play a role in hypospadias. Folate supplementation in early pregnancy may be protective.
This multicentric study was done in order to know the contraceptive efficacy and side effects of subdermal implants liberating levonorgestrel, in Mexican women. Results analysis, at one year, of 246 women, at four medical centers of Mexican Institute of Social Security (IMSS), showed that this contraceptive is highly efficacious, as there were no pregnancies in 2326 months of observation. The main side effects were: menstrual disorders in 34.8% of women; soreness in implantation site in 3.6%; headache in 13.4% and nausea, dizziness and vomiting in 11.6%. The most frequent causes for implant retirement were menstrual cycle alterations, and soreness at implantation site, with 7.3 and 3.5 respectively. The continuity rate at one year was 84.3, which was higher to what has been seen at the Institution with other temporal contraceptive methods, so the implants may be considered as one more alternative in family planning methods.
Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is the most common soft-tissue sarcoma of childhood, divided into two major histological subtypes, embryonal (ERMS) and alveolar (ARMS). To explore the possibility that the proteasome could be a target of therapeutic value in rhabdomyosarcoma, we treated several RMS cell lines with the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (Velcade or PS-341) at a concentration of 13-26 nM. RMS cells showed high sensitivity to the drug, whereas no toxic effect was observed in primary human myoblasts. In both ERMS and ARMS cells bortezomib promoted apoptosis, activation of caspase 3 and 7 and induced a dose-dependent reduction of anchorage-independent growth. Furthermore, bortezomib induced activation of the stress response, cell cycle arrest and the reduction of NF-kappaB transcriptional activity. Finally, bortezomib decreased tumour growth and impaired cells viability, proliferation and angiogenesis in a xenograft model of RMS. In conclusion, our data indicate that bortezomib could represent a novel drug against RMS tumours.
The development of tolerance to the muscular rigidity produced by morphine was studied in rats. Saline-pretreated controls given a test dose of morphine (20 mg/kg i.p.) showed a pronounced rigidity recorded as tonic activity in the electromyogram. Rats treated for 11 days with morphine and withdrawn for 36-40 h showed differences in the development of tolerance: about half of the animals showed a rigidity after the test dose of morphine that was not significantly less than in the controls and were akinetic (A group). The other rats showed a strong decrease in the rigidity and the occurrence of stereotyped (S) licking and/or gnawing in presence of akinetic or hyperkinetic (K) behaviour (AS/KS group), suggesting signs of dopaminergic activation. The rigidity was considerably decreased in both groups after 20 days' treatment. In a further series of experiments, haloperidol (0.2 mg/kg i.p.) was used in order to block the dopaminergic activation and to estimate the real degree of the tolerance to the rigidity without any dopaminergic interference. Haloperidol enhanced the rigidity in the A group. However, the level in the AS/KS group remained considerably lower than in the A group. The results suggest that rigidity, which is assumed to be due to an action of morphine in the striatum, can be antagonized by another process leading to dopaminergic activation in the striatum. Nevertheless, there occurs some real tolerance to this effect. The rapid alternations of rigidity and the signs of dopaminergic activation observed in the animals of the AS/KS group might be due to rapid shifts in the predominance of various DA-innervated structures.
TNF-α converting enzyme (TACE) processes the membrane TNF-α to release the bioactive soluble TNF-α. Several evidences suggest the involvement of TNF-α and TACE in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-3, an endogenous inhibitor of TACE, is positively associated with silent information regulator (SIRT)-1. We aimed to study the expression of TACE, TIMP-3 and SIRT-1 at different stages of colitis and how TACE is regulated in response to SIRT-1 activation. Acute colitis was induced by 3.5% dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) in drinking water for 5days and levels of cytokines and mRNA expression of TACE, TIMP-3 and SIRT-1 were measured in colon at different time intervals. Next, the effect of SIRT-1 activator (resveratrol) or a selective TACE inhibitor (compound 11p) treatment was evaluated. Elevated levels of TNF-α, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-1β, interferon (IFN)-γ and IL-17 were observed during DSS exposure phase which restored to the normal level after DSS removal. A significant increase in TACE and suppression in TIMP-3 and SIRT-1 mRNA level was observed during DSS exposure phase which reverts back to normal towards the remission phase. Treatment with resveratrol significantly elevated SIRT-1 and TIMP-3 and suppressed TACE mRNA expression and was associated with amelioration of disease. Furthermore, treatment with selective TACE inhibitor significantly suppressed body weight loss, disease activity index, colonic myeloperoxidase activity and the elevated levels of cytokines after DSS challenge. These results strongly emphasize the involvement of TACE in colon inflammation and inhibition of TACE directly or indirectly via SIRT-1 activation ameliorates colitis.
Although outdoor particulate matter (PM) has been linked to mortality and asthma morbidity, the impact of indoor PM on asthma has not been well established.
This study was designed to investigate the effect of in-home PM on asthma morbidity.
For a cohort of 150 asthmatic children (2-6 years of age) from Baltimore, Maryland, a technician deployed environmental monitoring equipment in the children's bedrooms for 3-day intervals at baseline and at 3 and 6 months. Caregivers completed questionnaires and daily diaries during air sampling. Longitudinal data analyses included regression models with generalized estimating equations.
Children were primarily African Americans (91%) from lower socioeconomic backgrounds and spent most of their time in the home. Mean (+/- SD) indoor PM(2.5-10) (PM with aerodynamic diameter 2.5-10 microm) and PM(2.5) (aerodynamic diameter < 2.5 microm) concentrations were 17.4 +/- 21.0 and 40.3 +/- 35.4 microg/m(3). In adjusted models, 10-microg/m(3) increases in indoor PM(2.5-10) and PM(2.5) were associated with increased incidences of asthma symptoms: 6% [95% confidence interval (CI), 1 to 12%] and 3% (95% CI, -1 to 7%), respectively; symptoms causing children to slow down: 8% (95% CI, 2 to 14%) and 4% (95% CI, 0 to 9%), respectively; nocturnal symptoms: 8% (95% CI, 1 to 14%) and 6% (95% CI, 1 to 10%), respectively; wheezing that limited speech: 11% (95% CI, 3 to 19%) and 7% (95% CI, 0 to 14%), respectively; and use of rescue medication: 6% (95% CI, 1 to 10%) and 4% (95% CI, 1 to 8%), respectively. Increases of 10 microg/m(3) in indoor and ambient PM(2.5) were associated with 7% (95% CI, 2 to 11%) and 26% (95% CI, 1 to 52%) increases in exercise-related symptoms, respectively.
Among preschool asthmatic children in Baltimore, increases in in-home PM(2.5-10) and PM(2.5) were associated with respiratory symptoms and rescue medication use. Increases in in-home and ambient PM(2.5) were associated with exercise-related symptoms. Although reducing PM outdoors may decrease asthma morbidity, reducing PM indoors, especially in homes of inner-city children, may lead to improved asthma health.
In the literature, there is some evidence indicating that H3 histamine receptor antagonists, in particular thioperamide, can facilitate learning and memory retrieval in laboratory rodents. The present study aimed at verifying whether this also holds for memory consolidation, a phase of memory for which there is scarcity of convincing data on the effects of H3 receptor antagonists given systemically. To that end, memory consolidation was assessed in C57BL/6J mice using the one-trial step-through inhibitory avoidance task, the compounds being injected immediately after training (foot-shock) and performance measured 24 h later. More specifically, the following effects of thioperamide (1.25-20 mg/kg) were dose-dependently analysed: (1) its potential direct effects on memory consolidation; (2) its potential reversing effects on retrograde amnesia induced by the NMDA antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801, 0.5 mg/kg) and (3) its potential reversing effects on the well-known amnesia induced by the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (0.25 mg/kg). We found that thioperamide exerted a dose-dependent facilitative effect on memory consolidation. Furthermore, the H3 receptor antagonist reversed scopolamine- and especially dizocilpine-induced amnesia. The results strongly support the view that the brain mechanisms of memory consolidation involve a functional interaction between the NMDA and the H3 sites.
