It has been reported that the expression of thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) and orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT) may predict the clinical efficacy of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based therapy in cancer patients. We investigated the differences in the mRNA and protein expression of these enzymes in various tumor tissues. A total of 17,613 specimens of head and neck, gastric, colorectal, breast, lung and pancreatic cancer were collected from multiple facilities in Japan, and the mRNA and protein expression levels of the above enzymes were examined in 4,830 and 12,783 of these specimens, respectively. The mRNA levels were analyzed using RT-PCR in laser-captured microdissected formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded specimens, while the protein levels were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. The median values of the relative TS, DPD and OPRT mRNA levels were 2.06, 0.803 and 1.17, respectively, while the median protein levels were 22.1, 134.8 and 3.81 ng enzyme/mg protein, respectively. The carcinomas were classified into two sets of four groups each using the overall median levels of TS and DPD or TS and OPRT as cutoff values. Approximately 60% of the gastric cancers exhibited elevated mRNA and protein expression levels of DPD, while >65% of the colorectal cancers showed low levels of DPD expression. Overall, 75% of the head and neck cancers exhibited high expression levels of DPD. Among the lung and pancreatic cancers, 50-74% showed low TS/high DPD expression. In conclusion, the mRNA expression and protein levels of TS, DPD and OPRT differed according to the type of cancer. The results of this large-scale population analysis are expected to be useful as reference data for predicting the relationship between the respective enzyme levels and the efficacy of 5-FU-based chemotherapy.
Peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBD) comprise three phenotypes including Zellweger syndrome (ZS) (the most severe), neonatal adrenoleucodystrophy, and infantile Refsum disease (IRD) (the most mild), and can be classified into at least 12 genetic complementation groups, which are not predictive of the phenotypes. Several pathogenic genes for PBD groups have been identified, but the relationship between the defective gene products and phenotypic heterogeneity has remained unclear. We identified a mutation in the PEX2 gene in an IRD patient with compound heterozygosity for a missense mutation and the known nonsense mutation detected in ZS patients. In transfection experiments using the peroxisome deficient CHO mutant, Z65 with a nonsense mutation in the PEX2 gene, we noted the E55K mutation had mosaic activities of peroxisomal protein import machinery and residual activities of peroxisomal functions, including dihydroxyacetone phosphate acyltransferase and beta oxidation of very long chain fatty acids. The nonsense mutation severely affects these peroxisomal functions as well as the protein import. These data suggest that allelic heterogeneity of the PEX gene affects the peroxisomal protein import and functions and regulates the clinical severity in PBD.
This study examined the cellular changes produced in the striatum by chronic L-DOPA treatment and prolonged subthalamic nucleus high-frequency stimulation (STN-HFS) applied separately, successively, or in association, in the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Only animals showing severe L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) were included, and STN-HFS was applied for 5 d at an intensity efficient for alleviating akinesia without inducing dyskinesias. L-DOPA treatment alone induced FosB/deltaFosB immunoreactivity, exacerbated the postlesional increase in preproenkephalin, reversed the decrease in preprotachykinin, and markedly increased mRNA levels of preprodynorphin and of the glial glutamate transporter GLT1, which were respectively decreased and unaffected by the dopamine lesion. STN-HFS did not affect per se the postlesion changes in any of these markers. However, when applied in association with L-DOPA treatment, it potentiated the positive modulation exerted by L-DOPA on all of the markers examined and tended to exacerbate LIDs. After 5 d of L-DOPA withdrawal, the only persisting drug-induced responses were an elevation in preprodynorphin mRNA levels and in the number of FosB/deltaFosB-immunoreactive neurons. Selective additional increases in these two markers were measured when STN-HFS was applied subsequently to L-DOPA treatment. These data provide the first evidence that STN-HFS exacerbates the responsiveness of striatal cells to L-DOPA medication and suggest that STN-HFS acts specifically through an L-DOPA-modulated signal transduction pathway associated with LIDs in the striatum. They point to striatal cells as a primary site for the complex interactions between these two therapeutic approaches in PD and argue against a direct anti-dyskinetic action of STN-HFS.
This study was designed to investigate the possible protective actions of nicotine on cerebrovascular permeability in convulsions during nicotine-induced seizures. We have measured the permeability changes in the blood-brain barrier (BBB) macroscopically and spectrophotometrically by using Evans blue dye. Specific gravity measurements were also performed to assess brain edema which develops after blood-brain barrier opening. The experiments were carried out on Wistar rats. Rats were divided into two groups. They received acutely a convulsive dose of nicotine 3, 5, 8 and 9 mg kg(-1)i.p. or pretreated with a low dose of nicotine (0.8 mg kg(-1)i. p.) for 21 days followed by the procedure mentioned in the first group. Acute nicotine injection induced a significant increase in blood pressure and Evans-blue passage, despite a decline in specific gravity values. Low doses of chronic nicotine administration markedly reduced both the leakage of dye, and brain water content. Chronic treatment with low doses of nicotine (0.8 mg kg(-1)day(-1)s. c.) lessened the intensity of tonic-clonic seizures observed with a single dose of 3, 5, 8 or 9 mg kg(-1)nicotine. The data presented here demonstrate that nicotine pretreatment results in decreased sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures in rats.
The death of a 36-year-old alcoholic man who died after developing seizure activity while being treated with tramadol, as well as with venlafaxine, trazodone, and quetiapine, all of which interact with the neurotransmitter serotonin, is reported. The decedent, who had a history of chronic back pain, alcoholism, depression, mild hypertensive cardiovascular disease, and gastritis, had just been discharged from the hospital after 4 days of alcohol detoxification treatment. During the admission, no withdrawal seizures were noted. The morning after discharge, a witness observed the decedent exhibiting seizure activity and then collapsing. An autopsy was performed approximately 6 hours after death, and the anatomic findings were consistent with seizure activity and collapse, which included biting injuries of the tongue and soft-tissue injuries of the face. Toxicologic analysis identified tramadol, venlafaxine, promethazine, and acetaminophen in the urine; tramadol (0.70 mg/L) and venlafaxine (0.30 mg/L) in the heart blood, and 0.10 mg of tramadol in 40 ml of submitted stomach contents. No metabolites, such as acetate, acetone, lactate, and pyruvate, were found in the specimens that would be characteristically found in a person with alcohol withdrawal syndrome. The threshold for seizures is lowered by tramadol. In addition, the risk for seizure is enhanced by the concomitant use of tramadol with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or neuroleptics, and its use in patients with a recognized risk for seizures, i.e., alcohol withdrawal. The cause of death in this individual was seizure activity complicating therapy for back pain, depression, and alcohol withdrawal syndrome. The data in Adverse Event Reporting System of the Food and Drug Administration from November 1, 1997 to September 8, 1999 was reviewed along with a MEDLINE search from 1966 to the present. This case appears to be the first reported death caused by seizure activity in a patient taking tramadol in combination with drugs that affect serotonin.
This case history of abnormal sensitivity to ordinary doses of drug with minimal respiratory depressant activities in Leber's disease underlines the fact that patients with this abnormality are exceedingly sensitive to ordinary doses of anaesthetic and sedative drugs.
An intestinal reperfusion study with two aims: a) to assess the usefulness of intestinal capillary blood flow measurement by laser-Doppler for intestinal reperfusion studies; and b) to compare the effects of racemic and levo forms of folinic acid in treating the syndrome.
A murine model of intestinal ischemia by completely clamping the superior mesenteric artery for 90 minutes. A comparison was made of three treatment groups: saline, folinic acid, and levo-folinic acid. The following factors were analyzed: changes in biochemical parameters (levels of creatine kinase, lactic dehydrogenase, and alkaline phosphatase at 60 minutes, and at two and seven days after restoring blood flow), capillary flow in the jejunum and ileum by laser-Doppler (during ischemia and after the first hour of reperfusion), intestinal mucosa injury, and survival curve.
Laser-Doppler provided reliable data on how the different treatments affected capillary flow during intestinal reperfusion. Levo-folinic acid improved capillary flow in the ileum after 25 minutes of reperfusion, and also reduced mucosal injury in the same stretch of intestine by the seventh day post-reperfusion (p<0.05). On the other hand, it produced an initial increase in serum enzymes during reperfusion, and did not modify survival.
The changes observed in intestinal capillary blood flow measurement by laser-Doppler have similarities with the effects of drugs on pathological mucosal changes. We could not prove that the levo form of folinic acid has a stronger protective effect versus racemic folinic acid in intestinal ischemia-reperfusion syndrome.
Our study aims to find the relationship between metabolic enzyme thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) gene polymorphisms and clinical output of the therapy with azathioprine. We focused on patients who experienced leucopenia caused by high blood levels of active azathioprine metabolites.
Our group consists of 87 patients who have been treated by azathioprine. 21 individuals experienced leucopenia during treatment with standard dose of azathioprine. We have used PCR-REA and "real-time" PCR methods for genotype detection G238C, G460G and A719G substitutions in TPMT gene.
We have found statistical association between the presence of non-standard TPMT alleles and adverse event associated with azathioprine treatment - leucopenia (p=0.0033).
Our results confirm that TPMT genotyping prior to the treatment with azathioprine could predict patients with genetic predisposition for serious leucopenia and seems to be a useful genetic marker for individualisation of the therapy.
To investigate the effects of conventional ventilation, lateral position, asynchronous independent lung ventilation and synchronous independent lung ventilation on gas exchange, lung mechanics, hemodynamics, pulmonary perfusion and inflammatory mediators in dogs with a hydrochloric acid induced unilateral acute lung injury (ALI).
Twenty-eight dogs with hydrochloric acid induced unilateral ALI (the left lung) were ventilated with volume controlled ventilation. The animals were divided into four groups. The first group (group A, n = 7) received conventional ventilation in a supine position. The second group (group B, n = 7) received conventional ventilation in the healthy lung dependent position with the parameters as same as group A. The third group (group C, n = 7) received asynchronous independent lung ventilation. The fourth group (group D, n = 7) received synchronous independent lung ventilation with the parameters as same as group C. All the animals were observed for 4 h under the above described ventilation. Oxygenation, lung mechanics, hemodynamics and lung injury score were measured during the ventilation. The right and left pulmonary arterial blood flows were measured after 4 h ventilation.
(1) After 30 min ventilation, PaO2/FiO2 in group A [(180 +/- 25) mm Hg, 1 mm Hg = 0.133 kPa] was significantly lower than those in group B, group C and group D [(277 +/- 23), (296 +/- 31), (299 +/- 22) mm Hg respectively, all P < 0.01]. PaO2/FiO2 in group C [(348 +/- 34) mm Hg] and group D [(343 +/- 29) mm Hg] was significantly increased when compared with that of group B [(314 +/- 33) mm Hg] after 60 min ventilation (P < 0.05), but there was no significant difference between group C and group D. (2) After 120 min ventilation, C(st) in group B [(23 +/- 4) ml/cm H2O] significantly increased when compared with that of group A [(19 +/- 2) ml/cm H2O, P < 0.05]. After 60 min ventilation, C(st)-L in group C and group D increased significantly as compared to the beginning of the ventilation. (3) The left lung pulmonary arterial flow in group B, group C and group D [(31.3 +/- 4.6)%, (27.5 +/- 1.3)% and (27.3 +/- 2.8)%, respectively] significantly decreased when compared with that of group A (38.3 +/- 2.2)% after 4 h ventilation (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01).
Both lateral position and independent lung ventilation can improve gas exchange, while independent lung ventilation is better than lateral position ventilation. The improvement of oxygenation may be related to the effect on the distribution of pulmonary arterial flow.
Decabromodiphenyl ether (decaBDE) adversely affects reproduction and development. Our previous study showed that postnatal exposure to a low dose of decaBDE (0.025 mg/kg body weight/day) by subcutaneous injection on postnatal days (PNDs) 1 through 5 leads to reductions in testicular size and number of Sertoli cells and sperm, while higher dose of decaBDE (2.5 mg/kg body weight/day) had no significant differences about these. In the present study, we examined the molecular mechanism of these effects on mouse testes following postnatal exposure to a low decaBDE dose. We hypothesized that postnatal exposure to decaBDE may alter levels of serum thyroid hormones (THs) and testosterone, or the level of TH receptor alpha (Thra) transcripts and its splicing variants and androgen receptor (Ar) in Sertoli cells, adversely affecting spermatogenesis. To test this hypothesis, we examined serum TH and testosterone levels and the levels of transcripts of the Ar, Thra and its splicing variants, and Thra splicing factors (Hnrnpa1, Srsf1, and Hnrnph1) with qPCR in isolated mouse Sertoli cells exposed postnatally to decaBDE (0.025, 0.25, and 2.5 mg/kg). Levels of serum testosterone and transcripts encoding Ar, Thra, and its variant, Thra1, declined significantly in Sertoli cells of mice exposed to 0.025 mg decaBDE/kg. No significant differences in serum TH level or Thra2, Hnrnph1, or Srsf1 transcript levels were observed between control and decaBDE-exposed mice. However, the Thra1:Thra2 and Hnrnpa1:Srsf1 ratios were altered in Sertoli cells of mice exposed to 0.025 mg decaBDE/kg but not in cells exposed to 0.25 or 2.5 mg decaBDE/kg. These results indicate that postnatal exposure to a low dose of decaBDE on PNDs 1 through 5 lowers the testosterone level and the levels of Ar and Thra transcripts in Sertoli cells, accompanied by an imbalance in the ratios of Thra splicing variants, resulting in smaller testicular size and impaired spermatogenesis.
The effect of inhibiting isoprenaline-induced intracellular calcium accumulation on the degree of damage produced in the rat myocardium by this amine has been investigated by simultaneously dosing rats with the calcium antagonistic drug D600. The degree of myocardial necrosis produced in animals given isoprenaline alone and those given D600 was measured by the use of a standard point counting method to show absence of formazan from dead muscle fibres in sections treated to demonstrate succinic dehydrogenase. The use of the calcium antagonistic drug D600 considerably reduced the degree of myocardial damage produced by a standard dose of isoprenaline bitartrate. This was associated with a decrease in the isoprenaline-induced cellular calcium uptake. The results are discussed in relation to the possible protection conferred by lowering of the calcium influx at the cell membrane and the maintenance of the cells' high-energy phosphates at a level which permits "normal" cell function.
Previous studies investigating intravenous phenytoin toxicity have been largely anecdotal, and have inferred an association with older patients, cardiovascular disease, and higher doses, concentrations, and infusion rates of phenytoin. This investigation sought to elucidate both the incidence and nature of acute intravenous phenytoin toxicity in emergency department patients, and to identify any demographic, clinical, or dosing associations with toxicity, by analyzing a retrospective case series over 3 years in a municipal teaching hospital. A consecutive series of 164 patients who received intravenous phenytoin loading in the emergency department following acute seizure presentation was identified. Demographic, clinical, and dosing data were collected, and the nature of toxicity was noted. Data were then analyzed statistically for potential associations with toxicity. Eight cases of hypotension and no apnea or arrhythmias were noted in the 164 patients (4.9% incidence). Analysis of demographic, clinical, and dosing data found statistically significant associations between hypotension and both a lower phenytoin dose administered (537 mg in hypotensive patients v 787 mg in normotensive patients, P = .00046) and the presence of abnormal neurological signs at initial presentation (20% incidence when abnormal signs present v 3.5% incidence when absent, P = .026). No other associations were found between toxicity and other variables. This sample size could detect differences ranging from 4% to 11% in complication rate (hypotension) for the various demographic, clinical, and dosing parameters with a statistical power of 80%. It was concluded that the incidence of hypotension from intravenous phenytoin administration in this study population was approximately 5%, and the incidence of apnea and cardiac arrhythmia in this series was 0%. No associations with age, comorbidities, or infusion rates were found, in contrast to other studies. Association of intravenous phenytoin toxicity with lower phenytoin dose is likely related to prompt cessation of the drug once signs of toxicity occur. The possible association of toxicity with abnormal initial neurological signs has not previously been reported and may possibly define a population at risk if validated by prospective research in additional populations.
The lymphoid tissue in the omentum, at the so-called milky spots, is known as an initial place for disseminated cancer cells to develop into solid tumors. In the present study, i.p. macrophages significantly took up oligomannose-coated liposomes (OMLs) that were injected into the peritoneal cavity, and then gradually accumulated in the omentum and the other lymphoid tissues within 24 hours of i.p. injection of OMLs. When 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was encapsulated in the OMLs, >60% of administered 5-FU accumulated in the omentum. Treatment of macrophages at 39 degrees C for 30 minutes led to the release of 5-FU from the macrophages, suggesting that controlled release from macrophages could be achieved by mild hyperthermia. We encased magnetic nanoparticles, which are known to convert electromagnetic energy to heat in the OMLs to achieve in vivo hyperthermia at the site. Using this system in a mouse i.p. metastasis model, we successfully controlled tumor development by coadministration of OML-encased 5-FU and OML-encased magnetic nanoparticles, followed by treatment with an alternating magnetic field. No apparent reduction was seen in tumor growth with the administration of OML-encased magnetic nanoparticles or OML-encased 5-FU alone. Thus, we have established the use of i.p. macrophages as a novel drug delivery system for the control of cancer metastatic to milky spots.
Tumours of mice are induced by administration of Inj. Hydroxyprogesteroni Caproatis Co. (EP) in a practical subthreshold dose of carcinogenesis or 2.5-5 times the human contraceptive dose (simply referred to as 2.5- to 5-fold dose) combined with whole-body 0.5 Gy gamma-ray irradiation. Malignant transformation of Syrian golden hamster embryo (SHE) cells is also induced by 5-fold dose of EP combined with 0.3 Gy gamma-ray irradiation in vitro, thereby indicating that synergistic carcinogenesis can be obtained by combined use of physical and chemical carcinogens. The mechanisms of synergistic carcinogenesis have been further explained by cytogenetics, damage extent of the target cell DNA and production of free radicals. The Chinese traditional medicine with antioxidating effect (Sulekang Capsule, SC), food additive--butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) and green tea can effectively inhibit the carcinogenic effect of EP or EP combined with gamma rays in mice. They all have marked ability to scavenge or remove the free radicals and thereby reduce the DNA damage.
The inhibitor of phenylethanolamine-N-methyl transferase (PNMT), SK&F 64139 (7, 8-dichloro-1, 2, 3, 4-tetrahydroisoquinoline), when given i.v. (5 mg/kg), did not prevent the decrease of blood pressure induced in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) by alpha-methyldopa (50 mg/kg i.v.). However, i.c.v. administration of SK&F 64139 (5 mg/kg) to conscious SHR reduced both the alpha-methyldopa- and the clonidine-induced hypotension. Bradycardia in response to clonidine was also prevented by i.c.v. SK & F 64139. When the antihypertensive effect of alpha-methyldopa or clonidine was fully established, i.c.v. administration of SK & F 64139 returned blood pressure within a few minutes to the initial value. Similarly, the bradycardia after clonidine was promptly reversed by i.c.v. SK & F 64139. In pithed rats the pressor responses to both methoxamine and clonidine were antagonized by SK & F 64139 suggesting blockade of vascular alpha 1-and alpha 2-adrenoceptors by the PNMT inhibitor. Blockade of central alpha-adrenoceptors by SK & F 64139 appears to adequately explain the inhibition of the antihypertensive effects of alpha-methyldopa and clonidine. The present results do not support the claim (Gerkens et al. 1980) that inhibition of the central formation of alpha-methyladrenaline is the mechanism underlying the antagonism of alpha-methyldopa-induced hypotension by SK & F 64139.
Hypotensive reactions have occurred in patients taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors after infusion of blood previously in contact with negatively charged surfaces capable of generating kinins, which accumulate when ACE, a kininase, is inhibited. A patient with anomalous bradykinin (BK) metabolism who experienced hypotension during extracorporeal staphylococcal protein A (SPA) therapy while on an ACE inhibitor was studied.
A patient with mitomycin-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome received SPA treatments after her ACE inhibitor, lisinopril, was held. Lisinopril was restarted before her 18th SPA treatment, and immediately after return of treated plasma she developed facial redness and hypotension, which resolved after the return stopped and recurred when restarted. To study formation and degradation of kinins, exposed her plasma to glass beads. We found a normal kinin formation rate but an abnormal degradation and accumulation of Des-Arg9-BK. The kinin degradation enzymes ACE, aminopeptidase P (APP), and carboxypeptidase N (CPN) were measured while on an ACE inhibitor, showing absence of ACE activity, low APP, but normal CPN.
This patient's vasodilation and hypotension during SPA therapy was associated with a pre- existing anomaly of BK metabolism. Her ACE inhibitor shifted degradation toward Des-Arg9-BK formation, and her low APP was associated with a prolonged t50 and accumulation of the vasoactive Des-Arg9-BK.
The effects of N-nitro-L-arginine-methyl ester (L-NAME) a nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor and L-arginine, a NO precursor, were investigated on lidocaine-induced convulsions. In the first experiment, four groups of mice received physiological saline (0.9%), L-arginine (300 mg/kg, i.p.), L-NAME (100 mg/kg, i.p.) and diazepam (2 mg/kg), respectively. Thirty minutes after these injections, all mice received lidocaine (50 mg/kg, i.p.). In the second experiment, four groups of mice received similar treatment in the first experiment, and 30 min after these injections, all mice received a higher dose of lidocaine (80 mg/kg). L-NAME (100 mg/kg, i.p.) and diazepam (2 mg/kg) significantly decreased the incidence of lidocaine (50 mg/kg)-induced convulsions. In contrast, the L-arginine treatment increased the incidence of lidocaine (80 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced convulsions significantly. These results may suggest that NO is a proconvulsant mediator in lidocaine-induced convulsions.
We describe an interesting case of a woman with decompensated cirrhosis, ischaemic heart disease and prolonged QT interval, who developed a new-onset atrial fibrillation. During amiodarone infusion a torsade de pointes occurred, which was immediately converted to sinus rhythm by synchronized cardioversion. A new episode of atrial fibrillation was treated with infusion of a beta-blocker (metoprolol) that restored sinus rhythm and normalized the QT interval. Delayed repolarization, frequently observed in ischaemic heart disease, cirrhosis and pro-arrhythmic drugs administration, represents the background for the development of torsade de pointes. Our report underlines that the potential harmfulness of a prolonged QT interval in cirrhotic patients is currently not perceived in its entirety, so that various categories of drugs affecting ventricular repolarization are rather thoughtlessly used in clinical practice without monitoring the QT interval. Thus, amiodarone should be avoided, if possible, or used with extreme care in arrhythmic patients with advanced liver disease. Moreover, beta-blockers may be considered the first-line treatment for rate-control during supraventricular tachyarrhythmias in cirrhotic patients with delayed repolarization.
Drug-induced hepatotoxicity is a serious adverse effect with high morbidity and mortality rates but substantial individual to individual variation is observed in its severity. Here we sought to discover factors determining the susceptibility to acetaminophen (APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity by comparing the global gene expression profile (27,342 genes) in pre-dose blood before APAP administration between susceptible and resistant animals (N=5) grouped based on the severity of hepatotoxicity. Forty-one genes were expressed differently (>1.5 fold change and p<0.05) between susceptible and resistant groups. Among them, protein kinase (cAMP-dependent) inhibitor alpha, Pkia, a member of protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor family, was found to be most significantly and highly expressed in susceptible animals (~3.5 fold with p<0.01). To investigate the effects of PKA inhibition on APAP-induced hepatotoxicity, we pre-treated H-89, a potent and selective inhibitor of PKA, prior to APAP administration in vivo. As a result, H-89 pretreatment significantly potentiated APAP-induced hepatotoxicity as determined by the increased serum alanine transaminase. These results were further corroborated by the exacerbation of APAP-induced glutathione depletion, suppression of antioxidant enzyme system, superoxide dismutase 1 and glutathione peroxidase 1, and peroxynitrite generation in the liver following H-89 pretreatment, reflecting that PKA may be involved in the protection against, or attenuation of APAP-induced hepatotoxicity, and Pkia can be employed to screen individuals susceptible to APAP-induced hepatotoxicity.
Buprenorphine is a semi-synthetic opioid derivative commonly used in the treatment of heroin addiction. Life-threatening complications have been described following overdoses while few cases of hepatotoxicity due to drug use at therapeutic doses have been recently described in hepatitis C virus carriers. In these cases, however, histological assessment was not exhaustive and no extra-hepatic organ failure was observed. We describe herein a case of acute liver and kidney failure in a patient with previously latent hepatitis C virus chronic infection following recommended doses of buprenorphine. Histology did not demonstrate any feature compatible with hepatitis C virus reactivation or liver cirrhosis and suspension of the treatment led to the resolution of both liver and kidney failure. Causality criteria fulfillment indicates a high probability of buprenorphine-induced liver toxicity. No signs of pre-existant kidney impairment or of pre- or post-renal causes were observed. Since buprenorphine is metabolized through cytochrome P450 3A4, we genotyped six genetic polymorphisms previously described in poor metabolizers but could not confirm these pharmacogenetic bases in this case. In conclusion, we surmise that buprenorphine at suggested doses can induce liver and kidney failure in susceptible individuals, possibly through direct mitochondrial toxicity.
The effect of dichlorvos on inducing changes in blood esterase activities and systemic toxicity was investigated following single topical applications of 1, 3 or 6% dichlorvos concentrations to male calves. Dichlorvos at 1% concentration did not produce any signs of toxicity, whereas 3 and 6% concentrations induced mild to severe toxicity characteristic of anticholinesterase poisoning. Dichlorvos at all concentrations significantly inhibited erythrocyte cholinesterase (25-75%), plasma cholinesterase (30-85%), and serum carboxylesterase (15-51%) activities in male calves. The dose-dependent inhibition was maximum 12 h after insecticide exposure. The extent of inactivation of blood esterases was not correlated with the severity of toxicity. Inhibition of blood cholinesterases by the 6% dichlorvos was still present 21 d after the dichlorvos exposure.
Uranium is a radioactive heavy metal with a predominantly chemical toxicity, affecting especially the kidneys and more particularly the proximal tubular structure. Until now, few experimental studies have examined the effect of chronic low-dose exposure to uranium on kidney integrity: these mainly analyse standard markers such as creatinine and urea, and none has studied the effect of additional co-exposure to a nephrotoxic agent on rats chronically exposed to uranium. The aim of the present study is to examine the potential cumulative effect of treating uranium-exposed rats with a nephrotoxic drug. Neither physiological indicators (diuresis and creatinine clearance) nor standard plasma and urine markers (creatinine, urea and total protein) levels were deteriorated when uranium exposure was combined with gentamicin-induced nephrotoxicity. A histological study confirmed the preferential impact of gentamicin on the tubular structure and showed that uranium did not aggravate the histopathological renal lesions. Finally, the use of novel markers of kidney toxicity, such as KIM-1, osteopontin and kallikrein, provides new knowledge about the nephrotoxicity threshold of gentamicin, and allows us to conclude that under our experimental conditions, low dose uranium exposure did not induce signs of nephrotoxicity or enhance renal sensitivity to another nephrotoxicant.
Evidence linking paclitaxel to cardiotoxicity arose from early Phase I trials in which continuous cardiac monitoring was performed because of the high incidence of major hypersensitivity reactions. A variety of cardiac manifestations have been reported, ranging from asymptomatic sinus bradycardia to fatal myocardial infarction. The following case report describes an acute myocardial infarction occurring shortly after paclitaxel therapy.
KMUP 880723 (0.5, 1.0, and 3.0 mg/kg, iv) produced dose-dependent hypotensive and bradycardia responses in pentobarbital-anesthetized Wistar rats. KMUP 880723 (1.0 mg/kg, iv) also markedly inhibited both the tachycardia effects induced by (-)isoproterenol and arterial pressor responses induced by phenylephrine. In the isolated Wistar rat right atria, left atria, and guinea pig tracheal strips, KMUP 880723 competitively antagonized the (-)isoproterenol-induced positive chronotropic effects, inotropic effects, and tracheal relaxation effects in a concentration-dependent manner. The parallel shift to the right of the concentration-response curve of (-)isoproterenol suggested that KMUP 880723 was a beta(1)/beta(2)-adrenoceptor competitive antagonist. The apparent pA(2) values were 6.89+/-0.10 in the right atria, 7.02+/-0.09 in the left atria, and 6.59+/-0.11 in the trachea, indicating that KMUP 880723 was a nonselective beta-adrenoceptor blocker. In thoracic aorta experiments, KMUP 880723 also produced a competitive antagonism of norepinephrine-induced contraction with a pA(2) value of 7.14+/-0.06. In isolated rat thoracic aorta, KMUP 880723 more potently relaxed the contractions induced by norepinephrine (3 x 10(-6) M) than those by high K(+) (75 mM). In the radioligand-binding assay, the pK(i) values of [3H]CGP-12177 binding to rat ventricle and lung membranes were 6.56 and 6.40, respectively, and the value of [3H]prazosin binding to rat brain membranes was 6.66. These results further confirmed the alpha/beta-adrenoceptor blocking activities of KMUP 880723 reported in the functional studies. We conclude that KMUP 880723 is a nonselective beta-adrenoceptor antagonist with alpha-adrenoceptor blocking-associated vasorelaxant activity.
The effects of high-dose indomethacin (three daily dose, 8.5 mg/kg ip) on pathology and histology, on serum and urine biochemistry, and on various hepatic enzyme activities were studied in rats. Hepatic cytochrome P-450 and aminopyrine N-demethylase were decreased by 52-62%, but glucuronyl transferase fell by only 22%. Hepatic glucose-6-phosphatase, aryl esterase, 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and sulphotransferase remained unchanged, while glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase increased by 29%. There were no widespread changes in hepatic and renal pathology or histology, but noteworthy was a mild, focal, centrilobular hepatic response. By contrast, there were severe intestinal lesions: the effects on hepatic enzymes might have been partly a consequence of the intestinal damage. There was a reversible uraemia and significant decreases (20-40% below normal) in both serum albumin and protein, while serum levels of creatinine and aspartate-amino-transferase activity remained constant. A reversible N-acetyl-beta-D-glucoseaminidase (NAG) enzymuria occurred (300% above normal), but no significant proteinuria (less than 300 mg/l). Administration of 16, 16-dimethylprostaglandin F2 alpha(0.5 mg/kg iv) concomitantly with the indomethacin greatly ameliorated the intestinal lesions and prevented the decreases in hepatic drug-metabolizing enzymes. Concomitant 16,16-dimethylprostaglandin F2 alpha did not, however, influence the indomethacin-induced decreases in serum protein, albumin or NAG-enzymuria. It was concluded that indomethacin had a highly selective effect causing a decrease in hepatic cytochrome P-450, which was not accompanied by severe damage to hepatocyte structure.
The incidence of this previously rare disorder, cocaine-associated agitated delirium, appears to have increased drastically within the last 18 months. The underlying neurochemical abnormalities have recently been characterized, but most clinicians have had little experience with management of agitated delirium. The basic clinical and pathological features of this disorder are reviewed, and common pitfalls in diagnosis and management that frequently lead to needless but very expensive litigation are discussed.
