Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common leukemia in the Western world and is characterized by a progressive accumulation of functionally incompetent monoclonal lymphocytes. Renal involvement has been described in CLL but is uncommon. Granulomatous interstitial nephritis is a rare but characteristic hallmark of certain diseases such as sarcoidosis and tuberculosis. These epithelial reactions have also been reported with medications, infections, inflammation, Wegener's granulomatosis, and jejunoileal bypass. We present a 74-year-old woman with a stage 0 chronic lymphocytic leukemia who developed acute renal failure following the initiation of alendronate. The renal biopsy revealed an acute granulomatous interstitial nephritis. Infectious and inflammatory etiologies were ruled out. Hemodialysis was required despite discontinuation of all medications. Partial recovery of renal function occurred after 6 weeks of prednisone therapy and cyclophosphamide. This report describes a unique case of acute granulomatous interstitial nephritis and leukemic cell kidney infiltration by CLL.
The prevalence of somnambulistic-like behaviour related to treatment with lithium alone or in combination with other psychotropic medications was evaluated in patients attending a lithium clinic. A written questionnaire on somnambulistic-like behaviour was completed by 389 patients. Information was provided on the time of occurrence, frequency and severity of the episodes, the presence of childhood somnambulism, and the temporal relationship between psychiatric treatment and somnambulistic-like behaviour. Twenty-seven (27) patients (6.9%) presented sleepwalking behaviour related to the onset of treatment with lithium alone or in combination with other psychotropic drugs. Forty-five patients (11.6%) reported childhood somnambulism and 12 of them (27%) had their childhood somnambulism reactivated by the medication. Most patients had a diagnosis of bipolar affective disorder but somnambulistic-like behaviour also occurred in patients with other axis 1 diagnosis. Sleep-related violence was seldomly reported. Therefore, lithium alone or in combination with other psychotropic drugs may induce somnambulistic-like behaviour. A history of childhood somnambulism may increase the risk of developing sleepwalking behaviour while under psychotropic drugs treatment.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) are characterized by activating mutations in the c-KIT gene which confers ligand-independent activation of the KIT receptor. Imatinib mesylate has been shown to effectively block constitutively active KIT and delay tumor growth. However, resistance to imatinib mesylate is emerging as a major clinical problem and novel therapies are needed. We report that treatment of GIST cells with the transcriptional inhibitor flavopiridol, initially down-regulates the antiapoptotic proteins bcl-2, mcl-1, and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein which occurs as early as 4 hours after exposure. This is followed at 24 hours by the transcriptional suppression of KIT resulting in poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase cleavage and apoptosis. To separate the apoptotic effect of KIT suppression relative to the down-regulation of antiapoptotic proteins, we used small interfering RNA-directed knockdown of KIT. Results show that focused suppression of KIT alone is sufficient to induce apoptosis in GIST cells, but not to the same extent as flavopiridol. In contrast, imatinib mesylate, which inhibits KIT kinase activity but does not suppress total KIT expression, fails to cause apoptosis. We also show that flavopiridol suppresses KIT mRNA expression through positive transcriptional elongation factor inhibition and decreases KIT promoter activity. This causes a global decrease in the level of functionally mature KIT at the cell surface, resulting in a decrease in autophosphorylation at tyrosine residues 703 and 721, which characterizes activated KIT. Our results indicate that targeting KIT expression and these antiapoptotic proteins with flavopiridol represents a novel means to disrupt GIST cell dependence on KIT signaling and collectively renders these cells sensitive to apoptosis.
The neuroleptic malignant syndrome is an uncommon, severe illness that consists of fever, muscular rigidity, and stupor. Various neuroleptics have been associated with the disease. A detailed neurological, medical, and neuropathological evaluation of this case was performed. Presumably, the syndrome is secondary to biochemical dysfunction of the basal ganglia and possible of the hypothalmus.
The hypotension accompanying isoflurane suggests that the anesthetic produces an attenuation of sympathetic tone. Previous studies examining the effects of isoflurane on sympathetic efferent nerve activity have required concomitant use of a basal anesthetic or decerebration, both of which independently alter sympathetic activity. This study was performed to examine the effects of isoflurane on sympathetic efferent nerve activity in the absence of basal anesthetic or decerebration. Five mongrel dogs were anesthetized with 4% isoflurane by mask. Platinum electrodes chronically were implanted around a renal nerve adjacent to the renal artery in order to measure renal sympathetic efferent nerve activity in the conscious and anesthetized animal. After 5-24 h for recovery, renal nerve activity and arterial pressure (via an implanted femoral artery cannula) were measured in the conscious, resting animal (control); during induction (4% isoflurane) and intubation; in the anesthetized animal (1.5% and 2.5% isoflurane); and during recovery and extubation. Isoflurane produced a significant dose-dependent depression of arterial blood pressure but did not significantly change heart rate from control. Renal sympathetic efferent nerve activity at 1.5% isoflurane was not significantly different from that in conscious animals, but nerve activity at 2.5% isoflurane was depressed significantly from both control and 1.5% isoflurane. Both intubation and extubation were accompanied by an increase in sympathetic nerve activity. Isoflurane appeared to directly depress sympathetic activity at both levels of anesthesia, but the direct depression of activity at 1.5% isoflurane seemed to be countered by reflex increases in sympathetic tone due to the hypotension accompanying the anesthesia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-pyridine ion (MPP+), the active metabolite of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) induces a Parkinsonian syndrome in humans and animals, a neurotoxic effect postulated to derive from oxidative stress. We report here the first investigation of MPP+-induced oxidative stress in the murine neuroblastoma cell line N2A. Significant cell death was observed following exposure to 0.25 mM MPP+. Markers of oxidative stress included decreased intracellular levels of GSH after 48 h of exposure (85% depletion) as well as an increase in GSSG. Expression of both superoxide dismutase 1 (sod1) and catalase (cat) mRNA was increased, as well the activity of catalase. These cellular effects were, at least partially, reversed by treatment with the natural polyphenol mangiferin. Administration of mangiferin protected N2A cells against MPP+-induced cytotoxicity, restored the GSH content (to 60% of control levels), and down-regulated both sod1 and cat mRNA expression. Together, these results suggest that the protective effect of mangiferin in N2A cells is mediated by the quenching of reactive oxygen intermediates. Therefore, mangiferin could be a useful compound in therapies for degenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease, in which oxidative stress plays a crucial role.
This study investigated the effects of the AMPA/Kainate receptor antagonist, NBQX, on cue-elicited cocaine-seeking behavior and concomitant changes in Fos protein expression. After cocaine self-administration training, rats underwent 24 days of abstinence during which they were exposed daily either to the self-administration environment with response-contingent cues previously paired with cocaine infusions available (Extinction group) or to an alternate environment (No Extinction group). Subsequently, rats were tested for cocaine-seeking behavior (i.e., operant responses without cocaine reinforcement) elicited by the cocaine-associated cues after pretreatment with either vehicle or NBQX (10 mg/kg, IP). NBQX markedly attenuated cue-elicited cocaine-seeking behavior relative to vehicle pretreatment in the No Extinction group and also decreased cue-elicited Fos protein expression in a region-specific manner in the anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortices, basolateral amygdala, nucleus accumbens core, and dorsal caudate-putamen, suggesting involvement of AMPA glutamate systems in specific subregions of the neuronal circuitry activated by cocaine cues.
Spontaneous adventitious oral movements which are produced in rats by very chronic (6-month) neuroleptic treatment have some phenomenologic and pharmacologic characteristics in common with tardive dyskinesia in humans. However, since not all of the features match, this putative model has been questioned and further support is warranted. Data from several laboratories support dichotomizing these neuroleptic-induced rat oral movements into "low" or "not TD-like" movements and "high" or "TD-like" movements, similar to the division of neuroleptic-induced involuntary movements in humans. Here, we have used mixture analysis to test this proposal statistically in 185 haloperidol-treated and 127 water-treated animals. Rats from several different studies were grouped together to form these two cohorts. The haloperidol dose, route of administration, rating technique, and balanced experimental groups were held constant across all experiments. Results show that two distinct groups of rat movements are induced by very chronic haloperidol treatment (1.5 mg/kg per day). The "low" vacuous chewing movement (VCM) group of rats had an average of 3.6 VCMs/5 min, and the "high" VCM group had an average of 16.1 VCMs/5 min; the control group, with a median VCM rate of 2.0 VCMs/5 min, demonstrated a single distribution. These data suggest that rats, like humans, dichotomize into two groups either expressing or not expressing "high" VCM dyskinesias with very chronic haloperidol treatment.
Drug combination therapy is a key strategy to improve treatment efficacy and survival of cancer patients. In this study the effects of combining 2-methoxyoestradiol-3,17-O,O-bis-sulphamate (STX140), a microtubule disruptor, with 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) were assessed in MCF-7 (breast) and LNCaP (prostate) xenograft models in vivo. In mice bearing MCF-7 xenografts, daily p.o. administration of STX140 (5 mg kg(-1)) resulted in a 46% (P<0.05) reduction of tumour volume. However, the combination of STX140 (5 mg kg(-1) p.o.) and 2DG (2 g kg(-1) i.p.) reduced tumour volume by 76% (P<0.001). 2-Methoxyoestradiol-3,17-O,O-bis-sulphamate also reduced tumour vessel density. 2-Deoxy-D-glucose alone had no significant effect on tumour volume or vessel density. A similar benefit of the combination treatment was observed in the LNCaP prostate xenograft model. In vitro the degree of inhibition of cell proliferation by STX140 was unaffected by oxygen concentrations. In contrast, the inhibition of proliferation by 2DG was enhanced under hypoxia by 20 and 25% in MCF-7 and LNCaP cells, respectively. The combination of STX140 and 2DG in LNCaP cells under normoxia or hypoxia inhibited proliferation to a greater extent than either compound alone. These results suggest that the antiangiogenic and microtubule disruption activities of STX140 may make tumours more susceptible to inhibition of glycolysis by 2DG. This is the first study to show the benefit of combining a microtubule disruptor with 2DG in the two most common solid tumours.
Nitrofen (2,4-dichloro-4 -nitrodiphenyl ether), a teratogen with oxidant properties, induces congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) with lung hypoplasia and delayed lung development and maturation in rat embryos. Several phenotypic features of the alveolar epithelium including surfactant proteins A and B synthesis and its regulation by transcription factors are reproduced in cultured human H441 pneumocytes. The aim of the present study was to test whether vitamins A, E and C with anti-oxidant properties were able to recover the expression of such regulators in an in vitro setting.
Cultured human H441 pneumocytes were treated with nitrofen with or without additional exposure to vitamins A, E and C. Thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF-1), hepatocyte nuclear factor 3-beta (HNF-3beta) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 3-beta surfactant protein B (SP-B) mRNAs were measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The cells were also immunohistochemically stained for assessment of proliferation (PCNA) and apoptosis (bis-benzimide) status and SP-B and TTF-1 protein expressions. Results were compared by ANOVA with a significant threshold of 5%.
Nitrofen severely decreased TTF-1, HNF-3beta and SP-B mRNA expression by H441 pneumocytes in culture. Addition of vitamin E normalized the levels of the three transcripts, while vitamin A normalized only those of TTF-1 and SP-B mRNA. Vitamin C was significantly beneficial only for SP-B transcript. Nitrofen decreased proliferation and TTF-1 and SP-B protein expressions with no apparent effect on apoptosis. Additional exposure to vitamins A, C or E rescued near normal values.
The changes induced by nitrofen in cultured H441 human pneumocytes are reverted in part by anti-oxidant vitamins by upregulating TTF-1, HNF-3beta and SP-B and stimulating proliferation and maturity in nitrofen-treated cells. These effects of anti-oxidant vitamins could be of some interest for developing new transplacental therapeutic strategies aimed at improving lung development and maturation in fetuses with CDH.
The onset of extrapyramidal symptoms has been traditionally linked to the prescription of neuroleptic treatment: there are some reports in the international literature describing extrapyramidal effects related to antidepressant. In this paper we present a case under multiple pharmacologic treatment in whom extrapyramidal symptoms developed shortly after the adjunct of nortriptyline to a combination of venlafaxine and valproic acid administered for several months. We describe here the clinical history of this patient, affected by Bipolar Disorder, type II, and the progressive pharmacologic path in his treatment. Possible hypothesis to explain this evidence are discussed.
Two patients are described who experienced seizures while on therapeutic doses of amoxapine. It is suggested that the structural similarities of amoxapine to the neuroleptics may account for side effects similar to the neuroleptic compounds, including seizures. Caution is encouraged in prescribing amoxapine to patients with a history of seizure disorder.
Torsades de pointes is a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia that displays a unique electrocardiographic feature of twisting of the mean electrical axis of QRS complexes around an isoelectric line on the surface electrocardiogram. It is associated with long QT syndrome and has many precipitating mechanisms, etiologic factors, and treatment options. This report presents a case of torsades de pointes that was precipitated by multiple factors and required many treatment modalities. The patient in this case exhibited features of both congenital and acquired types of long QT syndrome.
Iron chloride injections into the rat SNc can cause chronic decreases in striatal dopamine (DA) levels. However, changes in striatal DA content after iron-dextran injection into rat SNc have not been completely elucidated. The aim of this work was to measure striatal DA concentrations after iron-dextran injection into the SNc. We divided 40 male Wistar rats into five groups, including control, saline injected then sacrificed 7 days or 30 days later, and iron-dextran injected then sacrificed 7 days or 30 days later. Striatal DA content was measured in control animals and in all animals sacrificed 7 days or 30 days after injection, and motor performance was assessed in iron-dextran and saline injected groups 30 days after injection. The striatal DA levels were determined using HPLC. There were significant (P < 0.05) decreases in DA concentrations in the striatum ipsilateral to the injection site in the iron-dextran treated rats compared to control and saline-injected rats. There were no significant differences in DA concentration between the sham-operated (i.e., saline-injected) and control rats. We also observed motor deficits in the iron-dextran injected rats. The striatal DA reduction observed after iron-dextran injection may be attributable to iron-induced oxidative injury in the SNc. Motor deficits, in turn, may be explained by subsequent disturbances in striatal and cortical dopaminergic neuromodulation.
To test the hypothesis that mice exposed prenatally to diethylstilbestrol (DES) develop adenocarcinomas due to sensitivity of vaginal and cervical adenosis to carcinogens, sponges impregnated with methylcholanthrene (MCA) were lodged against the cervix and vaginal fornices of 6-month-old strain CD-1 mice exposed prenatally to DES. Only squamous cell carcinomas developed in these mice, but at a significantly higher rate than in MCA-treated mice not exposed prenatally to DES. An adenosquamous carcinoma and a precursor of adenocarcinoma developed in DES-exposed mice with control sponges.
Phenobarbital (PB) is known to be a promoter of liver tumorigenesis in rats and mice. The present study was designed to examine the effect of PB on liver tumorigenesis in C3H/He germfree (Gf) male mice. Gf and conventional (Cv) animals were given an irradiated (5 Mrad) basal diet containing 200 ppm PB from 6 weeks old until termination of the experiment. When they were 12 months old, the animals were killed under CO2 inhalation and autopsied for the number and size of tumor nodules. The incidence of liver tumors was significantly higher in PB-fed Gf animals (67%) than in non-treated Gf controls (30%), and higher in PB-fed Cv animals (100%) than in non-treated Cv controls (75%). The number of tumor nodules per mouse was also significantly higher in PB-fed Gf animals (2.0) than in non-treated Gf controls (0.4), and higher in PB-fed Cv animals (4.5) than in non-treated controls (1.3). The present study demonstrated that dietary PB induced increases in number of the tumor nodules and decreases in the tumor size of C3H/He mice.
Craniofrontonasal syndrome (CFNS) is an X-linked craniofacial disorder with an unusual manifestation pattern, in which affected females show multiple skeletal malformations, whereas the genetic defect causes no or only mild abnormalities in male carriers. Recently, we have mapped a gene for CFNS in the pericentromeric region of the X chromosome that contains the EFNB1 gene, which encodes the ephrin-B1 ligand for Eph receptors. Since Efnb1 mutant mice display a spectrum of malformations and an unusual inheritance reminiscent of CFNS, we analyzed the EFNB1 gene in three families with CFNS. In one family, a deletion of exons 2-5 was identified in an obligate carrier male, his mildly affected brother, and in the affected females. In the two other families, missense mutations in EFNB1 were detected that lead to amino acid exchanges P54L and T111I. Both mutations are located in multimerization and receptor-interaction motifs found within the ephrin-B1 extracellular domain. In all cases, mutations were found consistently in obligate male carriers, clinically affected males, and affected heterozygous females. We conclude that mutations in EFNB1 cause CFNS.
To review management and dosing guidelines for amiodarone therapy, and discuss the drug's adverse event profile.
Review of relevant studies and reports.
Amiodarone is a highly effective antiarrhythmic drug, but is associated with adverse effects involving several organs. Amiodarone-induced arrhythmia is rare, with frequency of 0.3% in one study. Pulmonary toxicity is the most serious noncardiac side effect (2-17% of patients). Hypersensitivity pneumonitis can appear early in the course of therapy. Interstitial pneumonitis is a more common but insidious pulmonary reaction characterized by cough, low-grade fever, and dyspnea that occurs after months or years of therapy. Clinically important hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism occur in 2-10% of patients. Optic neuritis or neuropathy in which patients experience decreased or blurred vision may progress to permanent blindness. Abnormalities in liver function tests, especially elevated aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase levels, are seen in 4-25% of patients. Neurologic side effects were reported in 20-40% of patients, at times associated with tremor, ataxia, peripheral neuropathy, malaise or fatigue, sleep disturbances, dizziness, and headaches. Several types of dermatologic reactions have been reported, including allergic rash, photosensitivity, and blue-gray skin discoloration. The best strategy for early detection of pulmonary toxicity is vigilant clinical follow-up with monitoring of cardiac status and liver and thyroid function, and prescription of the lowest effective dosage. After an initial loading dose, 200 mg/day in many patients maintains arrhythmia control and minimizes the frequency of side effects.
Amiodarone is a safe and efficacious antiarrhythmic agent when lower dosages are given to patients who are closely monitored and subject to careful follow-up.
To determine the prognostic value of seminal plasma volume, pH, fructose, and alpha-glucosidase for the detection of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene mutations.
Retrospective data analysis.
University infertility clinic (referral center).
Fifty-nine men with obstructive azoospermia.
Semen analysis including seminal plasma volume, pH, fructose, alpha-glucosidase, molecular genetic diagnosis of CFTR mutations and FSH measurement.
Sensitivity and specificity of seminal plasma markers for the detection of CFTR mutations.
A CFTR mutation was detected in 26 of 59 patients with obstructive azoospermia. Patients carrying a mutation had significantly lower seminal plasma volume (mean +/- SEM: 1.5 +/- 1.4 mL vs. 2.8 +/- 2.2 mL), lower pH levels (25th percentile, median, 75th percentile: 6.5, 6.8, 7.5 vs. 7.7, 7. 9, 7.9) and lower fructose content (1.0, 1.1, 3.7 vs. 5.8, 20.0, 83. 0 micromol/ejaculate) than those without mutations. Diagnostic efficacy for detection of mutations was best (pH 81.4%, fructose 81. 8%) at a cutoff level for pH of 7.4 and fructose of 2 micromol/ejaculate.
Seminal plasma markers provide an effective, noninvasive method to predict CFTR mutations in men with obstructive azoospermia.
An imbalance in brain iron status has been established in Alzheimer's Disease (AD). This iron imbalance can impact plaque formation, amyloid processing, and expression of and response to inflammatory agents. In a more general sense, a deregulation of iron homeostasis underlies the generation of reactive oxygen species leading to oxidative damage. Thus, loss of iron homeostasis can be central to the pathogenic events in AD. Recently a number of studies have begun to investigate the frequency of mutations in the HFE gene in AD. Mutations in the HFE gene occur more frequently in Caucasians than any other mutation. The two most common mutations of HFE are the C282Y (2% of the total population) and the H63D (9%. Mutations in this gene are associated with loss of iron homeostasis, alterations in inflammatory responses and in its most severe form, a clinical disorder known as Hemochromatosis. The C282Y mutation is more frequently associated with Hemochromatosis and the frequency of the H63D mutation is receiving increasing attention in neurodegenerative disorders. This review summarizes the data on HFE mutations in neurodegenerative disorders and what is known about HFE in the brain and the cell biology underlying the HFE mutation.
An opioid withdrawal syndrome, which causes alteration of several physiological signs, was induced in rats by repeated morphine administration and final naloxone injection. The aim of this study was prevention of the altered physiological profiles by utilising clothiapine, which is capable of affecting fecal and urinary excretion, rectal temperature, pain threshold levels and salivatory behaviour. Morphine was administered in three daily intraperitoneal (ip) injections for 4 days at doses of 9, 16 and 25 mg/kg (d 1), 25, 25 and 50 mg/kg (d 2), 50, 50 and 50 mg/kg (d 3) and 50, 50 and 100 mg/kg (d 4). Naloxone was injected (30 mg/kg) ip 180 min after the last morphine injection. Clothiapine was administered orally 0.7, 2 and 6 mg/kg 2 hours before the naloxone administration. Signs such as fecal and urine excretion, rectal temperature and latency times to thermal stimulus salivation, jumping and wet dog shakes were affected in different ways by morphine, naloxone, clothiapine and combination of them. Notably the administration of clothiapine in rats receiving morphine and naloxone decreased the intensity of certain withdrawal symptoms, such as altered excretion of feces, temperature values, salivation, jumping and wet dog shakes behaviour, and elevated the nociceptive threshold values. The effects exhibited by clothiapine administration may be explained through its antimuscarinic, antiadrenergic and antidopaminergic activities interfering with the mechanisms involved in the regulation of these previously mentioned withdrawal symptoms. The use of this drug is thus suggested as a possible control of the acute phase of opioid withdrawal in heroin addicts.
The clinical record of 5 patients are studied. They were hospitalized in Santo Tomás Hospital with history of chronic and massive intoxication with inhaled and ingested cocaine. They all had cardiomegaly: in one, of grade I; in three, of grade III. The echocardiography mode B showed global cardiomegaly with dilatation of cavities and ejection fraction of 20% or below.
Pyogenic liver abscesses are uncommon in clinical practice and are usually polymicrobial in nature, with members of the Enterobacteriacae family often implicated. This report describes the use of tigecycline to treat a liver abscess caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, which was refractory to therapy with standard antimicrobials.
Previously, we have found development of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), myocardial necrosis and haemodynamic changes in rats after repeated hyperbaric exposures to 5 bar. Exactly the same rat model and experimental set-up was applied in the present study. The purpose of this study was to investigate if angiotensin II (Ang-II) plays a role in the development of these cardiac changes. Losartan, a recently developed non-peptide Ang-II receptor antagonist, was administrated (20 mg kg-1 day-1) to each rat for 40 days. Nine test rats underwent chamber dives daily for 40 consecutive days, and 10 control rats were exposed in the same chamber for an equal period of time, but in air at 1 bar. After 40 days, test rats and control rats had equal right and left ventricular myocardial mass/100 g-1 body mass, thus indicating that Losartan inhibits hyperbarically induced LVH. Microscopic examination revealed no changes in the left ventricle, indicating that Losartan prevents myocardial necrosis. The left ventricular pressure (LVP) and the maximal velocity of LVP increase and decrease (+/-dP/dt) were similar in the test rats compared to the control rats at 1 bar. Previously we found a higher LVP and dP/dt in non-treated test rats in otherwise identical experiments. This indicates that Losartan "normalizes" the cardiac function of test rats after repeated hyperbaric exposures. The systolic arterial pressure, heart rate (HR) and respiratory frequency (RF) were similar in the two groups at 1 bar. However, treatment with Losartan lowered the blood pressure compared to previously non-treated rats. In conclusion, long-term Ang-II receptor blockade prevented previously shown changes in cardiac function and morphology, as well as myocardial mass, after 40 consecutive exposures to 5 bar.
Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare endocrine tumor entity with poor prognosis. Medical treatment is limited to common cytotoxic agents, which are associated with low treatment responses. Thus, lack of therapeutic efficacy demands innovative treatment options for patients with advanced ACC. Recently, we have developed and characterized anti-IGF1 receptor (IGF1-R) immunoliposomes (SSLD-1H7) for the treatment of neuroendocrine tumors of the gastroenteropancreatic system. As previous results indicated putative applicability also for other IGF1-R-overexpressing tumor entities, we initiated testing of liposomal preparations in in vitro and in vivo models of ACC. Adrenocortical NCIh295 cells were used for in vitro association studies with different liposomal formulations. Thereby, flow cytometry revealed high cellular association and internalization of anti-IGF1-R immunoliposomes (soy phosphatidylcholine (SPC)/cholesterol (Chol)-polyethyleneglycol (PEG)-1H7, 50.1±2.2%). Moreover, internalization of pegylated liposomes (SPC/Chol-PEG, 57.1±2.4%) and an even higher uptake of plain liposomes (84.6±0.8%; P<0.0001) were detectable in adrenocortical tumor cells. In vivo, liposomal treatments were investigated on NCIh295 tumor xenografts in pharmacokinetic and therapeutic experiments. A significant reduction in tumor size was detectable in NCIh295 tumor-bearing mice after a single treatment with SSLD-1H7 (0.89±0.15 cm; P=0.006) and a diminished efficacy for SSLD-PEG+ (1.01±0.19 cm; P=0.04) in comparison with untreated controls (1.5±0.0 cm). Thus, anti-IGF1-R immunoliposomes have been successfully tested in vitro and in vivo in a preclinical model for ACCs and could, therefore, represent a promising therapeutic approach for this tumor entity. Moreover, a combination of mitotane plus liposomally encapsulated cytostatic agents instead of free drugs could also be an interesting novel treatment option for ACC in the future.
To highlight the vague symptoms of isolated adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) deficiency and suggest helpful diagnostic tests and appropriate management.
We present a detailed case report, including clinical and laboratory findings, and discuss the diagnostic approach to this rare disorder of isolated ACTH deficiency.
A 74-year-old woman had persistent severe nausea and other vague symptoms. Elaborate testing during a period of several weeks failed to determine the cause. Ultimately, isolated ACTH deficiency was diagnosed after documentation of subnormal random serum cortisol and ACTH levels as well as urinary free cortisol concentrations. Moreover, the nausea and other symptoms abated after administration of glucocorticoid. The patient was then maintained on orally administered dexamethasone, 0.5 mg twice daily, for 4 to 6 weeks, at which time the diagnosis was confirmed by a subnormal cortisol response on cosyntropin stimulation testing and an unmeasurable ACTH level after overnight oral administration of metyrapone. Although the cause of this patient's isolated ACTH deficiency remained undetermined, it was thought to be autoimmune in nature because of the presence of Graves' disease.
This report emphasizes the need for recognition of symptoms, appropriate testing to confirm the diagnosis, and prompt treatment with glucocorticoids in patients with isolated ACTH deficiency.
The occurrence of hypophosphataemia in paracetamol overdose suggests that nephrotoxicity is common, impaired renal tubular reabsorption of phosphate indicating renal damage. To investigate the potential nephrotoxicity of paracetamol, we studied 148 consecutive patients with paracetamol overdose. Serial clinical and biochemical measurements were made, and a fasting overnight urine collection was obtained for creatinine (Cr), phosphate and retinol-binding protein (RBP) determination. Renal threshold phosphate concentration (TmPO4/GFR) was determined from urinary parameters by an established nomogram. The degree of hypophosphataemia correlated with the severity of overdose, and with TmPO4/GFR. The median RBP/Cr ratio was higher in those patients exhibiting biochemical hepatotoxicity compared with those without hepatotoxicity, in whom median RBP/Cr was not significantly higher than controls. Within the group of patients showing biochemical hepatotoxicity, there was a correlation between log RBP/Cr and TmPO4/GFR. RBP/Cr ratio is a less sensitive marker of renal tubular toxicity than phosphaturia in these patients, and may indicate a different mechanism of toxicity.
To report a case of acute renal failure and neurotoxicity following administration of oral acyclovir.
Medical record of the patient, case reports identified by MEDLINE.
Data were abstracted from relevant published data by Johnson and reviewed by the remaining authors.
A 69-year-old woman was diagnosed with herpes zoster and oral acyclovir was prescribed by her local physician. After approximately two days the patient was taken to the emergency department of a local hospital with signs of acute confusion and acute renal failure. Medications included oxycodone/acetaminophen, alprazolam, prazepam, and digoxin. Pertinent laboratory abnormalities included serum digoxin 4.1 mumol/L, white blood cell count 17.6 x 10(9)/L, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) 24 mmol/L of urea, and serum creatinine 305 mumol/L (patient baseline is 11 mmol/L of urea and 91.5 serum creatinine mumol/L, respectively). Because of increasing lethargy and a focal seizure, she was transferred to our institution. Despite an extensive workup, no organic cause of her altered mental status and acute renal failure was identified. Four days after discontinuation of the acyclovir, without specific intervention, the patient's mental status improved and her BUN and serum creatinine concentrations had decreased to 21 mmol/L of urea and 190.6 mumol/L, respectively. On day 5, the patient was alert and oriented to name, place, year, and month. On day 9, her renal function and mental status had returned to baseline and she was discharged.
Acute renal failure and neurotoxicity are usually associated with intravenous acyclovir. The temporal relationship between the initiation of oral acyclovir therapy and the onset of adverse events, supported by published data of a few similar cases, strongly implicate oral acyclovir as the cause of this patient's acute renal failure and neurotoxicity. This case suggests that elderly patients with mild increased serum creatinine concentrations may be at increased risk and should be monitored closely for signs and symptoms of acute renal failure and neurotoxicity.
