Mesenteric vein thrombosis in a pregnant woman taking an oral contraceptive is reported. It is presumed that the hypercoagulable state of pregnancy combined with hormonal contraception led to the thrombosis.
Anxiety is an affective symptom common to withdrawal from acute or chronic opiate treatment. Although the potentiation of the acoustic startle reflex has been proposed as an index of increased anxiety, there are variable effects of the opiate withdrawal on the startle reflex in chronic dependence models. On the other hand, withdrawal from acute morphine treatment consistently potentiates the acoustic startle reflex, a response that seems to be mediated by the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA). However, the underlying neurochemical mechanisms have not been elucidated yet. In the present study, we firstly made a comparison between the effects of the withdrawal from both acute and chronic treatments with morphine on the motor activity and the anxiety-like behavior of rats tested in two experimental models, the acoustic startle reflex and the open-field tests. Our second objective was to investigate the role of GABAergic and opioid mechanisms of the CeA in the modulation of the withdrawal-potentiated startle as a measure of anxiety induced by morphine withdrawal. For the production of chronic dependence, rats received morphine injections (10 mg/kg; s.c.) twice daily during 10 days. Forty-eight hours after the interruption of this treatment, independent groups were probed in the startle reflex and open-field tests. For the acute dependence model, groups of rats were tested in the open field and startle tests under control conditions and under withdrawal from a single injection of morphine (10 mg/kg; s.c.) precipitated by naltrexone injections (0.1 mg/kg; s.c.). The results obtained showed that withdrawal from chronic and acute morphine treatments produced anxiety-like behavior in the open field test, although the anxiogenic-like effects could not be dissociated from the motor effects in the acute dependence model. On the other hand, only the withdrawal from acute morphine treatment significantly potentiated the startle response. Next, we examined the effects of intra-CeA microinjections of muscimol-a GABA(A) receptors agonist-and DAMGO-a mu-opioid receptors agonist-on the potentiated startle induced by acute morphine withdrawal. The results obtained showed that intra-CeA injections of muscimol (1 nmol) and DAMGO (0.5 and 1 nmol) significantly inhibited this response. These findings suggest that the acute dependence model is more suitable to study the aversive effects of morphine withdrawal on the acoustic startle response than the chronic opiate dependence model. Besides, mechanisms mediated by mu- and GABA(A)-receptors in the CeA appear to exert an inhibitory influence on the anxiety-like behavior induced by withdrawal from acute morphine treatment.
The respiratory effects of etomidate 0.3 mg/kg were studied in patients premedicated with either diazepam and atropine or papaveretum and hyoscine. The incidence of apnoea was 40% in those who received the non-narcotic premedication, compared with 27% in those who received the opiate. Those premedicated with diazepam and atropine showed a significant increase in respiratory frequency which was associated with a significant increase in minute volume 4 min after induction of anaesthesia. No such increase occurred in those premedicated with papaveretum and hyoscine. It would appear that the effects of etomidate on respiration are less than those of other i.v. induction agents, but involuntary muscle movement during induction remains a problem.
The long QT syndrome affects heart rhythm by prolonging ventricular repolarisation; it is potentially life-threatening since it can evolve into torsades de pointes (a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia) and/or ventricular fibrillation. The case is presented of a 55-year-old liver transplant recipient with a genetically determined long QT syndrome not detected by the standard preoperative cardiological evaluation. It was mild in the immediate post-operative period but developed into torsades de pointes after discharge, probably as a result of therapy. This case was particularly challenging because the first arrhythmic episodes were short and electocardiographically silent, and thus the related faints were thought to have a neurological basis. When the true cause emerged during a monitored episode of torsades de pointes, electric defibrillation was used to restore sinus rhythm and isoproterenol administered to increase heart rate and thus shorten the prolonged QT interval Long-term control was obtained by means of an implantable intracardiac defibrillator. In orthotopic liver transplant recipients with long QT syndrome, particular attention should be given to post-operative therapy as some routinely used drugs can trigger life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias.
We investigated the effect of serotonergic agonists and antagonists injected intrathecally by direct punction of the spinal cord at the lumbar level (between L5-L6) on peripheral inflammatory edema. Edema was induced by carrageenan injected subcutaneously in one hindpaw 30 min after spinal treatments. Serotonin (0.1, 1, 10 pmol) caused a graded-inhibition of the inflammatory paw edema. The corticosteroid inhibitor aminoglutethimide (100 mg/kg, p.o. 1.5 h before spinal treatment) did not modify this effect. The 5-HT1A agonist buspirone and the 5-HT1B/1D agonist sumatriptan (0.1, 1.0 and 10 nmol) also inhibited paw edema. The 5-HT1,2 antagonist methysergide (10 and 100 pmol) enhanced edema, but higher doses ( 4 and 8 nmol) diminished edema. NAN-190 (5-HT1 antagonist; 1 and 10 nmol) increased paw edema, while ritanserin (5-HT2 antagonist; 1 nmol) inhibited paw edema. Ondansetron (5-HT3 antagonist; up to 10 nmol) did not affect edema, but metoclopramide (5-HT3 antagonist / 5-HT4 agonist; 5, 10 and 30 pmol) inhibited edema. These data suggest that a tonic release of serotonin in the spinal cord may occurs during ongoing peripheral inflammation, modulating the neurogenic component of edema either by an inhibitory action on 5-HT1 receptors or by a stimulatory action on 5-HT2 receptors. A disfunction in such mechanism may be involved in the pathophysiology of certain types of headaches or migraine, which seem to depend on neurogenic vasodilation, and may also help to explain the therapeuthic effectiveness of some serotonergic agents in these conditions.
Quercetin, a naturally occurring dietary flavonoid, is a potent in vitro inhibitor of the transcription factors, nuclear factor (NF)-kappa B and activator protein (AP)-1. Here we investigated the efficacy of quercetin to suppress renal cortical NF-kappa B/AP-1 activation and tubulointerstitial injury, in vivo, in a nephrotic rat model of chronic glomerular disease.
Adult male Wistar rats with (n = 27) or without (n = 15) Adriamycin nephropathy (AN) were stratified into six groups (according to proteinuria and endogenous creatinine clearance, measured on day 10) and pair-fed a semipurified diet supplemented with or without quercetin (0.5, 2%) from day 14 to 36.
Quercetin-fed rats had minimal weight gain during the study (p < 0.05). In AN, proteinuria, the decline in endogenous creatinine clearance, hypercholesterolaemia and cortical tubulointerstitial injury were not reduced by quercetin. Quercetin had no effect on renal cortical NF-kappa B activation, but unexpectedly exacerbated the induction of AP-1 in AN (by 67%, p < 0.05). In normal rats, quercetin increased proteinuria (by 75%, p < 0.05), renal cortical AP-1 activation (by 198%, p = 0.06), and malondialdehyde production (by 110%, p < 0.05).
These data suggest that supplementation of the diet with quercetin is not an effective therapeutic strategy alone to reduce NF-kappa B/ AP-1 activation in chronic glomerular diseases, and paradoxically could be associated with adverse renal effects.
The administration of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or an oral adsorbent, AST-120 (Kremezin), prevents the progression of renal failure. This study was designed to determine the additional effects of AST-120 combined with an ACE inhibitor, benazepril, on the progression of renal fibrosis in uremic rats.
5/6-nephrectomized uremic rats were divided into control uremic rats (CRF group), benazepril-treated uremic rats (CRF+B group) and uremic rats receiving benazepril and AST-120 (CRF+BK group). After 14 weeks of treatment renal function and pathological changes were investigated.
The progression of renal dysfunction was delayed in both the CRF+B and CRF+BK groups as compared with the CRF group. In the CRF+BK group, the level of serum and urinary indoxyl sulfate and the tubular accumulation of indoxyl sulfate decreased. Both the CRF+B and CRF+BK groups showed lower glomerular sclerosis indices than the CRF group. In the CRF+BK group, but not the CRF+B group, the interstitial fibrosis area and the expression of transforming growth factor (TGF) beta1 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases (TIMP) 1 were decreased as compared with the CRF group. Furthermore, the CRF+BK group showed a smaller interstitial fibrosis area and a lower renal osteopontin expression than the CRF+B group.
Combination therapy of benazepril and AST-120 is more effective than benazepril alone in retarding the progression of interstitial fibrosis by reducing the expression of TGF-beta 1, TIMP-1 and osteopontin.
A 73-year-old woman with no previous psychiatric history received clonazepam maintenance therapy for essential blepharospasm. Visual, auditory, and tactile hallucinations as well as paranoid delusions were documented. Dose reduction resulted in complete disappearance of the hallucinations and reduction of paranoia to an acceptable level, with no exacerbation during the subsequent 12 months. To our knowledge, this is the first well documented report of psychosis induced by clonazepam. Psychosis was probably related to clonazepam-induced increased central nervous system serotonin and possible predisposition to organic brain syndrome by undocumented causes. Dose reduction is suggested as an alternative to discontinuing the drug when hallucinations or paranoia arise during clonazepam therapy, if no other satisfactory treatment is available and if adequate patient monitoring and protection exist.
In vivo preventive effects of a Mangifera indica L extract (Vimang) or its major component mangiferin on iron overload injury have been studied in rats given respectively, 50, 100, 250 mg kg(-1) body weight of Vimang, or 40 mg kg(-1) body weight of mangiferin, for 7 days prior to, and for 7 days following the administration of toxic amounts of iron-dextran. Both Vimang or mangiferin treatment prevented iron overload in serum as well as liver oxidative stress, decreased serum and liver lipid peroxidation, serum GPx activity, and increased serum and liver GSH, serum SOD and the animals overall antioxidant condition. Serum iron concentration was decreased although at higher doses, Vimang tended to increase it; percent tranferrin saturation, liver weight/body mass ratios, liver iron content was decreased. Treatment increased serum iron-binding capacity and decreased serum levels of aspartate-amine transferase (ASAT) and alanine-amine transferase (ALAT), as well as the number of abnormal Kupffer cells in iron-loaded livers. It is suggested that besides acting as antioxidants, Vimang extract or its mangiferin component decrease liver iron by increasing its excretion. Complementing earlier in vitro results from our group, it appears possible to support the hypothesis that Vimang and mangiferin present therapeutically useful effects in iron overload related diseases.
An ultra-performance liquid chromatography/time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC/TOF-MS)-based metabolomic approach was developed to characterize the metabolic profile associated with isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction (MI). Analysis of the serum samples revealed distinct changes in the biochemical patterns of ISO-induced rats. A multivariate statistical method, supervised partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA), was then used for screening of potential biomarkers. As a result, 13 lipid biomarkers, including lysophosphatidylcholines (Lyso-PCs) and fatty acids were identified by the accurate mass measurement of TOF-MS. The relationship between abnormal lipid metabolism and the formation of MI were also studied. This work demonstrates the utility of UPLC/TOF-MS-based metabolic profiling combined with multivariate analysis as a powerful tool to further investigate the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases.
D-penicillamine-induced muscle disorders are well-known, tiopronine-induced disorders are less often reported.
A 62-year-old patient, given tiopronine for rheumatoid arthritis, developed severe polymyositis with characteristic clinical and pathology features. The course was favorable after tiopronine withdrawal and substitution with methotrexate.
Clinicians should be aware of the side-effects of tiopronine, particularly muscle disorders, and implement careful surveillance to achieve early diagnosis and appropriate therapy.
Current therapies for inorganic mercury (Hg(2+)) intoxication include administration of a metal chelator, either 2,3-dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonic acid (DMPS) or meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA). After exposure to either chelator, Hg(2+) is rapidly eliminated from the kidneys and excreted in the urine, presumably as an S-conjugate of DMPS or DMSA. The multidrug resistance protein 2 (Mrp2) has been implicated in this process. We hypothesize that Mrp2 mediates the secretion of DMPS- or DMSA-S-conjugates of Hg(2+) from proximal tubular cells. To test this hypothesis, the disposition of Hg(2+) was examined in control and Mrp2-deficient TR(-) rats. Rats were injected i.v. with 0.5 mumol/kg HgCl(2) containing (203)Hg(2+). Twenty-four and 28 h later, rats were injected with saline, DMPS, or DMSA. Tissues were harvested 48 h after HgCl(2) exposure. The renal and hepatic burden of Hg(2+) in the saline-injected TR(-) rats was greater than that of controls. In contrast, the amount of Hg(2+) excreted in urine and feces of TR(-) rats was less than that of controls. DMPS, but not DMSA, significantly reduced the renal and hepatic content of Hg(2+) in both groups of rats, with the greatest reduction in controls. A significant increase in urinary and fecal excretion of Hg(2+), which was greater in the controls, was also observed following DMPS treatment. Experiments utilizing inside-out membrane vesicles expressing MRP2 support these observations by demonstrating that DMPS- and DMSA-S-conjugates of Hg(2+) are transportable substrates of MRP2. Collectively, these data support a role for Mrp2 in the DMPS- and DMSA-mediated elimination of Hg(2+) from the kidney.
Seizures produced by systemic administration of pilocarpine hydrochloride, a cholinergic muscarinic agonist, in rodents are proposed as a useful animal model of epilepsy. Pilocarpine-induced seizures in rats and mice are characterized by sequential development of behavioral and electrographic signs, which are followed by widespread damage to the forebrain (hippocampus, amygdala, thalamus, olfactory cortex, neocortex and substantia nigra). Spontaneous seizures may be observed in the long-term period following the administration of convulsant doses of pilocarpine. In experiments designed to examine neuronal networks engaged in the generation and spread of pilocarpine-induced convulsions, a marked role for the basal ganglia is demonstrated. The caudate-putamen, the substantia nigra and the entopeduncular nucleus were found to govern the propagation of seizures produced by pilocarpine. The antiepileptic potential of drugs (diazepam, clonazepam, phenobarbital, valproic acid and trimethadione) against pilocarpine-induced convulsions correlates with their depressant action on the spontaneous activity of non-dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra. Developmental studies show age-dependent differences in the convulsant response of rats to pilocarpine and status epilepticus are first noted in 2-3 week-old rats, but there is no clear-cut correlation between seizures and evolution of brain damage at this age. The adult pattern of the damage to forebrain is seen after a delay of 1-2 weeks relative to the development of seizures and status epilepticus. The research on the pilocarpine model of convulsions and other cholinergically mediated seizure syndromes may be of value for designing new therapeutic approaches to epilepsy in.
A 73-year-old woman died of aplastic anemia less than two months after undergoing cataract extraction and beginning topical therapy with chloramphenicol. The first signs of pancytopenia began within one month of the surgery. The pattern of the aplastic anemia was associated with an idiosyncratic response to chloramphenicol. This was the second report of fatal aplastic anemia after topical treatment with chloramphenicol for ocular conditions, although two cases of reversible bone marrow hypoplasia have also been reported. Any other suspected cases of ocular toxicity associated with topically applied chloramphenicol should be reported to the National Registry of Drug-Induced Ocular Side Effects, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland, OR 97201.
This review focuses on the role of the fixed-dose combination (FDC) drug valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) in the treatment of hypertension. Effective blood pressure control often is not achieved with monotherapy and, instead, requires combinations of drugs with different mechanisms of action to produce additive or synergistic effects.
FDC valsartan/HCTZ enhances not only efficacy for blood pressure control but also provides beneficial effects on target organs beyond that expected from arterial pressure reduction alone. Data describe key clinical trial experiences with the FDC, with particular attention to efficacy and tolerability. Literature searches of these various topics were conducted in January 2011. There is evidence of potential benefits with this combination associated with left ventricular hypertrophy, left ventricular dysfunction and renal disease. The FDC is an effective treatment for patients with hypertension and is superior to monotherapy than either drug alone.
In addition to the benefits of each drug, valsartan/HCTZ's metabolic interactions reduce some of the negative effects of both compounds. With its increased simplicity, minimal side-effect profile and efficacy without a significant cost penalty, valsartan/HCTZ represents an excellent choice for antihypertensive therapy.
To investigate the safety of anticonvulsants in doses found equipotent in suppressing imipramine induced convulsions, the effects of diazepam (1.8 mg/kg) or phenobarbital (40 mg/kg) following a toxic dose of imipramine (50 mg/kg) on heart rate, blood pressure and body temperature were examined in male Wistar rats. Administration of imipramine alone resulted in significant decreases in blood pressure, heart rate and rectal temperature. Phenobarbital or diazepam alone failed to significantly affect any of these parameters apart from a slight reduction in rectal temperature seen with phenobarbital. Diazepam given after imipramine antagonized the imipramine-induced decrease in heart rate but increased the hypotensive and hypothermic effects. Phenobarbital failed to significantly affect the imipramine-induced changes in any of the physiological parameters studied. The present data suggests that phenobarbital may be preferable to diazepam in treatment of imipramine-induced convulsions.
We investigated the expression and secretion of the natriuretic peptides (NPs) ANF and BNP in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced sepsis and its association with cytokines and other biologically active substances. LPS treatment increased plasma levels of ANF and BNP. The latter increase was larger than the increase in plasma ANF. LPS also increased cardiac content and gene expression of BNP but not of ANF. LPS treatment significantly increased gene expression cytokines, chemokines and proteases, which significantly correlated with BNP gene expression. SB203580, a p38 MAP kinase inhibitor, inhibited the elevation of BNP in plasma. The present work suggests that during inflammation, BNP gene expression and secretion is uniquely related to changes in gene expression in the absence of hemodynamic changes and hence differentiates ANF and BNP as biomarkers of cardiac disease.
Alpha-methyldopa is an antihypertensive medication used commonly in pregnancy. Reactive hepatitis is a severe, uncommon reported side effect of this medication. To our knowledge, there has been only one other reported case of alpha-methyldopa-induced hepatitis associated with pregnancy in the United States.
A patient at 17 weeks' estimated gestational age was evaluated for elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein, which is used generally as a screening test for birth defects. A thorough history, physical examination, and laboratory evaluation were performed, and alpha-methyldopa-induced maternal hepatitis was diagnosed.
The astute clinician should include maternal hepatic dysfunction in the differential diagnosis of an elevated maternal serum alpha-fetoprotein and should consider obtaining aminotransferase levels after initiation of alpha-methyldopa therapy during pregnancy.
The present study was done in double blind during 6 weeks on 36 depressed patients having a minimal score of 15 on the Hamilton rating scale. Seventeen received mianserin and nineteen nortriptyline. A comparable therapeutic efficacy was observed for both drugs, without significant differences for the delay of action or the activity during 6 weeks. The number of side-effects was much more elevated for nortriptyline, and a significant difference was particularly observed for the frequency and severity of tachycardia, dry mouth and oedema.
The antimalarial drug halofantrine hydrochloride has been associated with cardiac arrhythmias. This is a report of a study on the cardiac effects of standard-dose halofantrine (24 mg/kg) on a sample of 48 patients selected from a group of 402 Dega (Montagnard) refugees treated for Plasmodium falciparum infection. Prolongation of the rate-corrected QT interval (QTc) on the electrocardiogram (ECG) was used as an indicator of risk for halofantrine-associated cardiac arrhythmias. We found that standard-dose halofantrine was associated with a lengthening of the mean QTc from 0.04 sec(1/2) to 0.44 sec(1/2). Two patients had a QTc increase of greater than 25%, but none had a follow-up QTc of more than 0.55 sec(1/2), an interval length generally considered to be a risk factor for ventricular arrhythmias. Regression analysis indicated that pretreatment ECGs were poorly predictive of QTc lengthening during therapy, although pretreatment ECGs may be useful to evaluate patients with pre-existing cardiac conditions. The manufacturer has recommended that the halofantrine dose not exceed 24 mg/kg and revised the list of medication contraindications to include some cardiac conditions. Clinicians should weigh a patient's risk, including history of cardiac disease and availability of alternative therapy before use of halofantrine.
Telmisartan shows antihypertensive and several pleiotropic effects that interact with metabolic pathways. In the present study we tested the hypothesis that telmisartan prevents adipogenesis in vitro and weight gain in vivo through activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-delta-dependent pathways in several tissues. In vitro, telmisartan significantly upregulated PPAR-delta expression in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Other than enhancing PPAR-delta expression by 68.2+/-17.3% and PPAR-delta activity by 102.0+/-9.0%, telmisartan also upregulated PPAR-gamma expression, whereas neither candesartan nor losartan affected PPAR-delta expression. In vivo, long-term administration of telmisartan significantly reduced visceral fat and prevented high-fat diet-induced obesity in wild-type mice and hypertensive rats but not in PPAR-delta knockout mice. Administration of telmisartan did not influence food intake in mice. Telmisartan influenced several lipolytic and energy uncoupling related proteins (UCPs) and enhanced phosphorylated protein kinase A and hormone sensitive lipase but reduced perilipin expression and finally inhibited adipogenesis in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes. Telmisartan-associated reduction of adipogenesis in preadipocytes was significantly blocked after PPAR-delta gene knockout. Chronic telmisartan treatment upregulated the expressions of protein kinase A, hormone-sensitive lipase, and uncoupling protein 1 but reduced perilipin expression in adipose tissue and increased uncoupling protein 2 and 3 expression in skeletal muscle in wild-type mice but not in PPAR-delta knockout mice. We conclude that telmisartan prevents adipogenesis and weight gain through activation of PPAR-delta-dependent lipolytic pathways and energy uncoupling in several tissues.
Hypokalaemic periodic paralysis (hypoPP) is a dominantly inherited muscle disorder characterized by episodes of flaccid weakness. Previous genetic studies revealed mutations in the voltage-gated calcium channel alpha1-subunit (CACNA1S gene) in families with hypoPP (type I). Electrophysiological studies on these mutants in different expression systems could not explain the pathophysiology of the disease. In addition, several mutations (Arg669His, Arg672His, Arg672Gly and Arg672Ser) in the voltage sensor of the skeletal muscle sodium channel alpha-subunit (SCN4A gene) have been found in families with hypoPP (type II). For Arg672Gly/His a fast inactivation defect was described, and for Arg669His an impairment of slow inactivation was reported. Except for the substitution for serine, we have now expressed all mutants in a human cell-line and studied them electrophysiologically. Patch-clamp recordings show an enhanced fast inactivation for all three mutations, whereas two of them reveal enhanced slow inactivation. This may reduce the number of functional sodium channels at resting membrane potential and contribute to the long-lasting periods of paralysis experienced by hypoPP patients. The gating of both histidine mutants (Arg669His, Arg672His) can be modulated by changes of extra- or intracellular pH. The inactivation defects of Arg669His and Arg672His can be alleviated by low pH to a significant degree, suggesting that the decrease of pH in muscle cells (e.g. during muscle work) might lead to an auto-compensation of functional defects. This may explain a delay or prevention of paralytic attacks in patients by slight physical activity. Moreover, the histidine residues may be the target for a potential therapeutic action by acetazolamide.
Three patients have been reported with (putative) methylmalonic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (MMSDH) deficiency. The urine metabolic pattern was strikingly different in all, including beta-alanine, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, both isomers of 3-amino- and 3-hydroxyisobutyric acids in one and 3-hydroxyisobutyric and lactic acids in a second, and mild methylmalonic aciduria in a third patient. In an effort to clarify these disparate metabolite patterns, we completed the cDNA structure, and characterized the genomic structure of human MMSDH gene in order to undertake molecular analysis. Only the first patient had alterations in the MMSDH coding region, revealing homozygosity for a 1336G > A transversion, which leads to substitution of arginine for highly conserved glycine at amino acid 446. No abnormalities of the MMSDH cDNA were detected in the other patients. These data provide the first molecular characterization of an inborn error of metabolism specific to the L-valine catabolic pathway.
Compared with other categories of drugs, such as antibiotics and NSAIDs, antiepileptic therapies are associated with a high incidence of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). We previously reported that carbamazepine (CBZ)-SJS/TEN is strongly associated with the HLA-B*1502 in Han Chinese, which has been confirmed in other Southeast Asian countries where the allele is prevalent. Here, we extend the study of HLA susceptibility to three different antiepileptic drugs, phenytoin (PHT), lamotrigine (LTG) and oxcarbazepine (OXC), which have structure similarity to CBZ.
We carried out a case-control association study. We enrolled 26 PHT-, six LTG- and three OXC-induced SJS/TEN patients, 113 PHT-tolerant and 67 LTG-tolerant subjects who were on the drug, respectively, for more than 3 months without the adverse reactions, and 93 normal subjects from the general population. The HLA-A, B, C and DRB1 genotypes were determined.
We found that HLA-B*1502 was present in eight out of 26 (30.8%) PHT-SJS/TEN (OR: 5.1; 95% CI: 1.8-15.1; p = 0.0041), two out of six (33%) LTG-SJS (odds ratio [OR]: 5.1; 95% CI: 0.8-33.8; p = 0.1266) and three out of three (100%) OXC-SJS (OR: 80.7; 95% CI: 3.8-1714.4; p = 8.4 x 10(-4)) patients. In addition, HLA-B*1301, Cw*0801 and DRB1*1602 also showed an association with PHT-SJS/TEN (p = 0.0128-0.0281; OR: 3.0-4.3).
Our results indicate that OXC, PHT and LTG, which possess an aromatic ring just as CBZ does, when causing SJS/TEN, share a common risk allele. Aromatic antiepileptic drugs causing SJS/TEN in HLA-B*1502 carriers may act on a similar pathogenetic mechanism, although other genetic/nongenetic factor(s) may also contribute to the pathomechanism of the disease. We suggest that aromatic antiepileptic drugs, including CBZ, OXC and PHT, should be avoided in the B*1502 carrier and caution should also be exercised for LTG.
