An early feature of paraquat (PQ) toxicity is the influx of inflammatory cells, releasing proteolytic enzymes and oxygen free radicals, which can destroy the lung epithelium and result in pulmonary fibrosis. Therefore, the ability to suppress early lung injury seems to be an appropriate therapy of pulmonary damage before the development of irreversible fibrosis. Here I show curcumin confers remarkable protection against PQ lung injury. A single intraperitoneal injection of PQ (50 mg/kg) resulted in a significant rise in the levels of protein, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), alkaline phosphatase (AKP), N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), and neutrophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), while a decrease in glutathione levels. In paraquat rats bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cell TBARS concentration was increased with a simultaneous decrease in glutathione content. In addition, the data also demonstrated that PQ caused a decrease in ACE and glutathione levels and an increase in levels of TBARS and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in the lung. Interestingly, curcumin prevented the general toxicity and mortality induced by PQ and blocked the rise in BALF protein, ACE, AKP, NAG TBARS and neutrophils. Similarly, curcumin prevented the rise in TBARS content in both BAL cell and lung tissue and MPO activity of the lung. In addition, PQ induced reduction in lung ACE and BAL cell and lung glutathione levels was abolished by curcumin treatment. These findings indicate that curcumin has important therapeutic implications in facilitating the early suppression of PQ lung injury.
Sensitivity of neural stem cells viability, proliferation and differentiation upon exposure to methylmercury chloride (MeHgCl) was investigated on different types of biofunctional surfaces. Patterns of biodomains created by microprinting/microspotting of poly-l-lysine or extracellular matrix proteins (fibronectin and vitronectin) allowed for non-specific electrostatic or specific, receptor mediated interactions, respectively, between stem cells and the surface. The neural stem cell line HUCB-NSC has been previously shown to be susceptible to MeHgCl in developmentally dependent manner. Here we demonstrated that developmental sensitivity of HUCB-NSC to MeHgCl depends upon the type of adhesive biomolecules and the geometry of biodomains. Proliferation of HUCB-NSC was diminished in time and MeHgCl concentration dependent manner. In addition, the response to MeHgCl was found to be cell-type dependent. Undifferentiated cells were the most sensitive independently of the type of bioactive domain. Significant decrease of GFAP+ cells was detected among cells growing on poly-l-lysine, while on fibronectin and vitronectin, this effect was observed only in the highest (1μM) concentration of MeHgCl. β-Tubulin III expressing cells were most sensitive on fibronectin domains. In addition, limited bioactive domains to μm in size, as compared to non-patterned larger area of the same adhesive substrate, exerted protective role. Thus, the surface area and type of cell/biofunctional surface interaction exerted significant influence on developmental stage and cell-type specific response of HUCB-NSC to MeHgCl.
The present study investigated the seizure-suppressing effects of systemic epinephrine. Rats were injected with epinephrine, and seizures induced with pentylenetetrazol. Seizure severities were significantly reduced 15 min after 1 mg/kg of epinephrine. Severing the subdiaphragmatic vagus nerves abolished this effect, demonstrating that epinephrine-induced seizure suppression is mediated by subdiaphragmatic vagal afferents. The development of novel anti-epileptic drugs that exploit this peripheral pathway may yield new seizure treatments.
SR 95191 [3-(2-morpholino-ethyl-amino)-4-cyano-6-phenyl-pyridazine], a novel compound, has been shown in preliminary experiments to inhibit type A monoamine oxidase (MAO). This report describes the activities of SR 95191 in behavioral experiments in mice and rats and shows that SR 95191 has the profile of a selective type A MAO inhibitor (MAOI). Moreover, SR 95191 also possesses dopamine (DA) stimulant properties. The activities of SR 95191 were compared to those of the MAOIs moclobemide, clorgyline, pargyline and l-deprenyl, as well as to those of the antidepressant drugs imipramine, nomifensine and indalpine and to those of the DAergic drugs (+)-amphetamine and apomorphine. SR 95191 p.o. antagonized the effects of reserpine in mice and rats, decreased immobility in the mouse despair test, antagonized haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats and potentiated 5-hydroxytryptophan in mice and rats with an overall potency which was half that of imipramine. SR 95191, like moclobemide, did not potentiate yohimbine-induced lethality and did not antagonize oxotremorine-induced tremor. Like selective type A MAOIs, SR 95191 potentiated 5-hydroxytryptophan-induced tremor without affecting beta-phenethylamine-induced stereotypies in mice. SR 95191 did not antagonize 3-hydroxy-4-methyl-alpha-phenylethylamine-induced hyperthermia. Like all DA stimulant drugs, SR 95191 induced stereotypies in rats, which were blocked by haloperidol and alpha-methylparatyrosine, and induced contralateral turning in mice with a unilateral striatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. Based on these results, it is postulated that SR 95191 has a unique profile of activity combining the properties of a selective type A MAO inhibitor and those of an atypical DAergic drug.
The development of alcoholic liver diseases depends on the ability of hepatocyte to proliferate and differentiate in the case of alcohol-induced injury. Our previous work showed an inhibitory effect of alcohol on hepatocyte proliferation. However, the effect of alcohol on hepatocyte differentiation has not yet been precisely characterized. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of alcohol on hepatocyte differentiation in relationship with changes of iron metabolism in HepaRG cells. This unique bipotent human cell line can differentiate into hepatocytes and biliary epithelial cells, paralleling liver development. Results showed that alcohol reduced cell viability, total protein level and enhanced hepatic enzymes leakage in differentiated HepaRG cells. Moreover, it caused cell enlargement, decreased number of hepatocyte and expression of C/EBPα as well as bile canaliculi F-actin. Alcohol increased expression of hepatic cell-specific markers and alcohol-metabolizing enzymes (ADH2, CYP2E1). This was associated with a lipid peroxidation and an iron excess expressed by an increase in total iron content, ferritin level, iron uptake as well as an overexpression of genes involved in iron transport and storage. Alcohol-induced hepatoxicity was amplified by exogenous iron via exceeding iron overload. Taken together, our data demonstrate that in differentiated hepatocytes, alcohol reduces proliferation while increasing expression of hepatic cell-specific markers. Moreover, iron overload could be one of the underlying mechanisms of effect of alcohol on the whole differentiation process of hepatocytes.
Sinus node dysfunction has been reported most frequently among the adverse cardiovascular effects of lithium. In the present case, complete atrioventricular (AV) block with syncopal attacks developed secondary to lithium therapy, necessitating permanent pacemaker implantation. Serum lithium levels remained under or within the therapeutic range during the syncopal attacks. Lithium should be used with extreme caution, especially in patients with mild disturbance of AV conduction.
Carbon disulfide (CS2) exposure might disrupt embryo implantation in females during pregnancy but the relevant mechanism remains unclear. Since integrin β3 has shown to be one of the cell adhesion molecules involved in embryo implantation, the current study examined the effect of CS2 exposure during the peri-implantation period on the protein and mRNA expression of integrin β3 and its DNA methylation degree in the uterine tissue of gestational mice. Exposure was on the 3rd day of gestation (GD3), GD4, GD5 and GD6, respectively, one time administration (631.4 mg/kg). The number of implanted embryos on GD9 was observed and compared with the control, it was decreased by 32.92%, 56.11%, 56.11% and 51.21%, respectively, which revealed that GD4 and GD5 were the most sensitive time for embryotoxicity. The protein and mRNA expression of integrin β3 were detected each day after exposure till the GD7 endpoint. It down-regulated the protein and mRNA expression of integrin β3 in uterine tissue and there was a positive correlation between the number of embryos and the expression of protein on the first and second day after exposure. However, the degree of integrin β3 DNA methylation was not affected, which was detected by bisulfite sequencing polymerase chain reaction (BSP) method. These findings suggest that the decreased protein and mRNA level of integrin β3 in the uterine tissue after mice exposure to CS2 might be relevant to the underlying mechanism of embryo implantation disorders, but DNA methylation of integrin β3 does not contribute to this action.
To describe a case of cefoperazone-induced acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) in which the diagnosis was supported by renal biopsy.
A 35-year-old woman presented to our hospital with decreased urine output and no past history of renal problems. Fifteen days prior to presentation, she had started treatment with intramuscular cefoperazone 1 g/day for a scalp infection. On day 12 of therapy, the patient noted decreased urine output, anorexia, and weakness, but she continued taking cefoperazone for 3 more days. Hemodialysis and oral prednisolone 1 mg/kg (30 mg twice daily) were started. Renal function returned to normal after 2 months of prednisolone treatment.
Although AIN has been linked with other cephalosporins, as of June 18, 2004, to our knowledge, this is the first report of a cefoperazone-induced case. We based our diagnosis on the features of acute-onset renal failure, abnormal urinalysis findings, eosinophilia, inflammatory infiltrate in the interstitium, and recovery from renal failure after initiation of corticosteroid treatment. Application of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between the acute renal failure secondary to the possible AIN and cefoperazone therapy in this patient.
This case indicates that cefoperazone, like other cephalosporins, can cause AIN. We recommend close monitoring of renal function in patients who are prescribed this drug.
Udder infections with environmental pathogens like Escherichia coli are a serious problem for the dairy industry. Reduction of incidence and severity of mastitis is desirable and mild priming of the immune system either through vaccination or with low doses of immune stimulants such as lipopolysaccharide LPS was previously found to dampen detrimental effects of a subsequent infection. Monocytes/macrophages are known to develop tolerance towards the endotoxin LPS (endotoxin tolerance, ET) as adaptation strategy to prevent exuberant inflammation.We have recently observed that infusion of 1 μg of LPS into the quarter of an udder effectively protected for several days against an experimentally elicited mastitis. We have modelled this process in primary cultures of mammary epithelial cells (MEC) from the cow. MEC are by far the most abundant cells in the healthy udder coming into contact with invading pathogens and little is known about their role in establishing ET.
We primed primary MEC cultures for 12 h with LPS (100 ng/ml) and stimulated three cultures either 12 h or 42 h later with 107/ml particles of heat inactivated E. coli bacteria for six hours. Priming-related alterations in the global transcriptome of those cells were quantified with Affymetrix microarrays. LPS priming alone caused differential expression of 40 genes and mediated significantly different response to a subsequent E. coli challenge of 226 genes. Expression of 38 genes was enhanced while that of 188 was decreased. Higher expressed were anti-microbial factors (β-defensin LAP, SLPI), cell and tissue protecting factors (DAF, MUC1, TGM1, TGM3) as well as mediators of the sentinel function of MEC (CCL5, CXCL8). Dampened was the expression of potentially harmful pro-inflammatory master cytokines (IL1B, IL6, TNF-α) and immune effectors (NOS2, matrix metalloproteases). Functional network analysis highlighted the reduced expression of IL1B and of IRF7 as key to this modulation.
LPS-primed MEC are fitter to repel pathogens and better protected against misguided attacks of the immune response. Attenuated is the exuberant expression of factors potentially promoting immunopathological processes. MEC therefore recapitulate many aspects of ET known so far from professional immune cells.
A 70-year-old male nursing home resident, hospitalized for weakness and lethargy, was found to have life-threatening hyperkalemia. Concomitant use of potassium chloride, spironolactone, and propranolol appeared the likely offending agents. Hyperkalemia is common in the elderly, resulting from a combination of potassium homeostasis disorders, disease processes and certain medications. In particular, older adults in the nursing home on spironolactone and potassium replacement preparations should have serum potassium monitored frequently, particularly in the presence of renal insufficiency and diabetes. Also included is a review of literature illustrating alterations in potassium regulation in older adults and a suggested approach to potassium-related disorders in the nursing home setting.
We have recently reported that low tumor levels of SMAD4, a key mediator of transforming growth factor-beta superfamily signaling, can predict the probability of recurrence in patients with Dukes C colorectal cancer who had surgery as the only form of treatment. However, standard treatment for Dukes C colorectal cancer patients currently involves the administration of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery. Approximately 30% to 40% of these patients present with recurrence and die within 5 years, and there is great need for markers capable of predicting poor prognosis after the combined surgery/adjuvant treatment. In this study, we evaluate the prognostic value of SMAD4 in patients treated with surgery and 5-FU-based adjuvant therapy. We used immunohistochemistry and quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR to measure the levels of SMAD4 protein and mRNA expression in the primary tumors and a number of lymph node metastases from a series of 75 Dukes C colorectal cancer patients with at least 6 years of follow-up. Patients with tumors expressing low levels of SMAD4 protein or mRNA showed significantly shorted disease-free and overall survival than patients with high tumor levels of SMAD4. The median survival of patients with low SMAD4 protein or mRNA tumor levels was 1.4 and 1.2 years, respectively, whereas patients with high SMAD4 tumor level had a median survival of >9.3 years. In addition, the protein and mRNA levels of SMAD4 in lymph node metastases was significantly lower than in primary tumors (P = 0.006). In contrast, allelic imbalance in chromosome 18q21 was of no prognostic significance in these patients. In conclusion, low SMAD4 tumor levels identified a subset of patients with poor prognosis following surgery and 5-FU-based adjuvant therapy; therefore, these patients could be good candidates to receive combined treatment with additional chemotherapeutic agents such as CPT-11 and/or oxaliplatin.
1. Opioid analgesics and anti-emetics are often used concomitantly to treat pain and nausea and vomiting in people with malignant disease. We investigated interactions between the opioid analgesic morphine and the anti-emetic metoclopramide, a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, on nociception and gross motor function. 2. To assess for antinociceptive interactions, 11 Sprague-Dawley rats were injected intraperitoneally with morphine (5.0 mg/kg) or saline in combination with metoclopramide (0.5, 1.5 and 5.0 mg/kg) or saline and, 30 min later, the tail-flick latencies to a noxious thermal stimulus (49 degrees C water) were measured. Immediately thereafter we induced reperfusion hyperalgesia in the rats' tails using a tourniquet cuff and tested nociception again. Because, in addition to its ability to block D2 receptors, metoclopramide is also a weak 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, we assessed in a further 11 rats whether any antinociceptive interactions occurred between morphine (5.0 mg/kg) and ondansetron (0.2 and 2.0 mg/kg), an anti-emetic that selectively antagonizes 5-HT(3) receptors. To assess for motor interactions, we injected another group of nine rats with morphine (5.0 mg/kg) or saline in combination with metoclopramide (0.5 and 5.0 mg/kg) or saline and tested the ability of the animals to run on an 80 mm diameter rod rotating at 25 r.p.m. for 30 min. 3. Metoclopramide was not inherently analgesic or antihyperalgesic, but the highest dose of metoclopramide (5.0 mg/kg) enhanced the analgesic and antihyperalgesic effects of morphine. Neither dose of ondansetron was analgesic or antihyperalgesic or enhanced the antinociceptive actions of morphine. 4. Only the high dose of metoclopramide compromised running performance when administered with saline. However, coadministering morphine with metoclopramide (both doses) decreased motor performance. 5. Therefore, metoclopramide, possibly through its actions on D2 receptors and not 5-HT(3) receptors, enhances the analgesic and antihyperalgesic effects of morphine, but morphine exacerbates metoclopramide-induced motor dysfunction in rats.
Brown-Norway (BN) and Dorus Zadel Black (DZB) rats develop a T-cell-dependent membranous glomerulopathy (MGP) with high proteinuria and antiglomerular basement membrane (GBM) autoreactive antibodies (Abs), upon exposure to mercuric chloride (HgCl2). Laminin is an important autoantigenic target of the anti-GBM Abs, absorbing approximately 30% of the anti-GBM reactivity. Although many anti-GBM Abs have undergone isotype switching, it is currently unclear whether affinity maturation occurs during the HgCl2-induced autoimmune response. To address this question we analysed the rearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain variable-region genes (VHDJH regions) of 15 mAbs that were previously obtained from HgCl2-treated rats. Seven of these mAbs exhibit reactivity towards laminin. Our study showed that the VH-gene usage of antilaminin mAbs is largely restricted to the PC7183 VH-gene family (six out of seven). In addition, we demonstrated that at least three out of six laminin reactive and five out of six non-laminin-binding mAbs are encoded by germline VH genes (a total of eight out of 12 mAbs). Of the eight mAbs that are encoded by germline VH genes, seven are of a non-immunoglobulin M (IgM) isotype, indicating that isotype switching has occurred in these mAbs in the absence of somatic mutations. The mutations observed in the VH genes of the four remaining mAbs do not provide strong evidence for antigenic selection. The data support the notion that B cells in this model of MGP are not subjected to affinity maturation and probably result from polyclonal B-cell activation.
Metoclopramide is an effective non-phenothiazine antiemetic that acts, in part, by blockade of the dopamine receptors. The extrapyramidal complications of metoclopramide are similar to those of the phenothiazines. A patient is reported who developed a metoclopramide-induced acute dystonic reaction lasting 53 days. Acute and chronic treatment with anticholinergic drugs suppressed but did not eliminate the adventitious movements. The features of acute dystonic reactions secondary to metoclopramide therapy are reviewed.
Over the last decade, there has been a significant rise in reported cases of methadone induced QT prolongation (QTP) and Torsades de Pointes (TdP) in patients treated for opioid dependence. Optimal management of these patients is challenging.
We report a case series of 12 consecutive patients admitted to our institution with methadone-induced QTP and ventricular arrhythmias.
All patients survived the presenting arrhythmia. Successful transition to buprenorphine was accomplished in three patients. QT interval normalized and none of these patients had recurrent arrhythmias. Methadone dose was reduced in five patients with improvement of QT interval and resolution of arrhythmia. Four patients, including two with ICDs, refused or did not tolerate a reduction in their methadone dose.
Ventricular arrhythmias in patients on methadone are an uncommon but important problem. Buprenorphine, a partial micro-opiate-receptor agonist and a kappa-opiate-receptor antagonist does not cause QTP or TdP. Buprenorphine is a useful and effective alternative to methadone in a select group of patients, including those with documented ventricular arrhythmias on methadone. Pacemakers or defibrillators should be reserved for patients who have failed buprenorphine or a reduced methadone dose.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is the most frequently used chemotherapy agent concomitant with radiotherapy in the management of patients with rectal cancer. Capecitabine is an oral fluoropyrimidine that mimics the pharmaconkinetics of infusional 5-FU. This new drug is replacing 5-FU as a part of the combined-modality treatment of a number of gastrointestinal cancers. While cardiac events associated with the use of 5-FU are a well known side effect, capecitabine-induced cardiotoxicity has been only rarely reported. Here, we reviewed the case of a patient with rectal cancer who had a capecitabine-induced coronary vasospasm. The most prominent mutation of the dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase gene was also analyzed.
We conducted a genome-wide association study of male breast cancer comprising 823 cases and 2,795 controls of European ancestry, with validation in independent sample sets totaling 438 cases and 474 controls. A SNP in RAD51B at 14q24.1 was significantly associated with male breast cancer risk (P = 3.02 × 10(-13); odds ratio (OR) = 1.57). We also refine association at 16q12.1 to a SNP within TOX3 (P = 3.87 × 10(-15); OR = 1.50).
To investigate the unrecognized role of renal efferent nerve activity (RENA) in iodinated contrast media (CM)-induced acute kidney injury, we explored the effects of CM on RENA, renal hemodynamics, plasma renin activity (PRA), reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and renal injury in rats. Four types of CM including ioxitalamate (high osmolar and ionic), ioxaglate (low osmolar and ionic), iohexol (low osmolar and nonionic), and iodixanol (iso-osmolar and nonionic) were given iv (1600 mg I/kg body weight) to urethane-anesthetized female Wistar rats. We measured RENA by electrophysiologic recording techniques, renal blood flow with Doppler ultrasound, PRA by radioimmunoassay, and ROS by an in vivo chemiluminescence method. We graded the severity of CM-induced vacuoles in cortical tubular cells stained by hematoxylin and eosin and apoptosis production in outer medulla by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay. Besides, the effects of pretreatment with iv beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol (10 mg/kg body weight), antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (100 mg/kg body weight), and renal denervation on CM-induced pathophysiologic parameters were determined. Ioxitalamate significantly increased RENA and renal vascular resistance, PRA, renal ROS production within 1 h, and formation of vacuoles and TUNEL apoptosis in renal tubular cells 2 h later; other CM had less effect on these parameters. On the other hand, propranolol, N-acetylcysteine, or renal denervation partially attenuated the ioxitalamate-aggravated responses on RENA, PRA, ROS production, and vacuole and TUNEL apoptosis formation in renal tubular cells. In conclusion, we suggest that ioxitalamate may induce acute tubular injury via aggravation of RENA, adrenergic signaling, PRA, and ROS production.
Adenosine deaminases acting on RNA (ADARs) catalyze the hydrolytic deamination of adenosine to inosine in double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) and thereby potentially alter the information content and structure of cellular RNAs. Notably, although the overwhelming majority of such editing events occur in transcripts derived from Alu repeat elements, the biological function of non-coding RNA editing remains uncertain. Here, we show that mutations in ADAR1 (also known as ADAR) cause the autoimmune disorder Aicardi-Goutières syndrome (AGS). As in Adar1-null mice, the human disease state is associated with upregulation of interferon-stimulated genes, indicating a possible role for ADAR1 as a suppressor of type I interferon signaling. Considering recent insights derived from the study of other AGS-related proteins, we speculate that ADAR1 may limit the cytoplasmic accumulation of the dsRNA generated from genomic repetitive elements.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of SNPs that are associated with human traits and diseases. But, because the vast majority of these SNPs are located in non-coding regions of the genome, the mechanisms by which they promote disease risk have remained elusive. Employing a new methodology that combines cistromics, epigenomics and genotype imputation, we annotate the non-coding regions of the genome in breast cancer cells and systematically identify the functional nature of SNPs associated with breast cancer risk. Our results show that breast cancer risk-associated SNPs are enriched in the cistromes of FOXA1 and ESR1 and the epigenome of histone H3 lysine 4 monomethylation (H3K4me1) in a cancer- and cell type-specific manner. Furthermore, the majority of the risk-associated SNPs modulate the affinity of chromatin for FOXA1 at distal regulatory elements, thereby resulting in allele-specific gene expression, which is exemplified by the effect of the rs4784227 SNP on the TOX3 gene within the 16q12.1 risk locus.
Experiments were donducted on rats to determine the lowest dose of either phenylbutazone or indomethacin capable of producing papillary necrosis and in each case it was found to be 50 mg/kg body weight. A single dose of oxyphenbutazone (444 mg/kg), a major metabolite of phenylbutazone in man, produced patchy cortical necrosis, which became more extensive during daily administration for 4 days, despite evidence of regeneration. Although papillary necrosis as such was never seen with this substance, there was evidence of damage to the lower nephron in the form of tubular necrosis and calcification.
Patients with cystic acne (CA) on Isotretinoin (Iso) therapy might present muscular symptoms as side effect of the drug. Myalgia, weakness, hypotension are also some of the main characteristics of carnitine (car) deficiency.
Two hundred and thirty (N = 230) patients with CA were treated with Isotretinoin (0.5 mg/kg per 24 h). All the patients were requested to visit our out-patient department at the onset of muscular symptoms. Laboratory tests including car (total, free, acylcarnitine) were determined in blood and urine before treatment, at the onset of muscular symptoms and after the end of a 45 day study. Fifty percent of the patients with muscular involvement received L-carnitine (100 mg/kg per 24 h per os) (group C) and 50% placebo (group P).
Their laboratory tests showed the well known increases of their liver enzymes and lipids, whereas car blood levels were remarkably decreased at the onset of their muscular symptoms and or at the end of the study. Their supplementation with L-car, in patients of group C (N = 20) without Iso discontinuation or reduction, resulted in the disappearance of their muscular symptoms within 5-6 days and normalisation not only of the increased levels of their liver enzymes but also those of car, at the 45 day of their therapy. Additionally, the patients who received placebo (group P, N = 20) continued complaining for mualgias. The rest of the patients (group A, N = 190) did not experience any muscular symptoms, their laboratory tests showed elevation of liver enzymes and lipids and a decrease in car levels in the blood whereas a remarkable increase of car excretion was determined in their urine.
Iso therapy decreases car blood levels in patients with CA. L-car supplementation might treat liver and muscular side effects of the drug. These hopeful preliminary results need further investigation.
Feulgen and actin-phalloidin staining as well as gel electrophoresis have been employed in conjunction with cell ultrastructure to describe the effects of 1-, 2-, and 4-hr ascorbate (VC), menadione (VK(3)), and ascorbate:menadione (VC:VK(3)) treatments on the T24 human bladder carcinoma cell line. T24 cells exposed to VC alone display blebs and other superficial membrane defects related to membrane alterations and to superficial cytoskeleton changes. VK(3) treatment damages the cell nucleus and organelles, leads to the redistribution of the organelles in the perikaryon as a consequence of cytoskeletal damage, and results in cytoplasmic self-excisions. After VC:VK(3) treatment, the cells show exaggerated alterations characteristic of each vitamin treatment alone, including damaged mitochondria, self-excision of organelle-free pieces of cytoplasm, and extrusion of the perikaryon containing a nucleus surrounded by the damaged organelles. The nuclear envelope appears intact and contains chromatin that decondenses and dissipates. During the cellular demise that concludes with apparent karyolysis, the cells significantly decrease their size and alter their shape. However, the cisterns of rough endoplasmic reticulum are undamaged, but may become dilated. Since the cellular phenomena leading to cell death differ morphologically from apoptosis and necrosis, but entail self-cutting without nuclear bodies, this new form of cell death was called autoschizis. In addition, gel electrophoresis and Feulgen staining demonstrate that autoschizis is accompanied by random DNA degeneration.
We studied the effects of intra-arterial chemotherapy on the visual system of 29 consecutive patients with gliomas. As expected, infra-ophthalmic carotid infusion of cisplatin or carmustine (BCNU) was associated with clinically apparent anterior visual pathway lesions. Electroretinography revealed retinal dysfunction in patients without clinical abnormalities. Supra-ophthalmic carotid infusion of cisplatin or BCNU caused no retinal or optic nerve lesions. Electroretinography was abnormal in only one of these patients. Our results indicated that BCNU and cisplatin cause ischemic damage and are toxic to both retinal and neural tissue in patients with gliomas.
We examined the effects of ovariectomy and castration on the histology of cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced cystitis in rats. The animals were injected with CP (100 mg/kg) or saline intraperitoneally twice with an intervening 4 d and were euthanized at 1 or 2 wk after the initial CP administration. Saline treatment did not cause an apparent histological change in the bladder regardless of surgery, i.e., ovariectomy, castration, and sham-operation. CP treatment resulted in submucosal edema, urothelial damage, hemorrhage, and leukocyte infiltration in the bladder at 1 wk after the initial CP administration regardless of surgery. However, these histological changes were more severe in ovariectomized rats than in the sham-operated rats. In contrast, there were no significant differences in CP-induced histological changes in the bladder between castrated and sham-operated groups. We further examined the role of estrogen and progesterone on the CP-induced histology in the bladder by the replacement with estrogen only or estrogen plus progesterone for 2 wk in overiectomized rats. Estrogen treatment ameliorated CP-induced histological changes compared to oil treatment, whereas estrogen plus progesterone treatment did not produce any differences in the histology of the bladder compared to estrogen treatment. These results suggest that estrogen may play a role in the pathogenesis of bladder inflammation.
