Temafloxacin hydrochloride (HCl) was studied in fenbufen-treated mice and for its effects on the locomotor activity of rats. Mice were observed for convulsions for 90 minutes after the administration of temafloxacin HCl (100 mg/kg orally [p.o.]), ciprofloxacin HCl (100 mg/kg p.o.), enoxacin (100 mg/kg p.o.), or oxolinic acid (100 mg/kg p.o.). The quinolones were coadministered with either saline (0.2 mL p.o.) or fenbufen (100 mg/kg p.o.), a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory compound. No convulsions occurred following the administration of the quinolones with saline. Clonic convulsions occurred in 90% of mice receiving enoxacin and fenbufen and in 20% of mice receiving ciprofloxacin HCl and fenbufen. No convulsions occurred in mice receiving temafloxacin HCl or oxolinic acid with fenbufen. At doses of 30, 100, and 300 mg/kg p.o., temafloxacin HCl and enoxacin had no effect on locomotor activity of rats, but oxolinic acid markedly stimulated locomotor activity. The lack of central nervous system (CNS) stimulation and the absence of interaction with fenbufen suggest that temafloxacin may have less potential for adverse CNS effects than other quinolone compounds.
Resveratrol (RSV) and resveratrol analogs have a potential use in prostate cancer chemoprevention due to effects on for example, cell growth, apoptosis, angiogenesis, and metastasis. However, inhibition of CYP17A1, a key enzyme in the androgen biosynthesis and a target for prostate cancer therapy, has not been explored as a possible mechanism behind the effects on prostate cancer.
Human adrenocortical carcinoma cells, H295R, were treated with RSV, piceatannol (PIC), 3,5,4'-triacetylresveratrol (RSVTA), 3,5-diacetylresveratrol (RSVDA), and 3,5,4'-trimethylresveratrol (RSVTM) for 24 hr at concentrations of 1, 5, 10, 25, and 50 µM. Steroid secretion, enzyme activities, and gene expression of key steps in steroidogenesis were investigated.
Secretion of dihydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), testosterone, and cortisol were drastically decreased by all test compounds at concentrations that did not affect cell viability. Progesterone and aldosterone secretion were increased. This steroid secretion pattern can be explained by the demonstrated inhibition of CYP17A1 enzyme activity. The most efficient CYP17A1 inhibitors were the synthetic analogs RSVTA, RSVDA, and RSVTM. Inhibition by RSVTM was more selective on the 17,20-lyase activity than hydroxylase activity of CYP17A1. Treatment of cells with all compounds, except RSVTM, caused increased estradiol levels, which could be explained by the demonstrated inhibition of estrogen sulfate conjugation, catalyzed by SULT1E1.
Our results on CYP17A1 inhibition of RSV and RSV analogs suggest a novel mechanism for chemoprevention of prostate cancer by resveratrol and the analogs. Especially RSVTM, which has a preferential inhibition on the 17,20-lyase activity of CYP17A1, may be a promising candidate for prostate cancer chemoprevention.
MDL 72567 (2,6 dimethyl,3 methoxycarbonyl,4-(2-nitrophenyl), 5-(2-furoyl)1,4 dihydropyridine) was a potent antagonist of Ca2+-induced contractions in K+-depolarized taenia preparations from the guinea pig caecum (pA2 8.8 +/- 0.1). MDL 72567 was a potent displacer of [3H]nitrendipine binding from rat cortical membrane preparations (Ki 3.99 nM), indicating an effect at the dihydropyridine binding site, which is consistent with the finding that the inhibitory effects of MDL 72567 in smooth muscle were prevented by the dihydropyridine Ca2+ channel activator Bay K 8644. MDL 72567 slowed spontaneously beating rat atria preparations to a greater extent than did nifedipine, however, for a given negative inotropic effect. Furthermore, in pithed rat preparations infused with angiotensin II to elevate blood pressure, the hypotensive effects of MDL 72567 (3 nmol/kg-3 mumol/kg, intravenously, i.v.) were accompanied by bradycardia, whereas nifedipine, PY 108-068, and nicardipine lowered blood pressure without affecting heart rate. When compared with nifedipine, MDL 72567 caused less reflex tachycardia for a given fall in blood pressure, in anesthetized beagles and in conscious renal hypertensive dogs. In anesthetized dogs, MDL 72567 increased cardiac contractility at all hypotensive doses tested (30-3,000 nmol/kg, i.v.), whereas nifedipine caused profound myocardial depression at higher doses (1,000-3,000 nmol/kg, i.v.) even though the compounds had equivalent vasodilator effects. Thus, although MDL 72567 appears to cause a direct myocardial slowing that can partially offset reflex tachycardia, the compound has negligible negative inotropic effects and may therefore be useful in angina pectoris or even in congestive heart failure.
This study a) compared the effects of buprenorphine versus methadone maintenance on benzodiazepine and alcohol use and b) evaluated the prognostic significance of gender and psychopathology and their interaction with maintenance treatment. Eighty male and 36 female patients were randomly assigned to daily sublingual buprenorphine (4 or 12 mg) or oral methadone (20 or 65 mg). Maintenance medication was not associated with significant differences in alcohol or benzodiazepine use. Rates of abstinence from illicit opioids were significantly higher for females, within the buprenorphine 4-mg group, females also had significantly better retention, lower rates of opioid-positive urine samples, and higher rates of abstinence from illicit opioids. Lifetime sedative dependence was associated with significantly better retention, decreased rates of cocaine-positive urine samples, and increased rates of cocaine abstinence; among buprenorphine- but not methadone-maintained patients, it was also associated with increased rates of abstinence from illicit opioids.
20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE) is a potent constrictor in small arteries and also has natriuretic properties. Urinary 20-HETE excretion is increased in adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)-induced hypertensive rats. In the present study, we investigated the effect of a specific enzyme inhibitor of 20-HETE production, N-hydroxy-N'-(4-butyl-2-methylphenyl) formamidine (HET0016), on glucocorticoid-induced hypertension in rats, a sodium-independent model.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with physiological saline (0.9% NaCl), ACTH (0.2 mg/kg per day) or dexamethasone (0.03 mg/rat per day) subcutaneously for 13 days. HET0016 (10 mg/kg per day) or its vehicle (10% lecithin in physiological saline) was coadministered (intraperitoneally) a day before (prevention study) or at day 8 of treatment (reversal studies). Systolic blood pressure was measured by the tail-cuff method.
Relative to physiological saline, systolic blood pressure was increased by ACTH (P < 0.001) and dexamethasone (P < 0.01). HET0016 reversed ACTH-induced (P < 0.01) but not dexamethasone-induced hypertension. HET0016 also prevented the development of hypertension induced by ACTH (P < 0.01). ACTH, but not dexamethasone, increased renal microsome 20-HETE formation and plasma F2-isoprostane concentrations. HET0016 inhibited renal 20-HETE formation but had no effect on plasma F2-isoprostane concentrations or renal cytochrome P450 4A1 expression.
Inhibition of 20-HETE production by HET0016 prevents and reverses ACTH-induced but not dexamethasone-induced hypertension. These results suggest that 20-HETE may play a role in the genesis of ACTH-induced hypertension but not in dexamethasone-induced hypertension.
Intravenous verapamil hydrochloride was used alone in 63 episodes of atrial fibrillation and flutter and six episodes of supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) (group A). Calcium chloride was given intravenously prior to verapamil in 41 episodes of fibrillation and flutter and 18 episodes of SVT (group B). All patients with SVT converted to normal sinus rhythm, with eight in group B converting after administration of calcium alone. Therapy lowered the heart rate in all patients with fibrillation and flutter; however, those given verapamil alone had a mean decrease in systolic pressure of 18.8 mm Hg; there was no change in those pretreated with calcium. The mean dose of verapamil required by group B was significantly lower than in group A. Many with atrial fibrillation or flutter who received digoxin subsequently converted to sinus rhythm. Thus, pretreatment with calcium decreased the hypotensive effect of verapamil without compromising its antiarrhythmic effect.
The purpose of this study was to differentiate by means of electrophysiologic study, a drug's ability to terminate or to prevent ventricular tachycardia (VT). Differences between the 2 effects were examined in patients with VT and the underlying mechanisms were studied in verapamil-responsive idiopathic sustained VT. The clinical significance of the distinction for chronic oral drug therapy is discussed. Thirty-five cases of inducible sustained VT were studied. A drug was considered "preventive" if it prevented VT induction and repetitive ventricular response, and "terminating" if it stopped induced VT within 15 complexes or could stop VT after its intravenous administration. Prevention and termination occurred together in 13 of 19 cases (68%) with disopyramide, in 10 of 19 cases (53%) with procainamide, in 8 of 12 cases (67%) with lidocaine, in 11 of 15 cases (73%) with mexiletine, and in 10 of 16 cases (63%) with verapamil. In the 16 in which verapamil terminated VT, VT rate immediately before termination slowed markedly from 167 +/- 33 to 134 +/- 28 beats/min. In the 6 cases without preventative effects, minimal and maximal premature intervals for VT induction increased significantly, from 291 +/- 70 to 335 +/- 85 ms and 323 +/- 68 to 423 +/- 109 ms, respectively, after verapamil administration. In 2 cases in which verapamil had a terminating effect, 5 mg of verapamil restored sinus rhythm but 10 mg caused premature beats resembling VT complexes. In another 2, 5 mg of verapamil lengthened the minimal premature interval; 10 mg increased both minimal and maximal premature intervals and lengthened the VT cycle.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Many glomerular diseases are associated with mesangial cell proliferation and the accumulation of extracellular matrix. At present, there are, however, few treatments which can inhibit these processes. The current study assessed the effects of the anti-platelet and putative anti-proliferative drug dipyridamole (DP) on the growth of human mesangial cells in vitro and their production of the extracellular matrix protein, fibronectin.
Human mesangial cell proliferation, both intrinsic and stimulated by platelet-derived growth factor, was assessed using 3H-thymidine incorporation and an MTT proliferation assay. A sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to study the effects of DP on fibronectin synthesis, again in cells stimulated by transforming growth factor beta 1 and in unstimulated cells.
At concentrations compatible with the serum levels found in subjects consuming standard dosages, DP significantly inhibited the growth of human mesangial cells in vitro in a dose-dependent fashion. DP also abrogated the mitogenic effects of platelet-derived growth factor. It had no significant effects on the synthesis of fibronectin by these cells (either spontaneous or induced by transforming growth factor beta 1). There was no evidence of cytotoxicity.
These data suggest that DP may have a therapeutic role in proliferative glomerulonephritis and possibly other diseases characterized by cell proliferation.
Docetaxel, capecitabine, and cisplatin are effective chemotherapeutic agents for breast cancer with significant synergistic cytotoxicity demonstrated by in vitro studies. The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of a combination of docetaxel, capecitabine, and cisplatin (TXP) in patients diagnosed with locally advanced breast cancer (LABC).
Patients (n = 42) with chemotherapy-naïve LABC (stage IIIa or IIIb) were enrolled. The chemotherapeutic regimen consisted of 4-6 cycles of intravenous docetaxel (60 mg/m(2)) and cisplatin (50 mg/m(2)) on day 1, plus oral capecitabine (1,800 mg/m(2)/day) on day 1-14, repeated every 3 weeks. Upon completion of therapy, the primary tumor was resected when not contraindicated.
Median patient age was 48.5 years (range 31-66 years). Median tumor size was 6.8 cm (range 2.7-15 cm), 29 patients were node-positive, and 12 patients were hormone receptor positive. A total of 216 cycles (median 5; range 3-6 cycles) were administered without prophylactic G-CSF. The predominant toxicities were grade 3/4 neutropenia (30%/28%) and no grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia, febrile neutropenia, or grade 4 non-hematological toxicities were observed. Grade 3 non-hematological toxicities included hand-foot syndrome (5.6%) and vomiting (0.5%). The overall clinical response rate was 97.6% (41/42). Six of the 42 patients (14.3%) achieved a complete pathological response. Of 22 patients who completed 6 cycles of combination treatment, the complete pathological response was 27.3% (6/22).
A combination of TXP can be administered safely without prophylactic G-CSF, and appears to be an effective neoadjuvant regimen in patients with LABC.
Electrophysiological effects of 2 to 2.5 mg/kg iv disopyramide were studied in 10 patients with dual nodal pathways who used a slow pathway for anterograde and a fast pathway for retrograde conduction during paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (mean cycle length 308.5 +/- 37 ms; range 260-370 ms). Disopyramide terminated the tachycardia in six cases by production of ventriculoatrial block in five and by sinus overdrive in one. In the remaining four patients cycle length of the paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia increased significantly from 270 +/- 8 ms to 377.5 +/- 28 ms. In all 10 patients disopyramide depressed retrograde fast pathway conduction manifest by an increase in mean ventricular paced cycle length producing ventriculoatrial block from less than or equal to 296.5 +/- 25 ms to 358 +/- 60 ms, and increase in retrograde fast pathway effective refractory period from less than or equal to 246 +/- 34 ms to 325 +/- 36 ms; the drug abolished ventriculoatrial conduction in two cases. Anterograde slow pathway and fast pathway conduction properties were unchanged after disopyramide (atrial paced cycle length producing AH block 292 +/- 30 to 306.5 +/- 30 ms; effective refractory period of anterograde fast pathway less than or equal to 274 +/- 56 to 284 +/- 44 ms, before and after the drug, respectively) suggesting that anterograde conduction was not crucial either for sustainment or for failure to initiate paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia after the drug. Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia could not be reinduced in six cases after disopyramide. In the other four the ventricular paced cycle lengths producing ventriculoatrial block (318 +/- 41 ms) and effective refractory period of retrograde fast pathway (320 +/- 28 ms) were shorter than the cycle length of reinduced paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (367.5 +/- 35 ms) allowing perpetuation of the tachycardia. We conclude that disopyramide breaks atrioventricular nodal re-entrant tachycardia by specific blockade of the retrograde fast pathway though the effect on anterograde atrioventricular nodal conduction is variable.
The pineal gland and its main hormone, melatonin (MLT), are involved in a variety of physiological processes. MLT is a member of the indolamine family and has significant antioxidative activity. Acetaminophen (AA) is the most widely used medication in the world, both by prescription and over the counter. In large doses, AA is hepatotoxic causing oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation. Therefore, antioxidants have been used to protect against the toxicity of AA. Here, we examined in vitro and in vivo the protective effects of MLT against AA-induced toxicity in mice. MLT (100 microM) had a significant protective effect on the AA (7 mM)-induced loss of cell viability in mouse primary cultured hepatocytes as determined using the 3H-thymidine incorporation assay and MTT assay. The AA-induced generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) peaked at 6 h and was followed by an increase in lipid peroxidation at 12 h in hepatocytes. MLT (0.1, 1, 10 or 100 microM) dose-dependently attenuated the increase in both production of ROS and lipid peroxidation by AA. Similarly, in vivo, AA (400, 600 or 800 mg/kg, intraperitoneally)-induced mortality and hepatotoxicity were significantly decreased by MLT (10 mg/kg, subcutaneously). Pretreatment with MLT had a greater protective effect on the hepatotoxicity of AA than post-treatment. However, MLT had no protective effect on the antipyretic effect or antinociception caused by AA. These results suggest that MLT is potentially useful for preventing AA-induced toxicity, but not the antipyretic effect or antinociception caused by AA.
Long-term administration of the antifibrinolytic agent epsilon aminocaproic acid (EACA) reduces the rate of rehemorrhage in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), but is associated with cerebral ischemia.
To evaluate short-term administration of EACA before early surgery in patients with SAH.
Retrospective review of 356 patients admitted between June 2002 and December 2007 with a diagnosis of aneurysmal SAH. Medical records were reviewed to determine SAH risk factors, clinical grade at the time of admission, and incidence of rehemorrhage, permanent new-onset focal neurological deficits, computed tomography evidence of cerebral infarction, symptomatic vasospasm, and hydrocephalus.
Patients underwent treatment of the ruptured aneurysm an average of 47.4 hours after admission and received an average total dose of 40.6 g of EACA. The mean length of time of administration of EACA was 35.6 hours. There was a total of 5 rehemorrhages, for an overall rebleeding rate of 1.4% and a rate of rehemorrhage per 24-hour period of 0.71%. Overall, the rates of symptomatic vasospasm and permanent neurological deficits attributable to ischemic stroke were 11.5% and 7.2%, respectively, and the incidence of shunt-dependent hydrocephalus was 42.3%. Patients who were treated with coiling had higher rates of symptomatic vasospasm and ischemic complications than patients who had surgery.
Short-term administration of EACA is associated with rates of rehemorrhage, ischemic stroke, and symptomatic vasospasm that compare favorably with historical controls. The rate of hydrocephalus is relatively high and may be attributable to EACA treatment.
Four new anticonvulsive drugs were compared to four prototype antiepileptics regarding their differential efficacy, i.e. against tonic-clonic, myoclonic, and minor seizures, in reflex epilepsy in genetically epileptic gerbils. We distinguished at least three types of drugs: Phenytoin and ralitoline selectively prevented tonic-clonic seizures; the other drugs tested were active against all seizure types. However, carbamazepine and AHR-11748 were predominantly active against tonic-clonic seizures, whereas phenobarbital, valproate, gabapentin, and zonisamide equipotently suppressed both tonic-clonic and myoclonic seizures.
The electrophysiological effects of antiarrhythmic drugs were tested in 36 patients with recurrent paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT), 25 of whom had accessory pathway reentrant tachycardia (APRT) and 11 A-V nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT; 10 of the slow-fast type one of the fast-slow type). The test drugs were procainamide (used in 19 patients), verapamil (in 27), disopyramide (in 31), and propranolol (in 15). The drugs were tested for their ability to terminate episodes of PSVT as well as to inhibit their induction. Procainamide had an inhibitory effect on APRT in nine of 12 patients (75%) and terminated episodes of APRT in seven of 11 patients (63.6%); in all of them V-A block was responsible for the termination. In four of six patients (66.7%) with slow-fast AVNRT and in one patient with fast-slow AVNRT, inhibition of the induction of tachycardia attacks was noted after procainamide. Termination of AVNRT was seen in the same number of patients. Verapamil inhibited the induction of APRT in 12 of 18 patients (66.7%) and terminated episodes of APRT in 10 of 16 patients (62.5%), all by A-V block. In six of eight patients (75%) with slow-fast AVNRT, inhibition of the induction as well as termination of tachycardia were noted after verapamil. Disopyramide had an inhibitory effect on APRT in seven of 23 patients (30.4%) and terminated APRT in five of 21 patients (23.8%) by V-A block, while AVNRT (all slow-fast type) was terminated in only one of eight patients (12.5%) by disopyramide. Disopyramide was less effective than previously reported. This could be attributed to a relatively low dosage and slow infusion speed. Propranolol inhibited the induction of APRT and terminated episodes of APRT in only one of 10 patients (10%). In two of four patients (50%) with slow-fast AVNRT, an inhibitory effect by propranolol was noted, but termination was seen in only one patients.
A ten-year-old boy presented with an illness resembling infectious mononucleosis associated with an unusual skin rash and marked cholestatic hepatitis. This combination represents a rare reaction to diphenylhydantoin. Few reported cases have been published. The illness commences from three to seven weeks after starting therapy. Although one death has been reported, other cases have shown complete recovery. Early recognition of the combination of symptoms and cessation of drug therapy is essential.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation is a neurophysiological method which enables direct quantitative in vivo assessment of cortical excitability and inhibition. The aim of the study was to assess the impact of paliperidone on the motor threshold and cortical silent period, in a drug-naive patient, with first episode schizophrenia using this technique. Paliperidone monotherapy caused a significant reduction of severity of schizophrenic symptomatology in the patient. At the same time, a significant prolongation of the cortical silent period, from 118.68 ms before to 185.13 ms after therapy, occurred. Because the cortical silent period is a function of GABA(B) receptors, we can assume that paliperidone may have the ability to enhance GABA(B) receptor-mediated neurotransmission.
Long-lasting vulnerability to drug cue-induced relapse to a drug-taking habit is a major challenge to the treatment of drug addiction. Here we show that blockade of drug memory reconsolidation, through infusion of Zif268 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides into the basolateral amygdala shortly before reexposure to a cocaine-associated stimulus but not simply to the training context, severely impaired subsequently cue-maintained cocaine seeking under a second-order schedule of reinforcement and abolished cue-induced reinstatement of and relapse to cocaine seeking. This reduction in relapse after disrupted memory reconsolidation was not only seen after several hundred pairings of the stimulus with self-administered cocaine, but older, as well as recent, memories were also disrupted. Reconsolidation blockade may thus provide a potential therapeutic strategy for the prevention of relapse in drug addiction.
Optimal management of chronic, mild-to-moderate asthma with inhaled steroids may include use of the lowest possible doses, as recommended in guidelines, and a reduction in the frequency of daily administration for greater convenience. Lower doses and once daily treatment with inhaled steroids must be rigorously evaluated in controlled clinical trials.
The objective of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of once daily treatment with budesonide in subjects with stable asthma.
Once daily budesonide was assessed in 309 adult subjects, including those who were and were not using an inhaled steroid at baseline. The subjects were stratified by inhaled steroid use and randomly assigned to one of 3 treatments: 200 microgram budesonide, 400 microgram budesonide, or placebo administered by means of Turbuhaler once daily in the morning for 6 weeks. Beyond this point, treatment was continued unchanged for another 12 weeks (maintenance) in those receiving 200 microgram budesonide once daily and placebo. In those who received 400 microgram budesonide once daily, the dose was reduced to 200 microgram once daily at week 6 and held constant for the remaining 12 weeks (400/200 microgram group). Primary efficacy endpoints were mean change from baseline in FEV1 and morning peak expiratory flow.
Once daily budesonide was well tolerated and resulted in significant improvements in all efficacy endpoints, even though baselines were well stabilized. Baseline lung function was elevated with little room for improvement; however, mean increases in FEV1 during the maintenance period were 0.10 L and 0.11 L in the 200 microgram and 400/200 microgram groups, respectively, versus a decrease of -0.09 L in the placebo arm (P <.001). Results for peak expiratory flow were similar. Significant improvements in secondary endpoints, including symptoms, beta-agonist use, and quality of life, also developed with budesonide 200 and 400 microgram once daily.
Inhaled budesonide, in doses as low as 200 microgram, may be an appropriate introductory or maintenance dose in subjects with stable, mild-to-moderate asthma.
The relation between plasma lipoprotein composition and renal apolipoprotein deposition was studied in nephrotic rats in which stable renal function had been monitored for 7 months after a single low dose of adriamycin (ADR, 3 mg/kg). Proteinuria was observed 3 weeks after ADR and increased progressively up to about 0.5 g/day (versus 0.07 g/day in controls; P < 0.001), while the creatinine clearance remained stable at about 80% of control values. Hypercholesterolaemia was observed 6 weeks after ADR, and increased progressively up to 7.0 +/- 1.0 mmol/l (versus 2.3 +/- 0.1 mmol/l in controls; P < 0.001). Cholesterol was primarily located in LDL2 and HDL2 lipoproteins. Plasma apolipoprotein (apo) A-I increased by more than 400% in the nephrotic rats (P < 0.001). Apo B and apo E increased by about 60% (P < 0.01), whereas apo A-IV remained unchanged. Focal sclerotic lesions in glomeruli had an incidence of 50 +/- 10% in ADR rats versus 2 +/- 1% in controls (P < 0.001). Immunohistochemistry revealed apo A-I and apo A-IV in the visceral epithelium. Apo E immunoreactivity and lipid deposits were observed in focal glomerular sclerotic lesions of ADR rats. Neither apolipoproteins nor lipids were detected in glomeruli of controls. Proximal tubular localization of apolipoproteins was extensive for apo A-I, apo A-IV and apo E, but no differences were observed in tubular deposition of apolipoproteins between ADR and control rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Histamine receptor antagonists have been shown to induce tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in colonic cancers and improve survival. The role of histamine receptor anatagonists in breast cancer is unclarified.
To evaluate the role of histamine receptor antagonists in inducing (TILs) in breast cancer.
Forty-five patients with operable breast cancers (25 cases who received preoperative famotidine and 20 controls) were studied for the effect of famotidine in inducing TILs and survival in breast cancer.
Significant TILs were seen in 75% (18/24) of cases as opposed to 35% (7/20) controls. In logistic regression analysis the only variable found to be predictive of TILs was famotidine, odds ratio 7.324 (1.693-31.686) P=0.008. In Cox's regression presence of TILs was favorably associated with improved disease free survival at a median follow up of 35.56 months. The hazard ratio for disease relapse was 3.327 (1.174-9.426) P=0.024 in TIL negative as compared to TIL positive patients. Famotidine use alone was not significant in the original model, however, on incorporation of quadrant of involvement in addition to other established prognostic factors in the above multivariate model, it assumed borderline significance with a hazard ratio for disease free survival 3.404 (1.005-11.531, P=0.049).
Preoperative short course famotidine induces TILs in breast cancer. Patients with TILs demonstrable in tumor specimens had an improved disease free survival. Famotidine may improve disease free survival in breast cancer and these findings need validation in larger population subsets.
Bilateral ablation of the frontal cortex of rats markedly reduced the catalepsy induced by haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.). Similarly, the selective antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (10 micrograms/side), injected bilaterally into the rostral part of the caudate-putamen (CP) reduced haloperidol-induced catalepsy whereas its injection into the intermediate part of the CP was ineffective. The quisqualate receptor antagonist, L-glutamic acid diethyl ester (100 micrograms/side), did not affect haloperidol-induced catalepsy when injected into the rostral part of the CP. On the other hand, NMDA (1 micrograms/side) injected bilaterally into the rostral part of the CP was able to restore haloperidol-induced catalepsy in frontally decorticated rats without any notable cataleptic effect of its own. These findings suggest that a certain degree of tonic stimulatory effect of corticostriatal glutamatergic pathways on NMDA receptors within the rostral part of the CP is a prerequisite for the expression of the cataleptogenic action of haloperidol.
Congenital nephrotic syndrome (CNS) is clinically and genetically heterogeneous, with mutations in WT1, NPHS1 and NPHS2 accounting for part of cases. We recently delineated a new autosomal recessive entity comprising CNS with diffuse mesangial sclerosis and distinct ocular anomalies with microcoria as the leading clinical feature (Pierson syndrome). On the basis of homozygosity mapping to markers on chromosome 3p14-p22, we identified homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations of LAMB2 in patients from five unrelated families. Most disease-associated alleles were truncating mutations. Using immunohistochemistry and western blotting we could demonstrate that the respective LAMB2 mutations lead to loss of laminin beta2 expression in kidney and other tissues studied. Laminin beta2 is known to be abundantly expressed in the glomerular basement membrane (GBM) where it is thought to play a key role in anchoring as well as differentiation of podocyte foot processes. Lamb2 knockout mice were reported to exhibit congenital nephrosis in association with anomalies of retina and neuromuscular junctions. By studying ocular laminin beta2 expression in unaffected controls, we detected the strongest expression in the intraocular muscles corresponding well to the characteristic hypoplasia of ciliary and pupillary muscles observed in patients. Moreover, we present first clinical evidence of severe impairment of vision and neurodevelopment due to LAMB2 defects. Our current data suggest that human laminin beta2 deficiency is consistently and specifically associated with this particular oculorenal syndrome. In addition, components of the molecular interface between GBM and podocyte foot processes come in the focus as potential candidates for isolated and syndromic CNS.
Chronic exposure to tobacco dust causes nasal inhalation and cutaneous absorption of tobacco alkaloids especially nicotine, therefore the considerable evidences showed that workers employed in bidi industries are at risk of cancer, lung diseases and other many health related common problems. Many references revealed that tobacco dust exposure induces mutations, damage to DNA etc. which are supposed to be the consequences of free radical generation. In present study attempt have been made to evaluate the status of oxidants and antioxidants and their relation with nicotine. 90 bidi workers were screened for serum lipid peroxide (MDA) and serum nitric oxide (NO*) as oxidant and erythrocytic-Superoxide Dismutase (RBC-SOD), Vitamin-C as antioxidant. Total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and urinary cotinine were also measured. These bidi workers were further divided in 3 groups, Group 1, 11 and III exposed to tobacco dust for about 10 to 14 yrs, 15 to 19 yrs and 20 to 24 yrs of exposure respectively. Highly significant excretion of Urinary cotinine was found in all groups of bidi workers as compared with control (p < 0.001). The levels of MDA, and NO* were found to be significantly elevated in all the three groups with progression of exposure, than the control (p < 0.001), where as the levels of RBC-SOD, Vitamin-C and TAC were significantly decreased in all the three groups as compared with controls (p < 0.001). From our findings it is evident that nicotine absorption might contribute to the disturbed oxidant and antioxidant balance leading to oxidative stress.
Long-term treatment with cyclosporine (CsA) or tacrolimus (Tac) results in chronic nephrotoxicity. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and other pro-fibrogenic molecules have been known to contribute to this side effect. A comparison of intrarenal expression of TGF-beta and other fibrogenic genes in biopsies from patients with either CsA or Tac nephrotoxicity have not been documented. This study compared the expression of TGF-beta, collagen, fibronectin, metalloproteinases (MMP-2, -9), tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMP-2) and osteopontin in renal biopsies obtained from renal transplant recipients treated with either CsA or Tac as primary immunosuppressive agents.
Using RT-PCR, intrarenal expression of TGF-beta, collagen, fibronectin, MMP-2, MMP-9 and TIMP-2 were studied in renal biopsies from patients with histological diagnosis of CsA or Tac nephrotoxicity and acute rejection. TGF-beta protein expression was studied by staining section of biopsies with anti-TGF-beta antibody.
Intrarenal expression of TGF-beta, collagen, fibronectin, MMP-2, TIMP-2, and osteopontin were significantly increased in patients treated with Tac nephrotoxicity compared with CsA nephrotoxicity. The intrarenal mRNA expression of these genes was higher in patients diagnosed with Tac/CsA nephrotoxicity compared to acute rejection.
This study compares the intrarenal expression of TGF-beta and profibrogenic genes in renal transplant recipients treated with Tac and CsA. The results show that patients diagnosed with Tac nephrotoxicity exhibit increased expression of profibrogenic genes compared to CsA nephrotoxicity.
