Drug-induced hepatotoxicity is a frequent cause of liver injury. The predominant clinical presentation is acute hepatitis and/or cholestasis, although almost any clinical pathological pattern of acute or chronic liver disease can occur. The pathogenesis of drug-induced liver disease usually involves the participation of the parent drug or metabolites that either directly affect the cell biochemistry or elicit an immune response. Each hepatotoxin is associated with a characteristic signature regarding the pattern of injury and latency. However, some drugs may exhibit >1 signature. Susceptibility to drug-induced hepatotoxicity is also influenced by genetic and environmental risk factors. Unpredictable, low-frequency, idiosyncratic reactions often occur on a background of a higher rate of mild asymptomatic liver injury and, although difficult to predict, they may be detected by monitoring serum alanine aminotransferase levels. Recent and future advances in toxicogenomics and proteomics should improve the identification of risk factors and the understanding of idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity.
Morphologically abnormal red blood cells were noted on routine Wright-stained peripheral blood smears of two patients with Heinz body hemolytic anemia. The abnormal cells had the appearance of having had a piece bitten and are, therefore, termed "bite cells". In the two cases presented, these bite cells led to the suspicion of oxidative hemolysis, which was demonstrated in each case. Both patients were being treated with phenazopyridine hydrochloride when anemia developed. In each case, withdrawal of this drug led to correction of the anemia and the disappearance of bite cells from the blood.
Manganese (Mn) is an essential trace element, though at elevated exposures it is also a neurotoxicant. Several mechanisms underlying manganese toxicity have been investigated, although a consistent mechanism(s) of action at low exposures has not been fully elucidated. Here we systematically evaluated the effects of in vitro manganese exposure on intracellular iron (Fe) homeostasis and iron-regulatory protein (IRP) binding activity in undifferentiated PC12 cells over a range of manganese exposure concentrations (1, 10, 50, and 200 microM MnCl(2)) and exposure durations (12, 24, 36, and 48 hr), to test the hypothesis that moderately elevated manganese exposure disrupts cellular iron regulation. Results demonstrate that manganese exposure produces a rapid and sustained dose-dependent dysregulation of cellular iron metabolism, with effects occurring as early as 12 hr exposure and at manganese doses as low as 1 microM. Manganese exposure altered the dynamics of IRP-1 binding and the intracellular abundance of IRP-2, and altered the cellular abundance of transferrin receptor, ferritin, and mitochondrial aconitase protein levels. Cellular levels of labile iron were significantly increased with manganese exposure, although total cellular iron levels were not. The overall pattern of effects shows that manganese produced an inappropriate cellular response akin to iron deficiency, to which the cells were able to mount a compensatory response. Consistent with our previous studies, these data indicate that even low to moderate exposures to Manganese in vitro significantly disrupt cellular iron metabolism, which may be an important contributory mechanism of manganese neurotoxicity.
Poor fetal growth, also known as intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), is a worldwide health concern. IUGR is commonly associated with both an increased risk in perinatal mortality and a higher prevalence of developing chronic metabolic diseases later in life. Obesity, type 2 diabetes or metabolic syndrome could result from noxious "metabolic programming." In order to better understand early alterations involved in metabolic programming, we modeled IUGR rat pups through either prenatal exposure to synthetic glucocorticoid (dams infused with dexamethasone 100 µg/kg/day, DEX) or prenatal undernutrition (dams feeding restricted to 30% of ad libitum intake, UN). Physiological (glucose and insulin tolerance), morphometric (automated tissue image analysis) and transcriptomic (quantitative PCR) approaches were combined during early life of these IUGR pups with a special focus on their endocrine pancreas and adipose tissue development. In the absence of catch-up growth before weaning, DEX and UN IUGR pups both presented basal hyperglycaemia, decreased glucose tolerance, and pancreatic islet atrophy. Other early metabolic defects were model-specific: DEX pups presented decreased insulin sensitivity whereas UN pups exhibited lowered glucose-induced insulin secretion and more marked alterations in gene expression of pancreatic islet and adipose tissue development regulators. In conclusion, these results show that before any catch-up growth, IUGR rats present early physiologic, morphologic and transcriptomic defects, which can be considered as initial mechanistic basis of metabolic programming.
In order to investigate whether goitrogens and liver enzyme-inducers modify the tumorigenesis in the liver or lung, 6-week old male F344 rats were given single subcutaneous injection of DHPN, and starting one week later received water containing goitrogens, namely sulfadimethoxine (SDM), propylthiouracil (PTU) and potassium thiocyanate (KSCN), or an enzyme-inducer, phenobarbital (PB), for 19 weeks ad libitum. Although the number of GST-P positive foci in the liver was significantly increased in the PB group as compared to the control group, there were no significant fluctuations in the SDM, PTU and PB groups. With respect to the lung, it is suggested that SDM, KSCN and PB may enhance the lung tumorigenesis, since the multiplicities of hyperplasias of alveolar epithelia were increased in groups treated with these compounds.
Phospholipase C-beta1 (PLC-beta1) is a rate-limiting enzyme implicated in postnatal-cortical development and neuronal plasticity. PLC-beta1 transduces intracellular signals from specific muscarinic, glutamate and serotonin receptors, all of which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. Here, we present data to show that PLC-beta1 knockout mice display locomotor hyperactivity, sensorimotor gating deficits as well as cognitive impairment. These changes in behavior are regarded as endophenotypes homologous to schizophrenia-like symptoms in rodents. Importantly, the locomotor hyperactivity and sensorimotor gating deficits in PLC-beta1 knockout mice are subject to beneficial modulation by environmental enrichment. Furthermore, clozapine but not haloperidol (atypical and typical antipsychotics, respectively) rescues the sensorimotor gating deficit in these animals, suggesting selective predictive validity. We also demonstrate a relationship between the beneficial effects of environmental enrichment and levels of M1/M4 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor binding in the neocortex and hippocampus. Thus we have demonstrated a novel mouse model, displaying disruption of multiple postsynaptic signals implicated in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia, a relevant behavioral phenotype and associated gene-environment interactions.
The hemodynamic effects of physostigmine, a cholinomimetic drug used in the experimental treatment of Alzheimer's disease, are largely unknown. The author describes the development of episodes of hypertension in an elderly patient with Alzheimer's disease following treatment with oral physostigmine.
We investigated the chemopreventive effects of naturally occurring compounds like butyric acid (BA), nicotinamide (NA) and calcium glucarate (CAG) individually or in combination in 7, 12-dimethylbenz [a] anthracene (DMBA) treated mouse skin at 4 and 16 weeks, the time before and after the tumor development. DMBA application did not show any skin tumors at 4 weeks but well defined tumors appeared at 16 weeks. BA, NA or CAG prevented the tumor development significantly but the protection was highly enhanced when all these compounds were given together. In order to see the molecular changes progressing with tumors, we showed the downregulation of tumor suppressor miR-203 at 16 weeks and upregulation of histone deacetylases (HDAC), DNA methyltransferase, promoter methylation of miR-203 at 4 or 16 weeks. Regulators of micro RNA biogenesis such as DICER1 and Ago2 were also deregulated by DMBA. Proto-oncogene c-myc and BMI1 were upregulated and tumor suppressor gene p16 was downregulated by DMBA as a function of time. Effects of BA, NA or CAG were more pronounced after 16 weeks as compared to 4 weeks in preventing the tumor development and altered gene expression. Concomitant administration of BA, NA and CAG tried to prevent these alterations more effectively than that of individual compound possibly by regulating miR-203 status through epigenetic or biogenetic modulations before and after the tumor development. Study provides a rationale for chemoprevention by combination of different compounds targeting miR-203.
High-dose estradiol therapy for reduction of final height may be complicated by severe side effects such as deep vein thrombosis. We report a 14.6-year-old girl with tall stature. In order to reduce final height she was treated with ethinylestradiol and medroxyprogesterone. After arthroscopy she suffered acute deep venous thrombosis of her left leg. Despite being monitored at short intervals, coagulation parameters such as AT III and protein C indicated no development of thrombosis. Medical height reduction with estrogen should be accompanied by heparinisation during longer-lasting periods of immobilisation.
Therapy with phentolamine can improve the condition of patients with congestive heart failure due to the inotropic effect of this drug, as well as its vasodilating action. The use of oral therapy with phentolamine has not been adequately investigated in patients with chronic heart failure. Therefore, nine patients with chronic heart failure due to underlying valvular disease received 50 mg of phentolamine four times a day for two weeks. Echocardiograms and measurements of systolic time intervals were obtained prior to administration of phentolamine and two weeks after the introduction of therapy with the drug. As a result of therapy with phentolamine, the ejection fraction, the percentage of change in the minor axis, and the velocity of circumferential fiber shortening significantly increased, while the left atrial dimension decreased. Therapy with phentolamine produced a significant decrease in the preejection period index, as well as the ratio of the preejection period over the left ventricular ejection time. Thus, oral therapy with phentolamine improves left ventricular function in patients with chronic heart failure.
Since 1992 it has been reported that obsessive-compulsive behavior may emerge in patients treated with clozapine. We would like to report a case of obsessive-compulsive behavior emerging after initiation of treatment with clozapine in a 22-year-old man with a diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder that was successfully treated with fluoxetine.
The acute (ECoG) was examined in 291 patients with intractable epilepsy, without structural brain lesion--from 1971 to 1997. Temporal lobectomy was performed in 198 cases and extratemporal (frontal, parietal or occipital) in remaining 93 cases to achieve seizure control. Epileptic foci was activated during acute ECoG by i.v. administration of ketamine (154 cases) or short-acting barbiturates--methohexital (110 cases) and thiopental (27 cases).
Ketamine significantly more often caused ECoG identified electrographic seizures than methohexital: p = 0, 00001 or thiopental, which in no cases resulted in seizures. Also electrographic seizures occurred more frequently after administration of ketamine in patients with the extratemporal seizure focus localisation in comparison with temporal focus (p < 0.05). Electrographic seizures provoked after administration of ketamine improved the localisation of the area to be resected, more often in extratemporal epileptic foci.
The results of our investigations indicate that ketamine more effectively activated epileptic focus than short-acting barbiturates.
Rats were treated with a single i.p. injection of the carcinogen nitrosomethylurea (NMU, 50 mg/kg b.w.) at day three of age. The treatment induced hyperplastic and atypical acinar cell proliferation [focal acinar cell hyperplasia (FACH)]. In this investigation, NMU treated rats were fed AIN-76 diet containing mancozeb (MZ; 100 mg/kg diet), a polymeric complex of ethylene bis (dithiocarbamate) manganese with zinc salt, which is an agricultural fungicide.
Group one was treated with NMU plus MZ (MZ-NMU), group 2 received NMU alone (NMU), group 3 was fed MZ and saline injected (MZ-SAL) and group 4 was the saline injected control (SAL). Rats were killed at week 24 of age. In MZ-NMU group pancreas there were FACH, dysplastic foci (DYF) and carcinomas in situ (CIS). FACH were larger, coalescent and may show areas of undifferentiated cells (focus within focus). DYF contain proliferative acinar and ductular structures with loss of polarity but no malignant traits. CIS had medullary appearance or consisted of irregularly shaped acini and ducts in stromal framework. Cell had scant cytoplasm and large hyperchromatic, pleomorphic nuclei. DYF and CIS were not seen in MZ group pancreas. The MZ-NMU group had increased mitotic index and greater number of apoptotic cells. There was no pathologic change in MZ-SAL group. Our data indicated that MZ did not cause pancreatic cell proliferation in normal rats whereas it had distinct promoting and progressor effects on NMU initiated pancreatic cells. Thus, a two-stage protocol of pancreatic carcinogenesis was achieved. It is suggested that the NMU protocol may be useful for testing promoter, progressor or inhibitory effect of chemical and physical agents on cell proliferation and transformation of rat pancreas.
A 52-year-old woman with painful osteoblastic bone metastasis received pamidronate therapy which resulted in marked pain relief with a normalization of elevated tumor marker levels. However, the patient complained of increased pain after the 26th pamidronate infusion. Although a change from pamidronate to alendronate therapy did not relieve bone pain, a second change from alendronate to incadronate therapy resulted in pain relief with a decrease in re-elevated tumor marker levels. These findings suggest that bisphosphonate therapy is effective against osteoblastic bone metastasis in breast cancer, and that sequential therapy with bisphosphonates may be effective against bone metastasis in some cases.
Alverine citrate is commonly used in the treatment of painful affections of the colon.
To determine whether alverine citrate acts on the vagal sensory endings.
Unitary recordings were performed at the level of the vagal fibres in the nodose ganglion of anaesthetized cats using extracellular glass microelectrodes, and the patterns of response to chemical and mechanical stimuli applied to identified vagal intestinal mechanoreceptors were studied.
The intestinal mechanoreceptors located at the endings of type C vagal fibres responded mainly to mechanical stimuli (distension and contraction), but also responded to chemical substances (cholecystokinin and substance P). The most conspicuous effect of alverine (2 mg/kg) was that it significantly inhibited the pattern of vagal activity produced in response to either cholecystokinin (5-10 microg/kg), substance P (5-10 microg/kg) or phenylbiguanide (5-10 microg/kg), a 5-HT3 receptor agonist. On the other hand, the unitary vagal response to the mechanical distension was slightly enhanced by alverine, as was any spontaneous activity present.
Based on the present data, alverine citrate can be said to decrease the sensitivity of the intestinal mechanoreceptors, which is consistent with its previously established anti-spasmodic effects.
Eighteen dogs were given repeated doses (between 4 and 19) of ampicillin (7 mg per kg intramuscularly on 3 days a week). Fifteen of the dogs developed a subclinical glomerulonephropathy characterized by mesangial hypercellularity. While only 9 of the 18 dogs showed electron-dense deposits in the mesangium, 14 dogs had glomerular deposits of IgG and 11 of these had C3 deposits also.
To obtain an overview of the effect of monophasic gestodene on blood pressure and to determine the frequency of "OC elevated BP/hypertension," the results of blood pressure monitoring from four clinical studies of contraceptive efficacy and safety have been retrospectively analyzed. A total of 1930 women took part in the studies, which recorded BP for up to 24 cycles. Analysis of results revealed that 97 women (5.0%) showed an increase in blood pressure from previously normal to elevated values while taking monophasic gestodene, with only 26 (1.35%) fulfilling the criteria of "OC elevated BP/hypertension." Only four women dropped out of the trials due to hypertensive blood pressure values, while 67 women (3.5%) experienced a normalization of previously elevated blood pressure measurements. In conclusion, this analysis has confirmed that gestodene has a negligible effect on blood pressure, with increased BP a relatively rare event.
Schering AG (manufacturer of a monophasic oral contraceptive [OC] containing 75 mcg gestodene plus 30 mcg ethinyl estradiol) in Berlin, Germany, conducted a retrospective analysis of blood pressure measurements from 4 clinical trials of the contraceptive efficacy and safety of monophasic gestodene to examine gestodene's effect on blood pressure and the incidence of OC-related blood pressure/ hypertension. (OC-related blood pressure/hypertension is defined as: women with neither history of hypertension nor elevated blood pressure before OC use develop increased blood pressure or hypertension that is reversible once OC use ceases.) The clinical trials recorded the blood pressure of 1930 women for up to 24 cycles. Most women (89.9%) experienced no change in their blood pressure during OC use. 97 women (5%) experienced an increase in blood pressure. 26 women (1.35%) had OC-elevated blood pressure/hypertension. Four women left the trials due to hypertension. 67 women (3.5%) who had elevated blood pressure before OC use attained normalization of blood pressure during OC use. These results show that the gestodene-containing OC had an insignificant effect on blood pressure and that elevated blood pressure rarely occurred.
Treatment with sulfadiazine-trimethoprim caused serious, but reversible, allergic drug reactions in 6 Doberman Pinschers 10 to 21 days after the first drug exposure and/or within 1 hour to 10 days after reexposure. Nonseptic polyarthritis was found in all dogs. Glomerulonephropathy, focal retinitis, polymyositis, skin rash, fever, anemia, leukopenia, and thrombocytopenia were found in some dogs. These clinical abnormalities were typical of an immune-mediated vasculitis and mimicked other immune-mediated disorders. In a drug challenge study, 1 dog was given sulfadiazine and trimethoprim separately. Administration of trimethoprim alone did not result in any abnormalities; however, exposure to sulfadiazine caused recurrence of the polyarthritis, glomerulonephropathy, and focal retinitis within 5 days, suggesting that sulfadiazine likely was the offending agent in all cases. In addition, during the sulfadiazine reexposure, marked complement activation was documented at the time clinical signs were apparent, supporting the suggestion that sulfadiazine caused an immune complex disease (type-III hypersensitivity reaction). Since all dogs were of the same breed, a genetic predisposition of some Doberman Pinschers to react adversely to sulfadiazine was suspected.
Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus associated with high basal levels of plasma arginine vasopressin developed in a patient during lithium therapy. Fluid deprivation was accompanied by an increase in the concentration in peripheral venous plasma of vasopressin and angiotensin II, a rise in plasma osmolality and a modest rise in urine osmolality. Infusion of arginine vasopressin produced comparable levels of plasma vasopressin to those found during fluid deprivation, with no overall change in plasma angiotensin II and little change in urine volume or osmolality. It is suggested that angiotensin II may be responsible for the difference in ability to concentrate urine under these two conditions. Following death by self-poisoning, renal histology revealed distinct structural changes in the distal tubules: such lesions have not previously been described in man and it is suggested that the occurrence of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus while on lithium therapy may be related to tubular damage.
At the present time novocain still remains the anesthetic of choice in ambulatory surgery and traumatology. In practical work the 2% and 0.5% solutions are used. The 2% solution of novocain can in some cases (in patients prone to angiodystonic reactions) cause a persistent spasm of digital arteries that results in irreversible alterations in finger tissues down to the development of gangrene. This fact was confirmed in experiments with 2% solutions of novocain. It is proposed to follow the recommendations on using the 0.5% and 1% solutions of novocain for regional anesthesia in fingers. Such anesthetics as Lidocain and Trimecain should be used more widely since they possess more pronounced and continuous anesthetizing properties.
1. Inhibition of I(f) or ICa by zatebradine has been reported in mammalian SA nodal cells. We thus investigated whether zatebradine differentially attenuates the positive chronotropic and inotropic responses to norepinephrine, isoproterenol, NKH 477 (an adenylyl cyclase activator), 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX) and Bay k 8644 (a calcium channel agonist) in the isolated, blood-perfused dog atrium. 2. When zatebradine (0.03-1 mumol) decreased sinus rate from 104 +/- 4.5 to 73 +/- 4.9 beats/min dose-dependently, it selectively attenuated the positive chronotropic but not inotropic responses to norepinephrine in a dose-related manner. Zatebradine decreased the norepinephrine-induced tachycardia (by approximately 80% from the control) more effectively than the spontaneous sinus rate (by approximately 30% from the control). 3. Zatebradine similarly attenuated the positive chronotropic but not inotropic responses to isoproterenol, NKH 477 and IBMX. Fifty per cent inhibition doses of zatebradine (0.10-0.18 mumol) for the chronotropic responses to each substance were not significantly different. 4. On the other hand, zatebradine attenuated neither positive chronotropic nor inotropic responses to Bay k 8644. 5. We therefore suggest that zatebradine selectively attenuates the positive chronotropic but not inotropic responses to cyclic AMP-related substances due to inhibition of I(f) but not ICa in the dog heart.
Cell proliferation and apoptosis in renal cysts induced by streptozotocin, alloxan and ferric-nitrilotriacetate were investigated in rats. In the kidneys of all treated animals dilated tubules at the cortico-medullary region, large cysts, glomerular cysts and tubular dilation in the medullary area were found. Both cell proliferation and apoptosis were increased in the epithelium of the non-dilated tubules, in the mesangial and interstitial cells. Cells lining the dilated tubules or cysts demonstrated apoptosis but their proliferating activity was low. By calculating the proliferation-apoptosis ratio we found that alloxan did not change the balance between the two mechanisms. Meanwhile streptozotocin resulted in an increased apoptosis and ferric-nitrilotriacetate in an increased cell proliferation. p53 expression might be responsible for the uncontrolled proliferation in rats treated with ferric-nitrilotriacetate as this oncoprotein was diffusely present in tubular cell nuclei. The observed apoptosis seemed to be independent of bcl-2 oncoprotein expression. We assume that the initial factor in such cystogenesis should be a cellular injury due to direct toxic or to the diabetogenic effect of the drugs. The latter is more likely as all the animals were hyperglycemic and insulin treatment following administration of streptozotocin prevented the morphologic changes.
Ingestion of aristolochic acid (AA) is associated with the development of aristolochic acid nephropathy (AAN), which is characterized by progressive tubulointerstitial fibrosis, chronic renal failure and urothelial cancer. Our previous study showed that bone morphogenetic protein-7 (BMP-7) could attenuate AA-induced epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in human proximal tubule epithelial cells (PTEC). However, how gremlin (a BMP-7 antagonist) antagonizes the BMP-7 action in PTEC remained unsolved. The aim of the current study was to investigate the role of gremlin in AA-induced EMT in PTEC (HK-2 cells). HK-2 cells were treated with AA (10 μmol/L) for periods up to 72 h. Cell viability was determined by tetrazolium dye (MTT) assay. Morphological changes were assessed by phase-contrast microscopy. Markers of EMT, including E-cadherin and α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) were detected by indirect immunofluorescence stains. The BMP-7 and gremlin mRNA and protein expression in HK-2 cells were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR (real-time RT-PCR) and western blotting after exposure to AA. The level of phosphorylated Smad1/5/8, a marker of BMP-7 activity, was also determined by western blot analysis. Cells were transfected with gremlin siRNA to determine the effects of gremlin knockdown on markers of EMT following treatment with AA. Our results indicated that AA-induced EMT was associated with acquisition of fibroblast-like cell shape, loss of E-cadherin, and increases of alpha-SMA and collagen type I. Interestingly, exposure of HK-2 cells to 10 μmol/L AA increased the mRNA and protein expression of gremlin in HK-2 cells. This increase was in parallel with a decrease in BMP-7 expression and a down-regulation of phosphorylated Smad1/5/8 protein levels. Moreover, transfection with siRNA to gremlin was able to recover BMP-7 signaling activity, and attenuate EMT-associated phenotypic changes induced by AA. Together, these observations strongly suggest that gremlin plays a critical role in the modulation of reno-protective action of BMP, and that inhibition of gremlin will be a promising means of developmenting novel treatments for AAN.
Niacin or nicotinic acid (vitamin B3) raises the levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) by about 30% to 35%. In patients with prior coronary disease, 7 trials have been published on clinical cardiovascular disease outcomes and the results, not surprisingly, are inconsistent. Hence, we performed this meta-analysis of randomized placebo-controlled trials (RCTs) to evaluate the effect of niacin on cardiovascular outcomes in patients with coronary artery disease.
A systematic search using PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane library databases was performed. Seven studies with a total of 5137 patients met our inclusion criteria. Heterogeneity of the studies was analyzed by the Cochran Q statistics. The significance of common treatment effect was assessed by computing the combined relative risks using the Mantel-Haenszel fixed-effect model. A 2-sided alpha error of less than .05 was considered statistically significant (P < .05).
Compared to placebo group, niacin therapy significantly reduced coronary artery revascularization (RR [relative risk]: 0.307 with 95% CI: 0.150-0.628; P = .001), nonfatal myocardial infarction ([MI]; RR: 0.719; 95% CI: 0.603-0.856; P = .000), stroke, and TIA ([transient ischemic attack] RR: 0.759; 95%CI: 0.613-0.940; P = .012), as well as a possible but nonsignificant decrease in cardiac mortality (RR: 0.883: 95% CI: 0.773-1.008; p= 0.066).
In a meta-analysis of seven trials of secondary prevention, niacin was associated with a significant reduction in cardiovascular events and possible small but non-significant decreases in coronary and cardiovascular mortality.
Riparin II (RipII), an alkamide isolated from the green fruit of Aniba riparia, was tested in the various animal models of inflammation to investigate its anti-inflammatory activity. Male Wistar rats (180-240g) were treated with RipII by gavage at doses 25 or 50mg/kg, before initiating the inflammatory responses. The tests used were paw edema induced by carrageenan, dextran, histamine or serotonin; peritonitis induced by carrageenan and fMLP, as well as the measurement of MPO activity, TNF-α and Il-1β amount in the peritoneal fluid. In the animal models of carrageenan and dextran-induced paw edema, the animals treated with RipII showed lower edema than those of the control group. Treatment with RipII also reduced the paw edema induced by histamine but not serotonin. In the carrageenan-induced peritonitis model, treatment with RipII reduced leukocyte migration, the MPO activity and the amount of TNF-α and IL-1β in the peritoneal fluid. In summary, these results indicate that RipII has an anti-inflammatory activity in chemical models of acute inflammation. RipII might be directly or indirectly inhibiting the activity, production or release of pro-inflammatory mediators involved in the generation of the pain associated with inflammation.
