A severe form of hemorrhagic cystitis occurs when high doses of cyclophosphamide are administered before bone marrow transplantation. Severe vesical bleeding in male children is difficult to manage because the small urethra precludes the use of large catheters for bladder irrigation and clot removal. We report on the use of cutaneous vesicostomy with the instillation of 4% formalin to control bleeding in 3 boys.
Skeletal muscle grafts can be used to mechanically assist the failing heart. In 13 mongrel dogs, latissimus dorsi muscle was preconditioned in situ for 6-8 weeks. Biopsy samples of the muscles were obtained for histochemical analysis. In seven dogs, muscle force and fatigue were compared in conditioned and contralateral unconditioned (controls) muscles. In six dogs, latissimus dorsi cardiomyoplasty was performed in propranolol-induced acute heart failure, and its effects were evaluated by hemodynamic and echocardiographic parameters. Muscle conditioning was responsible for latissimus dorsi transformation to a muscle with predominantly fatigue-resistant type I fibers. Conditioned muscles developed less initial force (-27 +/- 6%) and a longer contraction time (+32 +/- 4%) (p less than 0.05) but did not show fatigue for less than 15 minutes. With synchronous pulse-train stimulation of the muscle flap, cardiac output increased from 1.4 +/- 0.1 (mean +/- SD) to 2.0 +/- 0.2 l/min (p less than 0.05), pulmonary wedge pressure decreased from 16.3 +/- 0.9 to 12.1 +/- 1.4 mm Hg (p less than 0.05), and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure decreased from 18 +/- 2.0 to 13.5 +/- 1.4 mm Hg (p less than 0.05). Echocardiographically derived ejection fraction increased from 39.3 +/- 2.4% to 59.6 +/- 2.9% (p less than 0.05), and fractional shortening increased from 15.4 +/- 1.1% to 26.3 +/- 1.7% (p less than 0.05). Thus, chronic stimulation of skeletal muscles induces fiber transformation and increases resistance to fatigue and force development. Cardiomyoplasty, on the other hand, improves ventricular function in the presence of acute heart failure. This surgical technique represents an alternative method of treatment for advanced myocardial failure.
Papillary necrosis was observed in the kidneys of rats, 72 h after receiving a single injection of bromoethylamine (BEA). This effect was associated with renal glutathione (GSH) depletion 1 h after the administration of BEA. Stimulation of renal GSH synthesis by pretreatment of the animals either with glutamine + glycine + cystine or N-acetyl-L-cysteine was attempted. Low doses of these precursors administered previously to BEA, respectively, decreased or abolished the GSH depletion. Nevertheless, both pretreatments failed to modify the magnitude of renal papillary necrosis. High doses of these precursors did not modify the BEA-induced GSH depletion, but they significantly increased GSH levels 24 h after BEA administration. At this time, although a smaller intensity of renal papillary necrosis was observed with the amino acid mixture pretreatment, N-acetyl-L-cysteine pretreated rats showed no papillary necrosis. It is suggested that the observed protective effects against BEA-induced renal papillary injury may be ascribed in some measure, to a mechanism independent of GSH.
Adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) administration raises blood pressure in humans, sheep, and the rat. ACTH hypertension can be reproduced in sheep by combined infusion of aldosterone, 17 alpha-OH-progesterone, and 17 alpha,20 alpha-OH-progesterone, and in humans by cortisol. In the rat, ACTH hypertension is probably due to corticosterone. Progesterone treatment can prevent ACTH-induced hypertension in sheep. This study examined the ability of progesterone to antagonize the onset and development of ACTH-induced hypertension in Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 44). We also investigated the relationship of plasma digoxin-like substances (DLS) to ACTH hypertension. ACTH (0.5 mg/kg/day) significantly increased blood pressure (+24 +/- 5 mm Hg, P < .001) in association with an increase of water intake, urine output, and plasma sodium concentration, and a decrease of body weight and plasma potassium concentration. ACTH increased plasma DLS (+132 +/- 18 pg/mL, P < .01), and there was a positive correlation between DLS and blood pressure (r = 0.68, n = 22, P < .001). Progesterone (50 mg/kg/day) did not block the development of ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat. Although progesterone prevented the ACTH-induced rise in plasma sodium and glucose concentration, it did not prevent the decrease in plasma potassium concentration. The failure of progesterone to prevent ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat argues against a common "hypertensinogenic" mechanism for ACTH hypertension in sheep and rat. DLS may play a role in ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat.
The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA Stroke Study showed a similar percentage of intracranial hemorrhage and good outcome in patients 3 months after stroke treatment given 0 to 90 minutes and 91 to 180 minutes after stroke onset. At 24 hours after stroke onset more patients treated 0 to 90 compared to 91 to 180 minutes after stroke onset had improved by four or more points on the NIH Stroke Scale (NIHSS). The authors performed further analyses to characterize the relationship of onset-to-treatment time (OTT) to outcome at 3 months, early improvement at 24 hours, and intracranial hemorrhage within 36 hours.
Univariate analyses identified potentially confounding variables associated with OTT that could mask an OTT-treatment interaction. Tests for OTT-treatment interactions adjusting for potential masking confounders were performed. An OTT-treatment interaction was considered significant if p < or = 0.10, implying that treatment effectiveness was related to OTT.
For 24-hour improvement, there were no masking confounders identified and there was an OTT-treatment interaction (p = 0.08). For 3-month favorable outcome, the NIHSS met criteria for a masking confounder. After adjusting for NIHSS as a covariate, an OTT-treatment interaction was detected (p = 0.09): the adjusted OR (95% CI) for a favorable 3-month outcome associated with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) was 2.11 (1.33 to 3.35) in the 0 to 90 minute stratum and 1.69 (1.09 to 2.62) in the 91 to 180 minute stratum. In the group treated with rt-PA, after adjusting for baseline NIHSS, an effect of OTT on the occurrence of intracranial hemorrhage was not detected.
If the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial treatment protocol is followed, this analysis suggests that patients treated 0 to 90 minutes from stroke onset with rt-PA have an increased odds of improvement at 24 hours and favorable 3-month outcome compared to patients treated later than 90 minutes. No effect of OTT on intracranial hemorrhage was detected within the group treated with rt-PA, possibly due to low power.
Vascular heme oxygenase (HO) metabolizes heme to form carbon monoxide. Carbon monoxide inhibits nitric oxide synthase and promotes endothelium-dependent vasoconstriction. We reported HO-1-mediated endothelial dysfunction in Dahl salt-sensitive hypertension. Previous studies suggested that salt-sensitive hypertensive rats, but not spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), display endothelial dysfunction. This study examines the hypothesis that HO-1-mediated arteriolar endothelial dysfunction develops in deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive (DOCA) rats, but not in SHR. Uninephrectomized (isoflurane anesthesia) male Sprague-Dawley rats received DOCA injections and saline drinking solution for 4 wk. Rats subjected to sham surgery received vehicle injections and tap water. Blood pressure was elevated in DOCA rats and SHR compared with sham and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) groups. Aortic HO-1 expression and blood carboxyhemoglobin levels were elevated in the DOCA group, but not in SHR. In isolated gracilis muscle arterioles, ACh caused concentration-related vasodilation in all groups, with attenuated maximum responses in DOCA, but not in SHR, arterioles. Acute pretreatment with an inhibitor of HO, chromium mesoporphyrin, restored ACh-induced responses in DOCA arterioles to sham levels. ACh responses remained the same in SHR and WKY arterioles after chromium mesoporphyrin treatment. These data show that HO-1 levels and activity are increased and arteriolar responses to ACh are decreased in DOCA rats, but not in SHR. Furthermore, in DOCA arterioles, an inhibitor of HO restores ACh-induced vasodilation to sham levels. These results suggest that elevated HO-1 levels and activity, not resulting from hypertension per se, contribute to endothelial dysfunction in DOCA rats.
To determine the acute hemodynamic effect of moderate doses of nebivolol (vasodilating beta1-selective blocker) vs. metoprolol tartrate (non-vasodilating beta1-selective blocker) in systolic heart failure (SHF).
20 stable patients with SHF (left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction < or = 35%) underwent right heart catheterization. Once a reproducible baseline was obtained, patients were randomized to 5 mg nebivolol PO (n = 10) or metoprolol tartrate 50 mg PO (n = 10). Hemodynamic studies were repeated hourly for the first 4 hours and at 6 hours.
Both agents caused bradycardia. Nebivolol caused additionally a decrease in systemic vascular resistance (SVR) and no significant change in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP), and cardiac output (CO). In contrast, metoprolol caused a deterioration of LV systolic function characterized by a decrease in cardiac output, and an increase in SVR and PCWP.
Treatment initiation with moderate doses of nebivolol is not associated with the adverse hemodynamic effects of metoprolol in patients with SHF. These findings suggest that a long up-titration period may not be necessary with nebivolol.
Niacin is an effective treatment for dyslipidemia due to its favorable effects on multiple lipid parameters. Clinical utility of niacin is sometimes limited, however, because of cutaneous flushing. A once-daily, extended-release (ER) niacin formulation has been shown to significantly reduce flushing compared to immediate-release niacin. An optimized (reformulated) version of niacin ER has recently been developed and was shown in a previous study to significantly reduce flushing intensity (severity) compared to the non-optimized (commercial) formulation. The current study was designed to evaluate the effect of aspirin on various indices of flushing when administered with the optimized niacin ER formulation.
This was a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled flush provocation crossover study in healthy males. To increase the probability of flushing, subjects received a single dose of reformulated niacin ER 2,000 mg, which is the upper limit of the approved dosage range. Subjects received 650 mg aspirin orally either 30 minutes before or concomitantly with niacin ER, or placebo with niacin ER, in 3-way crossover fashion. The primary endpoint was the number of subjects who reported at least one flushing event. Secondary endpoints included the perceived intensity and duration of flushing symptoms.
In the 148 men who completed all treatments, aspirin significantly reduced flushing incidence (the primary endpoint) following administration of niacin ER compared with placebo. Among subjects receiving placebo, 77% of subjects reported flushing with niacin ER. Among subjects receiving aspirin, 53-61% of subjects reported flushing (pretreatment and concomitant treatment, respectively, both p < 0.001 compared with placebo) with niacin ER. Aspirin also significantly reduced intensity and duration of flushing (by 30-40%) compared with no aspirin. The two aspirin-containing treatments (i.e. pre- or concomitant treatment) were similar in their effects on flushing incidence, intensity and duration. Median intensity on a 100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS) was reduced from 33 mm with placebo to 19-23 mm with aspirin. Median duration was reduced from approximately 1 hour with placebo to 37-48 minutes with aspirin.
Aspirin significantly reduced the incidence, intensity and duration of flushing associated with reformulated niacin ER. These results support the administration of aspirin prophylactically to decrease niacin-induced cutaneous flushing and to improve patient adherence and acceptability of chronic niacin treatment at therapeutic doses.
To evaluate epidemiological associations between self-reported diet pill consumption and major depressive episodes (MDEs), using data from a large-scale, cross-sectional survey of the Canadian population.
Data from the National Population Health Survey (NPHS) were used in this analysis. The NPHS interview included a brief version of the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (CIDI) depression section, known as the CIDI Short Form for Major Depression (CIDI-SFMD), as well as provision for self-reported medication use.
Approximately 0.5% of the population reported the use of diet pills. Diet pill use was more common among women than among men. At the time of data collection (1996-1997), the most commonly used medication was fenfluramine (since withdrawn from the market because of cardiovascular toxicity). The use of these medications was strongly associated with MDE: the annual prevalence among persons reporting use was 17.1% (95% CI, 8.6 to 25.6), approximately 4 times the underlying population rate.
Because the NPHS was a general health survey, and because self-reported exposure to these medications was relatively uncommon, the data did not permit a detailed multivariate analysis. These findings, however, indicate that depressive psychopathology is strongly associated with the use of appetite-suppressant medications.
Naltrexone's (NAL) effects on alcohol consumption are generally modest, so identifying patients likely to benefit would improve treatment utility. Several studies indicate that potentially significant moderators of NAL's effects might include family history of alcohol problems (FH), age of onset of alcohol problems, degree of antisocial traits, and comorbid drug use. Data from 128 alcoholic patients enrolled in a 12-week NAL treatment study (50 mg/day) were reanalyzed to determine the role of FH, age of onset, antisocial traits, and comorbid drug use in NAL's treatment effects on heavy drinking days. Dichotomized FH, age of onset of alcohol problems, and comorbid cocaine or marijuana use had no interaction effect with medication. Percentage of relatives with problem drinking (family history percentage [FHP]) moderated the effects of NAL on drinking such that NAL resulted in lower drinking rates only for patients with higher FHP. Antisocial traits also moderated the effects of medication on drinking for patients compliant with =70% of medication. Patients with more antisocial traits had less heavy drinking on NAL than on placebo, whereas patients low on antisocial traits had no benefit from NAL. Covarying antisociality in regressions of drinking outcome on FHP showed that the effects of FHP were not attributable to antisociality. Thus, NAL may selectively benefit alcoholics with antisocial traits or 20% or more relatives with problem drinking.
Acceleration of heart rate simultaneously with excitatory movements was observed during anesthesia with propofol in four patients. Anesthesia was induced with propofol 2.5 mg.kg-1 i.v. and maintained with propofol 10 mg.kg-1.hr-1 i.v. About ten minutes after the induction, the patients showed jerking movements such as pronation or flexion of their arms, and/or plantar flexion. These movements lasted one or two seconds and appeared two or three times a minute. Three patients received vecuronium 0.1 mg.kg-1 and even after muscular relaxation acceleration of heart rate persisted. In one of two patients who had received midazolam 0.8 mg.kg-1, heart rate acceleration ceased. In one patient acceleration of heart rate and excitatory movements stopped after reducing the infusion rate of propofol from 10 mg.kg-1.hr-1 to 3 mg.kg-1.hr-1. Another patient with no involuntary movements showed no heart rate changes. These results suggest that heart rate acceleration in four patients was closely related to excitatory movements caused by propofol. As it was not influenced by muscular relaxation, heart rate monitoring would be useful to detect latent excitatory movements under muscular relaxation.
Low admission values of the actin scavenger Gc-globulin are associated with an adverse outcome in acetaminophen (paracetamol) overdose. This prospective longitudinal study including 84 patients with acetaminophen overdose characterizes the temporal profile of Gc-globulin during the entire length of hospitalization. Serum Gc-globulin (total, actin bound, and free) levels and actin-complex ratio were measured on admission and every 12 hours until discharge. In 32 patients without hepatotoxicity (non-HEPTOX group; peak transaminase levels < 1,000 U/L), total and free Gc-globulin levels and complex ratio remained within normal range during hospitalization. Among 52 patients with hepatotoxicity (HEPTOX group; peak transaminase levels > 1,000 U/L), 15 patients had hepatic encephalopathy (HE), and 37 patients did not. In these 2 groups, total and free Gc-globulin levels decreased to 97 and 50 mg/L and 148 and 86 mg/L, respectively (normal mean, 340 and 299 mg/L), the nadir occurring at 72 hours postoverdose. Complex ratio peaked at 60 hours at levels more than 3-fold greater than normal. Conversely, bound Gc-globulin remained within normal levels for all patients throughout the observation period. At day 2, a total Gc-globulin cutoff value of less than 120 mg/L correctly predicted HE in 75%, and a value greater than 120 mg/L correctly predicted the absence of HE in 91% of patients. In conclusion, Gc-globulin is severely stressed in patients with hepatotoxicity. Extreme values occurred at 60 to 72 hours postoverdose, a period in which Gc-globulin protection against actin toxicity may be inadequate. A total Gc-globulin level less than 120 mg/L on day 2 is a good predictor of later HE. Bound Gc-globulin is maintained at constant levels independent of total Gc-globulin levels, suggesting a balanced upregulation of the removal of bound Gc-globulin even under conditions with increased actin release.
B cell lymphomas are a diverse group of clinicopathologic diseases with an increasing incidence. As with other malignancies, the accumulation of genetic abnormalities are required for malignant transformation of human lymphocytes. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is a key biosynthetic enzyme in prostaglandin synthesis and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous malignancies including colon, breast, and lung cancer. There is little data on the potential role of COX-2 in lymphoma pathogenesis. In this study, several B lymphoma cell lines and primary B cells obtained from normal volunteer controls were examined for COX-2 protein expression. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated between an approximately 2.2-4.3-fold increase in COX-2 protein expression relative to primary B cells in all lymphoma cell lines examined. Increased COX-2 phosphorylation was found in the BJAB, BL41, and Raji cells whereas the levels in Daudi, Namalwa, and Ramos did not differ from that of primary B cells. Treatment with 25-100 microM celecoxib (CEL) resulted in decreased proliferation as measured by [3H]thymidine in all cell lines examined, and the effect was dose-dependent, and not significantly enhanced by chlorambucil (CHL). The effect of COX-2 inhibition on apoptosis in lymphoma cells was examined and revealed apoptotic induction of greater than 85% in all cell lines examined at 50 microM celecoxib. The pro-apoptotic effect was dose-dependent, and was not significantly enhanced by chlorambucil. Examination of apoptosis-related proteins by immunoblot analysis revealed levels of BCL-2, BCL-X(L), and Bax to be unaffected by celecoxib. In contrast, levels of Akt, MCL-1, and phosphorylated SAP-kinase were all decreased after incubation with 50 microM celecoxib. These findings suggest that increased COX-2 expression and activity, contributes to the pathogenesis of B cell lymphomas and point to a possible role for COX-2 inhibition in their treatment.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) affects millions of people worldwide. Although the etiology of this disease is uncertain, accumulating evidence indicates a key role for the activated mucosal immune system. In the present study, we examined the effects of the natural compound fraxinellone on dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis in mice, an animal model that mimics IBD. Treatment with fraxinellone significantly reduced weight loss and diarrhea in mice and alleviated the macroscopic and microscopic signs of the disease. In addition, the activities of myeloperoxidase and alkaline phosphatase were markedly suppressed, while the levels of glutathione were increased in colitis tissues following fraxinellone treatment. This compound also decreased the colonic levels of interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, IL-18 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α in a concentration-dependent manner. These effects of fraxinellone in mice with experimental colitis were attributed to its inhibition of CD11b(+) macrophage infiltration. The mRNA levels of macrophage-related molecules in the colon, including intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM1), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM1), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2), were also markedly inhibited following fraxinellone treatment. The results from in vitro assays showed that fraxinellone significantly reduced lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced production of nitric oxide (NO), IL-1β and IL-18 as well as the activity of iNOS in both THP-1 cells and mouse primary peritoneal macrophages. The mechanisms responsible for these effects were attributed to the inhibitory role of fraxinellone in NF-κB signaling and NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Overall, our results support fraxinellone as a novel drug candidate in the treatment of colonic inflammation.
Tetramethylenedisulfotetramine (TETS) is a potent convulsant poison for which there is currently no approved antidote. The convulsant action of TETS is thought to be mediated by inhibition of type A gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor (GABAAR) function. We, therefore, investigated the effects of post-exposure administration of diazepam, a GABAAR positive allosteric modulator, on seizure activity, death and neuroinflammation in adult male Swiss mice injected with a lethal dose of TETS (0.15mg/kg, ip). Administration of a high dose of diazepam (5mg/kg, ip) immediately following the second clonic seizure (approximately 20min post-TETS injection) effectively prevented progression to tonic seizures and death. However, this treatment did not prevent persistent reactive astrogliosis and microglial activation, as determined by GFAP and Iba-1 immunoreactivity and microglial cell morphology. Inhibition of soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) has been shown to exert potent anti-inflammatory effects and to increase survival in mice intoxicated with other GABAAR antagonists. The sEH inhibitor TUPS (1mg/kg, ip) administered immediately after the second clonic seizure did not protect TETS-intoxicated animals from tonic seizures or death. Combined administration of diazepam (5mg/kg, ip) and TUPS (1mg/kg, ip, starting 1h after diazepam and repeated every 24h) prevented TETS-induced lethality and influenced signs of neuroinflammation in some brain regions. Significantly decreased microglial activation and enhanced reactive astrogliosis were observed in the hippocampus, with no changes in the cortex. Combining an agent that targets specific anti-inflammatory mechanisms with a traditional antiseizure drug may enhance treatment outcome in TETS intoxication.
In acute toxicity studies the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), the LD50 and the LD100 of Bendamustin were determined in rats and mice after i.v. and oral administration. In a subchronic study male rats were given Bendamustin for 28 days at oral dose levels of 5, 10, 20 or 40 mg/kg/day. Chlorambucil was used as a standard at dose levels of 1, 5 and 10 mg/kg/day. Bodyweight gain, food and water intake, hematology, clinical chemistry and histopathology were evaluated. With quantitative differences the main target organs for both compounds were the bone marrow, the kidney, the intestine and the lymphatic system. Additionally, Chlorambucil caused a significant atrophy of the testes and a slight atrophy of the pancreas at a dose of 5 mg/kg/day. In conclusion, the data obtained may be used as a base to evaluate the therapeutic range of Bendamustin compared to Chlorambucil for the oral route.
7,12-Dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) depletes ovarian follicles and induces DNA damage in extra-ovarian tissues, thus, we investigated ovarian DMBA-induced DNA damage. Additionally, since obesity is associated with increased offspring birth defect incidence, we hypothesized that a DMBA-induced DNA damage response (DDR) is compromised in ovaries from obese females. Wild type (lean) non agouti (a/a) and KK.Cg-Ay/J heterozygote (obese) mice were dosed with sesame oil or DMBA (1mg/kg; intraperitoneal injection) at 18weeks of age, for 14days. Total ovarian RNA and protein were isolated and abundance of Ataxia telangiectasia mutated (Atm), X-ray repair complementing defective repair in Chinese hamster cells 6 (Xrcc6), breast cancer type 1 (Brca1), Rad 51 homolog (Rad51), poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase 1 (Parp1) and protein kinase, DNA-activated, catalytic polypeptide (Prkdc) were quantified by RT-PCR or Western blot. Phosphorylated histone H2AX (γH2AX) level was determined by Western blotting. Obesity decreased (P<0.05) basal protein abundance of PRKDC and BRCA1 proteins but increased (P<0.05) γH2AX and PARP1 proteins. Ovarian ATM, XRCC6, PRKDC, RAD51 and PARP1 proteins were increased (P<0.05) by DMBA exposure in lean mice. A blunted DMBA-induced increase (P<0.05) in XRCC6, PRKDC, RAD51 and BRCA1 was observed in ovaries from obese mice, relative to lean counterparts. Taken together, DMBA exposure induced γH2AX as well as the ovarian DDR, supporting that DMBA causes ovarian DNA damage. Additionally, ovarian DDR was partially attenuated in obese females raising concern that obesity may be an additive factor during chemical-induced ovotoxicity.
The distribution of glucocorticoid receptors (GR) in rat brain during development (postnatal days 3-16) was investigated and the prevalence of GR number was found in the cerebellum, the fastest growing part of perinatal brain. Dexamethasone (D) administration (0.04-3 mg . kg-1 s.c.) in 7-day-old rats induced dose-dependent depletion of brain cytosol GR with a 70% depletion after the smallest dose. Long-term effects of this GR mediated insult (D 1.0 and 0.2 mg . kg-1 s.c.) manifested themselves in adult rats as structural and biochemical brain deviations (especially in the cerebellum and hippocampus), behavioural abnormalities and reproduction disturbances. These sequels were detectable after D doses equal to clinical dosage in obstetrics and neonatology (0.2-0.6 mg . kg-1).
Excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) in the kidney is the hallmark of diabetic nephropathy. Increased matrix synthesis has been well documented but the effects of diabetes on degradative pathways, particularly in the in vivo setting. The renal protective effect of these pathways on matrix accumulation has not been fully elucidated. The present study was undertaken to investigate the activity of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), the expression of MMP-2 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2) in kidney tissues of diabetic rats, and to explore the degradative pathway of type IV collagen (IV-C) and the renal protective effects of ACE inhibition-benazepril.
Twenty-four healthy male Wistar rats were divided randomly into normal control group (NC group), untreated diabetes mellitus group (DM group), and diabetes mellitus group treated with benazepril (DL group). The rat model of diabetes mellitus was induced by intraperitoneal injection of streptozocin (60 mg/kg). After the establishment of DM model, benazepril (10 mg.kg(-1).d(-1)) was given to the DL group for 12 weeks, and the same volume of water was given to the other two groups. At the end of 12 weeks, renal function was evaluated with 24-hour urinary protein (Upro), clearance of creatinine (Ccr), and blood urea nitrogen (BUN). MMP-2 activity was determined by gelatin zymography. The levels of MMP-2, TIMP-2 and collagen IV (IV-C) protein in the kidney tissue were assessed by immunohistochemistry. The gene expression of MMP-2 and TIMP-2 was measured by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
The levels of BUN, Upro and Ccr in the DM group were higher than those in the NC group. In the DM group, the mRNA, enzymatic activity and proteins of MMP-2 decreased, but the expressions of IV-C and TIMP-2 increased. All diabetes-associated changes in renal function and MMP/TIMP were attenuated after benazepril treatment with reduced IV-C accumulation.
The changes of MMP-2 and TIMP-2 expressions in kidney tissues of diabetes rats may contribute to the occurrence and progression of diabetic nephropathy. Benazepril could exert protective effects on diabetic nephropathy, owing to the upregulation of MMP-2 and downregulation of TIMP-2 expressions, which further inhibits the excessive deposition of extracellular matrix in the glomerulus.
Lumiracoxib is a highly selective COX-2 inhibitor with a novel chemical structure and a relatively short plasma half-life. It has been approved in > 40 countries for the symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis and/or acute pain related to primary dysmenorrhoea and dental or orthopaedic surgery. In these conditions, lumiracoxib has proved to be as effective as standard doses of conventional NSAIDs and other COX-2 selective inhibitors (coxibs). According to the Therapeutic Arthritis Research Gastrointestinal Trial, which enrolled 18,325 patients with osteoarthritis, lumiracoxib 400 mg/day (four times its recommended dosage) was associated with a significant decrease in the risk of ulcer complications compared with naproxen 1000 mg/day and ibuprofen 2400 mg/day, at least in the population not taking low-dose aspirin. The atherothrombotic potential of NSAIDs, especially coxibs, has been much debated. In this respect, available data do not suggest that lumiracoxib may be associated with an increased hazard of cardiovascular events compared with non-selective NSAIDs. Finally, lumiracoxib may be an effective and safe drug provided both physicians and patients will comply with its approved indications and contraindications.
The efficacy of combined therapy with ampicillin and a beta-lactamase inhibitor, CP-45,899, for experimental endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus was evaluated. Three strains of beta-lactamase-producing S. aureus were used, and intramuscular doses of antibiotics were selected to produce serum levels in rabbits similar to those expected in humans. Sera from animals treated with ampicillin plus CP-45,899, but not from those treated with nafcillin plus gentamicin, had bactericidal activity against two nafcillin-resistant strains of S. aureus at 1 hr. The combination of ampicillin plus CP-45,899 was as effective as nafcillin in treatment of endocarditis due to one nafcillin-sensitive strain and was superior to nafcillin against two nafcillin-resistant strains (P less than 0.001). In a short-term treatment experiment using the nafcillin-sensitive strain, ampicillin plus CP-45,899 sterilized vegetations as rapidly as nafcillin plus gentamicin. Thus, ampicillin plus a beta-lactamase inhibitor may be effective treatment for bacteremic infections due to S. aureus, even when the strain is nafcillin-resistant.
Exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) and maternal endogenous estrogen may cause hypospadias, common congenital anomaly. Several organochlorine pesticides (OCPs) have been reported to possess an endocrine-disrupting potential. Cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) and glutathione S-transferases (GSTM1 and GSTT1) of xenobiotic metabolizing enzyme family are involved in the metabolism of various environmental toxicants and steroidal hormones. Hence, the present study was designed to evaluate the role of CYP1A1, GSTM1, GSTT1 genes polymorphism, OCPs levels and risk of hypospadias. A total of 80 hypospadiac and 120 age-matched control boys were included. OCP levels in blood were determined using Gas Chromatograph equipped with electron capture detector (GC-ECD) and polymorphism in CYP1A1, GSTM1 and GSTT1 genes was evaluated by RFLP and multiplex PCR method. We observed significant high levels of β-hexachlorohexane (HCH), γ-HCH, and p,p'-dichlorodiphenyl-dichloroethylene (p,p'-DDE) in the cases. CYP1A1 polymorphisms were not significantly different among cases and controls, whereas concomitant deletion of GSTM1 and GSTT1 genotypes was significantly higher in cases as compared to controls. However, after adjusting for low birth weight and maternal occupational exposure, the results did not remain significant but odds of risk was higher (OR = 1.72, p = 0.14) among cases. In conclusion, our study suggests irrespective of genetic predisposition, higher level of some OCPs may be associated with increased risk of hypospadias.
G1 (1-[5-bromofur-2-il]-2-bromo-2-nitroethene) is a novel antimicrobial compound developed in Cuba with reported broadspectrum activity against Gram-positive and -negative bacteria, yeasts and fungi. A compound of this nature may have considerable therapeutic potential. We tested the in vitro activity of this novel compound against 3595 organisms using microbroth dilution. The following are MIC50, MIC90 and range respectively for some of the microorganisms tested: E. coli 16, 16, 4 32; Klebsiella sp. 16, 16, 8 32; Citrobacter sp. 16, 16, 8 16; Enterobacter sp. 16, 16, 8-16; Proteus sp. 16, 16, 8-16; Coagulase-negative staphylococci 16, 32, 4-32; Enterococcus sp. 16, 32, 2-32; Staphylococcus aureus 8, 16, 4-16; Streptococcus agalactiae 4, 8, 4 8; Streptococcus pyogenes 4, 8, 0.25-16; Candida albicans 2, 2, 1-4; Candida tropicalis 4, 4, 2-4; Candida sp. 2,4, 1-4. MIC values appear lower for Gram-positive microorganisms and yeasts. G1 appears to be a novel antimicrobial agent with broad spectrum activity against bacterial and fungal pathogens. Defining the activity of this compound against multi-resistant bacteria is a priority.
The use of alternative flame retardants has increased since the phase out of pentabromodiphenyl ethers (pentaBDEs). One alternative, Firemaster® 550 (FM550), induces obesity in rats. Triphenyl phosphate (TPP), a component of FM550, has a structure similar to that of organotins, which are obesogenic in rodents.
We tested the hypothesis that components of FM550 are biologically active peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) ligands and estimated indoor exposure to TPP.
FM550 and its components were assessed for ligand binding to and activation of human PPARγ. Solvent mapping was used to model TPP in the PPARγ binding site. Adipocyte and osteoblast differentiation were assessed in bone marrow multipotent mesenchymal stromal cell models. We estimated exposure of children to TPP using a screening-level indoor exposure model and house dust concentrations determined previously.
FM550 bound human PPARγ, and binding appeared to be driven primarily by TPP. Solvent mapping revealed that TPP interacted with binding hot spots within the PPARγ ligand binding domain. FM550 and its organophosphate components increased human PPARγ1 transcriptional activity in a Cos7 reporter assay and induced lipid accumulation and perilipin protein expression in BMS2 cells. FM550 and TPP diverted osteogenic differentiation toward adipogenesis in primary mouse bone marrow cultures. Our estimates suggest that dust ingestion is the major route of exposure of children to TPP.
Our findings suggest that FM550 components bind and activate PPARγ. In addition, in vitro exposure initiated adipocyte differentiation and antagonized osteogenesis. TPP likely is a major contributor to these biological actions. Given that TPP is ubiquitous in house dust, further studies are warranted to investigate the health effects of FM550.
The widespread use of carbamazepine in multiple neurological disorders makes it a drug whose most frequent side effects are well known and controlled. Aplastic anaemia is a very rare side effect, although it is the most serious since it presents a high mortality rate.
We report the case of a 51 year old male patient who suffered brain injury that required daily treatment with 600 mg of carbamazepine. In the sixth month of treatment he was found to have a decrease in the number of platelets, which was confirmed a month later. He was admitted to hospital and diagnosed as having a medullar aplasia. Despite therapy with immunosuppressants, he died 12 weeks later.
The appearance of aplastic anaemia does not seem to be related to age, the disease treated or to be dose dependent. Most cases are seen 3 4 months after treatment and the risk period is the first year. The choice treatment is a bone marrow transplant in patients under the age of 50; in older patients the recommended treatment is immunosuppressant therapy. The early diagnosis of aplastic anaemia is essential, although the difficulty lies in determining how often haematological controls are to be performed, since some cases have appeared a few days after beginning treatment. The frequency of the controls must be based on the clinical judgement of the doctor with regular check ups to detect haematological problems (infections, high temperature, ecchymosis) and to warn the patient and relatives should any of the symptoms appear.
To determine the prevalence of upper and lower neural tube defects and identify its association with the exposure to illnesses and drugs during pregnancy.
This is a case-control study of 107 newborns with upper neural tube defects, 59 with lower neural tube defects, and 166 newborns without malformations, in 56,926 consecutive births between 1989 and 1997. The exposure was documented by a direct interview to the mother of those subject of study. The association was measured by the odds ratios, with confidence interval of 95%.
The prevalence of upper neural tube defects was of 1.9 for 1,000 newborn (alive or dead) and of lower neural tube defects of 1.0 for 1,000. The exposure to illnesses of less than a month of duration was associated with upper neural tube defects (OR = 3.11; IC = 1.34-7.39) the most important was flu; also the exposure to drugs (OR = 5.85; IC = 2.97-11.62), the most prominent was acetaminophen. These factors of risk were not associated with lower neural tube defects. The mother's occupation, illness of more than a month of duration and X-ray exposure were not associated with of upper and lower neural tube defects.
More studies are needed in the association among illnesses of less than a month of duration and drugs with upper neural tube defects. The different exposure frequencies between upper and lower neural tube defects suggest heterogeneity.
