Clinical data on the first 100 patients who underwent dipyridamole-thallium stress testing in our hospital were reviewed in order to re-evaluate safety guidelines and diagnostic utility in patients with coronary artery disease. Forty patients developed symptoms, including three major ones. One patient had significant bronchospasm, and two others developed significant hypotension with near syncope. The rest had nonspecific chest, shoulder, arm or throat pain, dyspnea, nausea, vomiting, and paresthesia. Most symptoms occurred within the first 10 minutes of dipyridamole infusion. Twenty-eight patients required treatment with intravenous (IV) aminophylline. Of the remaining 60 patients, 30 became hypotensive but remained asymptomatic. Fourteen of 20 patients who underwent coronary angiography had coronary disease. Thirteen were correctly identified by thallium imaging, and only one was identified by electrocardiogram (EKG). Six patients' angiographies showed no evidence of coronary disease. Five of these patients developed perfusion abnormalities during thallium scintigraphy. These results suggest that dipyridamole is a relatively safe drug for pharmacologic stress testing even though the incidence of side effects is relatively high. The high incidence of thallium perfusion abnormalities in patients without coronary disease probably reflects bias in patient selection for coronary angiography, resulting in a relatively small sample of catheterized patients. However, this requires further investigation.
Nelfinavir is an HIV protease inhibitor that has been used for a long period of time to treat HIV-infected individuals. It has recently emerged that nelfinavir could represent a prospective new anti-cancer drug, prompting us to test the effect of nelfinavir on leukemia cells.
By combining in vitro and ex vivo studies, the effect of nelfinavir on leukemia cells and non-malignant, bone marrow-derived tissue cells was analyzed.
At a concentration of 9 microg/ml, nelfinavir induced death of 90% of HL60, IM9, and Jurkat cells. At the same concentration and treatment conditions, less than 10% of aspirated human bone marrow cells showed nelfinavir-induced cell damage. Nelfinavir-induced death of leukemia cells was accompanied by activation of caspases 3, 7, and 8. Despite caspase activation, the upregulation of the anti-apoptotic bcl-2 family member protein mcl-1 that resulted from nelfinavir treatment stabilized the mitochondrial membrane potential, resulting in primarily mitochondria-independent cell death. Pharmacological downregulation of mcl-1 expression by treatment with sorafenib (2 microg/ml) significantly enhanced nelfinavir-induced apoptosis even at lower nelfinavir concentrations (5 microg/ml), but did not have additional detrimental effects on non-malignant bone marrow cells.
The ability of nelfinavir to induce apoptosis in leukemia cells as a single agent in a mitochondria-independent manner might suggest it could be used as a second or third line of treatment for leukemia patients for whom standard mitochondria-directed treatment strategies have failed. Combination treatment with nelfinavir and sorafenib might further enhance the efficacy of nelfinavir even on chemo-resistant leukemia cells.
The distribution of slow-wave activity during sleep has been analyzed using a method related to the two-process model of sleep regulation. This method is applied to the analyses of data collected from 21 inpatients with unipolar depression who received the antidepressant clomipramine (CMI) in a pulse-loading protocol. CMI infusion was found to redistribute slow-wave activity, producing more concentration in the early part of the night, and also significantly reduced the fluctuation in slow-wave power as a function of time. These measures also distinguished clinical responders from the nonresponders. Drug responders had a significant redistribution of slow-wave activity to the earlier part of the night as compared to nonresponders. This suggests that measures of the distribution of slow-wave activity over the night may represent a good measure of clinical response to antidepressant therapy and have implications for the interpretation of the two-process model and sleep in depression.
Aristolochic acid (AA) is a component of Aristolochia plant extracts which is used as a treatment for different pathologies and their toxicological effects have not been sufficiently studied. The aim of this study was to evaluate AA-induced nephrotoxicity in zebrafish embryos. After soaking zebrafish embryos in AA, the embryos displayed malformed kidney phenotypes, such as curved, cystic pronephric tubes, pronephric ducts, and cases of atrophic glomeruli. The percentages of embryos with malformed kidney phenotypes increased as the exposure dosages of AA increased. Furthermore, AA-treated embryos exhibited significantly reduced glomerular filtration rates (GFRs) in comparison with mock-control littermates (mock-control: 100±2.24% vs. 10 ppm AA treatment for 3-5h: 71.48±18.84%~39.41±15.88%), indicating that AA treatment not only caused morphological kidney changes but also induced renal failure. In addition to kidney malformations, AA-treated zebrafish embryos also exhibited deformed hearts, swollen pericardiums, impaired blood circulation and the accumulation(s) of red blood cells. Whole-mount in situ hybridization studies using cmlc2 and wt1b as riboprobes indicated that the kidney is more sensitive than the heart to AA damage. Real-time PCR showed that AA can up-regulate the expression of proinflammatory genes like TNFα, cox2 and mpo. These results support the following conclusions: (1) AA-induced renal failure is mediated by inflammation, which causes circulation dysfunction followed by serious heart malformation; and (2) the kidney is more sensitive than the heart to AA injury.
Cesium chloride (CsCl) at several dose levels (1.25-20.0 mEq/kg IP) was administered acutely to albino mice whose behavior was compared with that in corresponding saline controls. Motor activity decreased and Straub tail occurred in a dose-related manner. Signs of autonomic disturbance, diarrhea, and salivation were seen with toxic doses. Subchronic administration of CsCl (5.0 mEq/kg/day IP for 7 days) exerted a phenothiazine-like effect in mice, reducing amphetamine-induced aggregation toxicity and enhancing pentobarbital-induced hypnosis. The antinociceptive action of morphine was unaltered by identical multiple administrations of CsCl. These results indicate a specific neurosuppressant action of CsCl on mouse CNS and suggest exploration of this alkali earth metal for antipsychotic-like activity.
Mechanisms of anticancer effects of inositol hexaphosphate are not fully understood. Epigenetic changes are the early changes in tumorigenesis. DNA methyl transferases, methyl CpG binding proteins, methyl CpG DNA binding domain protein, and histone deacetylases are the major molecules involved in epigenetics. We have shown the effects of IP6 at the molecular level in mouse lungs before the tumor is developed. After 3 mo of ENU exposure, there was no tumor formation, but there was hyperplasia and lymphocytic infiltration in the lungs. Inflammation and DNA damage repair enzymes COX-2 and MLH1 appear to be upregulated, whereas tumor suppressor gene p16 was downregulated by ENU. On the other hand, ENU exposure more or less upregulated the epigenetic events such as the expressions of DNMT1, MeCP2, MBD1, and HDAC1. This alteration was reduced by IP6 administration. Results were supported by modulation of global DNA methylation and the modulation of promoter CpG methylation of p16, MLH1, and COX-2 genes. Hence, this study indicates the possible role of epigenetics at the early stage of tumor development and in the regulation of gene expression by IP6 before the onset of ENU-induced lung tumors.
Fluoropyrimidines, in particular 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), have been the mainstay of treatment for several solid tumors, including colorectal, breast and head and neck cancers, for > 40 years.
This article reviews the pharmacology and efficacy of capecitabine with a special emphasis on its safety.
The reader will gain better insight into the safety of capecitabine in special populations such as patients with advanced age, renal and kidney disease. We also explore different dosing and schedules of capecitabine administration.
Capecitabine is an oral prodrug of 5-FU and was developed to fulfill the need for a more convenient therapy and provide an improved safety/efficacy profile. It has shown promising results alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents in colorectal, breast, pancreaticobiliary, gastric, renal cell and head and neck cancers. The most commonly reported toxic effects of capecitabine are diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, stomatitis and hand-foot syndrome. Capecitabine has a well-established safety profile and can be given safely to patients with advanced age, hepatic and renal dysfunctions.
Ethanol induces hepatic steatosis via a complex mechanism that is not well understood. Among the variety of molecules that have been proposed to participate in this mechanism, the sterol regulatory element (SRE)-binding proteins (SREBPs) have been identified as attractive targets for therapeutic intervention. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of honokiol on alcoholic steatosis and investigated its possible effect on the inhibition of SREBP-1c maturation. In in vitro studies, H4IIEC3 rat hepatoma cells developed increased lipid droplets when exposed to ethanol, but co-treatment with honokiol reversed this effect. Honokiol inhibited the maturation of SREBP-1c and its translocation to the nucleus, the binding of nSREBP-1c to SRE or SRE-related sequences of its lipogenic target genes, and the expression of genes for fatty acid synthesis. In contrast, magnolol, a structural isomer of honokiol, had no effect on nSREBP-1c levels. Male Wistar rats fed with a standard Lieber-DeCarli ethanol diet for 4 weeks exhibited increased hepatic triglyceride and decreased hepatic glutathione levels, with concomitantly increased serum alanine aminotransferase and TNF-alpha levels. Daily administration of honokiol (10 mg/kg body weight) by gavage during the final 2 weeks of ethanol treatment completely reversed these effects on hepatotoxicity markers, including hepatic triglyceride, hepatic glutathione, and serum TNF-alpha, with efficacious abrogation of fat accumulation in the liver. Inhibition of SREBP-1c protein maturation and of the expression of Srebf1c and its target genes for hepatic lipogenesis were also observed in vivo. A chromatin immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated inhibition of specific binding of SREBP-1c to the Fas promoter by honokiol in vivo. These results demonstrate that honokiol has the potential to ameliorate alcoholic steatosis by blocking fatty acid synthesis regulated by SREBP-1c.
The results of an X-ray investigation of 480 patients suffering from thalidomide embryopathy demonstrate that, beside dysmelia, spinal alterations are an important factor in malformations of the postural and locomotion apparatus. The pattern of malformations consists-according to the frequency of accumulated incidences - of spondylolysis, scoliosis, malformations of the intervertebral disc and dysgenesia of the sacrum. As in the case of extremities this pattern of malformations can only be established by radiological morphology. It necessarily entails alterations of varying functional value. There is no doubt that spinal alterations influence the fate of affected patients in the future.
Influences of adjuvant epirubicin/cyclophosphamide (EC) chemotherapy on blood coagulation were investigated in patients with operable breast cancer and the incidence of thromboembolic events was recorded.
In 50 consecutive node-positive breast cancer patients, serial coagulation studies (fibrinogen method of Clauss, antithrombin III, protein C amidolytic methods, D dimer enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay [ELISA] techniques, and plasminogen activator inhibitor [PAI] activity u-PA inhibition test) and impedance plethysmography (IPG) for screening of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) were performed preoperatively and postoperatively, before each of six cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy (60 mg/m2 epirubicin and 600 mg/m2 cyclophosphamide) and 3 months thereafter. Seventy-two healthy women served as controls.
During chemotherapy, the phlebographically proven DVT incidence was 10% (n = 2 after second cycle; n = 3 after third cycle). Preoperative levels of D-dimer, fibrinogen, and the PAI activity were significantly higher than in healthy women and only mean levels of the D-dimer were significantly higher in patients with DVT compared with patients without DVT. Postoperatively, only D-dimer and fibrinogen levels significantly increased, while in the course of chemotherapy, these levels were significantly decreased. Mean D-dimer levels and PAI increased steadily in patients with DVT. Preoperatively and during chemotherapy, levels of antithrombin III and protein C were within the normal range. Only one patient with DVT had decreased protein C levels throughout chemotherapy.
Monitoring with sophisticated coagulation tests during adjuvant EC chemotherapy for breast cancer does not identify patients at higher risk for DVT development. Preoperatively, in patients with later DVT, an imbalance of hemostasis is already present; thus, thrombosis might predominantly be initiated by malignancy-induced hypercoagulability and secondarily by the influence of EC chemotherapy. Prospective randomized trials must determine whether prophylactic anticoagulation during EC chemotherapy reduces the incidence of DVT.
Folic acid is a vitamin that when used as a dietary supplementation can improve endothelial function. To assess the effect of folic acid on the development of atherosclerosis, male apolipoprotein E-deficient mice fed a standard chow diet received either water (control group) or an aqueous solution of folic acid that provided a dose of 75 microg/kg/day, for ten weeks. At the time of sacrifice, blood was drawn and the heart removed. The study measured plasma homocysteine, lipids, lipoproteins, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation, isoprostane, paraoxonase, and apolipoproteins, and aortic atherosclerotic areas. In folic acid-treated animals, total cholesterol, mainly carried in very low-density and low-density lipoproteins, increased significantly, and homocysteine, HDL cholesterol, paraoxonase, and triglyceride levels did not change significantly. Plasma isoprostane and apolipoprotein (apo) B levels decreased. The resistance of LDL to oxidization and plasma apoA-I and apoA-IV levels increased with a concomitant decrease in the area of atherosclerotic lesions. The administration of folic acid decreased atherosclerotic lesions independently of plasma homocysteine and cholesterol levels, but was associated with plasma levels of apolipoproteins A-I, A-IV and B, and decreased oxidative stress.
Hypersensitivity vasculitis associated with propylthiouracil therapy is a well-documented clinical entity. Although any organ system may be involved, it is most unusual for pulmonary manifestations to be the cardinal presenting features. We report a 72-year-old woman presenting with respiratory failure and hemoptysis following initiation of propylthiouracil therapy for Graves' disease. She had cutaneous stigmata of hypersensitivity vasculitis and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates. The infiltrates improved dramatically after discontinuation of the propylthiouracil therapy and initiation of intravenous corticosteroid therapy.
Adult rats (prenatally methamphetamine-exposed, saline-exposed and controls) were tested for learning in the Morris water maze. Rats were tested in 4 consecutive days using two different types of learning tests: "Place navigation test" (stable platform position) and "New-learning test" (platform position changed daily). Males exposed prenatally to methamphetamine were slower in the Place navigation learning test than were both the control and saline-exposed males. There were no differences in the New-learning test between groups.
A double-blind, cross-over, placebo-controlled study of dydrogesterone (10 mg b.d.) in the treatment of premenstrual syndrome is described. Two groups of women were studied: secondarily referred hospital clinic patients, and self-referred patients. Only one-third of patients screened completed the study. All patients showed significant improvements in symptom scores during the course of the study, the only significant difference between placebo- and dydrogesterone-treated patients being an increase in frequency of breast tenderness and a decrease in pain with menstrual bleeding in the latter.
CDDO-Im is a synthetic triterpenoid recently shown to induce cytoprotective genes through the Nrf2-Keap1 pathway, an important mechanism for the induction of cytoprotective genes in response to oxidative stress. Upon oxidative or electrophilic insult, the transcription factor Nrf2 translocates to the nucleus, heterodimerizes with small Maf proteins, and binds to antioxidant response elements (AREs) in the upstream promoter regions of various cytoprotective genes. To further elucidate the hepatoprotective effects of CDDO-Im, wild-type and Nrf2-null mice were pretreated with CDDO-Im (1 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle (DMSO), and then administered acetaminophen (500 mg/kg, i.p.). Pretreatment of wild-type mice with CDDO-Im reduced liver injury caused by acetaminophen. In contrast, hepatoprotection by CDDO-Im was not observed in Nrf2-null mice. CDDO-Im increased Nrf2 protein expression and Nrf2-ARE binding in wild-type, but not Nrf2-null mice. Furthermore, CDDO-Im increased the mRNA expression of the Nrf2 target genes NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase-1 (Nqo1); glutamate-cysteine ligase, catalytic subunit (Gclc); and heme-oxygenase-1 (Ho-1), in both a dose- and time-dependent manner. Conversely, CDDO-Im did not induce Nqo1, Gclc, and Ho-1 mRNA expression in Nrf2-null mice. Collectively, the present study shows that CDDO-Im pretreatment induces Nrf2-dependent cytoprotective genes and protects the liver from acetaminophen-induced hepatic injury.
A model of renal infection due to lower urinary tract obstruction and biofilm disease was constructed for the study of renal scarring by inserting glass beads coated with bacterial biofilm into the bladder of rats and then clamping the urethra. We previously reported the effect of antimicrobial therapy used in combination with the anti-inflammatory agent prednisolone to prevent renal scarring. In this study we investigated the effect of prednisolone on renal scar formation using our new model. Renal scarring could not be prevented in the group in which prednisolone was administered in the period during which the urethra was regularly being clamped. In contrast, scarring was prevented in the group that began to receive prednisolone after the period of clamping had ended. Therefore, in cases of lower urinary tract obstruction prednisolone should only be administered for the prevention of renal scarring after the obstruction has been resolved.
Excess dietary salt induces a cytochrome P450 arachidonic acid epoxygenase isoform in rat kidneys (Capdevila, J. H., S. Wei, J. Yang, A. Karara, H. R. Jacobson, J. R. Falck, F. P. Guengerich, and R. N. Dubois. 1992. J. Biol. Chem. 267:21720-21726). Treatment of rats on a high salt diet with the epoxygenase inhibitor, clotrimazole, produces significant increases in mean arterial blood pressure (122 +/- 2 and 145 +/- 4 mmHg for salt and salt- and clotrimazole-treated rats, respectively). The salt- and clotrimazole-dependent hypertension is accompanied by reductions in the urinary excretion of epoxygenase metabolites and by a selective inhibition of the renal microsomal epoxygenase reaction. The prohypertensive effects of clotrimazole are readily reversed when either the salt or clotrimazole treatment is discontinued. The indication that a salt-inducible renal epoxygenase protects against hypertension, are supported by studies with the Dahl rat model of genetic salt-sensitive hypertension. Dahl resistant animals responded to excess dietary salt by inducing the activity of their kidney microsomal epoxygenase(s) (0.102 +/- 0.01 and 0.240 +/- 0.04 nmol of products formed/min per mg of microsomal protein for control and salt-treated rats, respectively). Despite severe hypertension during excess dietary salt intake (200 +/- 20 mmHg), Dahl salt-sensitive rats demonstrated no increase in renal epoxygenase activity. These studies indicate that acquired or inherited abnormalities in renal epoxygenase activities and/or regulation can be related to salt-sensitive hypertension in rodents. Studies on the human renal epoxygenase and its relationship to salt hypertension may prove useful.
To explore the association between mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 4 (SMAD4) gene polymorphisms and gastric cancer risk.
Five tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (tSNPs) in the SMAD4 gene were selected and genotyped in 322 gastric cancer cases and 351 cancer-free controls in a Chinese population by using the polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism method. Immunohistochemistry was used to examine SMAD4 protein expression in 10 normal gastric tissues adjacent to tumors.
In the single-locus analysis, two significantly decreased risk polymorphisms for gastric cancer were observed: the SNP3 rs17663887 TC genotype (adjusted odds ratio = 0.38, 95% confidence interval: 0.21-0.71), compared with the wild-type TT genotype and the SNP5 rs12456284 GG genotype (0.31, 0.16-0.60), and with the wild-type AA genotype. In the combined analyses of these two tSNPs, the combined genotypes with 2-3 protective alleles (SNP3 C and SNP5 G allele) had a significantly decreased risk of gastric cancer (0.28, 0.16-0.49) than those with 0-1 protective allele. Furthermore, individuals with 0-1 protective allele had significantly decreased SMAD4 protein expression levels in the normal tissues adjacent to tumors than those with 2-3 protective alleles (P = 0.025).
These results suggest that genetic variants in the SMAD4 gene play a protective role in gastric cancer in a Chinese population.
Chlorinated benz[a]anthracenes (Cl-BaA) are halogenated aromatic compounds (typified by dioxins) found in the environment at relatively high concentrations. Fischer 344 rats were intragastrically administered 0, 1, or 10 mg of Cl-BaA or its parent compound benz[a]anthracene (BaA) per kg of body weight for 14 consecutive days. Both chemicals at 10 mg/kg/day inhibited the gain in body weight, and consequent increase in relative liver weight. Hepatic gene expression of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A1, 1A2, and 1B1 was significantly stimulated by administration of BaA (10 mg/kg/day) compared with the control. After administration of Cl-BaA, only the CYP1A2 gene was significantly induced, even at the lower dosage; CYP1A1 and 1B1 mRNA levels remained unchanged in Cl-BaA-treated rats compared with controls. To elucidate the role of such Cl-BaA exposure and induced CYPs at toxicity onset, we investigated the mutagenicity of BaA and Cl-BaA using Salmonella typhimurium TA98 and TA100. BaA and Cl-BaA at 10 μg/plate produced positive results in both strains in the presence of rat S-9. Incubation of Cl-BaA with recombinant rat CYP1A2 produced a significantly higher number of revertant colonies in TA98 and TA100 than in controls, but no such change was observed for BaA. In conclusion, BaA changes its own physiological and toxicological actions by its chlorination; (1) daily exposure to Cl-BaA selectively induces hepatic CYP1A2 in rats and (2) Cl-BaA induces frameshift mutations in the presence of CYP1A2, although BaA does not exert mutagenicity. This indicates that CYP1A2 may metabolize Cl-BaA to active forms.
Toxic outcome of chemical therapeutics as well as multidrug resistance are two serious phenomena for their inacceptance in cancer chemotherapy. Antioxidants like curcumin (Cur) have gained immense importance for their excellent anticarcinogenic activities and minimum toxic manifestations in biological system. However, Cur is lipophilic and thus following oral administration hardly appears in blood indicating its potential therapeutic challenge in cancer therapy. Nanocapsulated Cur has been used as a drug delivery vector to focus the effectiveness of these vesicles against hepatocellular carcinoma. The theme of work was to evaluate effectiveness in oral route of polylactide co-glycolide (PLGA) Nanocapsulated curcumin (Nano Cur) against diethylnitrosamine (DEN) induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in rat. Nano Cur of average diameter 14nm and encapsulation efficiency of 78% were prepared. Fourier Transform Infra Red (FTIR) analysis revealed that there is no chemical interaction between drug and the polymer. Three i.p. injections of the chemical hepatocarcinogen DEN at 15days interval causes hepatotoxicity, the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation, decrease in plasma membrane microviscosity and depletion of antioxidant enzyme levels in liver. Nano Cur (weekly oral treatment for 16weeks at 20mg/kg b.wt) in DEN induced HCC rats exerted significant protection against HCC and restored redox homeostasis in liver cells. Nanocapsulated Cur caused cancer cell apoptosis as visualized by ApoBrdU analysis. Histopathological analysis confirmed the pathological improvement in the liver. Nano Cur was found to be a potential formulation in oral route in combating the oxidative damage of hepatic cells and eliminating DEN induced hepatocellular cancer cells in rat whereas identical amount of free Cur treatment was found almost ineffective.
Human malignant mesothelioma (HMM) is an aggressive malignancy mainly caused by exposure to asbestos fibers. Here we investigated tumor suppressor genes in mesothelioma cells from tumoral ascites developed in mice exposed to asbestos (asb) fibers and in 12 HMM cell cultures. Mutations in Nf2, p16/Cdkn2a, p19/Arf and Trp53 genes and protein expression of p15/Cdkn2b and Cdk4 were analyzed in 12 cultures from mice hemizygous for Nf2 (asb-Nf2(KO3/+)) and 4 wild type counterparts (asb-Nf2(+/+)). We have found frequent inactivations of p16/Cdkn2a, p19/Arf (or P14/ARF) and p15/Cdkn2b, coinactivation of p16/Cdkn2a and p15/Cdkn2b and low rate of Trp53 mutations in both asb-Nf2(KO3/+) and asb-Nf2(+/+) mesothelioma cells. In both mouse and human mesothelioma cells, inactivation of the hortologous genes p16/Cdkn2a or P16/CDKN2A was due to deletions at the Ink4/Arf locus encompassing p19/Arf or P14/ARF, respectively. Loss of heterozygosity at the Nf2 locus was detected in 10 of 11 asb-Nf2(KO3/+) cultures and Nf2 gene rearrangement in one asb-Nf2(+/+) culture. These data show that the profile of TSG alterations in asbestos-induced mesothelioma is similar in mice and humans. Thus, the mouse mesothelioma model could be useful for human risk assessment, taking into account interindividual variations in genetic sensitivity to carcinogens.
Two patients were treated with bretylium tosylate for malignant ventricular arrhythmias after inadequate response to conventional agents. In the first patient, two episodes of ventricular tachycardia requiring cardioversion occurred in close temporal sequence with administering bretylium. With drug rechallenge two days later, ventricular tachycardia recurred within minutes. In the second case, five cardiac arrests due to ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation occurred during several hours after beginning a trial of bretylium maintenance therapy for complex ventricular ectopy. Although transient increases in ectopy after bretylium therapy have been described, presumably due to catecholamine release, the occurrence of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmia leading to cardiac arrest has not previously been emphasized. There is potential for this side effect, and additional caution in the use of this drug should be followed.
To evaluate the efficacy and mechanism of action of NCB 02, a standardized Curcumin preparation, against 2, 4 dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) induced ulcerative colitis in rats.
Ulcerative colitis was induced in male rats by sensitizing with topical application of DNCB in acetone for 14 d and intra-colonol challenge with DNCB on day 15. A separate group of animals with vehicle treatment in similar fashion served as control group. Colitis rats were divided into different groups and treated with NCB-02 at doses of 25, 50 and 100 mg/kg b.wt p.o. for 10 d. Sulfasalazine at a dose of 100 mg/kg b.wt for 10 d served as a reference group. On day 10 after respective assigned treatment, all the animals were euthanized and the length of the colon, weight of entire colon and distal 8 cm of the colon were recorded. The distal part of the colon was immediately observed under a stereomicroscope and the degree of damage was scored. Further distal 8 cm of the colon was subject to the determination of colonic myeloperoxidase (MPO), lipid peroxidation (LPO) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activities. A small piece of the sample from distal colon of each animal was fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in paraffin wax and sectioned for immunohistochemical examination of NFkappa-B and iNOS expression.
NCB-02 showed a dose dependent protection against DNCB-induced alteration in colon length and weight. NCB-02 treatment also showed a dose dependent protection against the elevated levels of MPO, LPO and ALP, induced by DNCB. NCB-02 demonstrated a significant effect at a dose of 100 mg/kg b.wt., which was almost equipotent to 100 mg/kg b.wt. of sulfasalazine. Treatment with sulfasalazine and curcumin at a dose of 100 mg/kg b.wt. inhibited the DNCB-induced overexpression of NFkappa-B and iNOS in the colon.
Curcumin treatment ameliorates colonic damage in DNCB induced colitic rats, an effect associated with an improvement in intestinal oxidative stress and downregulation of colonic NFkappa-B and iNOS expression.
The tyrosine phosphorylation of nephrin is reported to regulate podocyte morphology via the Nck adaptor proteins. The Pak family of kinases are regulators of the actin cytoskeleton and are recruited to the plasma membrane via Nck. Here, we investigated the role of Pak in podocyte morphology. Pak1/2 were expressed in cultured podocytes. In mouse podocytes, Pak2 was predominantly phosphorylated, concentrated at the tips of the cellular processes, and its expression and/or phosphorylation were further increased when differentiated. Overexpression of rat nephrin in podocytes increased Pak1/2 phosphorylation, which was abolished when the Nck binding sites were mutated. Furthermore, dominant-negative Nck constructs blocked the Pak1 phosphorylation induced by antibody-mediated cross linking of nephrin. Transient transfection of constitutively kinase-active Pak1 into differentiated mouse podocytes decreased stress fibers, increased cortical F-actin, and extended the cellular processes, whereas kinase-dead mutant, kinase inhibitory construct, and Pak2 knockdown by shRNA had the opposite effect. In a rat model of puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis, Pak1/2 phosphorylation was decreased in glomeruli, concomitantly with a decrease of nephrin tyrosine phosphorylation. These results suggest that Pak contributes to remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton in podocytes. Disturbed nephrin-Nck-Pak interaction may contribute to abnormal morphology of podocytes and proteinuria.
Chloroacetonitrile (CAN) is a disinfection by-product of chlorination of drinking water. The present study was designed to investigate the potential adverse effects of maternal exposure to CAN on fetal liver in mice. Based on an initial dose-response experiment, CAN (25mg/(kgday)) was given orally to pregnant mice at gestation day (GD) 6, till GD 18. Fetuses were collected and fetal livers were used for assessing oxidative status, apoptosis and histopathological changes. Maternal exposure to CAN resulted in observed oxidative stress and redox imbalance in fetal liver tissues as marked by significant decrease in reduced glutathione (GSH) and elevation of oxidized glutathione (GSSG), malondialdehyde (MDA) and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) in genomic DNA. Further, CAN induced apoptosis as indicated by a significant increase in binding of Hoechst reagent to damaged DNA fragments of fetal liver and enhancement of the activity of caspase-3 in cytosolic fractions of fetal livers. Histopathological examination of fetal livers of CAN-treated mice showed hepatocytes with vacuolated cytoplasm, karyolysis and karyorrhexis as well as depletion of their glycogen content. In conclusion, maternal exposure to CAN adversely affects mouse fetal livers as evidenced by the induction of oxidative stress, apoptosis and histopathological changes.
Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a serine-threonine kinase member of the cellular phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (P13K) pathway. The P13K/Akt signaling pathway plays a critical role in regulating basic cellular functions such as control of transcription and translation. mTOR is a downstream mediator of P13K/Akt and, as a result of its position, it has a central role in controlling cellular growth and division. Previous reports demonstrated that rapamycin, which inhibits mTOR activity, sensitizes certain resistant cancer cells to chemotherapeutic agents. These facts have made mTOR to be viewed as an important target for anti-cancer therapeutics development. Evidence suggests that the rapamycin derivatives CCI-779 and RAD001 could induce G1-S cell cycle delay and eventually apoptosis, depending on inner cellular characteristics of tumor cells. At present, CCI-779 and RAD001 are being evaluated in cancer clinical trials. From recent studies, these drugs appear to have a safe toxicity profile with skin rashes and mucositis being prominent and dose-limiting. In this review we discuss about the principal mechanisms of mTOR action and the current place of mTOR inhibitors as novel therapeutic agents against cancer.
