Most cases of hepatocellular carcinoma occur in the Asia-Pacific region, where chronic hepatitis B infection is an important aetiological factor. Assessing the efficacy and safety of new therapeutic options in an Asia-Pacific population is thus important. We did a multinational phase III, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to assess the efficacy and safety of sorafenib in patients from the Asia-Pacific region with advanced (unresectable or metastatic) hepatocellular carcinoma.
Between Sept 20, 2005, and Jan 31, 2007, patients with hepatocellular carcinoma who had not received previous systemic therapy and had Child-Pugh liver function class A, were randomly assigned to receive either oral sorafenib (400 mg) or placebo twice daily in 6-week cycles, with efficacy measured at the end of each 6-week period. Eligible patients were stratified by the presence or absence of macroscopic vascular invasion or extrahepatic spread (or both), Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, and geographical region. Randomisation was done centrally and in a 2:1 ratio by means of an interactive voice-response system. There was no predefined primary endpoint; overall survival, time to progression (TTP), time to symptomatic progression (TTSP), disease control rate (DCR), and safety were assessed. Efficacy analyses were done by intention to treat. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00492752.
271 patients from 23 centres in China, South Korea, and Taiwan were enrolled in the study. Of these, 226 patients were randomly assigned to the experimental group (n=150) or to the placebo group (n=76). Median overall survival was 6.5 months (95% CI 5.56-7.56) in patients treated with sorafenib, compared with 4.2 months (3.75-5.46) in those who received placebo (hazard ratio [HR] 0.68 [95% CI 0.50-0.93]; p=0.014). Median TTP was 2.8 months (2.63-3.58) in the sorafenib group compared with 1.4 months (1.35-1.55) in the placebo group (HR 0.57 [0.42-0.79]; p=0.0005). The most frequently reported grade 3/4 drug-related adverse events in the 149 assessable patients treated with sorafenib were hand-foot skin reaction (HFSR; 16 patients [10.7%]), diarrhoea (nine patients [6.0%]), and fatigue (five patients [3.4%]). The most common adverse events resulting in dose reductions were HFSR (17 patients [11.4%]) and diarrhoea (11 patients [7.4%]); these adverse events rarely led to discontinuation.
Sorafenib is effective for the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in patients from the Asia-Pacific region, and is well tolerated. Taken together with data from the Sorafenib Hepatocellular Carcinoma Assessment Randomised Protocol (SHARP) trial, sorafenib seems to be an appropriate option for the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
The spasmolytic action of 3-(2,4,5-triethoxybenzoyl)propionic acid (AA-149) on the biliary tract was investigated in anesthetized dogs. Intravenous administration of AA-149 at 2 mg/kg and higher doses produced a dose-dependent reduction in passage resistance through the choledochoduodenal junction and in gallbladder pressure, and a dose-dependent increase in bile flow. AA-149, like cholecystokinin, decreased biliary ductal pressure in spite of increasing the bile flow in dogs with ligation of the cystic duct of the gallbladder, whereas taurocholate increased the pressure as well as the bile flow. Moreover, the spasmic response of the choledochoduodenal junction to morphine was depressed strongly by AA-149, BUT NOT CONSISTENTLY BY ATROPINE. The effects of AA-149 were not influenced by pretreatment with atropine, phentolamine or propranolol. These findings strongly suggest that AA-149 relaxed the biliary tract and depressed the morphine-induced spasm by a mechanism different from those of anticholinergic and sympathomimetic agents.
To try to decrease the incidence of side-effects associated with postoperative extradural infusions of local anaesthetics in combination with opioids, we have used plain ropivacaine solutions in 200 children. The first 72 children received an infusion of bupivacaine 0.125% + diamorphine 20 microg x ml-1, then 200 children received plain ropivacaine solutions. The children who received ropivacaine were found to have lower incidences of nausea, pruritus, urinary retention, and were less sedated, despite comparable analgesia. The management of plain ropivacaine for extradural analgesia is discussed.
Free radicals play a crucial role in health and disease and both reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species (RNS) have been implicated in CNS effects like excitotoxicity. Theophylline, a re-emerging drug for the treatment of obstructive airway disease, has a narrow therapeutic index which precludes its safe use. The present study evaluated the possible involvement of free radicals in theophylline induced seizures in mice. Aminophylline (100-250 mg/kg) consistently induced seizures and post-ictal mortality, and conventional anticonvulsants and adenosine agonists were ineffective in antagonizing them. Further, phosphodiesterase inhibitors, per se, also did not show any significant seizurogenic potential. Pretreatments with antioxidants, ascorbic acid, alpha-tocopherol and melatonin, all dose dependently reduced seizure incidence and mortality after aminophylline, whereas, antioxidant depletion potentiated such excitotoxicity. Pretreatments with the NO synthase inhibitors, L-NAME and 7-NI blocked aminophylline seizures, whereas, the NO mimetics, L-arginine and glyceryl trinitrate, tended to potentiate this phenomenon. Sub-effective doses of aminophylline (100 mg/kg) also induced seizures when combined with subthreshold intensity of electroshock, and such seizures were similarly antagonized by the antioxidants and NO synthase inhibitors. Biochemical assay of brain homogenates showed that aminophylline seizures were associated with enhancements in brain MDA and NOx (NO metabolites) levels, whereas, SOD activity was reduced, and these changes were attenuated after melatonin and L-NAME pretreatments. The pharmacological and biochemical data are strongly suggestive of the involvement of both ROS and RNS during theophylline-induced seizures.
1. Recent work has demonstrated artificial penile erection after intracavernous injection of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1). A possible dose-response relationship between PGE1 and its erectile action was examined in a double-blind, cross-over designed, placebo-controlled study. 2. Twenty patients aged (mean +/- s.d.) 45 +/- 10.5 years suffering from psychogenic erectile dysfunction were tested on four occasions. Subjects received four intracavernous injections of saline containing either no other substance, preservative, 5 micrograms or 10 micrograms PGE1. 3. Investigations revealed clear dose-dependency of PGE1 in the grade and duration of erection achieved as well as in the latency between injection and achievement of erection (P less than 0.001). Saline and preservative did not induce erection. 4. Some local pain of varying grades did occur in 11/20 patients after 5 micrograms PGE1 and in 14/20 patients after 10 micrograms PGE1 injected intracavernously. This side-effect was caused by PGE1 itself and also showed a clear dose-relation (P = 0.0035). 5. Prostaglandin E1 appears to be a promising substance for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes in erectile dysfunction. Despite the discomfort observed in some patients, PGE1 is very effective even in low doses. PGE1 10 micrograms is suggested as the appropriate initial diagnostic dose for intracavernous injection to differentiate between the normal and pathological cavernous-vascular system.
We describe a patient with hypersensitivity vasculitis due to ofloxacin therapy; the vasculitis was associated with elevated transaminase and IgA levels. Cyclophosphamide and intravenous pulse prednisolone resulted in clinical improvement.
Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection affects over 350 million people worldwide and over 1 million die annually of HBV-related chronic liver disease. Although many individuals eventually achieve a state of nonreplicative infection, the prolonged immunologic response to infection leads to the development of cirrhosis, liver failure, or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in up to 40% of patients. In endemic areas, where carrier rates are >5%, most individuals are infected perinatally, by vertical transmission, or in early childhood. In the United States, where prevalence is low except in particular areas and populations (e.g., Alaskan natives, immigrants from highly endemic areas), transmission is generally horizontal, percutaneous, or via sexual contact in adulthood. A variety of host (age at infection, gender, immune status); viral (viral load, genotype, mutation); and external (concurrent viral infections, alcohol consumption, chemotherapy) factors influence disease progression. Several variables (age at infection, gender, ethnicity, immune status) also influence the risk of chronic infection. Perinatal transmission, the most common mode of infection worldwide, can be reduced by appropriate prophylaxis (vaccination of the infant at birth together with hepatitis B immune globulin); anti-viral therapy in late pregnancy may also be beneficial. Five drugs are now FDA-approved for the treatment of HBV (interferon, lamivudine, adefovir, entecavir, and peginterferon alfa-2a), and suppressive anti-viral therapy improves the natural history of HBV. Patients with decompensated cirrhosis or HCC are highly likely to die unless they successfully undergo liver transplantation. While novel anti-viral drugs have improved the management of cirrhosis, strategies to prevent and treat HCC remain inadequate.
A study was performed to determine whether diclofop (2-(4-(2,4-dichlorophenoxy) phenoxy)propionic acid), introduced as a herbicide, exhibits the properties of peroxisome proliferators (PPs). Diclofop was administered orally at 7-56 mg/kg body weight per day to male Wistar rats for 2, 4, 7 or 14 consecutive days and some effects regarded as early hepatic markers of PPs were studied. The early changes in rat liver, produced by short-term treatment with diclofop consisted of mitogenesis and, time- and dose-related increase in liver weight. Hepatomegaly was typically associated with proliferation of smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER) and peroxisomes. The parallel biochemical measurements showed that there was a dose-dependent increase in peroxisomal palmitoyl-CoA oxidation and catalase activity in treated rats. Markers of hepatocellular proliferation (S- and M-phase) indicated that mitogenesis was transient and declined despite continuation of diclofop treatment. The threshold exposure level for the palmitoyl-CoA oxidation (one of the peroxisome proliferation markers) was approximately the same (14 mg/kg body weightxper day) as for the stimulation of mitogenesis in Wistar rats. However, for hepatomegaly and catalase activity the threshold exposure level was 7 mg/kg body weightxper day. The results presented here demonstrate clearly that diclofop belongs to a class of rodent PPs.
Exposure to air pollution increases the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, especially in susceptible populations. Despite increased risk, adverse responses are often delayed and require additional stress tests to reveal latent effects of exposure. The goal of this study was to use an episode of "transient hypoxia" as an extrinsic stressor to uncover latent susceptibility to environmental pollutants in a rodent model of hypertension. We hypothesized that exposure to acrolein, an unsaturated aldehyde and mucosal irritant found in cigarette smoke, diesel exhaust, and power plant emissions, would increase cardiopulmonary sensitivity to hypoxia, particularly in hypertensive rats. Spontaneously hypertensive and Wistar Kyoto (normotensive) rats, implanted with radiotelemeters, were exposed once for 3h to 3 ppm acrolein gas or filtered air in whole-body plethysmograph chambers and challenged with a 10% oxygen atmosphere (10min) 24h later. Acrolein exposure increased heart rate, blood pressure, breathing frequency, and minute volume in hypertensive rats and also increased the heart rate variability parameter LF, suggesting a potential role for increased sympathetic tone. Normotensive rats only had increased blood pressure during acrolein exposure. The hypoxia stress test after acrolein exposure revealed increased diastolic blood pressure only in hypertensive rats and increased minute volume and expiratory time only in normotensive rats. These results suggest that hypertension confers exaggerated sensitivity to air pollution and that the hypoxia stress test is a novel tool to reveal the potential latent effects of air pollution exposure.
Okadaic acid (OKA) and analogues are frequent contaminants of coastal waters and seafood. Structure analysis of the isolated OKA analogue 19-epi-OKA showed important conformation differences expected to result in lower protein phosphatase (PP) inhibitory potencies than OKA. However, 19-epi-OKA and OKA inhibitory activities versus PP2A were unexpectedly found to be virtually equipotent. To investigate the toxicological relevance of these findings, we tested the effects of 19-epi-OKA on cultured cerebellar cells and compared them with those of OKA and its isomer dinophysistoxin-2. 19-epi-OKA caused degeneration of neurites and neuronal death with much lower potency than its congeners. The concentration of 19-epi-OKA that reduced after 24h the maximum neuronal survival (EC5024) by 50% was ~300nM compared with ~2nM and ~8nM for OKA and dinophysistoxin-2, respectively. Exposure to 19-epi-OKA resulted also in less toxicity for cultured glial cells (EC5024,19-epi-OKA ~ 600nM; EC5024,OKA ~ 20nM). 19-epi-OKA induced apoptotic condensation and fragmentation of chromatin, activation of caspases, and activation of ERK1/2 MAP kinases, features previously reported for OKA and dinophysistoxin-2. Also, differential sensitivity to 19-epi-OKA was observed between neuronal and glial cells, a specific characteristic shared by OKA and dinophysistoxin-2 but not by other toxins. Our results are consistent with 19-epi-OKA being included among the group of toxins of OKA and derivatives and support the suitability of cellular bioassays for the detection of these compounds.
The findings on health effects of ambient fine particles (PM2.5) and coarse particles (PM10-2.5) remain inconsistent. In China, PM2.5 and PM10-2.5 are not the criteria air pollutants, and their monitoring data are scarce. There have been no epidemiological studies of health effects of PM2.5 and PM10-2.5 simultaneously in China. We conducted a time series study to examine the acute effects of PM2.5 and PM10-2.5 on daily mortality in Shanghai, China from Mar. 4, 2004 to Dec. 31, 2005. We used the generalized additive model (GAM) with penalized splines to analyze the mortality, air pollution and covariate data. The average concentrations of PM2.5 and PM10-2.5 were 56.4 microg/m3 and 52.3 microg/m3 in our study period, and PM2.5 constituted around 53.0% of the PM10 mass. Compared with the Global Air Quality Guidelines set by World Health Organization (10 microg/m3 for annual mean) and U.S. National Ambient Air Quality Standards (15 microg/m3 for annual mean), the PM2.5 level in Shanghai was much higher. We found that PM2.5 was associated with the death rates from all causes and from cardiorespiratory diseases in Shanghai. We did not find a significant effect of PM10-2.5 on mortality outcomes. A10 microg/m3 increase in the 2-day moving average (lag01) concentration of PM2.5 corresponded to 0.36% (95% CI 0.11%, 0.61%), 0.41% (95% CI 0.01%, 0.82%) and 0.95% (95% CI 0.16%, 1.73%) increase of total, cardiovascular and respiratory mortality. For PM10-2.5, the effects were attenuated and less precise. Our analyses provide the first statistically significant evidence in China that PM2.5 has an adverse effect on population health and strengthen the rationale for further limiting levels of PM2.5 in outdoor air in Shanghai.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is being increasingly used in operable breast cancer. There are limited data on the safety of bevacizumab (bev) in the neoadjuvant setting. We sought to explore the safety of neoadjuvant cisplatin/bev in a protocol for triple negative breast cancer (TNBC).
A total of 51 patients with confirmed TNBC were enrolled in a single-arm trial of neoadjuvant cisplatin plus bev. Of the 51 patients, 28 with confirmed TNBC were enrolled in our trial of single-agent neoadjuvant cisplatin. Two-sided Fisher exact test were used for comparing the 2 trials.
The 51 patients received neoadjuvant protocol therapy with cisplatin/bev and underwent definitive local therapy. Breast conserving therapy (BCT) was performed in 29 (57%) and mastectomy with or without reconstruction in 22 (43%). Postoperative complications were reported in 22 patients (43%); 4 (8%) required explanation of expanders. Also, 28 patients completed neoadjuvant cisplatin therapy. BCT was performed in 13 (46%) and mastectomy with or without reconstruction in 15 (54%). Postoperative complications were reported in 11 patients (39%). None of the 5 reconstructions were lost. We compared all toxicities between the two trials (P = .81 NS), and wound healing related complications between the two trials (P = .10 NS).
Cisplatin/bevacizumab and cisplatin alone neoadjuvant therapy resulted in a significant number of postoperative complications. Specifically, use of expanders/implants may be problematic for patients treated with bev. However, this was a single-arm trial; randomized controlled studies will be needed to determine the optimal use of bevacizumab in the timing of breast cancer surgery.
Numbers of epidemiological studies assessing residential radon exposure and risk of lung cancer have yielded inconsistent results.
We therefore performed a meta-analysis of relevant published case- control studies searched in the PubMed database through July 2011 to examine the association. The combined odds ratio (OR) were calculated using fixed- or random-effects models. Subgroup and dose-response analyses were also performed.
We identified 22 case-control studies of residential radon and lung cancer risk involving 13,380 cases and 21,102 controls. The combined OR of lung cancer for the highest with the lowest exposure was 1.29 (95% CI 1.10-1.51). Dose-response analysis showed that every 100 Bq/m3 increment in residential radon exposure was associated with a significant 7% increase in lung cancer risk. Subgroup analysis displayed a more pronounced association in the studies conducted in Europe. Studies restricted to female or non-smokers demonstrated weakened associations between exposure and lung cancer.
This meta- analysis provides new evidence supporting the conclusion that residential exposure to radon can significantly increase the risk of lung cancer in a dose-response manner.
TGF-β is a pleiotropic cytokine that can have pro- or anti-inflammatory effects depending on the context. Elevated levels of bioactive TGF-β1 in tears and elevated TGF-β1mRNA transcripts in conjunctiva and minor salivary glands of human Sjögren's Syndrome patients has also been reported. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the response to desiccating stress (DS), an experimental model of dry eye, in dominant-negative TGF-β type II receptor (CD4-DNTGFβRII) mice. These mice have a truncated TGF-β receptor in CD4(+) T cells, rendering them unresponsive to TGF-β.
DS was induced by subcutaneous injection of scopolamine and exposure to a drafty low humidity environment in CD4-DNTGFβRII and wild-type (WT) mice, aged 14 weeks, for 5 days. Nonstressed (NS) mice served as controls. Parameters of ocular surface disease included corneal smoothness, corneal barrier function and conjunctival goblet cell density. NS CD4-DNTGFβRII at 14 weeks of age mice exhibited a spontaneous dry eye phenotype; however, DS improved their corneal barrier function and corneal surface irregularity, increased their number of PAS+ GC, and lowered CD4(+) T cell infiltration in conjunctiva. In contrast to WT, CD4-DNTGFβRII mice did not generate a Th-17 and Th-1 response, and they failed to upregulate MMP-9, IL-23, IL-17A, RORγT, IFN-γ and T-bet mRNA transcripts in conjunctiva. RAG1KO recipients of adoptively transferred CD4+T cells isolated from DS5 CD4-DNTGFβRII showed milder dry eye phenotype and less conjunctival inflammation than recipients of WT control.
Our results showed that disruption of TGF-β signaling in CD4(+) T cells causes paradoxical improvement of dry eye disease in mice subjected to desiccating stress.
The role of estrogen and the estrogen receptor (ER) in the induction and promotion of tumors was investigated by using transgenic MT-mER mice, which overexpress the ER. It was hypothesized that because of this abnormal expression of the ER, the reproductive-tract tissues of the MT-mER mice may be more susceptible to tumors after neonatal exposure to the potent synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES). Normally non-estrogen responsive tissues that may have expressed ER as a result of the transgene were also studied for DES-induced tumors. Wild-type and MT-mER littermates were treated with 2 micrograms/pup/d DES 1-5 d after birth and then killed at 4, 8, 12, and 18 mo of age. The DES-treated MT-mER mice demonstrated a significantly higher incidence of uterine adenocarcinoma at 8 mo (73%) than the DES-treated wild-type mice (46%). The tumors of the MT-mER mice were often more aggressive than those in the wild-type animals. These tumors were also preceeded at 4 mo by a significantly higher incidence of the preneoplastic lesion atypical hyperplasia in the MT-mER mice (26% compared with 0% in the wild-type mice). Other DES-induced abnormalities were observed at equal rates in the wild-type and MT-mER mice. Although no tumors were observed in untreated wild-type females, a single untreated MT-mER female had uterine adenocarcinoma at 18 mo. These data indicate that the level of ER present in a tissue may also be a determining factor in development of estrogen-responsive tumors.
Desferal is a clinically approved iron chelator used to treat iron overload. Doxorubicin is an anthracycline cancer chemotherapy drug used in the treatment of breast cancer. It can undergo redox cycling in the presence of iron to produce reactive oxygen species. The oxidant-generating activity of doxorubicin is thought to be responsible for the cardiotoxic side effects of the drug, but it is unclear whether it is also required for its anti-tumor activity. To test whether an iron-chelating antioxidant would interfere with the tumor-killing activity of doxorubicin, nude mice were transplanted with xenografts of human breast cancer MDA-MB 231 cells and then treated with doxorubicin and/or desferal. Not only did desferal not interfere with the anti-tumor activity of doxorubicin, it inhibited tumor growth on its own. In vitro studies confirmed that desferal inhibits breast tumor growth. However, it did not induce apoptosis, nor did it induce cell cycle arrest. Instead, desferal caused cytostasis, apparently through iron depletion. The cytostatic activity of desferal was partially ameliorated by pretreatment with iron-saturated transferrin, and transferrin receptor expression on breast cancer cells nearly doubled after exposure to desferal. In contrast to its effect on tumor cells, desferal did not inhibit growth of normal breast epithelial cells. The data indicate that the anti-tumor activity of doxorubicin is not dependent on iron-mediated ROS production. Furthermore, desferal may have utility as an adjunctive chemotherapy due to its ability to inhibit breast tumor growth and cardiotoxic side effects without compromising the tumor-killing activity of an anthracycline chemotherapy drug.
Blood lipid levels are heritable, treatable risk factors for cardiovascular disease. We systematically assessed genome-wide coding variation to identify new genes influencing lipid traits, fine map known lipid loci and evaluate whether low-frequency variants with large effects exist for these traits. Using an exome array, we genotyped 80,137 coding variants in 5,643 Norwegians. We followed up 18 variants in 4,666 Norwegians and identified ten loci with coding variants associated with a lipid trait (P < 5 × 10(-8)). One variant in TM6SF2 (encoding p.Glu167Lys), residing in a known genome-wide association study locus for lipid traits, influences total cholesterol levels and is associated with myocardial infarction. Transient TM6SF2 overexpression or knockdown of Tm6sf2 in mice alters serum lipid profiles, consistent with the association observed in humans, identifying TM6SF2 as a functional gene within a locus previously known as NCAN-CILP2-PBX4 or 19p13. This study demonstrates that systematic assessment of coding variation can quickly point to a candidate causal gene.
We reported previously that microinjections of carbachol directly into the pontine reticular formation of rats induced intense akinesia. In the present article we report results of tests for rigidity, righting, bracing and clinging which were conducted with the purpose to characterize behaviorally this type of akinesia. After injections of 5-15 micrograms/0.5 microliter of carbachol into the pontine reticular formation the rats were cataleptic, were not rigid when equilibrium was not challenged, had strong righting reflexes and strong bracing and clinging responses. This type of akinesia is different from the catatonia induced by systemic morphine (20 mg/kg IP), but similar to the catalepsy induced by systemic injections of haloperidol (5 mg/kg IP). It is thus suggested that the cataleptic state produced by topical carbachol in the pons is related to the dopaminergic mechanisms important for the cataleptic effect of the neuroleptic drugs.
Zinc (Zn)-deficiency (ZD) is implicated in the pathogenesis of human oral-esophageal cancers. Previously, we showed that in ZD mice genetic deletion of cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) enhances N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine-induced forestomach carcinogenesis. By contrast, Cox-2 deletion offers protection in Zn-sufficient (ZS) mice. We hypothesize that ZD activates pathways insensitive to COX-2 inhibition, thereby promoting carcinogenesis. This hypothesis is tested in a Cox-2(-/-) mouse tongue cancer model that mimics pharmacologic blockade of COX-2 by firstly examining transcriptome profiles of forestomach mucosa from Cox-2(-/-) and wild-type mice on a ZD vs. ZS diet, and secondly investigating the roles of identified markers in mouse forestomach/tongue preneoplasia and carcinomas. In Cox-2(-/-) mice exposed to the tongue carcinogen 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide, dietary ZD elicited tongue/esophagus/forestomach carcinomas that were prevented by ZS. The precancerous ZD:Cox-2(-/-) vs. ZS:Cox-2(-/-) forestomach had an inflammatory signature with upregulation of the proinflammation genes S100a8 and S100a9. Bioinformatics analysis revealed overrepresentation of inflammation processes comprising S100a8/a9 and an nuclear factor (NF)-κB network with connectivity to S100A8. Immunohistochemistry revealed co-overexpression of S100A8, its heterodimeric partner S100A9, the receptor for advanced glycation end-products (RAGE), NF-κB p65, and cyclin D1, in ZD:Cox-2(-/-) forestomach/tongue preneoplasia and carcinomas, evidence for the activation of a RAGE-S100A8/A9 inflammatory pathway. Accumulation of p53 in these carcinomas indicated activation of additional inflammatory pathways. Zn-replenishment in ZD:Cox-2(-/-) mice reversed the inflammation and inhibited carcinogenesis. Thus, ZD activates alternative inflammation-associated cancer pathways that fuel tumor progression and bypass the antitumor effect of Cox-2 ablation. These findings have important clinical implications, as combination cancer therapy that includes Zn may improve efficacy.
Although generally reversible, contrast media toxicity often induces contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN), which is associated with longer hospitalization time, the need for dialysis, and higher incidence of later cardiovascular events and higher mortality. Preventive cotreatments have been assayed at the preclinical and clinical levels, but recent meta-analysis has not demonstrated a beneficial effect, which supports the search for new nephroprotective strategies. We have assessed if the administration of cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1), an endogenous cytokine with protective properties on the heart and liver, might mitigate CIN in rats. We have developed a model of CIN induced by the administration of the contrast medium gastrographin iv (3.7mg/kg) in rats sensitized by previous administration of subnephrotoxic doses of gentamicin (50mg/kg/day, ip) for 6 days. The severity of CIN was assessed by the measurement of renal function; renal histological damage; urinary excretion of markers of tubular damage, including N-acetyl beta glucosaminidase (NAG), kidney injury molecule 1 (KIM-1), and plasminogen activator inhibitor 1; lipid peroxidation; and renal apoptosis. Treatment with CT-1 almost completely prevented the renal tissue damage, as evidenced by almost total prevention of tubular desepithelization and tubular obstruction, reduced caspase activation, and cell proliferation. Besides, CT-1 also prevented the increment in renal tissue levels of renal tissue injury markers NAG, KIM-1, and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin. Oxidative stress, a hallmark of CIN, was also prevented by CT-1. Administration of CT-1 also prevented the derangement in kidney function induced by CIN. Renal hemodynamics, also impaired by the contrast medium, was normal in rats cotreated with CT-1. CT-1 administration significantly prevents the alterations in renal function and structure observed in a rat model of CIN.
Studies in humans have shown that cortisol administration (200 mg/day) increases cardiac output, renal vascular resistance, glomerular filtration rate, plasma volume, extracellular fluid volume, exchangeable sodium, plasma glucose, insulin, renin substrate and atrial natriuretic peptide concentrations as well as urinary kallikrein excretion. Cortisol treatment decreases renin and angiotensin II concentrations while catecholamines and vasopressin are decreased or unchanged. We have clear evidence from a number of studies that cortisol-induced hypertension is modulated by, but not dependent on, exogenous sodium. The increase in cardiac output normally seen with cortisol administration is not essential for the blood pressure rise. The role of the increase in renal vascular resistance in the genesis of the hypertension is unclear. Studies using measurements of noradrenaline spillover and assessment of reflex function have not shown any increase in sympathetic nervous system activity but changes in vascular responsiveness, particularly to phenylnephrine and noradrenaline are marked. Cortisol is known to have a variety of effects on brain, heart, kidneys, blood vessels and body fluid volumes. To what extent the observed changes are epiphenomena, amplifiers or modulators, or are causal is unclear. Cortisol hypertension may reflect a complex interplay of these factors varying with the steroid concentrations achieved, underlying genetic factors and the particular experimental circumstances.
Some ovarian cancer cells in vivo are in a reversible quiescent state where they can contribute to cancer spread under favorable growth conditions. The serine/threonine kinase Mirk/dyrk1B was expressed in each of seven ovarian cancer cell lines and in 21 of 28 resected human ovarian cancers, and upregulated in 60% of the cancers. Some ovarian cancer cells were found in a G0 quiescent state, with the highest fraction in a line with an amplified Mirk gene. Suboptimal culture conditions increased the G0 fraction in SKOV3 and TOV21G, but not OVCAR4 cultures. Less than half as many OVCAR4 cells survived under suboptimal culture conditions as shown by total cell numbers, dye exclusion viability studies, and assay of cleaved apoptotic marker proteins. G0 arrest in TOV21G and SKOV3 cells led to increased levels of Mirk, the CDK inhibitor p27, p130/Rb2, and p130/Rb2 complexed with E2F4. The G0 arrest was transient, and cells exited G0 when fresh nutrients were supplied. Depletion of p130/Rb2 reduced the G0 fraction, increased cell sensitivity to serum-free culture and to cisplatin, and reduced Mirk levels. Mirk contributed to G0 arrest by destabilization of cyclin D1. In TOV21G cells, but not in normal diploid fibroblasts, Mirk depletion led to increased apoptosis and loss of viability. Because Mirk is expressed at low levels in most normal adult tissues, the elevated Mirk protein levels in ovarian cancers may present a novel therapeutic target, in particular for quiescent tumor cells which are difficult to eradicate by conventional therapies targeting dividing cells.
The antihypertensive effect of the new non-sulphydryl ACE-inhibitor benzepril was studied in 30 patients (16 men, 14 women; mean age 50 +/- 7 years) with essential hypertension at WHO stage I or II. After a 2-week placebo treatment, patients with lying diastolic blood pressure (DBP) greater than or equal to 95 mmHg were given benzepril 10 mg once daily for 2 weeks. At the end of this period, patients with lying DBP less than 95 mmHg continued with the same dosage, while those with lying DBP greater than or equal to 95 mmHg were blindly up-titrated to benazepril 20 mg once daily. In both cases treatment was continued for further 4 weeks. BP was measured every two weeks 24-26 h after last drug administration. After the run-in period, mean group lying BP was 160/104 +/- 8/5 mmHg. Benazepril significantly reduced systolic blood pressure (SBP) and DBP, both supine and standing (p less than 0.01), while heart rate (HR) did not change. After the first 2 weeks, 13 patients (43%) had lying DBP less than 95 mmHg ("fast responders"), while 17 patients (57%) had DBP greater than or equal to 95 mmHg. By increasing the dosage to 20 mg, a further 5 patients became responder and mean group blood pressure in patients up-titrated with benazepril dropped significantly (-16/-10 mmHg from baseline; p less than 0.01, "slow responders"). Fast responders were younger (47 +/- 5 vs 54 +/- 8 years), had lower baseline BP (160/99 +/- 4/3 vs 173/107 +/- 7/3) and had shorter duration of hypertension (20 +/- 14 vs 61 +/- 27 months) than "slow responders".(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Accumulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide and deposition of hyperphosphorylated tau protein are two major pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have shown that cholesterol-enriched diets and its metabolite 27-hydroxycholesterol (27-OHC) increase Abeta and phosphorylated tau levels. However, the mechanisms by which cholesterol and 27-OHC regulate Abeta production and tau phosphorylation remain unclear. Leptin, an adipocytokine involved in cell survival and in learning, has been demonstrated to regulate Abeta production and tau hyperphosphorylation in transgenic mice for AD. However, the involvement of leptin signaling in cholesterol and cholesterol metabolites-induced Abeta accumulation and tau hyperphosphorylation are yet to be examined. In this study, we determined the effect of high cholesterol diet and 27-OHC on leptin expression levels and the extent to which leptin treatment affects 27-OHC-induced AD-like pathology. Our results show that feeding rabbits a 2% cholesterol-enriched diet for 12 weeks reduces the levels of leptin by approximately 80% and incubating organotypic slices from adult rabbit hippocampus with 27-OHC reduced leptin levels by approximately 30%. 27-OHC induces a 1.5-fold increase in Abeta (40) and a 3-fold increase in Abeta (42) and in phosphorylated tau. Treatment with leptin reversed the 27-OHC-induced increase in Abeta and phosphorylated tau by decreasing the levels of BACE-1 and GSK-3beta respectively. Our results suggest that cholesterol-enriched diets and cholesterol metabolites induce AD-like pathology by altering leptin signaling. We propose that leptin administration may prevent the progression of sporadic forms of AD that are related to increased cholesterol and oxidized cholesterol metabolite levels.
