Both endothelial nitric oxide (NO) and endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) are important vasodilators in pulmonary circulation. Sepsis is known to impair endothelium-dependent dilation in the pulmonary vasculature, but the mechanisms are incompletely understood. We have examined the relative contribution of EDHF/NO to the attenuated endothelium-dependent relaxation of pulmonary artery in sepsis, and the role of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)-derived NO in this mechanism. Sepsis was induced in male adult Wistar rats by caecal ligation and puncture. At 18h after surgery, left and right branches of pulmonary arteries were isolated for tension recording, NO/cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) measurements, mRNA and protein expressions. Despite a marked decrease in the arterial endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) mRNA and phosphorylated-eNOS (p-eNOS) protein expressions in sepsis, endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine (ACh) mediated by NO, acetylcholine-stimulated NO release and tissue cGMP levels were moderately inhibited. Sepsis however abolished the N(G)-Nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME)/indomethacin-resistant arterial relaxation (EDHF response) to acetylcholine in this vessel. In vitro treatment of the arterial rings from septic rats with 1400W, a selective inhibitor of iNOS restored the EDHF response, but had no effect on the acetylcholine-induced relaxation mediated by endothelial NO. The functional role of iNOS-derived NO in impairing EDHF-mediated relaxation was coincident with an increased basal NO production, iNOS mRNA and protein expressions in the rat pulmonary artery. In conclusion, the loss of the EDHF response may be primarily responsible for the endothelial dysfunction in sepsis, and its restoration by a selective iNOS inhibitor may improve pulmonary vasodilation.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a common chemical used in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins, with >93% of US adults having detectable BPA levels in urine. Recent animal studies have suggested that BPA exposure may have a role in several mechanisms involved in the development of hypertension, including weight gain, insulin resistance, thyroid dysfunction, endothelial dysfunction, and oxidative stress. However, no previous human study has examined the association between markers of BPA exposure and hypertension.
We examined urinary BPA levels in 1380 subjects from the National Health and Nutritional Examination Survey 2003-2004. Main outcome-of-interest was hypertension, defined as blood pressure-reducing medication use and/or blood pressures >140/90 mm of Hg (n = 580).
We observed a positive association between increasing levels of urinary BPA and hypertension independent of confounding factors such as age, gender, race/ethnicity, smoking, body mass index (BMI), diabetes mellitus and total serum cholesterol levels. Compared to tertile 1 (referent), the multivariate-adjusted odds ratio (95% confidence interval) of hypertension associated with tertile 3 was 1.50 (1.12-2.00); P-trend = 0.007. The association was consistently present in subgroup analyses by race/ethnicity, smoking status, BMI, and diabetes mellitus.
Urinary BPA levels are associated with hypertension, independent of traditional risk factors.
Recurrent chromosomal translocations involving the RAR alpha locus on chromosome 17 are the hallmark of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). The RAR alpha gene fuses to variable partners (PML, PLZF, NPM, NuMA and STAT5B: X genes) leading to the expression of APL-specific fusion proteins with identical RAR alpha moieties. To analyse whether the variable X moiety could affect the activity of the fusion protein in vivo, we generated and characterized, on a comparative basis, NPM/RAR alpha transgenic mice (TM) in which the fusion gene is expressed under the control of a human Cathepsin G (hCG) minigene. We compared the features of the leukemia observed in these TM with those in hCG-PML/RAR alpha and hCG-PLZF/RAR alpha TM. In all three transgenic models, leukemia developed after a variably long latency, with variable penetrance. However, the three leukemias displayed distinct cytomorphological features. hCG-NPM/RAR alpha leukemic cells resembled monoblasts. This phenotype contrasts with what was observed in the hCG-PML/RAR alpha TM model in which the leukemic phase was characterized by the proliferation of promyelocytic blasts. Similarly, hCG-PLZF/RAR alpha TM displayed a different phenotype where terminally differentiated myeloid cells predominated. Importantly, the NPM/RAR alpha oncoprotein was found to localize in the nucleolus, unlike PML/RAR alpha and PLZF/RAR alpha, thus possibly interfering with the normal function of NPM. Similarly to what was observed in human APL patients, we found that NPM/RAR alpha and PML/RAR alpha, but not PLZF/RAR alpha leukemia, was responsive to all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or As2O3 treatments. Taken together, our results underscore the critical relevance of the X moiety in dictating the biology of the disease and the activity of the APL fusion oncoprotein.
Haloperidol and reduced haloperidol plasma concentrations were measured in age-matched Chinese and non-Chinese patients (n = 32). Steady-state plasma concentrations were obtained 10-12 hours after the bedtime dose. Haloperidol and reduced haloperidol concentrations were measured by liquid chromatography and radioimmunoassay. Haloperidol plasma concentrations did not significantly differ between the populations, but reduced haloperidol levels were 3 times greater in non-Chinese patients than in Chinese patients. The incidence of extrapyramidal side effects was higher in Chinese patients (18 vs. 10), while non-Chinese patients with extrapyramidal symptoms had higher reduced haloperidol plasma levels. Logistic regression analysis revealed that ethnicity and reduced haloperidol/haloperidol ratios were important variables in predicting extrapyramidal symptoms. These results suggest that the metabolism and disposition of haloperidol and reduced haloperidol could differ among ethnic populations.
Developmental bisphenol A (BPA) exposure has been implicated in adverse behavior and learning deficits. The mode of action underlying these effects is unclear. The objectives of this study were to identify whether low-dose, developmental BPA exposure affects larval zebrafish locomotor behavior and whether learning deficits occur in adults exposed during development. Two control compounds, 17β-estradiol (an estrogen receptor ligand) and GSK4716 (a synthetic estrogen-related receptor gamma ligand), were included. Larval toxicity assays were used to determine appropriate BPA, 17β-estradiol, and GSK4716 concentrations for behavior testing. BPA tissue uptake was analyzed using HPLC and lower doses were extrapolated using a linear regression analysis. Larval behavior tests were conducted using a ViewPoint Zebrabox. Adult learning tests were conducted using a custom-built T-maze. BPA exposure to <30μM was non-teratogenic. Neurodevelopmental BPA exposure to 0.01, 0.1, or 1μM led to larval hyperactivity or learning deficits in adult zebrafish. Exposure to 0.1μM 17β-estradiol or GSK4716 also led to larval hyperactivity. This study demonstrates the efficacy of using the zebrafish model for studying the neurobehavioral effects of low-dose developmental BPA exposure.
Combining chemotherapy and immunotherapeutic agents such as interleukin-2 and interferon alpha-2b might improve treatment results in metastatic melanoma (MM) patients compared with chemotherapy alone. This prospective study evaluated the potential efficacy of a biochemotherapy regimen followed by maintenance biotherapy for the treatment of MM. Twenty-two patients with stage IV melanoma were treated for 5 consecutive days with cisplatin at 20 mg/m, vinblastine at 1.6 mg/m, and dacarbazine at 160 mg/m. Pegylated interferon alpha-2b at a dose of 50 microg every week, subcutaneous interleukin-2, 1.8 MIU, and oral 13-cis-retinoic acid (13-cis-RA) at 0.5 mg/kg were given 5 days/week for 3 weeks each month during the period of chemotherapy administration. Maintenance biotherapy was continued in patients who had a complete or partial response or disease stability (clinical benefit) after six courses of biochemotherapy. The primary endpoint was response; secondary endpoints were the evaluation of the immunologic parameters, toxicity, progression-free survival, and overall survival. Twelve patients (54.5%) achieved a response, and seven (31.8%) maintained stable disease for at least 6 months with maintenance biotherapy. The median progression-free survival and overall survival were 23.3 and 45.7 months, respectively. The most important toxicities from chemotherapy were grades 3 and 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia in 41 and 18% of patients, respectively, whereas grade 2 autoimmune reactions were observed in 21% of patients after maintenance biotherapy. A prolonged enhancement of immunologic function was observed in the 19 patients treated with maintenance therapy. A regimen of six cycles of biochemotherapy followed by maintenance immunotherapy is well tolerated, and shows significant activity in patients with MM.
Restructuring of cyclophosphamide (CPA) is a promising method for the development of antineoplastic therapy. This study investigated the inhibitory effects of a derivative of CPA, SLXM-2, on hepatocarcinoma 22 (H22) transplanted into ICR mice as well as its effects on the survival time of mice transplanted with the ascitic fluid-type H22. We found that SLXM-2 inhibited tumor growth and prolonged survival time. Moreover, the compound had little effect in vivo on leukocytes and body weight and a higher lethal dose 50 than CPA. The cell cycle analysis by flow cytometry revealed that SLXM-2 arrested tumor cells in both the S and G2 phases, and the arrest in the G2 phase increased in a dose-dependent manner. Western blotting and reverse transcription-PCR experiments indicated that the observed G2 arrest was associated with an increase of cyclin B1, whereas cell division cycle protein 2 (Cdc2) remained constant. The results, however, showed an accumulation of tyrosine 15 phosphorylated Cdc2 and a reduction of threonine 161 phosphorylated Cdc2. In addition, SLXM-2 led to a decrease in cyclin-dependent kinase 7 and Cdc25c kinase, which participated in inhibiting the G2/M transition. Our data identified two upstream targets leading to the inactivity of the cyclin B1/Cdc2 complex, which explained the arrest in the G2/M phase following SLXM-2 treatment. These results demonstrated the antitumor activity of SLXM-2 and its potential use as an antineoplastic drug.
The dried rhizome of Panax notoginseng is a traditional Chinese herb extensively used for treatment of cardiovascular diseases and other ailments. Panax notoginseng saponins (PNS) are known as the major pharmacologically active constituents. The purpose of this study was to investigate the cardioprotective effects of PNS against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity and its possible influence on the anti-tumor activity of doxorubicin. Five groups of ICR mice were treated with saline (control group), doxorubicin alone (20 mg/kg I. P.), PNS alone, doxorubicin pretreated with PNS (100 mg/kg I. G. for 5 consecutive days) or amifostine (single dose of 200 mg/kg I. V., used as positive control). After 72 h of doxorubicin treatment, cardiac function, serum levels of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatine kinase (CK) and creatine kinase isoenzyme (CK-MB) and activities of antioxidant enzymes in heart tissue were measured. Pretreatment with PNS significantly protected the mice from DOX-induced cardiotoxicity as evidenced from improved ventricular contractile function, lower levels of serum LDH, CK and CK-MB, minimal morphological changes in hearts, and normalization of myocardial superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and catalase activities. Additionally, IN VITRO cytotoxic studies demonstrated that PNS did not compromise the inhibitory effect of doxorubicin on the proliferation of cancer cells. These results imply the potentially clinical application of PNS to overcome the negative side effects of doxorubicin.
Metformin is a commonly used oral antidiabetic drug which can cause lactic acidosis. Although rare, this condition carries a high mortality risk. Correction of metabolic acidaemia is essential for treatment and dialysis with bicarbonate replacement is the gold standard approach. A 53-year-old man with diabetes on metformin therapy was admitted to the intensive care unit with severe lactic acidosis and acute renal failure suggesting metformin intoxication. The lactic acidosis was treated with bicarbonate haemodialysis and his pH normalized after 10 hours, but he died because of myocardial infarction due to severe hypotension. At ICU admission an aortic dissection was also hypothesized but TEE did not evidence aortic dissection. The dilemma in this patient was represented by the abnormal PaO2 value (140 mmHg) in the venous blood gas analysis. Considering that metformin acts on mitochondrial respiration, the dilemma may be explained by hypothesizing a cellular respiration block caused by metformin or severe acidosis. (www.actabiomedica.it)
Benign intracranial hypertension due to tetracycline is described in an adolescent female. Complete resolution of the condition occurred when the drug was withdrawn.
We recently synthesized a series of novel makaluvamine compounds, and found that the most potent was FBA-TPQ. The effects of FBA-TPQ on human (LNCaP and PC3) and murine (TRAMP C1) prostate cancer cells were evaluated. Potential mechanisms of action of the compound were also determined. FBA-TPQ exhibited dose-dependent cytotoxicity in the low micromolar range, inhibited proliferation, caused cell cycle arrest, and induced apoptosis in prostate cancer cell lines. The compound also decreased the expression of the androgen receptor and PSA. The results presented herein support the further development of FBA-TPQ as a novel agent for prostate cancer.
Interleukin-12 (IL-12) triggers an antitumoral immune response and an antiangiogenic effect against cancer. In this study, we tested a novel polymeric vehicle for IL-12 gene therapy along with adjuvant local biodegradable carmustine (BCNU) chemotherapy for the treatment of malignant glioma. Highly concentrated DNA/PPC (polyethylenimine covalently modified with methoxypolyethyleneglycol and cholesterol) complexes were used to deliver a murine plasmid encoding IL-12 (pmIL-12). For toxicity assessment, mice received intracranial injections with different volumes of pmIL-12/PPC. For efficacy, mice with intracranial GL261 glioma were treated with local delivery of pmIL-12/PPC and/or BCNU-containing polymers. Intracranial injections of 5-10 microl of pmIL-12/PPC were well tolerated and led to IL-12 expression in the brains of treated animals. Treatment with pmIL-12/PPC led to a significant increase in survival compared with untreated mice (median survival 57 days; 25% long-term survival >95 vs. 45 days for control; P<0.05). Treatment with BCNU led to a significant increase in survival compared with untreated mice, with 75% of treated mice having a long-term survival >95 days, (P<0.05). Most importantly, the combination of BCNU and pmIL-12/PPC led to a survival of 100% of the mice for 95 days after treatment (P<0.0001). This novel strategy is safe and effective for the treatment of malignant glioma. The synergy resultant from the combination of locally administered pmIL-12/PPC and BCNU suggests a role for this approach in the treatment of malignant brain tumors.
We report a case of nephrotic syndrome and acute renal failure that developed in a 73-year-old woman after six months of treatment with the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) diclofenac. Renal biopsy revealed interstitial nephritis and minimal change nephropathy. Despite discontinuation of treatment with diclofenac, she subsequently became anuric and required hemodialysis for progressive azotemia. Since her anuria was persistent, treatment with prednisone at a dose of 30 mg/day was started. With progressive increase in urine output after the initiation of corticosteroid treatment, a constant decrease in serum creatinine was observed along with improvement of creatinine clearance. In addition, the increased urinary excretion of beta2-microglobulin (beta2MG) and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) on admission was also improved during the treatment. Our findings suggest that corticosteroid treatment should be reserved for patients with the protracted deterioration of renal function even after discontinuation of offending trigger agents.
1. Felodipine is a new calcium-antagonist dihydropyridine derivative with a high degree of selectivity for smooth muscle of arteriolar resistance vessels, as opposed to cardiac cells. 2. In this double-blind, cross-over study the antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability of the new extended release (ER) formulation of felodipine 10 mg, once daily, in patients with mild essential hypertension was evaluated. After a 4-week single-blind placebo period 28 patients (15 males; mean age 48 +/- 12 years) were randomized to receive felodipine 10 mg ER once daily or placebo for 4 weeks and the alternative treatment for a further 4 weeks. Supine blood pressure and heart rate were measured in the out-patients department every 2 weeks, 22-24 h after the last drug administration. 3. Felodipine 10 mg ER induced a significant reduction in blood pressure in comparison with placebo (from 149 +/- 16/97 +/- 6 to 140 +/- 12/89 +/- 6 mm Hg). Heart rate remained unchanged. Seven patients dropped-out; five during felodipine ER administration and two during placebo. 4. A once daily dose of felodipine ER significantly reduces blood pressure in mild hypertensive patients 22-24 h after administration. It is well tolerated and the adverse events are related to its pharmacodynamic effects.
The possibility that hyperlipidemia and an increase of mononuclear cells in the glomeruli could participate in the pathogenesis of minimal change glomerulopathy was evaluated in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis in rats. Significant increases in intraglomerular CD4-, IL-2-receptor (R)- and ED-1-positive cells were found in PAN rats. Urinary protein excretion and mononuclear cells in the glomeruli of 1% cholesterol diet-fed rats significantly increased, compared with standard diet feeding. Moreover, administration of a subnephrogenic dose of PAN in cholesterol diet-fed rats substantially increased urinary protein excretion and mononuclear cells in the glomeruli. Additionally, antihyperlipidemia agents and immunosuppressive agents prevented urinary protein excretion and increases of CD4-, IL-2R- and ED-1-positive cells in the glomeruli of PAN nephrotic rats. Monoclonal antibodies directed against these cells also prevented urinary protein excretion. These results suggest that CD4-, IL-2R- and ED-1-positive cells and hyperlipidemia are involved in the progression, but not the pathogenesis, of PAN.
delta9-Tetrahydrocannabinol (delta9-THC) is capable of modulating a variety of immune responses, but has not been evaluated in models of immune-based diabetes. The objectives of the present study were: (a) to investigate the effect of delta9-THC in an established model of multiple low dose streptozotocin (MLDSTZ)-induced autoimmune diabetes; and (b) to determine the contribution of the immune response in the MLDSTZ model. CD-1 mice were treated with 40 mg/kg STZ for 5 days in the presence or absence of delta9-THC treatment. delta9-THC administered orally in corn oil at 150 mg/kg for 11 days attenuated, in a transient manner, the MLDSTZ-induced elevation in serum glucose and loss of pancreatic insulin. MLDSTZ-induced insulitis and increases in IFN-gamma, TNFalpha and IL-12 mRNA expression were all reduced on Day 11 by co-administration of delta9-THC. In separate studies, six doses of delta9-THC, given after completion of STZ treatment, was found equally effective in attenuating mice from MLDSTZ-induced diabetes. Studies performed using B6C3F1 mice showed moderate hyperglycemia and a significant reduction in pancreatic insulin by MLDSTZ in the absence of insulitis. In addition, MLDSTZ produced a less pronounced hyperglycemia compared to CD-1 mice that was not attenuated by delta9-THC. These results suggest that MLDSTZ can initiate direct beta-cell damage, thereby augmenting the destruction of beta-cells by the immune system. Moreover, these results indicate that delta9-THC is capable of attenuating the severity of the autoimmune response in this experimental model of autoimmune diabetes.
Proteasome inhibition represents a promising novel anticancer therapy, and bortezomib is a highly selective reversible inhibitor of the proteasome complex. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an immnunophenotypically heterogeneous group of diseases, with CD34(+) cases being associated with drug resistance and poor outcome. We investigated the effects of bortezomib on the growth and survival of AML cells.
We studied the in vitro activity and mechanism of action of bortezomib on both cell lines and fresh cells from 28 AML patients including CD34(+) and CD34(-) cases.
Bortezomib showed potent anti-AML activity (IC(50) < 50 nM), which was greater than that of conventional agents (doxorubicin, cytarabine and fludarabine). Moreover, synergistic effects were observed when bortezomib was administered in combination with doxorubicin and cytarabine. Mechanistically, bortezomib induced accumulation of cells in the G(2)/M phase, with up-regulation of p27, together with cell death through an increase in the mitochondrial outer membrane permeability involving caspase-dependent and -independent pathways. The apoptotic activity of bortezomib on fresh CD34(+) blast cells from patients was similar to that observed on CD34(-)blast cells. Importantly, bortezomib was significantly more active than doxorubicin in the immature CD34(+) cells, while there were no differences in its action on CD34(-) cells.
Bortezomib induces apoptosis in acute myeloid leukemia cells in vitro. Whether this drug might be useful in the treatment of patients with acute myeloid leukemia can be established only in ad hoc clinical trials.
The two anthracycline antitumor antibiotics, adriamycin and daunomycin, have been tested for tumorigenic activity, and the results confirm previous findings that they can induce mammary tumors in female rats receiving single i.v. doses. Both substances are highly potent in producing malignant transformation and mutation in mammalian cell systems in vitro. Their transformming activity is comparable to that of the potent carcinogen, N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitro-soguanidine. Actinomycin D, although similar to the anthracyclines in having high binding affinity for DNA, is only minimally effective in the same in vitro systems and its direct carcinogenic activity in vivo is moot. These results suggest that satisfactory correlations may be obtainable between tests for tumorigenicity in vivo, and assays for transformation and mutagenesis in vitro, and that adriamycin, and daunomycin may have carcinogenic potential in man.
A possible causal relationship between oral contraceptives and liver cell adenomas has been postulated in the recent literature. In this presentation three additional cases are reported to support the existence of such an association. The possible etiologic causes for this newly described condition and specific diagnostic procedures for its accurate diagnosis are presented.
The mechanism by which progesterone has its anti-seizure effects is unknown. Progesterone has a high affinity for intracellular progestin receptors, but has weak actions at gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors complexes. The progesterone metabolite, 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP) is devoid of activity at intracellular progestin receptors but is a highly effective modulator of GABA(A) receptor complexes. Whether progesterones anti-seizure actions are due to effects of progesterone itself or its metabolite 3alpha,5alpha-THP was investigated. In experiment 1, 25 ovariectomized Long-Evans rats were subcutaneously (s.c.) injected with 0.0, 4.0 or 8.0 mg/kg progesterone or 3alpha,5alpha-THP, 10 min prior to systemic administration of 32 mg/kg kainic acid. Four and 8.0 mg/kg progesterone significantly reduced the duration of partial and full seizures, without influencing the latency to partial or full seizures, or the number of partial or full seizures. 3alpha, 5alpha-THP (4.0 mg/kg) significantly increased the latency to initial partial seizure, and decreased the number and duration of partial seizures. In experiment 2, 60 ovariectomized Long-Evans rats were stereotaxically implanted with bipolar electrodes into the perforant pathway. Prior to perforant pathway stimulation, rats were s.c. injected with either progesterone (4.0 mg/kg, n = 12), 3alpha, 5alpha-THP (4.0 mg/kg, n = 13), progesterone (4.0 mg/kg)+4MA (10.0 mg of a 5alpha-reductase inhibitor, 17b-N, N-diethylcarbamoyl-4-methyl-4-aza,5alpha-androstan-3-one, n = 12), 4MA+vehicle (n = 10), or sesame oil vehicle (n = 13). Administration of progesterone or 3alpha, 5alpha-THP, but not vehicle control, P+4MA, or 4MA, resulted in significant decreases in partial seizures. In experiment 3, whole brain progesterone and 3alpha,5alpha-THP were measured by radioimmunoassay in additional rats (n = 66) administered the hormonal milieu indicated in experiments 1 and 2. Data suggest anti-seizure effects of progesterone may be due, in part, to metabolism to 3alpha,5alpha-THP and subsequent actions at GABA(A) receptor complexes.
To investigate the long-term differential drug effects on cognitive functioning in school-aged children exposed to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in utero.
Mothers with epilepsy were recruited from specialist epilepsy clinics and obstetric clinics from the Liverpool and Manchester region. The mothers and their children were recruited without prior knowledge of their AED treatment during pregnancy or the health of the offspring. A battery of neuropsychological tests was applied to each mother-child pair in order to obtain a neuropsychological profile for each child.
Neuropsychological investigation was performed on 249 children between the ages of 6 and 16. Children exposed to sodium valproate had a significantly lower verbal IQ when compared to children exposed to other antiepileptic drugs or not exposed at all. The same children were more likely to have an IQ below 69 and more likely to have memory impairment when compared to the other groups. The mothers' IQ, exposure to sodium valproate, and the number of tonic-clonic seizures during pregnancy were significant predictors of verbal IQ in this population.
This retrospective study highlights the potential harmful effects of sodium valproate exposure in utero on neuropsychological development.
A 59 year old white woman who had been treated with chloroquine phosphate for 25 years presented with signs of congestive heart failure and was diagnosed as having restrictive cardiomyopathy by non-invasive methods. Electron microscopy of a biopsy specimen of skeletal muscle showed lesions compatible with chloroquine myopathy. The patient died five weeks after presentation. Electron microscopy of heart tissue showed similar lesions to those of the skeletal muscle.
Manganese (Mn) exposure causes manganism, a neurological disorder similar to Parkinson's disease. However, the cellular mechanism by which Mn impairs the dopaminergic neurotransmitter system remains unclear. We previously demonstrated that caspase-3-dependent proteolytic activation of protein kinase C delta (PKCδ) plays a key role in Mn-induced apoptotic cell death in dopaminergic neurons. Recently, we showed that PKCδ negatively regulates tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis, by enhancing protein phosphatase-2A activity in dopaminergic neurons. Here, we report that Mn exposure can affect the enzymatic activity of TH, the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis, by activating PKCδ-PP2A signaling pathway in a dopaminergic cell model. Low dose Mn (3-10μM) exposure to differentiated mesencephalic dopaminergic neuronal cells for 3h induced a significant increase in TH activity and phosphorylation of TH-Ser40. The PKCδ specific inhibitor rottlerin did not prevent Mn-induced TH activity or TH-Ser40 phosphorylation. On the contrary, chronic exposure to 0.1-1 μM Mn for 24h induced a dose-dependent decrease in TH activity. Interestingly, chronic Mn treatment significantly increased PKCδ kinase activity and protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) enzyme activity. Treatment with the PKCδ inhibitor rottlerin almost completely prevented chronic Mn-induced reduction in TH activity, as well as increased PP2A activity. Neither acute nor chronic Mn exposures induced any cytotoxic cell death or altered TH protein levels. Collectively, these results demonstrate that low dose Mn exposure impairs TH activity in dopaminergic cells through activation of PKCδ and PP2A activity.
A multi-compartment physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model was developed to describe the behavior of Cr(III) and Cr(VI) in humans. Compartments were included for gastrointestinal lumen, oral mucosa, stomach, small intestinal tissue, blood, liver, kidney, bone, and a combined compartment for remaining tissues. As chronic exposure to high concentrations of Cr(VI) in drinking water cause small intestinal cancer in mice, the toxicokinetics of Cr(VI) in the upper gastrointestinal tract of rodents and humans are important for assessing internal tissue dose in risk assessment. Fasted human stomach fluid was collected and ex vivo Cr(VI) reduction studies were conducted and used to characterize reduction of Cr(VI) in human stomach fluid as a mixed second-order, pH-dependent process. For model development, toxicokinetic data for total chromium in human tissues and excreta were identified from the published literature. Overall, the PBPK model provides a good description of chromium toxicokinetics and is consistent with the available total chromium data from Cr(III) and Cr(VI) exposures in typical humans (i.e., model predictions are within a factor of three for approximately 86% of available data). By accounting for key species differences, sources of saturable toxicokinetics, and sources of uncertainty and variation, the rodent and human PBPK models can provide a robust characterization of toxicokinetics in the target tissue of the small intestine allowing for improved health risk assessment of human populations exposed to environmentally-relevant concentrations.
We relate the case of a drug addict of 31 years old whose dependence to the amineptine got complicated with severe acne-like lesions, as it sometimes happens. Compared, with teenage acne, severe acne can be distinguished by its late out break, its monstrous nature and its larger surface area. Amineptine has been found (or its metabolites) in the plasma, the urine. The treatment consists in the stopping of the drug addiction, combined with the prescription of isotretinoin.
Organophosphorous compounds (OP) are highly toxic compounds. Great efforts have been undertaken in the last decades to develop new reactivators of OP-inhibited acetylcholinesterase. So far, a broad-spectrum oxime bearing efficacy against all OP is still missing and alternative approaches are presently under investigation. Previous experiments demonstrated that the bispyridinium non-oxime MB327 was able to improve OP-impaired muscle force in human, rat and guinea pig respiratory muscles and to increase survival in soman, sarin and tabun poisoned guinea pigs. Recent studies indicate that MB327 exhibits a high affinity to muscarinic acetylcholine receptors but up to now, only scarce information is available on the effects of MB327 in isolated organs. Now, the antimuscarinic effect of MB327 was compared to that of established oximes and atropine in a rat jejunum smooth muscle model. MB327 showed a fully reversible smooth muscle relaxing effect at lower concentrations (EC₅₀≈ 6 μM) than all tested oximes. In fact, MB327 exhibited an antimuscarinic smooth muscle relaxing effect at concentrations which were shown to improve OP-impaired skeletal muscle force. Hence, it may be assumed that the antimuscarinic potency of MB327 may contribute to its therapeutic effect in OP poisoning.
