The T4-binding globulin (TBG) gene is a single copy located on the X-chromosome. Previous studies have failed to elucidate the molecular defect in individuals with complete TBG deficiency (TBG-CD). Indeed, no major deletions, insertions, or other rearrangements were observed in the TBG gene of six unrelated males with this defect. To clarify the molecular basis of TBG-CD, we have cloned and sequenced the TBG gene of an affected male (CD5) of French Canadian origin. The sequence of the exons encoding the mature protein, adjacent introns, and the promoter region revealed two nucleotide substitutions: CTA(Leu)----CCA(Pro) at codon 227 and TTG(Leu)----TTT(Phe) at codon 283. The Leu----Phe substitution, a relatively conservative replacement, is a TBG polymorphism present in 16% (3 of 19) of French Canadian males. It has no effect on the serum concentration or properties of the common type TBG (TBG-C). The new Leu----Pro substitution, which is predicted to alter the higher order of TBG structure, is probably responsible for the TBG-CD phenotype of the individual studied and two other families with TBG-CD. It possibly impairs TBG biosynthesis or secretion or perhaps alters TBG structure to such a degree that the molecule is not recognized by antibodies against native or denatured TBG and does not bind T4.
The multifactorial origin of gastric cancer encompasses environmental factors mainly associated with diet. Pteridium aquilinum-bracken fern-is the only higher plant known to cause cancer in animals. Its carcinogenic toxin, ptaquiloside, has been identified in milk of cows and groundwater. Humans can be directly exposed by consumption of the plant, contaminated water or milk, and spore inhalation. Epidemiological studies have shown an association between bracken exposure and gastric cancer. In the present work, the genotoxicity of P. aquilinum and ptaquiloside, including DNA damaging effects and DNA damage response, was characterized in human gastric epithelial cells and in a mouse model. In vitro, the highest doses of P. aquilinum extracts (40 mg/ml) and ptaquiloside (60 μg/ml) decreased cell viability and induced apoptosis. γH2AX and P53-binding protein 1 analysis indicated induction of DNA strand breaks in treated cells. P53 level also increased after exposure, associated with ATR-Chk1 signaling pathway activation. The involvement of ptaquiloside in the DNA damage activity of P. aquilinum was confirmed by deregulation of the expression of a panel of genes related to DNA damage signaling pathways and DNA repair, in response to purified ptaquiloside. Oral administration of P. aquilinum extracts to mice increased gastric cell proliferation and led to frameshift events in intron 2 of the P53 gene. Our data demonstrate the direct DNA damaging and mutagenic effects of P. aquilinum. These results are in agreement with the carcinogenic properties attributed to this fern and its ptaquiloside toxin and support their role in promoting gastric carcinogenesis.
Cocaine is the most common illicit drug used in patients presenting with chest pain to emergency departments. Data on beta-blockers in cocaine-related chest pain syndrome are sparse. We sought out to study the causal and detrimental effects of beta-blockers in cocaine-related chest pain in a large inner city cohort of patients.
All patients presenting to a large inner city emergency department with chest pain, with positive urine drug screen for cocaine were included. The group comprised predominantly young (mean age 46.8 +/- 8.2 years), African American (90.6%) males (73.4%). Evidence of myocardial infarction in the form of elevation of troponin-I was noted in 7.3%. Evidence of myonecrosis (MN) was significantly more likely in those who were taking beta-blockers at presentation as compared with those who were not (14% versus 4.4%, P < 0.01). In the absence of prospective controlled data, our observational findings seem to suggest that routine initiation or continuation or of beta-blockers after admission increased the likelihood of developing MN (23.3% versus 10.7%, P < 0.01) during the course of hospitalization.
MN as reflected by elevation of cardiac biomarkers is uncommon in patients presenting with cocaine-related chest pain. Preexisting use of beta-blockers seems to render a higher risk of myocardial injury in patients presenting with cocaine-related chest pain. In addition initiation or continuation of beta-blockers during hospitalization should be discouraged.
The prevalence of overweight and obesity in children and adolescents is increasing rapidly. In this population, behavioral therapy alone has had limited success in providing meaningful, sustained weight reduction, and pharmacological treatment has not been extensively studied.
To determine the efficacy and safety of orlistat in weight management of adolescents.
Multicenter, 54-week (August 2000-October 2002), randomized, double-blind study of 539 obese adolescents (aged 12-16 years; body mass index [BMI] >or=2 units above the 95th percentile) at 32 centers in the United States and Canada.
A 120-mg dose of orlistat (n = 357) or placebo (n = 182) 3 times daily for 1 year, plus a mildly hypocaloric diet (30% fat calories), exercise, and behavioral therapy.
Change in BMI; secondary measures included changes in waist and hip circumference, weight loss, lipid measurements, and glucose and insulin responses to oral glucose challenge.
There was a decrease in BMI in both treatment groups up to week 12, thereafter stabilizing with orlistat but increasing beyond baseline with placebo. At the end of the study, BMI had decreased by 0.55 with orlistat but increased by 0.31 with placebo (P = .001). Compared with 15.7% of the placebo group, 26.5% of participants taking orlistat had a 5% or higher decrease in BMI (P = .005); 4.5% and 13.3%, respectively, had a 10% or higher decrease in BMI (P = .002). At study end, weight had increased 0.53 kg with orlistat and 3.14 kg with placebo (P<.001). Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry showed that this difference was explained by changes in fat mass. Waist circumference decreased in the orlistat group but increased in the placebo group (-1.33 cm vs +0.12 cm; P<.05). Generally mild to moderate gastrointestinal tract adverse events occurred in 9% to 50% of the orlistat group and in 1% to 13% of the placebo group.
In combination with diet, exercise, and behavioral modification, orlistat statistically significantly improved weight management in obese adolescents compared with placebo. The use of orlistat for 1 year in this adolescent population did not raise major safety issues although gastrointestinal adverse events were more common in the orlistat group.
Risk assessments suggest that intermediate and long-term exposure to triazine herbicides and its metabolites through water can cause severe damage to human health. The objective of this study was to investigate the possible effects of atrazine on Wistar rats submitted to subacute treatment. For this purpose, the activity of catalase and alanine aminotransferase was quantified, and the effect of the herbicide on cell membranes was examined based on the measurement of lipid peroxidation and consequent formation of malondialdehyde and on the mRNA expression of antioxidant enzymes (Mn-superoxide dismutase [SOD] and GSTM1) and connexins. In addition, we evaluated histopathological alterations in the liver, cellular expression of SOD and glutathione (GST), activation of heat shock proteins (HSPs) by immunohistochemistry, and the induction of apoptosis. The genotoxic potential of the herbicide was investigated by the micronucleus test in bone marrow smears. Adult male Wistar rats were treated with an aqueous solution of atrazine at a concentration of 400mg/kg/day, by gavage, for 14 consecutive days. Control groups were also included. The results showed an increase of catalase levels and maintenance of the expression of antioxidant enzymes (SOD and GST). In addition, lipid peroxidation, hepatic tissue degeneration, activation of HSP90, increased levels of connexin mRNA, and genotoxicity were observed. In conclusion, atrazine induced early hepatic oxidative stress that triggered defense mechanisms to maintain the morphophysiological integrity of the liver. Further studies are needed to better understand the effects of this herbicide on human health.
To determine the lamivudine response of HBV genotypes in patients with HBV DNA positive chronic hepatitis.
Clinical data from 235 patients in the original trial were analyzed.
135 patients received lamivudine and 100 patients as controls. Almost all patients had HBV genotypes B or C. Antiviral response were 92.9% and 75.9% in lamivudine-treated patients (chi-square = 6.628, P < 0.05) and 9.8% and 8.5% in untreated controls (P > 0.05) with HBV genotype B and C, respectively. The incidences of lamivudine-induced mutation in YMDD motif were 3.6% and 16.5% in HBV genotype B and C, respectively (chi-square = 5.508, P < 0.01). We identified HBV genotype B, elevated pretreatment alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels, and low pretreatment HBV DNA levels as independent factors associated with antiviral response.
HBV genotype B was associated with a higher rate of lamivudine-induced HBV DNA clearance and lower rate of lamivudine-induced YMDD mutation compared with genotype C. HBV genotypes may be an important determinant of lamivudine therapy of chronic hepatitis B.
The use of intravenous benzodiazepines often results in amnesia for events subsequent to drug administration (anterograde amnesia). To asses the effects of oral administration, a single 2 mg dose of lorazepam was given to 6 normal subjects. No substantial effect on immediate recall of word lists was seen in comparison with 6 placebo control subjects. However, the active drug significantly hindered the delayed recall of words. These findings indicate that lorazepam, taken orally as a daytime tranquilizer, can have amnestic action.
As part of a synthesis of evidence regarding the abuse and addiction liability of dextromethorphan (DM), an over-the-counter cough medicine available in over 140 preparations, an uncommonly published case of dextromethorphan dependence (addiction) is described, with specific, rarely published complications. The individual was interviewed and several medical databases were also reviewed (Medline, 1966-present; PubMed) for all content relating to the Keywords: dextromethorphan, abuse, dependence, cough medicine, addiction, withdrawal, psychosis. The patient evidenced history suggesting substance dependence, substance-induced psychosis and substance withdrawal in relation to DM. A literature review revealed that DM has specific serotonergic and sigma-1 opioidergic properties. Dextrorphan (DOR), the active metabolite of DM, has similar properties; however, DOR is a weaker sigma opioid receptor agonist, and a stronger NMDA receptor antagonist. DM and DOR display specific biological features of addiction, and are capable of inducing specific psychiatric sequelae. A specific, reproducible toxidrome with significant psychiatric effects occurred, when DM was abused at greater than indicated doses, with more profound and potentially life-threatening effects at even higher doses. DM withdrawal appears evident. DM's active metabolite, DOR, has pharmacodynamic properties and intoxication effects similar to dissociatives, and may be more responsible for the dissociative effect that this DM abuser sought. However, it is this same metabolite that may be fraught with the potentially life-threatening psychoses and dissociative-induced accidents, as well as addiction. While DM has been hypothesized as the most commonly abused dissociative, health-care providers seem largely unaware of its toxidrome and addiction liability.
Currently, the only way to identify nongenotoxic hepatocarcinogens is through long-term repeat dose studies such as the 2 year rodent carcinogenicity assay. Such assays are both time consuming and expensive and require large amounts of active pharmaceutical or chemical ingredients. Thus, the results of the 2 year assay are not known until very late in the discovery and development process for new pharmaceutical entities. Although in many cases nongenotoxic carcinogenicity in rodents is considered to be irrelevant for humans, a positive finding in a 2 year carcinogenicity assay may increase the number of studies to demonstrate the lack of relevance to humans, delay final submission and subsequent registration of a product, and may result in a "black box" carcinogenicity warning on the label. To develop early identifiers of carcinogenicity, we applied transcription profiling using several prototype rodent genotoxic and nongenotoxic carcinogens, as well as two noncarcinogenic hepatotoxicants, in a 5 day repeat dose in vivo toxicology study. Fluorescent-labeled probes generated from liver mRNA prepared from male Sprague-Dawley rats treated with one of three dose levels of bemitradine, clofibrate, doxylamine, methapyrilene, phenobarbital, tamoxifen, 2-acetylaminofluorene, 4-acetylaminofluorene, or isoniazid were hybridized against rat cDNA microarrays. Correlation of the resulting data with an estimated carcinogenic potential of each compound and dose level identified several candidate molecular markers of rodent nongenotoxic carcinogenicity, including transforming growth factor-beta stimulated clone 22 and NAD(P)H cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is a serious complication of heparin therapy, and it remains a therapeutic challenge in the subset of patients requiring cardiopulmonary bypass. Alternative anticoagulation strategies include lepirudin, danaparoid, bivalirudin, and argatroban, or a combination of unfractionated heparin with a platelet antagonist. Argatroban is eliminated by a hepatic route, making it a practical option for patients with renal insufficiency. However, the lack of an effective antidote poses a significant problem. We present a patient with a history of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis who underwent a redo aortic valve replacement. Although the level of anticoagulation achieved with argatroban was initially adequate, its persistence after the completion of cardiopulmonary bypass proved to be life threatening.
A 66-year-old woman with malignant lymphoma became neutropenic during chemotherapy and developed cryptococcemia. After amphotericin B had been commenced, she developed significant hypokalemia and polyuria, though her renal function remained stable. The laboratory findings showed no evidence of renal tubular acidosis. With vigorous water and potassium replacement, amphotericin B had been continued until the cumulative dose reached 2.5 g. After the cessation of amphotericin B, the hypokalemia and polyuria resolved promptly. Based on theses findings, she was diagnosed as nephrogenic diabetes insipidus with hypokalemia and without renal tubular acidosis due to amphotericin B. This complication is usually reversible, and vigorous water and potassium replacement may allow completion of treatment by amphotericin B, though careful monitoring of body water balance and renal function is of importance.
The acute effects of nifedipine (20 mg capsules) on the blood pressure and renin-angiotensine system were studied in 108 subjects, 25 normotensives, 51 borderline hypertensives and 33 permanent essential hypertensives. The fall in mean blood pressure (MBP) was rapid (less than 30 minutes) and significant in all groups; the amplitude the hypotensive response expressed as a percentage of the basal MBP was directly related to the basal MBP value (r = 0.54, p less than 0.001). The amplitude of the response correlated with the control plasma renin activity only the group with permanent hypertension (r = - 0.40, p less than 0.025). The fall in blood pressure and the reflex sympathetic stimulation induced by nifedipine were not associated with an increased plasma renin activity. The plasma aldosterone concentrations varied only in the group of permanent hypertensive patients after nifedipine ( - 4 +/- 1 ng/dl, p less than 0.01).
Although the effect of copper on bone has been tested in animals and healthy subjects, no studies concerning the effect of copper supplementation on bone metabolism in patients with copper deficiency have been reported because of the rarity of these patients. This study was conducted to investigate the effect of copper supplementation on bone metabolism in copper-deficient patients.
This study included 10 patients (83.7 +/- 8.3 years) with dietary copper deficiency under long-term bed rest for more than 12 months. They had their diets supplemented with copper sulfate (3 mg/day) over 12 weeks in addition to their diet of only one kind of enteral food with a low concentration of copper. Serum copper and ceruloplasmin, urinary deoxypyridinoline (DPD) and collagen-type 1 N-telopeptide (NTX) (biomarkers of bone resorption), serum osteocalcin (OC) and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (Bone ALP) (biomarkers of bone formation) were analyzed at baseline, 4 and 12 weeks after copper supplementation.
DPD and NTX excretion were significantly increased 4 weeks after copper supplementation (p = 0.009 and p = 0.013, respectively). Serum bone ALP and OC were not significantly changed 12 weeks after copper supplementation (p = 0.051 and p = 0.594).
In patients with nutritional copper deficiency, bone resorption markers are increased with copper supplementation.
Chronic lead exposure causes hypertension and cardiovascular disease, which are associated with, and, in part, due to oxidative stress. While occurrence of oxidative stress in lead-exposed animals and cultured endothelial cells has been well-established, direct and specific evidence on the type of the reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by lead-exposed vascular cells is lacking and was investigated.
Human coronary endothelial (EC) and vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) were incubated in appropriate culture media in the presence of either 1 ppm or 10 ppm lead acetate or sodium acetate (control) for 1 to 30 minutes or 60 hours. Productions of superoxide and hydrogen peroxide in the cell populations were determined by flow cytometry using hydroethidine and dihydrorhodamine, respectively. Data from a minimum of 10,000 cells were collected and analyzed using Cell Quest software. In addition, Cu Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPX), and NAD(P)H oxidase (gp91phox) were measured.
Short-term lead exposure resulted in a significant rise in both superoxide and hydrogen peroxide production by both EC and VSMC. After long-term exposure, detectable superoxide levels fell to near normal level, while hydrogen peroxide production remained high. This was associated with up-regulations of gp91phox, elevation of superoxide dismutase, reduction of VSMC catalase, and no change in GPX levels. Together, these events can account for the observed decline in superoxide and the rise in hydrogen peroxide following long-term lead exposure.
Lead exposure promotes generation of superoxide and hydrogen peroxide in human EC and VSMC. This phenomenon can potentially contribute to the pathogenesis of the lead-associated hypertension and cardiovascular disease, and points to the potential benefit of lowering lead burden in the exposed populations.
Azathioprine has been clinically used for decades in connection with organ transplantation, autoimmune disease, and treatment of cancer. Toxic side-reactions are common and have been linked to the liberation of excessively high concentrations of 6-mercaptopurine and corresponding toxic metabolites. An allelic variant of thiopurine methyltransferase with low activity is associated with elevated concentrations of 6-mercaptopurine. However, other genetic markers remain to be identified in order to fully account for adverse reactions and efficacy failure. In the present study, we studied the five known allelic variants of human glutathione transferase A2-2 (GST A2-2) (EC 2.5.1.18), abundantly expressed in liver and efficiently catalyzing the bioactivation of azathioprine to release 6-mercaptopurine. All five variants exhibited high activity with azathioprine, but allelic variant E of GST A2-2 displayed a 3-4-fold elevated catalytic efficiency compared to the other variants. High GST activity can lead to overproduction of 6-mercaptopurine, and the nature of the multiple forms of GSTs in a patient will obviously affect the metabolism of azathioprine. In addition to GST A2-2, the polymorphic GST M1-1 is also highly active with azathioprine. Considering our findings, it appears that the genotypic and phenotypic variations in the GST complement may influence the presentation of adverse reactions in patients treated with azathioprine. Clinical trials will be required to clarify the impact of the GST expression in comparison with the established biomarker thiopurine methyltransferase as predictors of adverse reactions.
1. Standard renal clearance techniques were used to assess the dose-response relationship between acute gentamicin infusion and the magnitude of hypercalciuria and hypermagnesiuria in the anaesthetized Sprague-Dawley rat. Also investigated were whether these effects occurred independently of renal tubular cell injury. 2. Acute gentamicin infusion was associated with a significant hypercalciuria and hypermagnesiuria evident within 30 min of drug infusion. The magnitude of these responses was related to the dose of drug infused (0.14-1.12 mg kg(-1) min[-1]). Increased urinary electrolyte losses resulted from a decreased tubular reabsorption of calcium and magnesium. 3. A rapid dose-related increase in urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) excretion was also observed in response to gentamicin infusion. However, there was no evidence of renal tubular cell injury and no myeloid bodies were observed within the lysosomes of the proximal tubular cells. Gentamicin may thus interfere with the mechanisms for cellular uptake and intracellular processing of NAG causing increased NAG release into the tubular lumen. 4. The absence of changes in renal cellular morphology indicates that the excessive renal losses of calcium and magnesium were an effect of gentamicin per se and not the result of underlying renal tubular injury. The renal effects described in this paper were apparent after administration of relatively low total drug doses, and with plasma concentrations calculated to be within the clinical range. These findings suggest that disturbances of plasma electrolyte homeostasis could occur in the absence of overt renal injury in patients receiving aminoglycoside antibiotics.
Coronary embolism is an uncommon cause of myocardial infarction which should be considered especially in patients with associated conditions like atrial fibrillation, intracardiac prosthesis or infective endocarditis. We present the case of a 64-year-old man with lone paroxysmal AF who sustained an acute anterior wall infarction due to an embolism in the LAD. The patient was being treated with tamoxifen for benign gynaecomastia. The case illustrates some therapeutic problems of embolic myocardial infarction. Rescue PTCA after unsuccessful thrombolysis first resulted in distal embolization in diagonal branches with the need for aggressive anticoagulation. While the final angiographic result was satisfactory, the patient died of an intracranial hemorrhage. We present a short overview of the therapeutic options of coronary embolism and discuss the effect of the selective estrogen receptor modulator tamoxifen on arterial and venous thromboembolic disease which is suggestive of a pathogenic role.
Children with acute promyelocytic leukemia were treated with aggressive daunomycin induction and 6-mercaptopurine and methotrexate maintenance. The remission rate was 8 out of 10 fully evaluable patients. Three are still alive up to 32 months. With vigorous induction therapy, occurrence of disseminated intravascular coagulation was rare. Only one case of DIC was seen in a child who had pseudomonas sepsis at time of diagnosis. Since current protocols are more aggressive, future chemotherapy include patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia.
In the present state of our knowledge it must be concluded that the outstanding anatomic changes directly attributable to acute iron poisoning are in the gastrointestinal tract and the liver. Both seem to be due to the direct action of iron upon living cells. In the stomach and small bowel the changes appear to be due to the corrosive effect of the iron salt whether in solution or in tablet form. And the anion may indeed play the predominant role as demonstrated by the observation of the severe corrosive changes observed when accumulations of ferrous sulfate tablets occur in areas of the stomach or small bowel. That the mucosal barrier to iron is broken down seems incontrovertible. And it is no longer tenable to assume that the severe complications of iron poisoning are due to the local necroses in the gastrointestinal tract. The liver, being the first parenchymal organ encountered by absorbed iron, is involved to a varying degree. The anatomic changes can progress to frank necrosis in severe cases. And even in those where overt histologic damage is not demonstrable, alterations in biochemical function occur. Anatomic changes in other parenchymal organs are probably largely secondary to dehydration, shock, hemorrhage, and infection. But the possibility of disordered enzyme systems here as well must be borne in mind though so far not demonstrated. In severe cases where hemorrhages play so large a role, albeit infrequently, the specific action of iron in interference with coagulation mechanisms is of the utmost importance. The role of therapy with deferoxamine in production of shock is discussed below. In this connection breakdown of the mucosal barrier with release of apoferritin and ferritin as a hypotensive mechanism has also been suggested by Smith.
Because doxorubicin (DOX)-containing chemotherapy causes left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and remodeling that can progress to heart failure, strategies to alleviate DOX cardiotoxicity are necessary to improve health outcomes of patients surviving cancer. Although clinical evidence suggests that aerobic exercise training (ET) can prevent cardiotoxicity in patients undergoing DOX chemotherapy, the physiological mechanisms involved have not been extensively studied, nor is it known whether compounds [such as resveratrol (RESV)] have similar beneficial effects. With the use of a murine model of chronic DOX exposure, this study compared the efficacy of modest ET to RESV treatment on exercise performance, LV remodeling, and oxidative stress resistance. Mice were divided into four groups that received saline, DOX (8 mg/kg ip, one time per week), DOX + RESV (4 g/kg diet, ad libitum), and DOX + ET (45 min of treadmill exercise, 5 days/wk) for 8 wk. LV function and morphology were evaluated by in vivo echocardiography. DOX caused adverse LV remodeling that was partially attenuated by modest ET and completely prevented by RESV. These effects were paralleled by improvements in exercise performance. The cardioprotective properties of ET and RESV were associated with reduced levels of atrial natriuretic peptide and the lipid peroxidation by-product, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal. In addition, ET and RESV increased the expression of cardiac sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum calcium-ATPase 2a, superoxide dismutase, mitochondrial electron transport chain complexes, and mitofusin-1 and -2 in mice administered DOX. Compared with modest ET, RESV more effectively prevented DOX-induced LV remodeling and was associated with the reduction of DOX-induced oxidative stress. Our findings have important implications for protecting patients against DOX-associated cardiac injury.
To appreciate the potential applications of stem cell technology in neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD), it is important to understand the characteristics of the various types of stem cells. In this study, we designed a set of experiments to compare the ability of three types of human stem cells--mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), bone marrow CD34(+) cells (BM), and cord blood CD34(+) cells (CB)--using rotenone-treated NOD/SCID mice. Rotenone was orally administered once daily at a dose of 30 mg/kg for 56 days to induce a parkinsonian phenotype. Intravenous delivery of CB into rotenone-treated mice was slightly more beneficial than that of MSCs or BM according to both histological and behavioral analyses. Human nucleus (hNu)(+) cells, which are a specific marker of human cells, were observed in the striatum of rotenone-treated mice transplanted with stem cells. These hNu(+) cells expressed tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Additionally, α-synuclein(+)/TH(+) cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta decreased significantly following stem cell transplantation. Immunohistochemical analysis also revealed that chronic exposure to rotenone decreased glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity and that the reduction was improved by each stem cell transplantation. Gene expression analyses revealed that MSCs, BM, and CB expressed several neurotrophic factors. These results suggest that the beneficial effects of intravenous delivery of stem cells into rotenone-treated mice may result not only from a neurotrophic effect but also from endogenous brain repair mechanisms and the potential of intravenous delivery of stem cells derived from an autologous source for clinical applications in PD.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a common disease characterized by airflow obstruction and lung hyperinflation leading to dyspnea and exercise capacity limitation.
The present study was designed to evaluate whether an extra-fine combination of beclomethasone and formoterol (BDP/F) was effective in reducing air trapping in COPD patients with hyperinflation. Fluticasone salmeterol (FP/S) combination treatment was the active control.
COPD patients with forced expiratory volume in one second <65% and plethysmographic functional residual capacity ≥120% of predicted were randomized to a double-blind, double-dummy, 12-week, parallel group, treatment with either BDP/F 400/24 μg/day or FP/S 500/100 μg/day. Lung volumes were measured with full body plethysmography, and dyspnea was measured with transition dyspnea index.
Eighteen patients were evaluable for intention to treat. A significant reduction in air trapping and clinically meaningful improvement in transition dyspnea index total score was detected in the BDP/F group but not in the FP/S group. Functional residual capacity, residual volume (RV) and total lung capacity significantly improved from baseline in the BDP/F group only. With regard to group comparison, a significantly greater reduction in RV was observed with BDP/F versus FP/S.
BDP/F extra-fine combination is effective in reducing air trapping and dyspnea in COPD patients with lung hyperinflation.
Abrupt cessation of chronic treatment of diazepam (20 mg/kg/day for 21 days) produced withdrawal reactions. BR 16-A, a multicomponent herbal preparation shown to reverse the withdrawal reactions to opiates was studied against diazepam induced withdrawal reactions in mice. Acute dose of diazepam (20 mg/kg) produced a decrease in the ambulatory and total activity. However, chronic administration for 21 days produced tolerance and no significant change in the ambulatory and total activity. On abrupt termination of diazepam treatment after 21 days, the animals showed anxiety and excitement as there was an increase in ambulatory and total activity. The withdrawal excitement was highest at 72 hr of the last dose of diazepam. Concomittant administration of BR 16-A (100 and 500 mg/kg) reversed the acute effect of diazepam in a dose dependent manner. Similarly, chronic administration of BR 16-A (100 and 500 mg/kg/day for 21 days) with diazepam (20 mg/kg/day for 21 days) also reversed the withdrawal induced hyperambulation and total activity. Chronic administration of BR 16-A per se had no significant effect on the ambulatory and total activity, however, in acute doses, BR 16-A (100 and 500 mg/kg) produced a dose dependent increase in the ambulatory and total activity. BR 16-A with its CNS profile of activity could be a useful preparation in the management of substances of abuse.
Cysteinyl leukotrienes play a part in inflammatory reactions such as inflammatory bowel diseases. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the acute effects of a cys-leukotriene-1 receptor antagonist, montelukast, on trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in rats. Montelukast (5, 10 or 20 mg kg(-1) day(-1)), a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, zileuton (50 or 100 mg kg(-1) day(-1), a positive control), or the vehicle was administered intracolonically to the rats twice daily throughout the study, starting 12 h before the induction of colitis with TNBS. The severity of colitis (macroscopic and histological assessment, as well as myeloperoxidase activity), the protein expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2, and eicosanoid production in colonic tissue incubation were assessed 24 and 72 h after colitis induction. Montelukast increased prostaglandin E(2) production at 24 h and tended to reduce the cyclooxygenase-2 protein expression at 72 h, but did not influence the severity of colitis. Zileuton failed to decrease the inflammatory reaction in spite of reduced leukotriene B(4) production at 72 h. The results suggest that drugs that block cysteinyl leukotriene receptors have limited potential to ameliorate acute TNBS-induced colitis, but that they exert some beneficial effects which make them capable of modulating the course of colitis.
We devised liposome-entrapped antimony with the negatively charged lipid phosphatidylserine-liposome-entrapped antimony (Sb-LP)-in order to improve their targeting to infected macrophages through the interaction with scavenger receptors (SRs).
SR production was indirectly evaluated by its mRNA synthesis in infected and uninfected peritoneal macrophages using RT-PCR. The interaction and cytotoxicity of Sb-LP with SRs and their metabolism were determined by incubation with macrophages in the presence of cytochalasin B, chloroquine or different competitive ligands, with determination of the 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) in vitro in infected macrophages. The intracellular trafficking of Sb-LP was evaluated by confocal microscopy using trapped fluorescent dyes.
Our results showed an up-regulation of macrophage SR mRNA during the initial steps of Leishmania (L.) chagasi infection. By competitive ligand assays, we demonstrated the preferential uptake of Sb-LP by macrophage SRs. Sb-LP was 16-fold more effective (IC50=14.11 microM) than the free drug (IC50=225.9 microM) against L. (L.) chagasi-infected macrophages. The binding and uptake of Sb-LP in macrophages were shown to be energy-dependent and were reduced in the presence of cytochalasin B, showing the dependency of the cell microfilament system. Confocal analysis using trapped fluorescent dyes showed fluorescence of parasites or in their close proximity, compatible with the localized delivery of the liposomes.
The uptake of Sb-LP was reduced in infected macrophages, despite their effectiveness and targeting ability, suggesting a low metabolic rate in infected macrophages that could be overcome by the higher efficiency of the liposomal formulation. These in vitro results suggest that liposomes could improve the therapeutic index of old drugs, such as pentavalent antimony, via targeted delivery to Leishmania-infected cells.
The cardioprotective effects of estrogen are mediated by receptors expressed in vascular cells. Here we show that 27-hydroxycholesterol (27HC), an abundant cholesterol metabolite that is elevated with hypercholesterolemia and found in atherosclerotic lesions, is a competitive antagonist of estrogen receptor action in the vasculature. 27HC inhibited both the transcription-mediated and the non-transcription-mediated estrogen-dependent production of nitric oxide by vascular cells, resulting in reduced estrogen-induced vasorelaxation of rat aorta. Furthermore, increasing 27HC levels in mice by diet-induced hypercholesterolemia, pharmacologic administration or genetic manipulation (by knocking out the gene encoding the catabolic enzyme CYP7B1) decreased estrogen-dependent expression of vascular nitric oxide synthase and repressed carotid artery reendothelialization. As well as antiestrogenic effects, there were proestrogenic actions of 27HC that were cell-type specific, indicating that 27HC functions as an endogenous selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM). Taken together, these studies point to 27HC as a contributing factor in the loss of estrogen protection from vascular disease.
Sixteen patients in whom schizophrenia was initially diagnosed and who were treated with fluphenazine enanthate or decanoate developed severe depression for a short period after the injection. In five cases this depression is thought to have been responsible for suicide. In 8 out of 10 cases the depression responded to electroplexy (E.C.T.). It is recommended that patients who are treated with fluphenazine should be carefully supervised.
