Many new targeted small molecule anticancer kinase inhibitors are actively being developed. However, the clinical use of some kinase inhibitors has been shown to result in cardiotoxicity. In most cases the mechanisms by which they exert their cardiotoxicity are not well understood. We have used large scale profiling data on 8 FDA-approved tyrosine kinase inhibitors and 10 other kinase inhibitors to a panel of 317 kinases in order to correlate binding constants and kinase inhibitor binding selectivity scores with kinase inhibitor-induced damage to neonatal rat cardiac myocytes. The 18 kinase inhibitors that were the subject of this study were: canertinib, dasatinib, dovitinib, erlotinib, flavopiridol, gefitinib, imatinib, lapatinib, midostaurin, motesanib, pazopanib, sorafenib, staurosporine, sunitinib, tandutinib, tozasertib, vandetanib and vatalanib. The combined tyrosine kinase and serine-threonine kinase selectivity scores were highly correlated with the myocyte-damaging effects of the kinase inhibitors. This result suggests that myocyte damage was due to a lack of target selectivity to binding of both tyrosine kinases and serine-threonine kinases, and was not due to binding to either group specifically. Finally, the strength of kinase inhibitor binding for 290 kinases was examined for correlations with myocyte damage. Kinase inhibitor binding was significantly correlated with myocyte damage for 12 kinases. Thus, myocyte damage may be multifactorial in nature with the inhibition of a number of kinases involved in producing kinase inhibitor-induced myocyte damage.
Germline mutations in the tumour suppressor gene PTEN have been implicated in two hamartoma syndromes that exhibit some clinical overlap, Cowden syndrome (CS) and Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome (BRR). PTEN maps to 10q23 and encodes a dual specificity phosphatase, a substrate of which is phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate, a phospholipid in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway. CS is characterized by multiple hamartomas and an increased risk of benign and malignant disease of the breast, thyroid and central nervous system, whilst the presence of cancer has not been formally documented in BRR. The partial clinical overlap in these two syndromes is exemplified by the hallmark features of BRR: macrocephaly and multiple lipomas, the latter of which occur in a minority of individuals with CS. Additional features observed in BRR, which may also occur in a minority of CS patients, include Hashimoto's thyroiditis, vascular malformations and mental retardation. Pigmented macules of the glans penis, delayed motor development and neonatal or infant onset are noted only in BRR. In this study, constitutive DNA samples from 43 BRR individuals comprising 16 sporadic and 27 familial cases, 11 of which were families with both CS and BRR, were screened for PTEN mutations. Mutations were identified in 26 of 43 (60%) BRR cases. Genotype-phenotype analyses within the BRR group suggested a number of correlations, including the association of PTEN mutation and cancer or breast fibroadenoma in any given CS, BRR or BRR/CS overlap family ( P = 0.014), and, in particular, truncating mutations were associated with the presence of cancer and breast fibroadenoma in a given family ( P = 0.024). Additionally, the presence of lipomas was correlated with the presence of PTEN mutation in BRR patients ( P = 0.028). In contrast to a prior report, no significant difference in mutation status was found in familial versus sporadic cases of BRR ( P = 0.113). Comparisons between BRR and a previously studied group of 37 CS families suggested an increased likelihood of identifying a germline PTEN mutation in families with either CS alone or both CS and BRR when compared with BRR alone ( P = 0.002). Among CS, BRR and BRR/CS overlap families that are PTEN mutation positive, the mutation spectra appear similar. Thus, PTEN mutation-positive CS and BRR may be different presentations of a single syndrome and, hence, both should receive equal attention with respect to cancer surveillance.
We employed in vitro and ex vivo imaging tools to characterize the function of limbic neuron networks in pilocarpine-treated and age-matched, nonepileptic control (NEC) rats. Pilocarpine-treated animals represent an established model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Intrinsic optical signal (IOS) analysis of hippocampal-entorhinal cortex (EC) slices obtained from epileptic rats 3 wk after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) revealed hyperexcitability in many limbic areas, but not in CA3 and medial EC layer III. By visualizing immunopositivity for FosB/DeltaFosB-related proteins which accumulate in the nuclei of neurons activated by seizures we found that: (1) 24 h after SE, FosB/DeltaFosB immunoreactivity was absent in medial EC layer III, but abundant in dentate gyrus, hippocampus proper (including CA3) and subiculum; (2) FosB/DeltaFosB levels progressively diminished 3 and 7 d after SE, whereas remaining elevated (p < 0.01) in subiculum; (3) FosB/DeltaFosB levels sharply increased 2 wk after SE (and remained elevated up to 3 wk) in dentate gyrus and in most of the other areas but not in CA3. A conspicuous neuronal damage was noticed in medial EC layer III, whereas hippocampus was more preserved. IOS analysis of the stimulus-induced responses in slices 3 wk after SE demonstrated that IOSs in CA3 were lower (p < 0.05) than in NEC slices following dentate gyrus stimulation, but not when stimuli were delivered in CA3. These findings indicate that CA3 networks are hypoactive in comparison with other epileptic limbic areas. We propose that this feature may affect the ability of hippocampal outputs to control epileptiform synchronization in EC.
The antiepileptic drug valproic acid (2-propylpentanoic acid; [VPA]) is teratogenic in humans and a number of animal species. Using a murine model, we studied the mechanism of VPA-induced teratogenesis during a period of organogenesis sensitive to interference with closure of the neural tube (days 8 to 9). Teratogenic doses of valproic acid altered the pattern of folate metabolites in the embryo: Levels of 5-formyl- and 10-formyl-tetrahydrofolates decreased, and the level of tetrahydrofolate increased. These changes could be explained by VPA-mediated inhibition of transfer of the formyl group via glutamate formyltransferase. Neural-tube defects, alteration of embryonic folate metabolism, and inhibition of the specific enzyme are all produced by comparable doses and levels of the drug. A closely related structural analog of VPA (2-en-VPA, 2-propyl-2-pentenoic acid), which exhibits antiepileptic activity but not teratogenicity, did not influence the embryonic folate metabolism. Our results suggest that interference with embryonic folate metabolism might be an important aspect of the induction of neural-tube defects by VPA. The novel techniques described also should prove useful in studying the teratogenic mechanisms of other drugs.
Addictive drugs, such as cocaine, cause long-lasting neural changes in prefrontal cortex. It has been hypothesized that these changes affect the behavioural control mediated by orbitofrontal cortex. To test this hypothesis, rats were given injections of cocaine (30 mg/kg/d, i.p.) or vehicle for 14 days and then trained after a 2-week withdrawal period in an odor discrimination task sensitive to the effects of orbitofrontal cortex lesions. We found that cocaine-treated rats, who demonstrated long-lasting sensitization to the locomotor activating effects of cocaine, failed to show normal changes in response latency during discrimination learning and were also slower than controls to acquire serial reversals. These behavioural impairments are identical to the effects of orbitofrontal cortex lesions in this task and show that cocaine exposure in rats can cause long-lasting effects on orbitofrontal-dependent functions. Notably, these effects were not correlated with increases in locomotor activity linked to cocaine-induced psychomotor sensitization observed before or after training, suggesting that the brain changes underlying the behavioural effects in the discrimination task are different from those mediating psychomotor sensitization.
There is widespread belief that caffeine consumption is linked to atrial arrhythmias; however, there is a relative lack of systematic evidence to support the assertion. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether caffeine, in doses equivalent to daily use in the general population, alter the propensity for atrial fibrillation (AF) in an experimental model comparing normal and simulated predisposition to AF.
Caffeine (caffeine Na benzoate, 50:50 mixture) was administered intravenously at 1, 3, and 5 mg/kg doses in dogs producing serum levels of 2 to 4, 5 to 7, and 8 to 10 microg/mL. To simulate focal AF, premature stimulation from the right superior pulmonary vein was delivered at 2x, 4x, and 10x threshold at a rate of 180/min (S(1)-S(2) = 330 milliseconds) without and then with low-level stimulation of ganglionated plexi (GP) at the entrance of the right superior pulmonary vein. The window of vulnerability (WOV), a measure of the propensity for AF inducibility, was determined by the longest coupling interval of the premature beat (S(1)-S(2)) minus the shortest S(1)-S(2), which induced AF. The cumulative WOV is the sum of the individually determined WOV.
At each serum level of caffeine, the cumulative WOV was lower without rather than with GP stimulation compared with control. The cumulative WOV for both the stimulated, that is, predisposed to AF, and nonstimulated, that is, normal groups, exhibited a significantly lower average as compared with that exhibited by the control group (P <or= .003-.02).
These findings suggest that the presence of caffeine may result in an unexpected reduction in the propensity for AF in healthy individuals and in those with a predisposition for AF (enhanced AF inducibility caused by the stimulation of the GP).
Complexes formed by hematoporphyrin with donor molecules were prepared and isolated. Among these complexes particular attention is given to that formed by reacting dimethylaminoethanol with hematoporphyrin. Some data are reported on the chemical evidence of formation like u.v. spectra. The product, named Hematodeanol, determines some sufficiently specific effects on the CNS; it remarkably cuts down the depression induced by pentobarbital, moderately hinders convulsions by metrazole, delays hypothermia by reserpine, facilites the learning of conditioned avoidance response (CAR) and improves the learning of a sound discrimination at variable interval. The actions become evident when tests are carried out after a continuous treatment for 7 days and according to the data of the investigation of pharmacokinetic kind, the phenomenon may be attributed to the fact that the drug concentration in the nervous tissue, when it is administered several times at intervals of 24 h, inclines to increase progressively.
The PML protein and PML nuclear bodies (PML-NB) are implicated in multiple cellular functions relevant to tumor suppression, including DNA damage response. In most cases of acute promyelocytic leukemia, the PML and retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARA) genes are translocated, resulting in expression of oncogenic PML-RARα fusion proteins. PML-NB fail to form normally, and promyelocytes remain in an undifferentiated, abnormally proliferative state. We examined the involvement of PML protein and PML-NB in homologous recombinational repair (HRR) of chromosomal DNA double-strand breaks. Transient overexpression of wild-type PML protein isoforms produced hugely enlarged or aggregated PML-NB and reduced HRR by ~2-fold, suggesting that HRR depends to some extent upon normal PML-NB structure. Knockdown of PML by RNA interference sharply attenuated formation of PML-NB and reduced HRR by up to 20-fold. However, PML-knockdown cells showed apparently normal induction of H2AX phosphorylation and RAD51 foci after DNA damage by ionizing radiation. These findings indicate that early steps in HRR, including recognition of DNA double-strand breaks, initial processing of ends, and assembly of single-stranded DNA/RAD51 nucleoprotein filaments, do not depend upon PML-NB. The HRR deficit in PML-depleted cells thus reflects inhibition of later steps in the repair pathway. Expression of PML-RARα fusion proteins disrupted PML-NB structure and reduced HRR by up to 10-fold, raising the possibility that defective HRR and resulting genomic instability may figure in the pathogenesis, progression and relapse of acute promyelocytic leukemia.
The molecular basis for developing epilepsy remains under debate. It is hypothesized that increased excitatory synaptic activity might activate the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor/Ca(2+) transduction pathway, which induces long-lasting plasticity changes leading to recurrent epileptiform discharges. To determine if these effects are caused by disruption of F-actin in the dendritic spines, we have perfused the hippocampus of conscious rats with the F-actin-depolymerizing agent latrunculin Aand the actin filament stabilizer jasplakinolide. Single perfusions of latrunculin Aand jasplakinolide decrease and increase picrotoxin seizure threshold, respectively. Repeated perfusions of both latrunculin Aand jasplakinolide induce epileptic seizures and a long-term increase in neuronal excitability. These results suggest that actin disruption might not be just a consequence but also a possible cause of epileptic seizures. We propose a new experimental model in rats to study the biochemical changes that might lead to chronic seizures and a method for testing new antiepileptic drugs.
In the present study the effect of dextromethorphan on naloxone-induced withdrawal signs in morphine-dependent mice was examined. In addition, the modulatory role of dopaminergic mechanisms upon the effect of dextromethorphan was investigated. Mice were rendered dependent on morphine by subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of morphine sulfate three times a day for 3 days, and withdrawal signs were induced by intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of naloxone 2 h after the 10th injection of morphine sulfate on day 4. Dextromethorphan (20-50 mg/kg, i.p.) caused a significant decrease in withdrawal jumping, paw-shakes, grooming, burrows, writhing and diarrhea in morphine-dependent mice. The mixed dopamine D1/D2 receptor agonist apomorphine (0.5 and 1 mg/kg, s.c.) reduced the response induced by dextromethorphan. The effect of apomorphine was blocked by the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (R-(+)-8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepine-7- ol maleate) (0.5 and 1 mg/kg, i.p.) but not by the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride (25 and 50 mg/kg, s.c.) nor the peripheral dopamine receptor antagonist domperidone (5 and 10 mg/kg, s.c.). These results suggest that the dopaminergic system(s) may in part mediate the suppressive action of the NMDA receptor antagonist dextromethorphan on naloxone-induced withdrawal signs in morphine-dependent mice.
Topical retinoic acid (RA) causes irritation of the skin. To prevent this side effect, natural precursors of RA have been proposed. The aim of the present study was to compare the local tolerance profiles of retinol (ROL), retinaldehyde (RAL) and RA.
ROL, RAL and RA were studied using repeated insult patch tests for 14 days (n = 6). Similarly, RAL and RA were assessed in long-term clinical use for 44 weeks (n = 355). Clinical scoring on irritation, measurement of transepidermal water loss (barrier function) and laser Doppler blood flow perfusion units (irritation) were performed.
Under maximized conditions, an equally low irritation potential for ROL and RAL and a more pronounced irritant effect with RA could be demonstrated clinically (p < 0.05 in the intergroup analysis). Furthermore, RAL and RA induced more scaling than ROL (p < 0.05), and ROL and RA tended to induce more burning/pruritus than RAL (nonsignificant). The TEWL values were low with ROL and high with RAL and RA (nonsignificant, intergroup analysis). The laser Doppler measurements confirmed pro-irritating effects of RA and the nonirritating effects of ROL and RAL (p = 0. 001, intergroup analysis). The long-term clinical study showed that the study population developed a high frequency of erythema (44% of the population), scaling (35%) and burning/pruritus (29%) with RA in the first 4 weeks of treatment, whereas these 3 parameters were significantly less frequent with RAL (p < 0.0001 in the intergroup analysis).
The natural retinoids ROL and RAL do have a good tolerance profile, in contrast with the irritating potential of RA.
Crystal Meth: is a synthesis drug whose consumption developed with the beginning of the year 2000 in Europe. Crystal can be swallowed, crunched, smoked, injected or inserted by rectal way. Required effects: "crystal" removes tiredness, brings a feeling of power and of self-control, makes trustful, sexy and merry. Clinical effects: by its sympathomimetic action-like, "crystal" causes hypertension and tachycardia. It crosses the placenta and and is excreted in the mother's milk. It brings to a dependence similar to that of cocaine.
"crystal" can generate cardiopulmonary complications, can reveal cognitive and psychological disorders. It leads the consumers to have not protected and repeated sexual relations.
in France, the consumption of "crystal" remains marginal. Plan 2007-2011 of assumption of responsibility and prevention of the addictions integrates the elements such as the prevention to fight against the extension of this drug.
We report a case of fatal liver failure due to reactivation of lamivudine-resistant HBV. A 53-year-old man was followed since 1998 for HBV-related chronic hepatitis. Serum HBV-DNA was 150 MEq/mL (branched DNA signal amplification assay) and ALT levels fluctuated between 50-200 IU/L with no clinical signs of liver cirrhosis. Lamivudine (100 mg/d) was started in May 2001 and serum HBV-DNA subsequently decreased below undetectable levels. In May 2002, serum HBV-DNA had increased to 410 MEq/mL, along with ALT flare (226 IU/L). The YMDD motif in the DNA polymerase gene had been replaced by YIDD. Lamivudine was continued and ALT spontaneously decreased to the former levels. On Oct 3 the patient presenting with general fatigue, nausea and jaundice was admitted to our hospital. The laboratory data revealed HBV reactivation and liver failure (ALT: 1828 IU/L, total bilirubin: 10 mg/dL, and prothrombin INR: 3.24). For religious reasons, the patient and his family refused blood transfusion, plasma exchange and liver transplantation. The patient died 10 d after admission. The autopsy revealed remarkable liver atrophy.
Immunosuppressive drugs used post-transplantation are among the most common causes of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP). Diagnosis is often confounded not only by its myriad presentations, but also because these manifestations may be explained by the comorbidities or complications of transplantation. A 61-year-old female who had a single lung transplant for severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease maintained on corticosteroids, tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil, was admitted for fever, headache with confusion and lethargy. She was mildly anemic and thrombocytopenic. Peripheral smear showed rare fragmented red cells. Muddy brown casts were present on urinalysis. She was diagnosed with TTP. Tacrolimus was discontinued and the mental status of the patient, anemia and thrombocytopenia improved significantly.
Tamoxifen is a well-tolerated palliative and adjuvant treatment for human breast cancer and requires continuous, long-term administration for optimal therapeutic effectiveness. A two-stage model of experimental hepatocarcinogenesis, based upon the natural history of cancer development, has been employed to assess the carcinogenic potential of tamoxifen. In this study, the effectiveness of tamoxifen both as an initiator and a promoter in hepatocarcinogenesis was assessed in female F-344 rats. Tamoxifen was tested as an initiator at a single intragastric dose of 40 mg/kg, followed by promotion with 0.05% phenobarbital. The number and size of the resulting altered hepatic lesions were quantified, and tamoxifen was found to lack initiating action at the dose tested. Other groups of animals were initiated with a nonnecrogenic, subcarcinogenic dose of diethylnitrosamine (10 mg/kg) and were fed tamoxifen at either 250 or 500 mg/kg in the AIN-76A purified diet for 6 months. The livers of these animals showed an increase in the size and number of altered hepatic lesions compared with those animals that were initiated but not exposed to tamoxifen; this indicates that tamoxifen acts as a tumor promoter in the rat liver. The promotion index of tamoxifen, a measure of relative potency, was less than one-tenth that of ethinyl estradiol and more than four times that of phenobarbital, an agent commonly employed as a representative promoting agent in experimental carcinogenesis. Since tamoxifen lacked initiating activity in the rat liver at the dose tested, the mechanism of tumor induction in long-term feeding studies by tamoxifen may be due to its promotion of spontaneously initiated hepatocytes. The chronic therapeutic use of tamoxifen should therefore be limited by the potential carcinogenic risk of this agent as an effective tumor promoter.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil) was formulated to improve the safety profile of doxorubicin. The major toxicities, mucositis and palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, are dose and schedule dependent, respectively. Anecdotal experience suggests that a dosage of 40 mg/m2 every 4 weeks is well tolerated. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of this regimen in women with metastatic breast cancer, we performed a retrospective chart review at a private practice. Forty women received a median initial dose of 42.5 mg/m2 usually every 4 weeks and a median cumulative dose of 135 mg/m2 (range: 40-595 mg/m2). There were 10 partial responses and seven patients with stable disease for more than 6 months resulting in a clinical benefit rate of 43% in the intent-to-treat analysis. The median time to progression was 4 months in all patients, 6.5 months in patients who had partial responses, and 10 months in patients who had stable disease for more than 6 months. There was no grade 4 toxicity. The only grade 3 toxicities were leukopenia in seven (18%) patients, mucositis in one (3%), and palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia in one (3%). More studies are warranted to confirm our findings, which suggest that pegylated liposomal doxorubicin at a dosage of 40-45 mg/m2 every 4 weeks is clinically active in, and well tolerated by, women with metastatic breast cancer.
To investigate the effect and mechanism of arsenic trioxide on hepatoma cell line BEL-7402 and observe the effect and best administration method of arsenic trioxide on hepatocellular carcinoma patients who were not suitable for operation.
The cell activity and morphologic changes were studied after being treated with arsenic trioxide in different concentrations. The apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry assay and DNA fragmentation assay. The caspase-3 level of mRNA and protein were detected by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and fluoro-spectrophotometer. The growth inhibition of implant tumor was observed in nude mice treated with arsenic trioxide in different concentrations. Arsenic trioxide was used in hepatocellular carcinoma patients by intravenous dropping and continuous regional infusion through hepatic artery.
The effect of arsenic trioxide on hepatoma cell lines was dependent on the time and concentration obviously. The decrease in cell number was preceded by morphological changes in the treated BEL-7402 cells that were characteristic of apoptosis, including membrane blebbing, shrunken cytoplasm, nuclear condensation and loss of adhesion. Flow cytometry assay showed an arrestment at G(2)/M phase and sub-G(1) cell peak. DNA fragmentation assay showed a marked DNA ladder. The mRNA level of caspase-3 was no change in RT-PCR whereas the protein of caspase-3 was increased after added As(2)O(3) 1 - 36 h. Caspase-3 activity began to increase after 2 h and reached a maximal level after 12 h in a linear fashion. Then, the level of caspase-3 was decreased, but still in a high level. The growth inhibition of implant tumors was obviously in nude mice. The intravenous usage of arsenic trioxide could improve the quality of life with low toxicity in hepatocellular carcinoma patients not suitable for operation. The tumor size decreased in 30 patients and AFP value decreased in 19 patients by continuous regional infusion through hepatic artery.
Arsenic trioxide can obviously inhibit the growth of hepatoma cell line BEL-7402 through inducing hepatoma cell apoptosis. The activation and increase of Caspase-3 is the possible mechanism of apoptosis, and the acting point is in pro-enzyme level. The best result of arsenic trioxide on non-operative patients should be gotten in continuous infusion through hepatic artery.
The purpose of this article is to describe a 75-year-old patient with an acute central retinal artery occlusion after a local anesthetic with adrenaline on nasal mucosa. The local anesthetic was used in removing Jackson tubes from the left lacrimal canal. Occlusion of the central retinal artery related to nasal operations is a rare complication. In previous reports, retinal artery occlusions have been noted in connection with nasal submucosal injections of anesthetic and epinephrine. In our case, the use of anesthetic and adrenaline was superficial.
An acute inflammatory response occurs following percutaneous coronary and peripheral vascular interventions (PVI), partly mediated by platelet activation. Glycoprotein (GP) IIb-IIIa inhibitors might partially attenuate this inflammation rise in the coronary patient, but data in patients undergoing PVI are lacking. In the Integrilin Reduces Inflammation in Peripheral Vascular Interventions trial (INFLAME), we hypothesized that eptifibatide reduces the acute inflammatory responses following PVI. This is a single-center, randomized, open-label study of intravenous eptifibatide (180 micro/kg bolus x 2, 10 minutes apart, then 2 micro/kg/min infusion over 18 hours) and low-dose unfractionated heparin (60 Units per kg, target activated clotting time (ACT) 200-250 sec) [LDH+I group; n = 21] versus high-dose unfractionated heparin alone (100 Units per kg, target ACT 300-400 sec) [HDH group; n = 21] in patients undergoing iliac and infrainguinal interventions. The primary endpoints of the study were markers of inflammation (soluble CD-40L [sCD-40L], high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [hs-CRP] and interleukin-6 [IL-6]), thrombin generation (Fragment 1.2 [F1.2]), and fibrinogen measured at baseline and postrandomization. Markers were assayed at baseline, postdilatation at 30 minutes, 2 hours, 18 hours, 48 hours and 7 days. Mean platelet inhibition with eptifibatide was 98% (range 92-100%) using the Accumetrics Rapid Platelet Function Assay at 10 minutes after final bolus. After adjusting for baseline values, the mean +/- SE difference in sCD-40L (loge scale), hs-CRP and F1.2 between the LDH+I group and the HDH was not significant. Fibrinogen had significantly higher mean levels at 7 days for the LDH+I group (541.19 mg/dL versus 472.26 mg/dL; p-value = 0.024). IL-6 was more detectable in the LDH+I group compared to the HDH following intervention. We conclude that LDH+I combination did not reduce acute inflammatory responses as compared to HDH in patients undergoing peripheral vascular interventions.
Visceral leishmaniasis is a life-threatening human disease commonly known as kala-azar. Leishmania donovani is the causative agent of this parasitic disease transmitted by the sand fly vector to infect hosts. Triphenyl tin salicylanilide thiosemicarbazone [Ph(3)Sn(OSal.TSCZH)] (TTST) which is an organometallic complex of triphenyl tin has been evaluated to explore possibility to develop a potent chemotherapeutic agent against visceral leishmaniasis. Effect of triphenyl tin complex on growth inhibition and host--parasite interaction were examined both in vitro and in vivo. Release of toxic superoxide radical was measured spectrophotometrically through the formation of blue formazan derived from reduced nitrobluetetrazolium. To understand mode of action of Ph(3)Sn(OSal.TSCZH), superoxide dismutase activity was determined spectrophotometrically by measuring ability of this enzyme to inhibit pyrogallol autoxidation and also by activity staining of the non-denaturing polyacrylamide gels after separating superoxide dismutase. Antileishmanial activity of triphenyl tin complex were found to be effective both in vitro and in vivo at lower concentrations compared to the existing toxic drugs available. IC(50) of Ph(3)Sn(OSal.TSCZH) was calculated as 0.05+/-0.01mg/L. Intracellular survival of the parasite in host macrophages was inhibited by TTST in a dose dependent manner. Parasite burden in spleen was reduced to 87% under TTST treatment (10mg/kg body weight) and under sodium antimony gluconate (20mg/kg body weight) reduced nearly to 65%. Its action as a chemotherapeutic agent is found to be mediated through inhibition of superoxide dismutase and simultaneous release of toxic superoxide radical. We propose that Ph(3) Sn(OSal.TSCZH) may be considered as a prospective candidate to establish a better line of therapeutic process against experimental visceral leishmaniasis.
Dose-dependent effects of 3 antioxidants, butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA, 2.0, 1.0 and 0.5%), butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT, 1, 0.5 and 0.25%) and ethoxyquin (0.5, 0.25 and 0.125%) on the development of preneoplastic lesions in the bladder of N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN)-treated rats were investigated. Feeding of the antioxidants after pretreatment of 0.05% BBN commenced and unilateral ureteric ligation was combined at week 3 of the experiment. Surviving rats were killed at the end of week 24. BHA and BHT, but not ethoxyquin increased dose-dependently the incidence and number of preneoplastic lesions, papillary or nodular hyperplasia of the urinary bladder in rats treated with BBN. Particularly, the incidence and number of PN hyperplasia in rats treated with 2.0% BHA and 1.0% BHT were significantly higher than those of the control group. Thus, promoting activities of BHA and BHT, but not ethoxyquin for the urinary bladder were confirmed in this system of BBN-initiated, unilaterally ureter-ligated rats.
Serine hydrolase KIAA1363 is highly expressed in invasive cancer cells and is the major protein in mouse brain diethylphosphorylated by and hydrolyzing low levels of chlorpyrifos oxon (CPO) (the activated metabolite of a major insecticide). It is also the primary CPO-hydrolyzing enzyme in spinal cord, kidney, heart, lung, testis, and muscle but not liver, a pattern of tissue expression confirmed by fluorophosphonate-rhodamine labeling. KIAA1363 gene deletion using homologous recombination reduces CPO binding, hydrolysis, and metabolism 3-29-fold on incubation with brain membranes and homogenates determined with 1 nM [(3)H-ethyl]CPO and the inhibitory potency for residual CPO with butyrylcholinesterase as a biomarker. Studies with knockout mice further show that KIAA1363 partially protects brain AChE and monoacylglycerol lipase from CPO-induced in vivo inhibition. Surprisingly, mouse brain KIAA1363 and AChE are similar in in vitro sensitivity to seven methyl, ethyl, and propyl but not higher alkyl OP insecticides and analogues, prompting structural comparisons of the active sites of KIAA1363 and AChE relative to OP potency and selectivity. Homology modeling based largely on the Archaeoglobus fulgidus esterase crystal structure indicates that KIAA1363 has a catalytic triad of S191, D348, and H378, a GDSAG motif, and an oxyanion hole of H113, G114, G115, and G116. Excellent selectivity for KIAA1363 is achieved on OP structure optimization with long alkyl chain substituents suggesting that KIAA1363 has larger acyl and leaving group pockets than those of AChE. KIAA1363 reactivates faster than AChE presumably due to differences in the uncoupling of the catalytic triad His upon phosphorylation. The structural modeling of KIAA1363 helps us understand OP structure-activity relationships and the toxicological relevance of this detoxifying enzyme.
Reverse redistribution is a well-known pattern found when performing thallium myocardial scintigraphy, and it has been implicated as an indicator of myocardial ischemia. Much more rarely, when using technetium compounds, which do not redistribute, a similar pattern is noted after the second injection of the radiotracer. This pattern has been termed "reverse perfusion pattern," and its full implications are not yet clear and are still being investigated.
Use of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of congenital malformations. Spina bifida aperta has been linked specifically to valproic acid (VPA) (estimated risk, 1 to 2%). The actual risk, the exclusive association of VPA with spina bifida and not anencephaly, and the precise causative relation remain matters of discussion. A prospective cohort study of pregnant women with epilepsy receiving AEDs and referred for prenatal diagnosis before week 22 of gestation was conducted, with follow-up to 3 months after birth. Pregnancies (291 singleton and 6 twin) in 261 women were evaluated. The prevalence of anomalies after exposure to any AED was 6.9%. For fetuses exposed to VPA, the prevalence was 9.4%, including six cases of spina bifida, two of which were in monozygotic twins (giving a prevalence rate of 6.3%, or 5.4%, if twins counted as one). Spina bifida was associated with a significantly higher average daily dose of VPA as compared with pregnancies with normal outcome (1.640 +/- 136 mg/d vs 941 +/- 48 mg/d, p = 0.0001). No relation was observed between the occurrence of spina bifida and type of maternal seizure or epilepsy, family history of epilepsy or neural-tube defects, or medical history. From these results we suggest that when the use of VPA during pregnancy cannot be avoided, the teratogenic risk might be diminished by reduction of the daily dose.
We analyzed the spectrum of neural-tube defects associated with maternal exposure to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and the possible contribution of familial and genetic factors to epilepsy or neural-tube defects. No specific association with maternal family history of neural-tube defects or epilepsy was seen. The ratio of spina bifida to anencephaly (33:1) suggested a specific association with caudal defects. Hydrocephaly was documented in at least 21 cases. Other midline defects, all associated with valproate (VPA), were hypospadias (two), hypertelorism (two), partial agenesis of corpus callosum, agenesis of septum pellucidum with lissencephaly of medial sides of occipital lobes, Dandy-Walker anomaly, and ventricular septal defect. This study shows that most neural-tube defects following maternal VPA use are severe open defects. They are frequently complicated by hydrocephaly and other midline defects. Prenatal diagnosis is possible.
The relationships between the convulsions induced by the local anesthetic procaine and monoamines in the spinal cord were investigated in rats. The levels of dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) in the spinal cord were time-dependently increased after procaine (170 mg/kg, i.p.), which induced clonic convulsions, but the level of norepinephrine (NE) was unchanged. The rats that died during convulsions had a marked increase in DA. Phenobarbital (25 mg/kg, s.c.) produced both depletion of DA and elevation of 5-HT in the spinal cord and completely protected rats against convulsions. A 5-HT precursor, 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP; 20-80 mg/kg, i.p.), suppressed the convulsions in a dose-dependent manner as shown by a decrease in the incidence and a prolongation of the latency, but a DA precursor, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA; 20-80 mg/kg, i.p.), markedly shortened the latency. Furthermore, the effect of L-DOPA on the convulsions was inhibited by the combination of 5-HTP. alpha-Methyl-p-tyrosine (20-80 mg/kg, i.p.) or DL-p-chlorophenylalanine (20-80 mg/kg, i.p.), an inhibitor of NE and DA or 5-HT biosynthesis, had a slight effect on the convulsions. These results suggest that procaine causes significant elevations of rat spinal DA and 5-HT in the convulsive process and suggest that dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons may be associated with procaine-induced convulsions.
