Previous animal research has suggested that the phenytoin arene oxide metabolite is teratogenic in acute studies and that the fetal effects were increased after injecting an inhibitor of microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH) (Martz et al., Pharmacol Exp Ther 203:231-239, 1977, Barcellona et al., Teratog Carcinog Mutagen 7:159-168, 1987). We have studied the effects of chronic oral phenytoin exposure in utero and the mEH inhibitor trichloropropene oxide (TCPO) on the prenatal growth and development of an inbred mouse strain with a low incidence of spontaneous oral clefting (C57BL/6J). Chronic daily gastric gavage of phenytoin produced a plasma level (mean 10.7 micrograms/ml on gestation Day 8) within the range recommended to prevent epilepsy in humans; this did not produce an increase in oral clefting or ventricular septal defects in the exposed C57BL/6J pups. It did produce a significant delay in prenatal growth and development, including phalangeal ossification. However, except for percentage resorptions/implantation, there was no synergism between phenytoin and TCPO in contrast to the finding reported by Martz et al. in Swiss mice. This issue was also assessed in a test of the fetal effect of phenytoin injected with TCPO, as had been done by Martz et al. There were no oral clefts or ventricular septal defects or a difference (P > 0.05) in prenatal growth and development in these C57BL/6J pups compared to the chronic gastric phenytoin plus TCPO group. This suggests either that differences in the genotypes of Swiss and C57BL/6J mice may be a contributing factor or that other teratogenic mechanisms were involved.
To determine effectiveness of intramuscular midazolam to control acute seizures in children as compared to intravenous diazepam.
115 children in the age group of 1 month to 12 years who presented with acute convulsions were enrolled in the study. Patients who already had an intravenous access present were treated intravenous diazepam. Patients without an i.v. access at the time of convulsions were randomised into 2 groups and treated with either intramuscular midazolam or intravenous diazepam for control of seizures. Time interval from administration of drug to cessation of seizures was compared. Effectiveness of i.m. midazolam in various age groups, types of convulsions and etiology of convulsions was analyzed. Side effects of both drugs were evaluated.
The mean interval to cessation of convulsions with i.m. midazolam was 97.22 seconds whereas in diazepam group without prior i.v. access it was 250.35 seconds and in diazepam group with prior i.v. access it was 119.4 seconds. i.m. midazolam acted faster in all age groups and in patients with febrile convulsions, which was statistically significant. i.m. midazolam was equally effective in various types of convulsions be it GTC or focal convulsions. 7 patients (10.8%) had thrombophlebitis associated with i.v. diazepam administration whereas none of the patients in the midazolam group had any side effects, which was statistically significant.
i.m. midazolam is an effective agent for controlling acute convulsions in children especially in children with febrile convulsions. It has relatively no side effects as compared to Intravenous diazepam and can be used as a first line agent for treatment of acute convulsions in patients with difficult intravenous access.
Doxorubicin is cardiotoxic and its use must be monitored carefully. Incidence of refractory cardiac failure is shown to increase once the cumulative dose exceeds 450 mg/m2. However, significant decline of ejection fraction (EF) may occur even at lower dose levels. EF was monitored using Multigated Radionuclide Angiography (MUGA) scan of all consecutive lung cancer patients, treated with Doxorubicin based regimens. Thirteen of 82 patients showed a significant (more than 15%) decline of left ventricular EF. The dose of doxorubicin producing this decline ranged between 91-180 mg/m2. Actual decline in EF ranged between 16-45%. Only 5 of 13 patients developed symptoms attributable to the cardiac disease. Doxorubicin can alter EF significantly in lung cancer patients at levels well below which are considered 'safe'. The reason for massive decline in ejection fraction in these patients has been hypothesized.
Understanding health risks to embryonic development from exposure to environmental chemicals is a significant challenge given the diverse chemical landscape and paucity of data for most of these compounds. High-throughput screening (HTS) in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) ToxCast™ project provides vast data on an expanding chemical library currently consisting of > 1,000 unique compounds across > 500 in vitro assays in phase I (complete) and Phase II (under way). This public data set can be used to evaluate concentration-dependent effects on many diverse biological targets and build predictive models of prototypical toxicity pathways that can aid decision making for assessments of human developmental health and disease.
We mined the ToxCast phase I data set to identify signatures for potential chemical disruption of blood vessel formation and remodeling.
ToxCast phase I screened 309 chemicals using 467 HTS assays across nine assay technology platforms. The assays measured direct interactions between chemicals and molecular targets (receptors, enzymes), as well as downstream effects on reporter gene activity or cellular consequences. We ranked the chemicals according to individual vascular bioactivity score and visualized the ranking using ToxPi (Toxicological Priority Index) profiles.
Targets in inflammatory chemokine signaling, the vascular endothelial growth factor pathway, and the plasminogen-activating system were strongly perturbed by some chemicals, and we found positive correlations with developmental effects from the U.S. EPA ToxRefDB (Toxicological Reference Database) in vivo database containing prenatal rat and rabbit guideline studies. We observed distinctly different correlative patterns for chemicals with effects in rabbits versus rats, despite derivation of in vitro signatures based on human cells and cell-free biochemical targets, implying conservation but potentially differential contributions of developmental pathways among species. Follow-up analysis with antiangiogenic thalidomide analogs and additional in vitro vascular targets showed in vitro activity consistent with the most active environmental chemicals tested here.
We predicted that blood vessel development is a target for environmental chemicals acting as putative vascular disruptor compounds (pVDCs) and identified potential species differences in sensitive vascular developmental pathways.
To investigate the role of metallothionein and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) on the morphological and biochemical effects of zinc sulfate in ethanol-induced liver injury.
Wistar albino rats were divided into four groups. Group I; intact rats, group II; control rats given only zinc, group III; animals given absolute ethanol, group IV; rats given zinc and absolute ethanol. Ethanol-induced injury was produced by the 1 mL of absolute ethanol, administrated by gavage technique to each rat. Animals received 100 mg/kg per day zinc sulfate for 3 d 2 h prior to the administration of absolute ethanol.
Increases in metallothionein immunoreactivity in control rats given only zinc and rats given zinc and ethanol were observed. PCNA immunohistochemistry showed that the number of PCNA-positive hepatocytes was increased significantly in the livers of rats administered ethanol + zinc sulfate. Acute ethanol exposure caused degenerative morphological changes in the liver. Blood glutathione levels decreased, serum alkaline phosphatase and aspartate transaminase activities increased in the ethanol group when compared to the control group. Liver glutathione levels were reduced, but lipid peroxidation increased in the livers of the group administered ethanol as compared to the other groups. Administration of zinc sulfate in the ethanol group caused a significant decrease in degenerative changes, lipid peroxidation, and alkaline phosphatase and aspartate transaminase activities, but an increase in liver glutathione.
Zinc sulfate has a protective effect on ethanol-induced liver injury. In addition, cell proliferation may be related to the increase in metallothionein immunoreactivity in the livers of rats administered ethanol + zinc sulfate.
Two of 14 patients with Cushing's syndrome treated on a long-term basis with ketoconazole developed sustained hypertension. In both cases normal plasma and urinary free cortisol levels had been achieved following ketoconazole therapy, yet continuous blood pressure monitoring demonstrated hypertension 31 (patient 1) and 52 weeks (patient 2) after treatment. In patient 1, plasma levels of deoxycorticosterone and 11-deoxycortisol were elevated. In patient 2, in addition to an increase in both deoxycorticosterone and 11-deoxycortisol levels, plasma aldosterone values were raised, with a concomitant suppression of renin levels. Our findings show that long-term treatment with high doses of ketoconazole may induce enzyme blockade leading to mineralocorticoid-related hypertension.
The effects of 2 specific bradycardic agents, AQ-A39 [5,6-dimethoxy-2-[3-([alpha-(3,4-dimethoxy)phenylethyl]methyl-amino) propyl]phthalimidine hydrochloride] and AQ-AH 208 [3,4-dihydro-6,7-dimethoxy-2-]3-[(2-[3, 4-dimethoxy-phenyl)-ethyl]-aminoethyl]propyl[-1(2H)isoquinone] were evaluated for their effects on subendocardial segment shortening (% SS) as measured by sonomicrometry and regional myocardial blood flow (radioactive microspheres) in anesthetized dogs subjected to a 15 min left anterior descending coronary occlusion followed by 3 hr of reperfusion. AQ-A39 (2.5-mg/kg bolus + 100 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) and AQ-AH 208 (0.5-mg/kg bolus + 25 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) were administered 15 min before coronary occlusion, during occlusion and throughout reperfusion. Both agents produced equivalent reductions in heart rate (24%) and the heart rate-systolic pressure product (27%) without any other significant hemodynamic changes. Collateral blood flow to the ischemic area was not different between the drug-treated and control groups. During coronary occlusion and throughout reperfusion, however, % SS was significantly (P less than .05) improved by both agents in the ischemic-reperfused area as compared to a control group. Thus, the beneficial actions of AQ-A39 and AQ-AH 208 on improving the recovery of subendocardial contractile function (% SS) may be explained partially by a reduction in myocardial oxygen requirements as a result of bradycardia. These results suggest that specific bradycardic agents may have potential for treatment of certain types of myocardial ischemia.
After a single oral dose of 4 mg/kg indomethacin (IDM) to sodium and volume depleted rats plasma renin activity (PRA) and systolic blood pressure fell significantly within four hours. In sodium repleted animals indomethacin did not change systolic blood pressure (BP) although plasma renin activity was decreased. Thus, indomethacin by inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis may diminish the blood pressure maintaining effect of the stimulated renin-angiotensin system in sodium and volume depletion.
L-695,256 is a novel 2-fluorenonyl carbapenem antibiotic with significant antimicrobial activity against strains of methicillin-resistant Staphylococci. This prototype compound was administered intravenously to rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) at does of 50 or 200 mg/kg/day for 2 weeks to assess toxicity and found to induce a hemolytic anemia characterized by extravascular hemolysis and splenomegaly. A subsequent study in this species in which 100 mg/kg/day was administered i.v. for 4 weeks showed that all animals were direct antiglobulin test (Coombs' test) positive for IgG with 20-25% reductions in the erythron. Following 3 weeks of recovery, the erythron had returned to normal, although it took an additional 2 months for the Coombs' test to become negative. Challenge of these same animals with 0.5 million U/kg (300 mg/kg/day) of penicillin intravenously indicated no apparent cross-reactivity. Since attempts to establish a model for this immune-mediated hemolytic anemia with this drug in rats or mice were unsuccessful, a 2-week i.v. study in squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) was conducted at a dose of 200 mg/kg/day. All animals in this study remained Coombs' test negative with no changes in the erythron, suggesting an increased sensitivity to beta-lactam-induced anemia in rhesus monkeys compared to other species. Further support for this hypothesis was obtained using the cephalosporin antibiotic, cefotetan. This compound induced a high incidence of Coombs' test positive hemolytic anemia at clinically relevant doses in rhesus monkeys, despite a very low incidence of this adverse effect in patients with many years of clinical use. These data suggest that although rhesus monkeys respond in a qualitatively similar manner to humans with regard to high doses of beta-lactam antibiotics, their sensitivity may overestimate the risk of immune-mediated hemolytic anemia for clinical use.
Amifostine (WR-2721; Ethyol) is a well-known cytoprotector, but a possible role in preventing extrahaematological toxicity after high-dose therapy (HDT) has never been investigated. We compared two historical groups of patients who either received (group A, n = 35) or did not receive (group B, n = 33) amifostine (740 mg/m2) before high-dose (HD) melphalan, followed by autologous infusion of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPCs). Amifostine was well tolerated at this dose level. Emesis grade 1-2 was the most important side-effect, but the interruption of infusion was never required. The incidence and median duration of severe mucositis (grade 3-4) was 21% and 0 d (range 0-11 d) in group A and 53% and 7 d (range 0-11 d) in group B. The duration of analgesic therapy was also significantly lower in group A (0 d; range 0-12) than in group B (6 d, range 0-20) (P = 0.0001). Severe diarrhoea (3% vs. 25%; P = 0.01) and emesis (9% vs. 34%; P = 0.01) were also reduced in group A in comparison with group B. No differences were observed between the two groups for haematological recovery. This retrospective study strongly suggests that amifostine can reduce severe mucositis and the use of analgesic drugs in this setting. A randomized study is warranted to confirm these preliminary results.
A high-pressure liquid chromatographic method for determination of the bisdioxopiperazine derivative ADR-529 (ICRF-187), a compound proven effective in protection against anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity, has been developed. The limit of quantitation was 5 ng/ml using a narrow-bore 5-microns silica column and UV detection. The method was used for determination of pharmacokinetic profiles of ADR-529 after a 3-weekly i.v. administration of different doses of ADR-529 (600-1000 mg/m2) together with different doses of epirubicin (E, 60-100 mg/m2), fixed-dose cyclophosphamide (C, 600 mg/m2), fixed-dose 5-fluorouracil (F, 600 mg/m2), and daily administration of tamoxifen (T, 30 mg; CEF-T) in the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer. Pharmacokinetic parameters for epirubicin were also determined. The aim of the study was to determine (1) whether the pharmacokinetics of ADR-529 as part of a combination with CEF-T changes with increasing doses of ADR-529 and increasing doses of epirubicin and (2) whether the pharmacokinetics of epirubicin in the same combinations is altered with the administration of increasing doses of ADR-529. A total of 82 patients were included. A crossover study including 16 of the patients showed no significant difference in epirubicin pharmacokinetic parameters when epirubicin was given with or without concomitant administration of ADR-529. Apart from minor changes in the distributional half-lives, the pharmacokinetic parameters of epirubicin were not altered with increasing doses of ADR-529, nor were the pharmacokinetic parameters of ADR-529 itself. Escalating doses of epirubicin did not significantly alter the pharmacokinetic parameters of ADR-529 with the exception of a 30% increase in the terminal half-life and a decrease in total body clearance when the epirubicin dose was raised from 60 to 100 mg/m2. We conclude that concomitant administration of ADR-529 does not alter the distribution and elimination of epirubicin in doses suitable for preventing the anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.
Mutations or polymorphisms in the gene of the enzyme methylenetetrahydrofolate (MTHFR) are associated with hyperhomocysteinemia and possibly with an elevated risk for vascular diseases. A study was conducted on 83 individuals with type 2 diabetes in order to determine the allelic and genotypic frequencies of the G1793A mutation and to assess the effect of folic acid supplementation on plasma homocysteine concentrations. The patients were attended by the Diabetes and Hypertension Program--Balneario Camboriu/SC and received daily supplements containing 1 mg of folic acid for 3 months. DNA was previously extracted from leukocytes and the G1793A mutation was detected by PCR-RFLP. Blood samples were collected during the basal period and after supplementation for the determination of homocysteine by HPLC, and of folic acid and vitamin B(12) by RIA. The allele frequency for the G1793A mutation was 3.01% and no homozygous individuals with mutant alleles were detected. Hyperhomocysteinemia was diagnosed in 27.71% of the patients, folic acid deficiency in 15.66%, and vitamin B(12) deficiency in 7.23%. Plasma homocysteine concentrations were inversely correlated with folic acid (r = -0.27, p = 0.01) and vitamin B(12) (r = -0.21; p = 0.05) concentrations. The individuals with a heterozygous genotype for the G1793A mutation showed borderlines or deficient values in folic acid and vitamin B(12) concentrations compared to individuals with a normal genotype. Hyperhomocysteinemia and the vitamin deficiencies presented by type 2 diabetic individuals, included with a heterozygous genotype for the G1793A mutation in the MTHFR gene, reached normal values by daily folic acid supplementation.
The angiotensin II receptor blockers irbesartan and losartan effectively reduce blood pressure and proteinuria in childhood. We were impressed by the neutral taste and the small size of the candesartan cilexetil tablets. This angiotensin II receptor blocker was used during 4 months in 17 pediatric patients (aged 0.5-16, median 4.5 years) with chronic arterial hypertension (n=6), overt proteinuria (n=2), or both (n=9). The initial candesartan dose of 0.23 (0.16-0.28) mg/kg body weight once daily (median and interquartile ranged) was doubled in ten patients [final dose 0.35 (0.22-0.47) mg/kg body weight]. No adverse clinical experiences were noted on candesartan. Candesartan increased plasma potassium by 0.3 (0.0-0.8) mmol/l (P<0.01). In children with arterial hypertension, blood pressure decreased by 9 (3-13)/9 (3-18) mmHg (P<0.01); in those with overt proteinuria the urinary albumin/creatinine ratio decreased by 279 (33-652) mg/mmol (P<0.05). In conclusion, in children candesartan reduces blood pressure and proteinuria with an excellent short-term tolerability profile.
A role for allelic variation within the gene for the antioxidant selenoprotein glutathione peroxidase 1 (GPx-1) in the risk or etiology of breast cancer was investigated. By analyzing the frequency of a polymorphism within the GPx-1 gene resulting in a leucine or proline at codon 198, it was determined that the leucine-containing allele was more frequently associated with breast cancer than the proline-containing allele (odds ratio = 1.9; P < 0.05). However, the heterozygosity index for this polymorphism was lower in the breast cancer samples. To determine whether this was because of the loss of heterozygosity (LOH) during tumor development, another polymorphic marker within GPx-1, which is frequently heterozygous in the human population, was analyzed. These studies indicated that LOH at this locus is a frequent event, occurring in approximately 36% of the breast tumor DNAs analyzed. The consequences of the identity of the amino acid at position 198 were investigated by engineering breast carcinoma cells that exclusively express either the leucine- or proline-containing GPx-1 allele and studying the response to increasing concentrations of selenium. These studies indicated that the leucine-containing allele was less responsive to the stimulation of GPx-1 enzyme activity observed during selenium supplementation than the allele differing only by a proline at that position. These studies support a role for GPx-1 allelic identity and LOH as factors of significance to breast cancer development.
Propofol is well-known for its pain on injection. Premixture with lidocaine or pretreatment with remifentanil reduces injection pain. A multimodal approach might offer additional mitigation of propofol injection pain.
In a randomized, prospective, double-blind study of 156 patients, we compared the incidence and severity of propofol pain among three groups. Patients in the lidocaine group (n = 54) received 2% lidocaine premixed with propofol (40 mg lidocaine in 180 mg propofol). Patients in the remifentanil group (n = 50), received pretreatment with remifentanil 2 microg x kg(-1) IV over 30 s. Patients in the combination group (n = 52) received both lidocaine and remifentanil.
A significant decrease in the overall incidence of propofol pain at induction was achieved in the combination group (9.6%) compared with that in the remifentanil group (36%) and the lidocaine group (35%) (P = 0.003). The incidence of severe and moderate pain was also significantly different in the combination group (0%), compared with that in the remifentanil (18%) and lidocaine groups (12.9%) (P < 0.02). Similar, statistically significant differences among the three groups were achieved concerning recalled pain in the postanesthesia care unit.
The combination of two different analgesic modalities, remifentanil and lidocaine completely abolishes moderate and severe pain associated with propofol injection, and significantly reduces the incidence of mild pain when compared with each drug used alone.
Kappa-opioid agonists produce neurobiological and behavioral effects opposite to those of cocaine and may be useful for the treatment of cocaine dependence. To evaluate the kappa- and mu-agonist effects of cyclazocine and to test whether cyclazocine pretreatment would attenuate the effects of cocaine, healthy, male and female, experienced opiate and cocaine users (n = 13) were enrolled in a two-phase study. In Phase 1, placebo, cyclazocine (0.2, 0.4 and 0.8 mg) and the mu-agonist hydromorphone (5 and 15 mg) were administered orally in six 4.5-hour sessions separated by at least 72 h. In Phase 2, cocaine (100 mg intranasal) was given 2 h after oral pretreatment with cyclazocine (0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 0 mg, in that order) in each of six sessions conducted daily Monday to Friday and the following Monday. Physiological, subjective and behavioral measures were collected in each session. Nine participants completed Phase 1; eight completed Phase 2. Hydromorphone (15 mg) produced prototypic mu-agonist effects. Cyclazocine exhibited only modest kappa-like effects. Cyclazocine also had only modest, non-dose-related effects on response to cocaine. However, cocaine effects were consistently lower on the last administration (cyclazocine 0 mg pretreatment) following 4 days of cyclazocine pretreatment, compared to the first administration (0 mg pretreatment). This finding is unlikely to be fully attributable to cocaine tolerance and is not accounted for by pharmacokinetic changes; plasma concentrations of cocaine were not altered by cyclazocine. This study is suggestive but not strongly supportive for the use of kappa-opiate drugs to diminish acute effects of cocaine administration or for the use of these kappa agonists in drug abuse treatment applications.
Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) levels of transforming growth factor-beta(1) (TGF-beta(1)) have been previously investigated in relation to the pathogenesis of cyclosporine-A (CsA)-induced gingival overgrowth (GO) but no clinical data are available regarding the GCF levels of TGF-beta(1) in patients treated with tacrolimus (Tac). However, as gingival inflammation is pronounced at sites of GO and this consequently may lead to an elevation in TGF-beta(1) levels the present study aimed to evaluate gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) TGF-beta(1) levels in renal transplant patients using CsA or Tac without GO.
GCF TGF-beta(1) levels were investigated in 30 renal transplant patients without GO medicated with either CsA (n=15) or Tac (n=15). Sixteen gingivitis patients and 15 periodontally healthy subjects were selected as controls. Periodontal status was evaluated by measuring probing depth, plaque index and papilla bleeding index. The TGF-beta(1) levels were analysed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Both CsA and Tac groups had significantly elevated GCF TGF-beta(1) total amount compared to gingivitis and healthy groups (p<0.008). GCF TGF-beta(1) total amount of CsA and Tac groups was similar (p>0.008). Gingivitis and healthy groups had also similar GCF TGF-beta(1) total amount (p>0.008).
Within the limits of the present data it is unlikely that TGF-beta(1) is an exclusive mediator of CsA- or Tac-induced GO. However, pathogenesis of GO is multifactorial and contribution of TGF-beta(1) to the interrelations between cytokines and growth factors with fibrogenic potential cannot be disregarded.
Of 88 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease, without prior psychotic symptoms, and without significant dementia, nearly half had experienced vivid dreams, hallucinations, illusions, and nonconfusional as well as confusional psychoses as side effects of chronic levodopa therapy within the previous year of treatment. It was found that 61.3% of all hallucinations were associated with preexistent or concurrent vivid dream phenomena, that all psychotic states were associated with preexistent or concurrent vivid dreams and/or hallucinations, and that nonconfusional psychotic states tended to become confusional. These findings raise the possibility that chronic levodopa therapy may result in dopaminergic kindling and support the hypothesis that chronic dopaminergic agonism may, via such a kindling mechanism, play a role in the development of some types of psychoses.
Mammalian 14-3-3 proteins are dimeric phosphoserine-binding proteins that participate in signal transduction and regulate several aspects of cellular biochemistry. Diabetic cardiomyopathy is associated with increased oxidative stress and inflammation. In order to study the pathogenic changes underlying diabetic cardiomyopathy, we examined the role of 14-3-3 protein and apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (Ask1) signaling by using transgenic mice with cardiac-specific expression of a dominant-negative 14-3-3eta protein mutant (DN 14-3-3eta) after induction of experimental diabetes. The elevation in blood glucose was comparable between wild type (WT) and DN 14-3-3eta mice. However, a marked downregulation of thioredoxin reductase was apparent in DN 14-3-3eta mice compared to WT mice after induction of diabetes. Significant Ask1 activation in DN 14-3-3eta after diabetes induction was evidenced by pronounced de-phosphorylation at Ser-967 and intense immunofluorescence observed in left ventricular (LV) sections. Echocardiographic analysis revealed that cardiac functions were notably impaired in diabetic DN 14-3-3eta mice compared to diabetic WT mice. Marked increases in myocardial apoptosis, cardiac hypertrophy, and fibrosis were observed with a corresponding up-regulation of atrial natriuretic peptide and galectin-3, as well as a downregulation of sarcoendoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase2 expression. Furthermore, diabetic DN 14-3-3eta mice displayed significant reductions of platelet-endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 staining as well as endothelial nitric acid synthase and vascular endothelial growth factor expression. In conclusion, our data suggests that enhancement of 14-3-3 protein could provide a novel therapeutic strategy against hyperglycemia-induced left ventricular dysfunction and can limit the progression of diabetic cardiomyopathy by regulating Ask1 signaling.
We have shown in several controlled rat and human infection studies that dietary calcium improves intestinal resistance and strengthens the mucosal barrier. Reinforcement of gut barrier function may alleviate inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Therefore, we investigated the effect of supplemental calcium on spontaneous colitis development in an experimental rat model of IBD. HLA-B27 transgenic rats were fed a purified high-fat diet containing either a low or high calcium concentration (30 and 120 mmol CaHPO4/kg diet, respectively) for almost 7 wk. Inert chromium EDTA (CrEDTA) was added to the diets to quantify intestinal permeability by measuring urinary CrEDTA excretion. Relative fecal wet weight was determined to quantify diarrhea. Colonic inflammation was determined histologically and by measuring mucosal interleukin (IL)-1beta. In addition, colonic mucosal gene expression of individual rats was analyzed using whole-genome microarrays. The calcium diet significantly inhibited the increase in intestinal permeability and diarrhea with time in HLA-B27 rats developing colitis compared with the control transgenic rats. Mucosal IL-1beta levels were lower in calcium-fed rats and histological colitis scores tended to be lower (P = 0.08). Supplemental calcium prevented the colitis-induced increase in the expression of extracellular matrix remodeling genes (e.g. matrix metalloproteinases, procollagens, and fibronectin), which was confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR and gelatin zymography. In conclusion, dietary calcium ameliorates several important aspects of colitis severity in HLA-B27 transgenic rats. Reduction of mucosal irritation by luminal components might be part of the mechanism. These results show promise for supplemental calcium as effective adjunct therapy for IBD.
The techniques currently available for studying drug self-administration in animals offer the unique opportunity to carry out micro-analysis of initial episodes of drug use which are extremely difficult to obtain for human subjects. Nonetheless, traditional self-administration techniques do not allow a cost-effective output of large sample sizes needed for genetic analysis. Additionally, the statistical techniques that allow the integration of within-subject temporal data with genetic information are scant. We therefore propose a two-stage method for analyzing strain differences in dynamic phenotypes for a high-throughput version of the self-administration procedure. On a first phenotype-refinement stage, a change-point algorithm (Gallistel et al. (2004) Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 101:13124-13131) was used to separate individual drug self-administration response curves into three distinct components. In a second stage, strains differences in these indexes were assessed. This two-stage approach is illustrated with drug self-administration data and through a computer simulation.
APETx3, a novel peptide isolated from the sea anemone Anthopleura elegantissima, is a naturally occurring mutant from APETx1, only differing by a Thr to Pro substitution at position 3. APETx1 is believed to be a selective modulator of human ether-á-go-go related gene (hERG) potassium channels with a K(d) of 34 nM. In this study, APETx1, 2, and 3 have been subjected to an electrophysiological screening on a wide range of 24 ion channels expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes: 10 cloned voltage-gated sodium channels (Na(V) 1.2-Na(V)1.8, the insect channels DmNa(V)1, BgNa(V)1-1a, and the arachnid channel VdNa(V)1) and 14 cloned voltage-gated potassium channels (K(V)1.1-K(V)1.6, K(V)2.1, K(V)3.1, K(V)4.2, K(V)4.3, K(V)7.2, K(V)7.4, hERG, and the insect channel Shaker IR). Surprisingly, the Thr3Pro substitution results in a complete abolishment of APETx3 modulation on hERG channels and provides this toxin the ability to become a potent (EC(50) 276 nM) modulator of voltage-gated sodium channels (Na(V)s) because it slows down the inactivation of mammalian and insect Na(V) channels. Our study also shows that the homologous toxins APETx1 and APETx2 display promiscuous properties since they are also capable of recognizing Na(V) channels with IC(50) values of 31 nM and 114 nM, respectively, causing an inhibition of the sodium conductance without affecting the inactivation. Our results provide new insights in key residues that allow these sea anemone toxins to recognize distinct ion channels with similar potency but with different modulatory effects. Furthermore, we describe for the first time the target promiscuity of a family of sea anemone toxins thus far believed to be highly selective.
Between 1960 and 1975, the Veterans Administration Cooperative Urological Research Group conducted a consecutive series of 3 major randomized clinical trials comparing various endocrine treatments for newly diagnosed prostate cancer patients. Six major conclusions concerning hormonal treatment emerged from these studies: 1) increased hazard of cardiovascular death after therapy with 5 mg diethylstilbestrol (DES); 2) orchiectomy plus DES no better than orchiectomy or DES alone; 3) equivalent effect of 1.0 and 5.0 mg DES on cancer; 4) reduced cardiovascular hazard from therapy with 1.0 mg DES; 5) Premarin and Provera no better than 1.0 mg DES at doses studied; 6) decisions about hormone treatment at diagnosis dependent on patient characteristics, mainly age and Gleason grade. In this paper, these studies are reviewed briefly and data are presented to support these conclusions. Some tentative treatment recommendations are proposed.
We measured serum concentrations of 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3, 25(OH)-vitamin D3, parathyroid hormone (PTH), and uric acid in 114 male patients with primary gout and 51 normal male control subjects. Serum 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3 was significantly lower in patients with gout compared with control subjects (38.4 +/- 11.9 v 44.4 +/- 11.0 pg/mL, P < .005), whereas no differences were observed between the two groups for serum 25(OH)-vitamin D3 or PTH. Serum uric acid was significantly higher in patients with gout versus control subjects (8.8 +/- 1.3 v 5.7 +/- 1.0 mg/dL, P < .0001). In addition, there was a significant negative correlation between serum uric acid and 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3 concentrations (r = .17, P < .05). Administration of allopurinol or benzbromarone to the patients for 1 year caused a significant increase in serum 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3, which was associated with a significant decrease in serum uric acid. In contrast, serum concentrations of 25(OH)-vitamin D3 and PTH were not affected by these drugs. These results suggest that uric acid per se may directly decrease serum 1,25(OH)2-vitamin D3 in patients with gout by inhibiting 1alpha-hydroxylase activity.
The organochlorine pesticide 1,1'-(2,2,2-trichloroethylidene) bis(4-chlorobenzene) (DDT) and four structural analogues (bromopropylate, chlorobenzilate, dicofol and fenarimol) were investigated for their ability to inhibit gap junctional intercellular communication both in the Chinese hamster V79 metabolic co-operation assay and in the scrape-loading/dye-transfer assay in WB-F344 rat liver epithelial cells. The pesticides were also studied for their ability to enhance the development of gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase-positive altered hepatic foci and induce cytochrome P450 monooxygenase isoenzymes in nitrosamine-initiated male Sprague-Dawley rats. The in vitro studies showed all organohalogens except fenarimol to be potent inhibitors of cell-cell communication in both test systems used. Concomitant results were recorded in the in vivo study. Thus, all potent inhibitors of intercellular communication were found to enhance significantly foci development and fenarimol was again without any significant effect. All pesticides studied were shown to be potent inducers of the phenobarbital-inducible cytochrome P450b isoenzyme and to cause hepatomegaly. Thus, no strict correlation between cytochrome P450b induction/liver growth and tumour promotion-related effects in vivo and in vitro was apparent for these organohalogen pesticides in the present study.
-Tacrolimus (FK 506) is a powerful, widely used immunosuppressant. The clinical utility of FK 506 is complicated by substantial hypertension and nephrotoxicity. To clarify the mechanisms of FK 506-induced hypertension, we studied the chronic effects of FK 506 on the synthesis of endothelin-1 (ET-1), the expression of mRNA of ET-1 and endothelin-converting enzyme-1 (ECE-1), the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activity, and the expression of mRNA of eNOS and C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) in rat blood vessels. In addition, the effect of the specific endothelin type A receptor antagonist FR 139317 on FK 506-induced hypertension in rats was studied. FK 506, 5 mg. kg-1. d-1 given for 4 weeks, elevated blood pressure from 102+/-13 to 152+/-15 mm Hg and increased the synthesis of ET-1 and the levels of ET-1 mRNA in the mesenteric artery (240% and 230%, respectively). Little change was observed in the expression of ECE-1 mRNA and CNP mRNA. FK 506 decreased eNOS activity and the levels of eNOS mRNA in the aorta (48% and 55%, respectively). The administration of FR 139317 (10 mg. kg-1. d-1) prevented FK 506-induced hypertension in rats. These results indicate that FK 506 may increase blood pressure not only by increasing ET-1 production but also by decreasing NO synthesis in the vasculature.
Acute lung toxicity is a rare but classical complication of amiodarone therapy. We report the case of a patient who developed an optic neuropathy after 15 years of amiodarone administration, and who was treated for 2 weeks with steroids. Following withdrawal of steroids, the patient rapidly developed an acute respiratory distress syndrome. Postmortem lung histologic examination was consistent with amiodarone-induced pneumonitis. Since this complication is thought to be of immunological origin, we speculate that the sudden withdrawal of steroids was implicated in the development of the acute lung injury.
To evaluate the hemodynamic effects of the first oral administration of enalapril maleate, a long-acting ACE-inhibitor, in the early phase of an acute uncomplicated myocardial infarction, we studied 15 patients, in Killip class I or II, within 72 hours from the onset of symptoms. Hemodynamic measurements were obtained by a triple lumen 7 F Swan-Ganz catheter, inserted into the pulmonary artery, under control conditions and 2, 4, 6, 8 and 12 hours after 10 mg (15 patients) and 20 mg (11 patients) of the drug. Ten milligrams of enalapril reduced systolic and mean arterial blood pressure (from 118 +/- 17 to 111 +/- 18 mmHg, p < .05, and from 92 +/- 12 to 83 +/- 12 mmHg, p < .01, respectively), with a maximum effect after 4 hours from administration. Heart rate and vascular resistances showed an insignificant trend toward reduction, and no changes were observed in left ventricular systolic work index, right and left ventricular filling pressures or cardiac index. Hemodynamic changes induced by 20 mg of the drug, in a smaller group of patients, had a similar trend, which did not reach a statistical significance. In conclusion, in patients with acute uncomplicated myocardial infarction, a single oral dose of enalapril maleate is safe and well tolerated, does not induce severe hypotension, and produces potentially beneficial changes in hemodynamics.
