Interest in organoselenide chemistry and biochemistry has increased in the past three decades, mainly due to their chemical and biological activities. Here, we investigated the protective effect of the organic selenium compound diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)2 (5 μmol/kg), in a mouse model of methylmercury (MeHg)-induced brain toxicity. Our group has previously demonstrated that the oral and repeated administration (21 days) of MeHg (40 mg/L) induced MeHg brain accumulation at toxic concentrations, and a pattern of severe cortical and cerebellar biochemical and behavioral. In order to assess neurotoxicity, the neurochemical parameters, namely, mitochondrial complexes I, II, II-III and IV, glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione reductase (GR) activities, the content of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBA-RS), 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), as well as, metal deposition were investigated in mouse cerebral cortex. Cortical neurotoxicity induced by brain MeHg deposition was characterized by the reduction of complexes I, II, and IV activities, reduction of GPx and increased GR activities, increased TBA-RS and 8-OHdG content, and reduced BDNF levels. The daily treatment with (PhSe)2 was able to counteract the inhibitory effect of MeHg on mitochondrial activities, the increased oxidative stress parameters, TBA-RS and 8-OHdG levels, and the reduction of BDNF content. The observed protective (PhSe)2 effect could be linked to its antioxidant properties and/or its ability to reduce MeHg deposition in brain, which was here histochemically corroborated. Altogether, these data indicate that (PhSe)2 could be consider as a neuroprotectant compound to be tested under neurotoxicity.
Patients who receive long-term oral anticoagulant (OAC) therapy often require interruption of OAC for an elective surgical or an invasive procedure. Heparin bridging therapy has been used in these situations, although the optimal method has not been established. No large prospective studies have compared unfractionated heparin (UFH) with low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) for the perioperative management of patients at risk of thromboembolism requiring temporary interruption of long-term OAC therapy.
This multicenter, observational, prospective registry conducted in North America enrolled 901 eligible patients on long-term OAC who required heparin bridging therapy for an elective surgical or invasive procedure. Practice patterns and clinical outcomes were compared between patients who received either UFH alone (n = 180) or LMWH alone (n = 721).
Overall, the majority of patients (74.5%) requiring heparin bridging therapy had arterial indications for OAC. LMWH, in mostly twice-daily treatment doses, represented approximately 80% of the study population. LMWH-bridged patients had significantly fewer arterial indications for OAC, a lower mean Charlson comorbidity score, and were less likely to undergo major or cardiothoracic surgery, receive intraprocedural anticoagulants or thrombolytics, or receive general anesthesia than UFH-bridged patients (all P < 0.05). The LMWH group had significantly more bridging therapy completed in an outpatient setting or with a < 24-h hospital stay vs. the UFH group (63.6% vs. 6.1%, P < 0.001). In the LMWH and UFH groups, similar rates of overall adverse events (16.2% vs. 17.1%, respectively, P = 0.81), major composite adverse events (arterial/venous thromboembolism, major bleed, and death; 4.2% vs. 7.9%, respectively, P = 0.07) and major bleeds (3.3% vs. 5.5%, respectively, P = 0.25) were observed. The thromboembolic event rates were 2.4% for UFH and 0.9% for LMWH. Logistic regression analysis revealed that for postoperative heparin use a Charlson comorbidity score > 1 was an independent predictor of a major bleed and that vascular, general, and major surgery were associated with non-significant trends towards an increased risk of major bleed.
Treatment-dose LMWH, mostly in the outpatient setting, is used substantially more often than UFH as bridging therapy in patients with predominately arterial indications for OAC. Overall adverse events, including thromboembolism and bleeding, are similar for patients treated with LMWH or UFH. Postoperative heparin bridging should be used with caution in patients with multiple comorbidities and those undergoing vascular, general, and major surgery. These findings need to be confirmed using large randomized trials for specific patient groups undergoing specific procedures.
The aim of the paper was to estimate the value of challenge tests with acetylsalicylic acid in diagnosis of ASA-induced urticaria. The study was performed in 71 persons with suspected urticaria/angioedema type of sensitivity to ASA. The anamnesis confirmed sensitivity in 67 examined patients (94.4%) and showed that the sensitive patients usually suffered from extensive urticaria (37 persons, i.e. 55.5%) after ingestion of ASA. Eight persons (12%) reacted with loss of consciousness and 4 (6.0%) with oedema of the larynx. Oral challenge test with acetylsalicylic acid was performed in 53 examined persons, in 49 (92.4%) of which it was positive. Threshold doses of acetylsalicylic acid ranged from 40 to 300 mg. In 11 persons the test was repeated and in 8 performed three times. It was observed that both the threshold acetylsalicylic acid doses and the time of appearance of the sensitivity symptoms were changeable. All ASA-sensitive reacted to indomethacin in the similar way as to ASA. Paracetamol, on the other hand, was well tolerated by all 25 tested patients with urticaria/angioedema type of sensitivity to ASA.
Nimesulide is a potent non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. It is a new, selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor with few adverse effects on the gastrointestinal system. We present a case of hepatotoxicity in which other possible causes of liver damage were excluded. A biochemical pattern of cholestasis was predominant. Evolution was favorable after the drug was stopped and enzymatic alterations progressively returned to normal. The cases reported to date are reviewed. The precise mechanism by which nimesulide produces liver damage is not known but it is probably caused by an idiosyncratic reaction. Because of the severity of the hepatitis described in some cases, treatment should be stopped when liver dysfunction is detected and the patients should be closely monitored.
Hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy may cause early deep white matter abnormalities on MR imaging that usually progress to include gray matter and basal ganglia change. Toxic leukoencephalopathy due to heroin inhalation predominantly causes cerebellar and posterior cerebral radiologic change. Both conditions rarely present clinically and radiologically in a delayed manner with subsequent recovery. We report a case of reversible delayed posthypoxic/toxic leukoencephalopathy with no clinical or radiologic evidence of gray matter insult.
Today, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are very frequently prescribed agents. These drugs are responsible for side effects which are rarely recognized and poorly understood. One of these side effects is leukocytoclastic vasculitis with or without skin ulcerations. Rheumatoid arthritis and other mixed connective tissue diseases may also lead to vasculitis ulcerations, which explains the difficulty of correct diagnosis in each case. In addition, disease-modifying drugs such as methotrexate, frequently used in the above-mentioned syndromes, further complicate the situation because these agents may also produce vasculitis. In the present case study we analyze and discuss the diagnosis and follow-up in three of our patients with vasculitis skin ulcerations. In two of them, the vasculitis was attributed to the use of naproxen. Despite thorough examination and documentation of all three cases, etiologic evaluation was difficult and complex.
A case of acute hepatitis induced by zidovudine in a 38-year-old patient with AIDS is presented. The mechanism whereby the hepatitis was induced is not known. However, the patient tolerated well an alternative reverse transcriptase inhibitor, 2'3' dideoxyinosine. Physicians caring for patients with AIDS should be aware of this hitherto rarely reported complication.
When adult male Wistar-Kyoto rats had been injected intra-peritoneally with a dose of 100 mg/kg of cyclophosphamide (CP), their urinary bladders showed changes of thickening and haemorrhage visible macroscopically, and oedema, necrosis and haemorrhage of the mucosa visible microscopically. There was an increase in bladder weight from an average of 60 mg in untreated control rats to an average of 125 mg in the CP-treated rats. When in addition they had been given 400 mg/kg of a thiol drug, namely either penicillamine or its disulphide, or N-acetylcysteine (NAC) or its S-carboxymethyl derivative carbocysteine, the increase in bladder weight and the histologic changes of haemorrhagic cystitis were found to be prevented by the co-administration of penicillamine or NAC but not by penicillamine disulphide or carbocysteine. The leucopenia caused by CP was not prevented by co-administration of these thiol drugs. It is concluded that penicillamine, like NAC, is effective in preventing CP-induced cystitis but not at the expense of reducing the cytotoxicity of CP. The inefficacy of penicillamine disulphide and carbocysteine suggests that significant dissociation of the disulphide does not occur in vivo and that the thiol moiety is important in preventing the cystitis. Penicillamine, a thiol compound with anti-rheumatic and possible anti-tumour effects, may thus prove to be a very useful adjunct to CP therapy.
In vitro, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3) induces differentiation of HL-60 cells and inhibits their proliferation as well as the proliferation of leukemic cells from patients. In vivo, the survival of mice challenged with syngeneic leukemic cells is enhanced by treatment with 1,25(OH)2D3. Patients treated with 1,25(OH)2D3 develop hypercalcemia at a serum level of 2 x 10(-10) mol/l which is a concentration too low to achieve an antileukemic effect in vitro. Several interesting vitamin D3 analogs have recently been developed. We initially examined the effect of 1,25(OH)2-16ene-23yne-19-nor-26,27-F6-D3 and 24a,26a,27a-tri-homo-22,24-diene-1-alpha,25-(OH)2-D3 on clonal growth and differentiation of HL-60 cells. Each of the analogs had comparable effects on clonal growth with 50% inhibition (ED50) at concentrations of 0.2-0.5 x 10(-9) M; 1,25(OH)2D3 was about 20- to 50-fold less active in inhibiting growth. Differentiation was determined by induction of superoxide production, as measured by nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) reduction and by expression of a macrophage-specific enzyme (alpha napthyl acetate esterase (ANAE)). The 24a,26a,27a-tri-homo-22,24-diene-1-alpha,25-(OH)2-D3 and 1,25(OH)2-16ene-23yne-19-nor-26,27-F6-D3 were about 5- to 14-fold more potent than 1,25(OH)2D3. The hypercalcemia inducing side-effects of these analogs and three other previously identified, extremely potent vitamin D3 compounds, as well as 1,25(OH)2D3, were studied. The analogs were administered intraperitoneally every other day (qod) for 5 weeks; serum was collected weekly and Ca2+ measured by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The highest tolerated dose of each analog leaving all mice alive was for 1,25(OH)2D3: 0.25 micrograms; 1,25(OH)2-24a,26a,27a-tri-homo-22,24-diene-D3: 0.25 micrograms; and 1,25(OH)2-16ene-23yne-19-nor-26,27-F6-D3: 0.0625 micrograms. Another hexafluoro compound with potent abilities to induce differentiation (1,25(OH)2-16ene-23yne-26,27-F6-D3) was very toxic, all mice died in the second week while receiving 0.0625 micrograms qod. Prior studies showed that the most potent compound in inducing differentiation of HL-60 was 1,25(OH)2-20-epi-D3; but it is very toxic as only one mouse survived a dose of > or = 0.0125 micrograms qod for 5 weeks. 1,25(OH)2-16ene-23yne-D3 is an extremely active inducer of differentiation but, on the other hand, it has low potential to produce hypercalcemia; mice maintained normal serum calcium levels even while receiving 2 micrograms qod for 5 weeks.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In the rat, prenatal exposure to diazepam (DZ) induces a permanent reduction in GABA/BZ receptor (R) function and behavioural abnormalities. Environmental modifications during early stages of life can influence brain development and induce neurobiological and behavioural changes throughout adulthood. Indeed, a subtle, periodic, postnatal manipulation increases GABA/BZ R activity and produces facilitatory effects on neuroendocrine and behavioural responses. We here investigated the impact of prenatal treatment with DZ on learning performance in adult 3- and 8-month-old male rats and the influence of a brief, periodic maternal separation on the effects exerted by prenatal DZ exposure. Learning performance was examined employing a non-aversive spatial, visual and/or tactile task, the "Can test". Behavioural reactivity, emotional state and fear/anxiety-driven behaviour were also examined using open field (OF), acoustic startle reflex (ASR) and elevated plus-maze (EPM) tests. A single daily injection of DZ (1.5mg/kg, s.c.), over gestational days (GD) 14-20, induced, in an age-independent manner, a severe deficit in learning performance, a decrease in locomotor and explorative activity and an increase in peak amplitude in the ASR. Furthermore, anxiety-driven behaviour in EPM was disrupted. Daily maternal separation for 15 min over postnatal days 2-21 exerted opposite effects in all the paradigms examined. Prenatally DZ-exposed maternal separated rats, in contrast to respective non-separated rats, showed an improvement in learning performance, a decrease in emotionality and a normalization of the exploratory behaviour in EPM. These results suggest that a greater maternal care, induced by separation, can serve as a source for the developing brain to enhance neuronal plasticity and to prevent the behavioural abnormalities induced by prenatal DZ exposure.
Numerous medications prolong the rate-corrected QT (QTc) interval and induce arrhythmias by blocking ionic current through cardiac potassium channels composed of subunits expressed by the human ether-a-go-go-related gene (HERG). Recent reports suggest that high doses of methadone cause torsades de pointes. To date, no controlled study has described an association between methadone and QTc prolongation. The only commercial formulation of parenteral methadone available in the United States contains the preservative chlorobutanol. The objectives of this study are to determine: (1) whether the administration of intravenous (i.v.) methadone causes QTc prolongation in humans; (2) whether methadone and/or chlorobutanol block cardiac HERG potassium currents (IHERG) in vitro. Over 20 months, we identified every inpatient with at least one electrocardiogram (ECG) performed on i.v. methadone. For each patient, we measured QTc intervals for every available ECG performed on and off i.v. methadone. Concurrent methadone doses were also recorded. Similar data were collected for a separate group of inpatients treated with i.v. morphine. In a separate set of experiments IHERG was evaluated in transfected human embryonic kidney cells exposed to increasing concentrations of methadone, chlorobutanol, and the two in combination. Mean difference (+/- standard error) per patient in QTc intervals on and off methadone was 41.7 (+/- 7.8)ms, p<0.0001. Mean difference in QTc intervals on and off morphine was 9.0 (+/- 6.1)ms, p=0.15. The approximately linear relationship between QTc measurements and log-dose of methadone was significant (p<0.0001). Methadone and chlorobutanol independently block IHERG in a concentration-dependent manner with IC50 values of 20 +/- 2 microM and 4.4 +/- 0.3 mM, respectively. Chlorobutanol potentiates methadone's ability to block IHERG. Methadone in combination with chlorobutanol is associated with QTc interval prolongation. Our data strongly suggest that methadone in combination with chlorobutanol is associated with QTc interval prolongation.
The purpose of this study was to analyse the results and prognostic factors influencing overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) in 452 patients diagnosed with diffuse large cell lymphomas (DLCL) treated with high-dose therapy (HDT) included in the Grupo Español de Linfomas/Trasplante Autólogo de Médula Osea (GEL-TAMO) Spanish registry.
At transplantation, median age was 42 years (range 15-73), 146 patients (32%) were transplanted in first complete remission (1st CR), 19% in second CR (2nd CR) and 47% had active disease: sensitive disease in 157 (35%) patients [95 were in first partial remission (1st PR) and 62 in second PR (2nd PR)] and refractory disease in 55 (12%) patients. Age-adjusted International Prognostic Index (IPI) was 2 or 3 in 51 patients (12%). Conditioning regimen consisted of BEAM (carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine and melphalan) in 39% of patients, BEAC (carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine and cyclophosphamide) in 33%, CBV (carmustine, etoposide and cyclophosphamide) in 10% and cyclophosphamide plus total body irradiation (TBI) in 12%.
Estimated overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) at 5 years were 53% and 43%, respectively. The transplant-related mortality was 11% (53 cases). By multivariate analysis three variables significantly influenced OS and DFS: number of protocols to reach 1st CR, disease status at transplant and TBI in the conditioning regimen. Age-adjusted IPI at transplantation also influenced OS.
Prolonged OS and DFS can be achieved in patients with DLCL after HDT and our results suggest that the best line of chemotherapy should be used up-front in patients considered as candidates for HDT in order to obtain an early CR. Resistant patients are not good candidates for HDT and they should be offered newer strategies. Finally, polichemotherapy conditioning regimens offer better results compared with TBI.
Case reports and echocardiographic studies suggest that the ergot-derived dopamine agonists pergolide and cabergoline, used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and the restless legs syndrome, may increase the risk of cardiac-valve regurgitation.
We used data from the United Kingdom General Practice Research Database to identify a population-based cohort comprising 11,417 subjects 40 to 80 years of age who were prescribed antiparkinsonian drugs between 1988 and 2005. We conducted a nested case-control analysis within this cohort in which each patient with newly diagnosed cardiac-valve regurgitation was matched with up to 25 control subjects from the cohort, according to age, sex, and year of entry into the cohort. Incidence-rate ratios for cardiac-valve regurgitation with the use of different dopamine agonists were estimated by conditional logistic-regression analysis.
Of 31 case patients with newly diagnosed cardiac-valve regurgitation, 6 were currently exposed to pergolide, 6 were currently exposed to cabergoline, and 19 had not been exposed to any dopamine agonist within the previous year. The rate of cardiac-valve regurgitation was increased with current use of pergolide (incidence-rate ratio, 7.1; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.3 to 22.3) and cabergoline (incidence-rate ratio, 4.9; 95% CI, 1.5 to 15.6), but not with current use of other dopamine agonists.
In this study, use of the dopamine agonists pergolide and cabergoline was associated with an increased risk of newly diagnosed cardiac-valve regurgitation.
Ergot-derived dopamine receptor agonists, often used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, have been associated with an increased risk of valvular heart disease.
We performed an echocardiographic prevalence study in 155 patients taking dopamine agonists for Parkinson's disease (pergolide, 64 patients; cabergoline, 49; and non-ergot-derived dopamine agonists, 42) and 90 control subjects. Valve regurgitation was assessed according to American Society of Echocardiography recommendations. The mitral-valve tenting area was also measured and used as a quantitative index for leaflet stiffening and apical displacement of leaflet coaptation.
Clinically important regurgitation (moderate to severe, grade 3 to 4) in any valve was found with significantly greater frequency in patients taking pergolide (23.4%) or cabergoline (28.6%) but not in patients taking non-ergot-derived dopamine agonists (0%), as compared with control subjects (5.6%). The relative risk for moderate or severe valve regurgitation in the pergolide group was 6.3 for mitral regurgitation (P=0.008), 4.2 for aortic regurgitation (P=0.01), and 5.6 for tricuspid regurgitation (P=0.16); corresponding relative risks in the cabergoline group were 4.6 (P=0.09), 7.3 (P<0.001), and 5.5 (P=0.12). The mean mitral tenting area was significantly greater in ergot-treated patients and showed a linear relationship with the severity of mitral regurgitation. Patients treated with ergot derivatives who had grade 3 to 4 regurgitation of any valve had received a significantly higher mean cumulative dose of pergolide or cabergoline than had patients with lower grades.
The frequency of clinically important valve regurgitation was significantly increased in patients taking pergolide or cabergoline, but not in patients taking non-ergot-derived dopamine agonists, as compared with control subjects. These findings should be considered in evaluating the risk-benefit ratio of treatment with ergot derivatives.
Three brothers with non-syndromal X-linked mental retardation were found to have a novel missense mutation in FGD1, the gene associated with the Aarskog syndrome. Although the brothers have short stature and small feet, they lack distinct craniofacial, skeletal or genital findings suggestive of Aarskog syndrome. Their mother, the only obligate carrier available for testing, has the FGD1 mutation. The mutation, a C934T base change in exon 4, results in the proline at position 312 to be substituted with a leucine. This missense mutation is predicted to eliminate a beta-turn, creating an extra-long stretch of coiled sequence which may affect the orientations of an SH3 (Src homology 3) binding domain and the first structural conserved region. A new molecular defect associated with non-syndromal X-linked mental retardation affords an opportunity to seek specific diagnosis in males with previously unexplained developmental delays and this opens further predictive tests in families at risk.
1. L7810 (4-carbamoyloxy-1-(4-(4-fluorophenyl)-4-oxobutyl) decahydroquinoline, has a local anaesthetic action on frog nerve 1.75 times that of procaine.2. L7810 protected anaesthetized guinea-pigs against ouabain-induced ventricular fibrillation and increased the lethal dose of ouabain.3. L7810 reduced the rate of rise of intracellularly recorded action potentials in rabbit isolated atria; the resting potential was not affected, but the duration of the action potential was prolonged.4. Unlike most drugs with local anaesthetic properties L7810 did not depress contractions in isolated atria but increased them.5. L7810 reduced the spontaneous frequency, maximum follow frequency and conduction velocity of rabbit isolated atria.6. L7810 had no blocking action on the chronotropic or positive inotropic actions of isoprenaline on isolated atrial muscle.7. In anaesthetized dogs L7810 caused a small dose-related bradycardia, and a large dose-related decrease in peripheral vascular resistance. There was no blockade of the effects of isoprenaline on heart rate or peripheral blood flow.
Fanconi anemia (FA) consists of a group of at least five autosomal recessive disorders that share both clinical (e.g., birth defects and hematopoietic failure) and cellular (e.g., sensitivity to cross-linking agents and predisposition to apoptosis) features with each other. However, a common pathogenetic link among these groups has not been established. To identify genetic pathways that are altered in FA and characterize shared molecular defects, we used mRNA differential display to isolate genes that have altered expression patterns in FA cells. Here, we report that the expression of an interferon-inducible gene, MxA, is highly upregulated in cells of FA complementation groups A, B, C, and D, but it is suppressed in FA group C cells complemented with wild-type FAC cDNA as well as in non-FA cells. A posttranscriptional mechanism rather than transcriptional induction appears to account for MxA overexpression. Forced expression of MxA in Hep3B cells enhances their sensitivity to mitomycin C and induces apoptosis, similar to the FA phenotype. Thus, MxA is a downstream target of FAC and is the first genetic marker to be identified among multiple FA complementation groups. These data suggest that FA subtypes converge onto a final common pathway, which is intimately related to the interferon signaling mechanism. Constitutive activity of this pathway may explain a number of the phenotypic features of FA, particularly the pathogenesis of bone marrow failure.
Nonsense mutations in coagulation factor (F) VII potentially cause a lethal hemorrhagic diathesis. Readthrough of nonsense mutations by aminoglycosides has been studied in a few human disease models with variable results.
We investigated the K316X and W364X FVII mutations, associated with intracranial hemorrhage, and their correction by aminoglycosides. The rare nonsense mutations in FVII represent favorite models to test this strategy, because even tiny increases in the amount of functional full-length protein in patients could ameliorate hemorrhagic phenotypes.
A FVII-green fluorescent protein (GFP) chimaera provided us with a fluorescent model of FVII expression in living cells. Appreciable fluorescence in cells transfected with nonsense FVII-GFP mutants was detected upon geneticin treatment, thus demonstrating suppression of premature translation termination. To investigate the rescue of FVII function, nonsense variants of the native FVII without GFP (p316X-FVII and p364X-FVII) were transfected and found to secrete low amounts of FVII (approximately 1% of Wt-FVII activity), thus suggesting a spontaneous stop codon readthrough. Geneticin treatment of cells resulted in a significant and dose-dependent increase of secreted FVII molecules (p316X-FVII, 24 +/- 12 ng mL(-1), 3.6 +/- 0.8% of Wt-FVII activity; p364X-FVII, 26 +/- 10 ng mL(-1), 3.7+/-0.6%) characterized by reduced specific activity, thus indicating the synthesis of dysfunctional proteins. Similar results were observed with gentamicin, a commonly used aminoglycoside of potential interest for patient treatment.
Our approach, extendable to other coagulation factors, represents an effective tool for a systematic study of the effects of aminoglycosides and neighboring sequences on nonsense codon readthrough. These results provide the rationale for a mutation-specific therapeutic approach in FVII deficiency.
We have investigated the antidiabetic action of troglitazone in aP2/DTA mice, whose white and brown fat was virtually eliminated by fat-specific expression of diphtheria toxin A chain. aP2/DTA mice had markedly suppressed serum leptin levels and were hyperphagic, but did not gain excess weight. aP2/DTA mice fed a control diet were hyperlipidemic, hyperglycemic, and had hyperinsulinemia indicative of insulin-resistant diabetes. Treatment with troglitazone alleviated the hyperglycemia, normalized the tolerance to intraperitoneally injected glucose, and significantly decreased elevated insulin levels. Troglitazone also markedly decreased the serum levels of cholesterol, triglycerides, and free fatty acids both in wild-type and aP2/DTA mice. The decrease in serum triglycerides in aP2/DTA mice was due to a marked reduction in VLDL- and LDL-associated triglyceride. In skeletal muscle, triglyceride levels were decreased in aP2/DTA mice compared with controls, but glycogen levels were increased. Troglitazone treatment decreased skeletal muscle, but not hepatic triglyceride and increased hepatic and muscle glycogen content in wild-type mice. Troglitazone decreased muscle glycogen content in aP2/DTA mice without affecting muscle triglyceride levels. The levels of peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor gamma mRNA in liver increased slightly in aP2/DTA mice and were not changed by troglitazone treatment. The results demonstrate that insulin resistance and diabetes can occur in animals without significant adipose deposits. Furthermore, troglitazone can alter glucose and lipid metabolism independent of its effects on adipose tissue.
Quercetin has chemoprotective properties in experimental colon cancer models, and in vitro studies have demonstrated that quercetin inhibits HT-29 colon cancer cell growth. ErbB2 and ErbB3 receptor tyrosine kinases have been associated with the development of human colon cancer, and the expressions of both receptors are high in HT-29 cells. In this study, we assessed quercetin regulation of HT-29 and SW480 cell apoptosis and the influence of quercetin on the protein expression of ErbB2, ErbB3, Akt, Bax and Bcl-2. We cultured HT-29 cells in the presence of various concentrations (0, 25, 50, or 100 micromol/L) of quercetin or rutin. Quercetin inhibited HT-29 cell growth in a dose-dependent manner, whereas rutin had no effect on the cell growth. DNA that was isolated from cells treated with 50 micromol/L of quercetin exhibited an oliogonucleosomal laddering pattern characteristic of apoptotic cell death. Western blot analysis of cell lysates revealed that Bcl-2 levels decreased dose-dependently in cells treated with quercetin, but Bax remained unchanged. Quercetin increased levels of cleaved caspase-3 and the 89-kDa fragment of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase. In addition, phosphorylated Akt levels were markedly lower in cells treated with 25 micromol/L quercetin, but total Akt levels decreased only at 100 micromol/L quercetin. Furthermore, a dose-dependent decrease in ErbB2 and ErbB3 levels was detected in quercetin-treated cells. The results obtained using SW480 cells were similar to those obtained with HT-29 cells. In conclusion, we have shown that quercetin inhibits cell growth and induces apoptosis in colon cancer cells, and that this may be mediated by its ability to down-regulate ErbB2/ErbB3 signaling and the Akt pathway.
Originally described as a model of 'psychomotor seizures' (J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. (1953) 107-273), the 6 Hz corneal stimulation model was abandoned shortly after its description because of its lack of sensitivity to phenytoin. This observation is the basis for the present study designed to validate the 6 Hz seizure as a model of therapy-resistant epilepsy. The pharmacological profile of the 6 Hz seizure was determined at varying current intensities using seven established AEDs (phenytoin, carbamazepine, clonazepam, phenobarbital, ethosuximide, trimethadione, valproic acid) and five second-generation AEDs (lamotrigine, levetiracetam, felbamate, tiagabine, topiramate). The immediate early gene c-Fos was used as a marker of seizure-induced neuronal activation to help define those brain structures that were activated by 6 Hz corneal stimulation. At the current intensity required to produce a seizure in 97% of the population (CC97=22 mA), the 6 Hz seizure did not discriminate between clinical classes of AEDs tested. Increasing the current intensity by 50% (i.e. 32 mA) decreased the sensitivity of the 6 Hz seizure to phenytoin and lamotrigine. At a current intensity of 2 x CC97 (i.e. 44 mA), only two AEDs, levetiracetam and valproic acid, displayed complete protection against the 6 Hz seizure, though the efficacy of these drugs was reduced when compared to the lower stimulation intensities. Intense c-Fos staining from 6 Hz seizures induced by 22 and 32 mA stimulus intensities remained localized to the amygdala and piriform cortex. Increasing the stimulus intensity to 44 mA resulted in additional heavy staining of the dentate gyrus. This recruitment of the dentate gyrus may account for the decrease in potency of levetiracetam and valproic acid at 44 mA. The pharmacological results combined with the c-Fos immunohistochemistry suggest that the 6 Hz stimulation may provide a useful model of therapy-resistant limbic seizures.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a major mediator of vascular permeability and angiogenesis, may play a pivotal role in mediating the development and progression of diabetic retinopathy. In the present study, we examined the genetic variations of the VEGF gene to assess its possible relation to diabetic retinopathy in type 2 diabetic patients. Among seven common polymorphisms in the promoter region, 5'-untranslated region (UTR) and 3'UTR of the VEGF gene, genotype distribution of the C(-634)G polymorphism differed significantly (P = 0.011) between patients with (n = 150) and without (n = 118) retinopathy, and the C allele was significantly increased in patients with retinopathy compared with those without retinopathy (P = 0.0037). The odds ratio (OR) for the CC genotype of C(-634)G to the GG genotype was 3.20 (95% CI 1.45-7.05, P = 0.0046). The -634C allele was significantly increased in patients with nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (non-PDR) (P = 0.0026) and was insignificantly increased in patients with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) (P = 0.081) compared with patients without retinopathy, although frequencies of the allele did not differ significantly between the non-PDR and PDR groups. Logistic regression analysis revealed that the C(-634)G polymorphism was strongly associated with an increased risk of retinopathy (P = 0.0018). Furthermore, VEGF serum levels were significantly higher in healthy subjects with the CC genotype of the C(-634)G polymorphism than in those with the other genotypes. These data suggest that the C(-634)G polymorphism in the 5'UTR of the VEGF gene is a novel genetic risk factor for diabetic retinopathy.
We report here a three generations family with nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (NBCCS) in which the diagnosis was made only after a second trimester of pregnancy ultrasonography revealing fetal cranio-cerebral malformations. A mutation was subsequently characterized in the aborted fetus, as well as in the mother, sister and grand-mother as an 18bp deletion in exon 15 of the patched homologue 1 (PTCH1) gene. MC1R gene sequencing identified in two NBCCS patients affected by multiple basal cell carcinomas a functional MC1R variant, D294H, previously shown to be associated with skin cancer risk. This variant was absent in the NBCCS patient that did not develop basal cell carcinomas, suggesting that this variant could have favored the development of skin cancers, in patients carrying the PTCH1 mutation.
To explore the possibility of brain damage induced by several anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) at therapeutic level to immature brain of rat.
Totally 160 healthy Spraque-Dawley (SD) rats selected for the study were divided into infant and adult groups. Each age group was treated with phenobarbital (PB), clonazepam (CZP), valproic acid (VPA), topiramate (TPM) or normal saline respectively for 2 or 5 weeks with 8 rats in each group. The steady-state plasma concentrations of AEDs at the experimental dosage were coincided with the range of clinical therapeutic concentrations. Drug levels in plasma were determined by fluorescence polarization. Body and brain weights were measured when the rats were sacrificed. Histological studies on the tissues of frontal lobes and hippocampus were performed by Nissl staining. And ultrastructural changes of brain were observed by the transmission electron microscopy. Plasma neuron-specific enolase (NSE) was determined by ELISA. Expression of apoptosis-related proteins Bcl-2 and Bax in neurons was detected by immunohistochemistry. Neuronal apoptosis was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL).
(1) There were no significant differences in brain weight among all adults groups. While remarkable reduction of brain weight was observed in immature rats exposed to CZP or PB (P < 0.01) for long term. (2) Significant neurodegeneration, neuronal necrosis and decrease in the number of neurons can be observed in the immature rats exposed to CZP or PB for long period. (3) For immature rats, concentration of plasma NSE was increased even after short-term treatment with PB [(8.84 +/- 2.10) nmol/L] compared with control group [(6.27 +/- 1.27) nmol/L] (P < 0.01). And it was increased in immature rats exposed to CZP [(8.15 +/- 1.67) nmol/L] or PB [(8.07 +/- 1.27) nmol/L] for long term compared with controls [(6.02 +/- 1.20) nmol/L] (P < 0.01). But there were no significant differences between AEDs-treated adult rats and control rats. (4) The expression of Bcl-2 and Bax protein in mature brain did not change at therapeutic level. In contrast, expression of Bax protein in the frontal lobe was increased significantly in immature rats receiving CZP and PB for long period compared with control. (5) The number of TUNEL positive cells in immature rats exposed to CZP or PB for long term was obviously increased.
PB and CZP may result in remarkable histological abnormalities, neuronal apoptosis and necrosis in immature brain. The brain damage induced by PB was more serious and persistent than that induced by CZP.
Neurotropin, a nonproteinaceous extract from the inflamed skin of rabbits inoculated with vaccinia virus, is reported to decrease pain effectively when used for stellate ganglion (SG) injection. We compared the effects of neurotropin SG injection with those of mepivacaine on pain relief, as well as comparing the side effects. One hundred and eighty-eight SG injections in 15 patients (5 with postherpetic neuralgia and 10 with sudden deafness) were performed either with 1% mepivacaine 6 ml or with neurotropin 3 ml combined with saline 3 ml in turn. Fifteen min before and after the injection, the pain score, according to a visual analog scale (VAS; only in patients with postherpetic neuralgia); blood pressure; and heart rate were checked, and the number of procedures with Horner's sign was determined. VAS scores decreased significantly with both injections. Horner's sign was observed on the block side in all procedures with the mepivacaine injection, but it was seen in only 48 procedures with the neurotropin injection. Blood pressure and heart rate did not change. In conclusion, the SG injection of neurotropin decreased the VAS score in postherpetic neuralgia to the same extent as mepivacaine. The incidence of Horner's sign was significantly lower with neurotropin than with mepivacaine.
