5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is known to cause multifocal cerebral demyelination, which is pathologically related to a central inflammatory demyelinating process. To date, no case of peripheral neuropathy has been described after the administration of 5-FU alone. The authors describe two patients who had peripheral neuropathy that developed while they were receiving 5-FU-based chemotherapy.
Arterial blood pressure and heart rate were measured in 43 patients with acute myocardial infarction and a systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 120 mmHg during sublingual administration of 5 mg of isosorbide dinitrate. In 25 of them right heart haemodynamics were also measured. Severe (greater than or equal to 25%) hypotension developed in 12 patients (Group 1, systolic blood pressure 158 +/- 28 to 78 +/- 17 mmHg, mean +/- SD) but not in the remaining 31 (Group 2) and was accompanied by a fall in heart rate (82 +/- 20 to 70 +/- 22 beats min-1, P less than 0.05), in cardiac output (4.3 +/- 0.3 to 3.2 +/- 0.41 min-1, P less than 0.02, n = 5) and in systemic vascular resistances (2326 +/- 463 to 1532 +/- 442 dynes sec-1 cm.5, P less than 0.02) not present in Group 2. The reduction in right (Group 1, 8 +/- 3 to 3 +/- 1, vs. Group 2, 10 +/- 3 to 6 +/- 3 mmHg, P less than 0.005) and in left ventricular filling pressures (Group 1, 15 +/- 4 to 8 +/- 2, vs. Group 2, 18 +/- 6 to 13 +/- 5 mmHg, P less than 0.001) was more remarkable in Group 1. In this group there was also a high incidence of anterior infarction (9/12, 75%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of this study was to use objective quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) methods to develop a computer-aided detection (CAD) tool to differentiate white matter (WM) hyperintensities into either leukoencephalopathy (LE) induced by chemotherapy or normal maturational processes in children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia without irradiation. A combined MRI set consisting of T1-weighted, T2-weighted, proton-density-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery images and WM, gray matter and cerebrospinal fluid proportional volume maps from a spatially normalized atlas were analyzed with a neural network segmentation based on a Kohonen self-organizing map (SOM). Segmented maps were manually classified to identify the most hyperintense WM region and the normal-appearing genu region. Signal intensity differences normalized to the genu within each examination were generated for four time points in 228 children. A second Kohonen SOM was trained on the first examination data and divided the WM into normal-appearing or LE groups. Reviewing labels from the CAD tool revealed a consistency measure of 89.8% (167 of 186) within patients. The overall agreement between the CAD tool and the consensus reading of two trained observers was 84.1% (535 of 636), with 84.2% (170 of 202) agreement in the training set and 84.1% (365 of 434) agreement in the testing set. These results suggest that subtle therapy-induced LE can be objectively and reproducibly detected in children treated for cancer using this CAD approach based on relative differences in quantitative signal intensity measures normalized within each examination.
Various new derivatives and structural analogues of N-(1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinylmethyl)-4,5-dihydro-1H-benzo[g]indole-3-carboxamide (2a), a representative term of a series of 2-aminomethylpyrrolidinyl derived 4,5-dihydrobenzo[g]indolcarboxamides with good D(2)-like affinity, were synthesized and evaluated for their ability to bind to dopamine D(2)-like receptors in vitro. The structural contribution to D(2)-like receptor binding of the 4,5-dihydrobenzo[g]indole portion of the molecule was examined. From these studies, compound 2k, 2-chloro-N-(1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinylmethyl)-5,6-dihydro-4H-benzo[6,7]cyclohepta[b]pyrrole-3-carboxamide, was found to possess a potent affinity for D(2)-like receptors. Behavioural tests in rats have shown that this compound reduces the hyperactivity induced by amphetamine, a property shared by all antipsychotic drugs, at a dose which failed to induce catalepsy, an effect which is predictive of extrapyramidal side effects in humans. The other compounds demonstrated moderate (2c, 2h, and 2j) or no affinity for D(2)-like receptors.
5-Fluorouracil remains a key drug in the treatment of colorectal cancer, and the development of a simple and effective test for selecting patients likely to benefit from postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy is an important objective.
This study aimed to clarify the feasibility of measuring apoptotic cell rate (AI%) in tumor after short-term oral 5-fluorouracil administration prior to surgery with the objective of establishing a simpler method to test for sensitivity.
Forty-five colorectal cancer patients were allocated to two groups, and 21 patients were given oral 5-FU for 3 d prior to surgery. The AI% in surgical specimen, detected by TUNEL staining, was compared in the 5-FU-loaded and control groups. The correlation of AI% with 5-FU metabolic enzyme mRNA levels in tumor was also evaluated.
The AI% was significantly higher in the tumor tissue of patients receiving 5-FU than in the control group (p < 0.0005). Although insignificant, thymidylate synthase mRNA level and orotate phosphoribosyl transferase mRNA demonstrated a weak positive correlation with AI%.
The AI% measurement in tumor tissue following a 5-FU oral load for 3 d prior to surgery was feasible. It remains to be elucidated if this measurement as a new 5-FU sensitivity test reflects the prognosis with 5-FU-based postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy.
To study the effect of the venous occlusion duration using lidocaine on the incidence and severity of propofol induced pain.
A prospective double-blind randomized study was designed at Jordan University Hospital, Amman, Jordan between October 2007 and November 2007. One hundred and fifty patients aged 14-70 years, American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) clinical status I and II who underwent elective surgeries under general anesthesia, were divided into 3 groups. All 3 groups had propofol 1% infusion at a constant rate after applying venous occlusion with lidocaine. The occlusion was applied for 15 seconds (group I, n=50), 30 seconds (group II, n=50) and 60 seconds (group III, n=50). Pain was assessed during injection according to a verbal pain score.
Fourteen patients 28% had pain in group I, compared to 16 patients 32% in group II, and 9 patients 18% in group III. This difference did not reach statistical significance p>0.05 for the incidence and severity of pain.
While venous occlusion with lidocaine is an effective method in relieving propofol induced pain, we found no difference when the duration of venous occlusion was 15, 30, or 60 seconds.
Leptin is an anorexigenic peptide which is synthesized in white adipose tissue. The actions of leptin are mediated by the leptin receptor which is abundantly localized in the hypothalamus and is involved in energy regulation and balance. Recently, there has been evidence suggesting that the leptin receptor is also present in the hippocampus and may be involved with hippocampal excitability and long-term depression. To investigate the physiological function of leptin signalling in the hippocampus, we studied the effects of leptin on methamphetamine-induced ambulatory hyperactivity by utilizing intra-hippocampal infusion (i.h.) in mice. Our results show that the infusion of leptin (5 ng each bilaterally i.h.) does not affect the basal ambulatory activity but significantly suppresses methamphetamine-induced ambulatory hyperactivity as compared to saline-infused controls. Interestingly, higher dose of leptin increases the suppression of the methamphetamine-induced ambulatory hyperactivity. The i.h. infusion of leptin did not activate the JAK-STAT pathway, which is the cellular signalling pathway through which leptin acts in the hypothalamus. The infusion of leptin also did not affect activation of p42/44 MAPK which is known to be another leptin-induced signalling pathway in the brain. These results demonstrate that leptin has a novel potential suppressive effect on methamphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion and also suggest that there must be an alternative pathway in the hippocampus through which leptin signalling is being mediated.
The use of propofol often results in pain upon injection. Various strategies can be used to reduce this pain, ranging from the administration of analgesics to modification of the propofol emulsion. However, basic premedication protocol aimed at peri- and postoperative pain reduction could also sufficiently reduce propofol injection pain, rendering other special interventions redundant.
With the approval of the Local Ethics Committee of the Erasmus Medical Centre Rotterdam, and after obtaining written informed consent from each patient included, 209 surgical patients (ASA physical status I-III) were randomized in a double-blind manner to receive premedication consisting of 7.5 mg midazolam, 50 mg diclofenac and 1000 mg acetaminophen (all orally administered) and fentanyl (intravenously administered) or placebo medication the hour before surgery. In both groups a mixture of 40 mL propofol 1% with 2 mL lidocaine 1% was used to induce anesthesia. Pain scores were assessed using a verbal analog scale (VAS) ranging from 0-10.
The premedication group was found to have significantly less pain upon injection of propofol (median VAS 0+/-0-2) (median+/-interquartile range) when compared to the control group (median VAS 1.5+/-0-4; P=0.001). In addition, more patients in the premedication group experienced no pain at all. This effect was still present one hour after extubation.
Even when injection pain is reduced, the use of a premedication regimen clearly has additional value with respect to the patients' experience. Considering the low VAS scores observed overall, it might be worthwhile to reserve additional injection pain-reducing interventions for individual patients rather than adding them as a component of standard practice.
A case report of acute flank pain with reversible renal failure in a young adult after taking three doses of suprofen is presented. Blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine values returned to normal from significantly elevated levels on admission.
Chronic consumption of ethanol can cause cumulative liver damage that can ultimately lead to cirrhosis. To explore the mechanisms of alcoholic steatosis, we investigated the global intrahepatic gene expression profiles of livers from mice administered alcohol. Ethanol was administered by feeding the standard Lieber-DeCarli diet, of which 36% (high dose) and 3.6% (low dose) of the total calories were supplied from ethanol for 1, 2, or 4 weeks. Histopathological evaluation of the liver samples revealed fatty changes and punctate necrosis in the high-dose group and ballooning degeneration in the low-dose group. In total, 292 genes were identified as ethanol responsive, and several of these differed significantly in expression compared to those of control mice (two-way ANOVA; p<0.05). Specifically, the expression levels of genes involved in hepatic lipid transport and metabolism were examined. An overall net increase in gene expression was observed for genes involved in (i) glucose transport and glycolysis, (ii) fatty acid influx and de novo synthesis, (iii) fatty acid esterification to triglycerides, and (iv) cholesterol transport, de novo cholesterol synthesis, and bile acid synthesis. Collectively, these data provide useful information concerning the global gene expression changes that occur due to alcohol intake and provide important insights into the comprehensive mechanisms of chronic alcoholic steatosis.
Doxorubicin, irinotecan and etoposide are all associated with the debilitating side-effects of nausea and vomiting, thereby necessitating concomitant antiemetic therapy. However, this may increase the potential for drug-drug interactions by inhibition or induction of the cytochrome P450 enzymes. A study was undertaken to investigate the effects of the 5-HT(3) -receptor antagonist granisetron on the metabolism of doxorubicin, irinotecan and etoposide in vitro in human liver microsomal preparations.
Doxorubicin, 20 microM, irinotecan, 10 microM, and etoposide, 50 microM, were incubated in the presence of granisetron, 0 nM, 20 nM, 200 nM and 2000 nM, in human liver microsomal preparations (250 microg). The levels of unchanged doxorubicin, irinotecan and etoposide in the incubation mixture were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Positive controls were ketoconazole, 20 microM, a potent inhibitor of CYP3A metabolism, for irinotecan and etoposide and quercitrin, 2 mM, a potent inhibitor of aldo-keto reductase, for doxorubicin.
In the absence of granisetron, unchanged doxorubicin, irinotecan and etoposide levels decreased by 34.2 +/- 5.5%, 21.3 +/- 2.9% and 13.4 +/- 1.6% of control, respectively. Ketoconazole prevented the breakdown of both irinotecan and etoposide, while quercitrin inhibited the breakdown of doxorubicin. Granisetron had no effect on the rate of reduction of doxorubicin, irinotecan or etoposide.
The results from this study suggest that granisetron neither inhibits nor induces the enzymes involved in the metabolism of doxorubicin, irinotecan or etoposide. Thus, granisetron can be used safely to treat nausea and vomiting induced by these agents with minimal risk of drug-drug interactions.
One hour after a single i.v. dose of 250 mg/kg folic acid, the straight portion of distal tubules in the outer medulla of rat kidneys showed a distinct reduction in succinate dehydrogenase, NADH2-diaphorase, glutamate dehydrogenase, cytochrome oxydase, Na+/K+-ATPase, and acid phosphatase activity. In contrast, the proximal tubules exhibited only a reduction in glutamate dehydrogenase and alkaline phosphatase activity. At this time the straight portion of the distal tubules, whose enzyme activity had changed, showed partly regressive epithelial changes. 24 hours after folic acid administration an even greater reduction in enzyme activity had occurred in the straight portion of distal tubules; these structures also became dilated. The adjacent collecting tubules and the corresponding proximal tubules were also severely dilated, the proximal tubules showing a loss in enzyme acitivities similar to those observed in the distal tubules. 48 hours after folic acid administration the changes largely resembled those observed after 24 hours, but were more pronounced. At this time a tubular regeneration was observed. 72 hours after folic administration extensive normalization of the histological and histochemical changes had occured. It is postulated that a disturbance of the hairpin counter-current mechanism occurs as a result of a direct, concentration-dependent effect of folic acid on the enzymes of the energy supplying metabolism. A dilation in the region of the loop of Henle and the collecting tubules occurs subsequently.
Nitrogen mustard is a vesicant that causes damage to the respiratory tract. In these studies, we characterized the acute effects of nitrogen mustard on lung structure, inflammatory mediator expression, and pulmonary function, with the goal of identifying mediators potentially involved in toxicity. Treatment of rats (male Wistar, 200-225 g) with nitrogen mustard (mechlorethamine hydrochloride, i.t., 0.25mg/kg) resulted in marked histological changes in the respiratory tract, including necrotizing bronchiolitis, thickening of alveolar septa, and inflammation which was evident within 24h. This was associated with increases in bronchoalveolar lavage protein and cells, confirming injury to alveolar epithelial regions of the lung. Nitrogen mustard administration also resulted in increased expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2, pro-inflammatory proteins implicated in lung injury, in alveolar macrophages and alveolar and bronchial epithelial cells. Expression of connective tissue growth factor and matrix metalloproteinase-9, mediators regulating extracellular matrix turnover was also increased, suggesting that pathways leading to chronic lung disease are initiated early in the pathogenic process. Following nitrogen mustard exposure, alterations in lung mechanics and function were also observed. These included decreases in baseline static compliance, end-tidal volume and airway resistance, and a pronounced loss of methacholine responsiveness in resistance, tissue damping and elastance. Taken together, these data demonstrate that nitrogen mustard induces rapid structural and inflammatory changes in the lung which are associated with altered lung functioning. Understanding the nature of the injury induced by nitrogen mustard and related analogs may aid in the development of efficacious therapies for treatment of pulmonary injury resulting from exposure to vesicants.
Exposure to excess testosterone (T) during fetal life has a profound impact on the metabolic and reproductive functions in the female's postnatal life. However, less is known about the effects of excess testosterone in males. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the impact (consequences) of an excess of T during fetal development on mature male testis. The testicular evaluation was by histological analysis and by determination of mRNA expression of the FSH receptor (FSH-R), transforming growth factor-β type I receptor (TβR-I), and two members of the TGF-β superfamily, transforming growth factor-β3 (TGFβ3) and anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) in males born to mothers receiving an excess of T during pregnancy. At 42 wk of age, postpubertal males born to mothers treated with 30 mg of T propionate twice weekly from day 30 to 90, followed by 40 mg of T propionate from day 90 to 120 of pregnancy (T males), showed higher concentrations of FSH in response to a GnRH analog, a higher number of Sertoli cells/seminiferous tubule cross-section, and a lower number of germ cells/tubules (P < 0.05) than control males (C males) born to mothers treated with the vehicle. The mRNA expression of FSH-R and of TβR-I was higher in T males compared with C males (P < 0.05). Moreover, in T males, AMH expression level correlated negatively with the expression level of TGFβ3. In C males, this latter correlation was not observed. These results suggest that prenatal exposure to an excess of T can negatively modify some histological and molecular characteristics of the mature testis.
An 81 year old male patient treated by sulfonylurea and diet was known to have type II diabetes for three years. Because of pulmonary embolism phenprocoumon had been administered for four months. Painful livedo racemosa developed acutely on both lateral sides of the feet and the left knee. A necrosis of the skin over the base of the left small toe developed within a few days. On the basis of the clinical picture cholesterol-embolism was diagnosed. Since anticoagulation is known to promote cholesterol-embolism it was discontinued. Prostaglandin E1 infusions into both legs were administered. Within 3 months the cutaneous lesions healed completely.
Idiosyncratic and proarrhythmic reactions to antiarrhythmic drugs are a well-recognized phenomenon and appear to correlate poorly with Q-T prolongation or with the serum concentration of the drug. It therefore becomes difficult to identify patients clinically with an underlying electrophysiologic substrate for ventricular tachycardia which was made manifest by an antiarrhythmic drug, or to determine whether the drug is causing an idiosyncratic reaction (the classic "long Q-T syndrome"). We recently studied a patient with ischemic heart disease and a prolonged corrected Q-T interval (Q-Tc) due to chronic left bundle-branch block. She developed "quinidine syncope," and the Q-Tc was unchanged despite stopping administration of the drug; however, electrophysiologic studies demonstrated reproducibly inducible "torsade de pointes" while the patient was being rechallenged with quinidine, while no inducible arrhythmia was seen during control studies. We conclude that electrophysiologic studies are of clinical value in the clarification of possible drug-induced arrhythmias.
To test antinociceptive properties of botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) in rats with carrageenan- and capsaicin-induced pain and inflammation.
Pain was provoked with carrageenan (1%) or capsaicin (0.1%) injection into the plantar surface of the rat paw-pad. The effect of BTX-A 5 U/kg on carrageenan- and capsaicin-induced mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity, as well as the size of carrageenan-induced paw edema were tested 24 hours and 6 days following the toxin injection into the rat paw-pad. In the dose-response experiment, the effect of different doses of BTX-A (2, 3, 3.5, 5, and 7 U/kg) on carrageenan-induced mechanical hypersensitivity was investigated on day 5 after BTX-A application.
Pretreatment with 5 U/kg BTX-A significantly reduced or completely abolished the enhanced sensitivity to mechanical and thermal stimuli provoked by peripheral carrageenan or capsaicin injections. This reduction was significant when BTX-A was applied 6 days before the induction of pain and inflammation, but the toxin was ineffective when applied 24 hours before the challenge. In the dose-response experiment, the lowest effective dose was 3.5 U/kg, but apparently the effect was not dose-dependent. In contrast to the antinociceptive effect, 5 U/kg BTX-A had no effect on the carrageenan-induced paw edema.
The study demonstrated the efficacy of peripherally applied BTX-A pretreatment on the pain component of inflammatory process in experimental animals.
Several causal missense mutations in the protein kinase Cgamma (gammaPKC) gene have been found in spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA14), an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease. We previously showed that mutant gammaPKC found in SCA14 is susceptible to aggregation and causes apoptosis. Aggregation of misfolded proteins is generally involved in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases. Growing evidence indicates that macroautophagy (autophagy) is important for the degradation of misfolded proteins and the prevention of neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, we examined whether autophagy is involved in the degradation of the mutant gammaPKC that causes SCA14. Mutant gammaPKC-GFP was transiently expressed in SH-SY5Y cells by using an adenoviral tetracycline-regulated system. Subsequently, temporal changes in clearance of aggregates and degradation of gammaPKC-GFP were evaluated. Rapamycin, an autophagic inducer, accelerated clearance of aggregates and promoted degradation of mutant gammaPKC-GFP, but it did not affect degradation of wild-type gammaPKC-GFP. These effects of rapamycin were not observed in embryonic fibroblast cells from Atg5-deficient mice, which are not able to perform autophagy. Furthermore, lithium, another type of autophagic inducer, also promoted the clearance of mutant gammaPKC aggregates. These results indicate that autophagy contributes to the degradation of mutant gammaPKC, suggesting that autophagic inducers could provide therapeutic potential for SCA14.
To report two cases of seizures following administration of levofoxacin and ciprofloxacin.
A 75-year-old white woman admitted to the hospital was prescribed levofloxacin for ischemic toes. After receiving three doses of oral levofloxacin, the patient experienced a seizure. One month later, the patient was rechallenged with ciprofloxacin and again experienced a seizure. The patient was hypomagnesemic and had elevated serum creatinine at the time of both seizures, and was hyponatremic during the second seizure. A 74-year-old white woman admitted to the hospital was prescribed levofloxacin for bacterial pneumonia. After five doses, the patient experienced a seizure. The woman had no electrolyte imbalances at the time of the seizure and no history of a seizure disorder.
Quinolone antibiotics vary in their ability to induce seizures, with trovafloxacin having the greatest potential and levofloxacin possibly having the least potential. Neither patient had a history of a previous seizure disorder. Electrolyte imbalances are common with previous reports of fluoroquinolone-induced seizures.
Although levofloxacin monotherapy has not been implicated in inducing seizures, it appears to be the causative agent in the second case. In the first case, the quinolones may have been a necessary, but not sufficient, cause in a patient with electrolyte abnormalities. Risk factors for fluoroquinolone-induced seizures may Include seizure history, electrolyte imbalances,dose unadjusted for renal insufficiency, and concomitant treatment with agents that lower the seizure threshold.
The limiting toxicity of low dose continuous infusion 5-fluorouracil (200-300 mg/m2/day) is often palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE). PPE developed in 16/25 patients (exact 95% confidence interval of 42%-82%) with metastatic colon cancer enrolled in a phase II trial. In this trial, 5-FU was given continuously at a dose of 200 mg/m2/day until toxicity or progressive disease forced discontinuation. The first signs of the syndrome developed at a median of 2 months following infusion initiation and, unless treatment was interrupted, became progressively worse. The incidence of moderate to severe PPE was 71% in the 14 previously untreated patients (exact 95% confidence intervals of 42-92%). Seventy-eight percent of the responders in the no prior treatment group developed PPE. The incidence of moderate to severe PPE was only 27% in the 11 previously treated patients (exact 95% confidence intervals of 6-61%). The higher incidence of PPE in the previously untreated patients probably resulted from a longer total infusion time (median = 7.3 months) than the previously treated (median = 4.5 months). The longer infusion time in turn was a result of the higher response rates (64 vs 18%) in the previously untreated versus treated groups. Five previously untreated patients who developed PPE received 50 or 150 mg of pyridoxine/day when moderate PPE changes were noted. Reversal of PPE without interruption of the 5-FU was seen in 4/5 patients. Four of these patients who received pyridoxine had responded to 5-FU treatment. No adverse affect of pyridoxine on clinical response was noted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Forty-five women with far-advanced metastatic breast cancer were treated with a combination of aminoglutethimide (AG), 1000 mg p.o. daily, and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), 1500 mg p.o. daily. Of 41 patients evaluable for treatment response, there were two complete responses, five partial remissions, 26 patients with minor tumor responses or no change, and eight nonresponders. Major side effects included those known for AG and MPA, i.e., impairment of mental functions, depressive syndromes, fatigue, ataxia, skin rash, changes in body weight, and transient increase of gamma-glutamyl-transferase. Most side effects disappeared spontaneously after 4 to 6 weeks of treatment. Plasma hormone measurements in 28 patients revealed no impairment of adrenocorticotropic hormone and cortisol levels. In conclusion, in the AG combination, it is feasible and safe to replace cortisol by MPA. Treatment results warrant further investigation of AG-MPA in patients with breast cancer of a more favorable prognosis.
To report a patent developing hypertension following the use of testosterone gel.
A 65-year-old white man who was placed on topical testosterone therapy to increase libido developed hypertension and increased hematocrit simultaneously. After discontinuation of the testosterone, the hematocrit returned to mid-normal reference range and blood pressure returned to normal; he had been normotensive prior to topical testosterone use.
The popularity of hormone replacement for women for the maintenance of appearance and lifestyle and the prevention of complications such as osteoporosis has been established over several decades, and the complications and risks and benefits of this therapy have been well described. More recently, and particularly with the availability of topical preparations of testosterone, hormone replacement for men is becoming popular with both older male patients and their physicians. We describe a case of hypertension as a complication of the application of topical testosterone and link this adverse effect to the known anabolic effects of testosterone.
Clinicians should be cautious in prescribing topical preparations of testosterone for the proper administration by the patient and alert to the development of hypertension in this population at increased risk for cardiovascular events due to their age.
To describe an adverse effect with intravenous codeine in a chid diagnosed with sickle cell anemia.
A seven-year-old boy with sickle cell anemia was admitted to the emergency department with severe pain unresponsive to high doses of oral acetaminophen; subsequently, intravenous codeine phosphate was administered. The patient immediately developed a tonic-clonic seizure, which was treated with intravenous diazepam and naloxone.
Seizures associated with the intravenous administration of codeine phosphate have not been extensively reported in the literature, and special precautions for using the parenteral route for this drug have been vague and limited. Because of the frequent need for acute pain control in children with sicke cell crisis, they may be exposed to this type of reaction when intravenous narcotics are administered. The need for clear guidelines regarding the drug's appropriate parenteral dosing and administration is essential.
Codeine phosphate-induced seizures are not common. The need for special instructions for its intravenous administration may prevent this type of reaction, especially in patients in need of acute pain control requiring intravenous narcotics.
The effects of verapamil on regional myocardial blood flow and on the ST segment were studied in both normal and ischemic regions in dogs with and without cardiac pacing. In the absence of cardiac pacing, verapamil (0.05 mg/kg/min/10 min) induced marked bradycardia, a drop in blood pressure and an increase in epicardial and endocardial flows both in normal and ischemic regions of the heart. However, in ischemic regions, redistribution was favorable since the endo/epi ratio increased from 0.46 to 0.61 (p less than 0.01) whereas this ratio did not vary in normal regions (0.94 vs. 0.92). This increase is accompanied by less marked ST segment elevation during coronary occlusion in dogs treated with verapamil. In dogs with cardiac pacing, administration of verapamil under the same conditions again induced a drop in blood pressure and, in normal regions only, a homogeneous but less marked increase in epicardial and endocardial flows, the endo/epi ratio varying from 0.94 to 0.98. In contrast, in ischemic regions, blood flow was not modified by verapamil, but the endo/epi ratio dropped from 0.46 to 0.31 (p less than 0.01), while the ST segment elevation observed did not differ from that recorded during the control occlusion. These results demonstrate the major role of verapamil-induced bradycardia in the anti-anginal affects of this drug.
To determine the recommended phase II dose (RPTD) of a 96-h continuous intravenous infusion (CIVI) of cyclophosphamide (200, 300, or 400 mg/m2/d) and etoposide (60 or 90 mg/m2/d) when used in conjunction with doxorubicin (12.5 mg/m2/d) (CDE) given every 28 d plus granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) in patients with poor prognosis non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Group A), and the same regimen given every 21 d (Group B).
In Group A, infusional CDE was repeated every 28 d, GM-CSF (250 microg/m2) was given subcutaneously from d 6 until neutrophil recovery, with dose escalation in cohorts of three to six evaluable patients. The RPTD of cyclophosphamide and etoposide established in Group A was then used with CDE given every 3 wk (Group B) with GM-CSF given on d 6-20, and dose escalation was attempted again.
In Group A, the RPTD of cyclophosphamide and etoposide were 300 mg/m2/d and 90 mg/m2/d, respectively; prolonged neutropenia was the dose-limiting toxicity. In Group B, use of GM-CSF on d 6-20 did not facilitate dose escalation above the RPTD established in Group A. Complete response occurred in 13/26 patients (50%) with no prior chemotherapy, and in 4/16 patients (25%) who had relapsed after prior chemotherapy.
Because of the increase in dose and dose-density afforded by the administration of GM-CSF, the relative dose intensity was increased by twofold for cyclophosphamide (400 vs 200 mg/m2/wk) and etoposide (120 vs 60 mg/m2/wk), and by 1.3-fold for doxorubicin (16.7 vs 12.5 mg/m2/wk).
Previous studies have shown that clock genes are expressed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus, other brain regions, and peripheral tissues. Various peripheral oscillators can run independently of the SCN. However, no published studies have reported changes in the expression of clock genes in the rat central nervous system and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) after withdrawal from chronic morphine treatment. Rats were administered with morphine twice daily at progressively increasing doses for 7 days; spontaneous withdrawal signs were recorded 14 h after the last morphine administration. Then, brain and blood samples were collected at each of eight time points (every 3 h: ZT 9; ZT 12; ZT 15; ZT 18; ZT 21; ZT 0; ZT 3; ZT 6) to examine expression of rPER1 and rPER2 and rCLOCK. Rats presented obvious morphine withdrawal signs, such as teeth chattering, shaking, exploring, ptosis, and weight loss. In morphine-treated rats, rPER1 and rPER2 expression in the SCN, basolateral amygdala, and nucleus accumbens shell showed robust circadian rhythms that were essentially identical to those in control rats. However, robust circadian rhythm in rPER1 expression in the ventral tegmental area was completely phase-reversed in morphine-treated rats. A blunting of circadian oscillations of rPER1 expression occurred in the central amygdala, hippocampus, nucleus accumbens core, and PBMCs and rPER2 expression occurred in the central amygdala, prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens core, and PBMCs in morphine-treated rats compared with controls. rCLOCK expression in morphine-treated rats showed no rhythmic change, identical to control rats. These findings indicate that withdrawal from chronic morphine treatment resulted in desynchronization from the SCN rhythm, with blunting of rPER1 and rPER2 expression in reward-related neurocircuits and PBMCs.
