To study the incidence of adverse reactions to albendazole therapy in patients presenting with seizures and a persistent (>3 months after diagnosis), solitary cysticercus granuloma and to determine whether the occurrence of adverse reactions predicted the response of the granuloma to therapy.
In a prospective study, adverse reactions were monitored in 43 patients with a persistent solitary cysticercus granuloma who were treated with albendazole therapy. Steroids were administered prophylactically to 7 patients. Response to albendazole therapy was determined on a post therapy CT scan done within 12 weeks of initiation of therapy.
Adverse reactions in the form of headache, vomiting or recurrence of seizures including focal status epilepticus occurred in 15 (34.9%) patients. Adverse reactions occurred in 3 of the 7 patients who received steroids during therapy. The occurrence of side effects was not significantly influenced by steroid therapy (P=0.47). The granuloma responded to therapy in 20 patients (46.5%). Although the granuloma responded to therapy in a larger percentage of patients with side effects than in those without side effects (60% versus 39.3%), this difference was not statistically significant (P=0.16).
Albendazole therapy causes adverse reactions in about a third of patients with a persistent solitary cysticercus granuloma. Occurrence of adverse reactions cannot be prevented with steroid therapy and their occurrence does not predict the response of the granuloma to therapy.
The cardiovascular effects of N-methyl-1,2-diphenyl ethanolamine (compound M) and N-isobutyl-1,2-diphenyl ethanolamine (compound E) were examined in anaesthetized rats and their effects were compared with those of verapamil and diltiazem. Administration of compound M (10-80 mumole/kg), compound E (2-16 mumole/kg), diltiazem (1.5-24 mumole/kg) or verapamil (1.25-10 mumole/kg) induced dose-dependent decreases in arterial blood pressure and heart rate. The induced cardiovascular changes were not antagonized by chlorpheniramine, cimetidine or imidazole. Indomethacin antagonized the diltiazem-induced hypotension without any effect on that of compounds M and E. The effects of all compounds tested were antagonized by pretreatment of the rats with CaCl2 (1.2-2.4 mmole/kg). Furthermore, methylene blue significantly antagonized the compound E- and diltiazem-induced hypotension. Treatment of the animals with propranolol enhanced the compound M- and E-induced hypotension. Compounds M and E antagonized the NA-induced increase in arterial blood pressure in a competitive manner. Compounds M and E seem to exert their cardiovascular effects via interference with the influx of extracellular Ca2+. Furthermore, compound E and diltiazem may act partially via activation of guanylyl cyclase.
Ostreolysin A (OlyA) and pleurotolysin B (PlyB), isolated from edible oyster mushrooms, form a cytolytic complex (OlyA/PlyB) in membrane cells that causes respiratory arrest. This study evaluated the mechanisms underlying cytotoxic OlyA/PlyB activity in neuroblastoma NG108-15 cells. Confocal microscopy with morphometric analysis revealed that OlyA/PlyB increased the 3-dimensional projected area of differentiated cells. Iso-osmotic replacement of NaCl by sucrose or Na-isethionate prevented the cellular swelling. This suggests that formation of cellular edema requires the presence of Na(+) and/or Cl(-) in the extracellular space and may be related to an influx of Na(+) and/or a shift in Cl(-), which induce a marked influx of water that is ultimately responsible for cellular swelling. In addition, extracellular Ca(2+) moderately contributed to the swelling because benzamil (10 µM), a 3Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange (NCX) inhibitor, and Ca(2+)-free medium partially prevented this response. Fluorometric measurements revealed that OlyA/PlyB, at approximately 15-fold higher concentrations, increased the intracellular Ca(2+) activity [Ca(2+)]i. This increase was dependent on the presence of Na(+) and Ca(2+) in the external medium and was sensitive to benzamil. It is thus likely that a switch in the NCX mode, associated with the de novo formation of non-selective ion pores by OlyA/PlyB in cellular plasma membranes, plays an important role in this effect. Overall, OlyA/PlyB affects neuroblastoma cell morphology and Ca(2+) homeostasis to influence the toxin-induced respiratory arrest.
We previously demonstrated that in ovo exposure to the flame retardant tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCPP) decreased plasma thyroxine levels, reduced growth parameters, and decreased gallbladder size in chicken embryos. In the current study DNA microarrays were used to evaluate global mRNA expression in liver tissue of male chicken embryos that exhibited the above mentioned effects. Injected doses were dimethyl sulfoxide vehicle control, 7.6 or 45 μg TDCPP/g egg. TDCPP caused significant changes in the expression of five genes at the low dose and 47 genes at the high dose (False Discovery Rate p ≤ 0.1, fold change ≥ 1.5). The gene expression analysis suggested a compromised immune function, a state of cholestatic liver/biliary fibrosis, and disrupted lipid and steroid metabolism. Circulating bile acid levels were elevated, which is an indication of liver dysfunction, and plasma cholesterol levels were reduced; however, hepatic bile acid and cholesterol levels were unaltered. Interactome analyses identified apolipoprotein E, hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha as key regulatory molecules involved in the effects of TDCPP. Our results demonstrate a targeted effect of TDCPP toxicity on lipid metabolism, including cholesterol, that helps explain the aforementioned phenotypic effects, as chicken embryos are highly dependent on yolk lipids for growth and maintenance throughout development. Finally, our results are in concordance with the literature that describes TDCPP as a cancer-causing agent, since the majority of dysregulated genes were involved in cancer pathways.
The current study was conducted to determine whether amifostine is effective in reducing the toxicities associated with the administration of platinum-containing regimens in children with hepatoblastoma (HB).
Patients were enrolled on P9645 beginning in March of 1999. Patients who had stage I/II disease received treatment with 4 cycles of combined cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and vincristine (C5V) with or without amifostine. Patients who had stage III/IV disease were randomized to receive treatment with 6 cycles of either C5V with or without amifostine or carboplatin alternating with cisplatin (CC) with or without amifostine. Patients who were randomized to receive amifostine were given a dose of 740 mg/m2 intravenously over 15 minutes before each administration of a platinum agent.
Eighty-two patients were considered in a special interim analysis of the incidence of toxicity. The disease outcome for patients who received amifostine was similar to the outcome for patients who did not receive amifostine (P=.22). The incidence of significant hearing loss (>40 dB) was similar for patients who did or did not receive amifostine (38% [14 of 37 patients] vs 38% [17 of 45 patients], respectively; P=.68). There were no differences in the incidence of renal or bone marrow toxicities evaluated. Patients who received amifostine had a higher incidence of hypocalcemia (5% vs 0.5%; P=.00006).
Amifostine in the doses and schedule used in this study failed to significantly reduce the incidence of platinum-induced toxicities in patients with HB.
In the present study, we investigated whether buprenorphine as a partial mu-opioid receptor agonist is associated with less cognitive impairment than methadone.
Neuropsychological functioning of opioid-dependent patients, previously assigned to methadone (MMP, n = 30) or buprenorphine (BMP, n = 26) maintenance treatment according to their own preference, was compared and dose effects were investigated.
MMP and BMP performed equally well on all measures of neuropsychological functioning including the trail making test, the continuous performance test, and a vigilance task. However, patients receiving a higher dose of methadone were impaired in a vigilance task.
In a free-choice administration of methadone or buprenorphine, there seems to be no difference in cognitive functioning. Possible explanations are discussed.
12 HIV-infected children were treated with a high dose of zidovudine (800/mg/m2/day) during a mean follow up period of 18 months. After starting treatment with zidovudine there was a subjective improvement and an increase in body weight, and a significant decline in serum HIV-antigenemia (p < 0.01) and serum IgG levels (p < 0.05). Zidovudine was generally well tolerated but there was serious hematological toxicity. In 9 patients (75%) dose reduction was necessary because of severe anemia (3 patients) or leucopenia (6 patients). Because of the high incidence of these side effects the starting dose of zidovudine was reduced to 600 mg/m2/day. These results confirm that zidovudine can safely be used to treat HIV-infected children. The main limitation is serious hematological toxicity which appears to be dose-related.
The administration of veralipride, a centrally acting dopaminergic type 2 (DA2) receptor antagonist, can decrease hot flushes and improve bone density in post-menopausal women (1). Therefore, it entails an alternative to hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in women who have contraindications to estrogen (1). We herein describe the case of a 52-yr-old lady who presented with an acute coronary syndrome shortly after taking veralipride. Based on knowledge that DA2 receptor antagonists trigger catecholamine release (2), a pheochromocytoma was suspected and thereafter diagnosed and excised. Therefore, this is the first case reporting on veralipride unmasking a silent pheochromocytoma.
Prenatal exposure to some pesticides can adversely affect male reproductive health in animals. We investigated a possible human association between maternal exposure to 27 organochlorine compounds used as pesticides and cryptorchidism among male children.
Within a prospective birth cohort, we performed a case-control study; 62 milk samples from mothers of cryptorchid boys and 68 from mothers of healthy boys were selected. Milk was collected as individual pools between 1 and 3 months postpartum and analyzed for 27 organochlorine pesticides.
Eight organochlorine pesticides were measurable in all samples (medians; nanograms per gram lipid) for cases/controls: 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl) ethylene (p,p -DDE) : 97.3/83.8; beta-hexachlorocyclohexane (beta-HCH) : 13.6/12.3; hexachlorobenzene (HCB) : 10.6/8.8; alpha-endosulfan: 7.0/6.7; oxychlordane: 4.5/4.1; 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl) ethane (p,p -DDT) : 4.6/4.0; dieldrin: 4.1/3.1 ; cis-heptachloroepoxide (cis-HE) : 2.5/2.2. Five compounds [octachlorostyrene (OCS); pentachlorobenzene, 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(4-chlorophenyl) ethane(p,p -DDD) ; o,p -DDT ; mirex] were measurable in most samples (detection rates 90.8-99.2%) but in lower concentrations. For methoxychlor, cis-chlordane, pentachloroanisole (PCA), gamma-HCH, 1,1-dichloro-2-(2-chlorophenyl) -2,2(4-chlorophenyl) ethane, trans-chlordane, alpha-HCH, and o,p -DDE, both concentrations and detection rates were low (26.5-71.5%). Heptachlor, HCH (lc delta, epsilon), aldrin, beta-endosulfan and trans-heptachloroepoxide were detected at negligible concentrations and low detection rates and were not analyzed further. Seventeen of 21 organochlorine pesticides [p,p -DDT, p,p-DDE, p,p-DDD, o,p-DDT, HCH (alpha, beta, gamma), HCB, PCA, alpha-endosulfan, cis-HE, chlordane (cis-, trans-) oxychlordane, methoxychlor, OCS, and dieldrin] were measured in higher median concentrations in case milk than in control milk. Apart from trans-chlordane (p = 0.012), there were no significant differences between cryptorchid and healthy boys for individual chemicals. However, combined statistical analysis of the eight most abundant persistent pesticides showed that pesticide levels in breast milk were significantly higher in boys with cryptorchidism (p = 0.032).
The association between congenital cryptorchidism and some persistent pesticides in breast milk as a proxy for maternal exposure suggests that testicular descent in the fetus may be adversely affected.
Propranolol has been suggested to slow aortic aneurysm (AAA) expansion by a mechanism independent of simple blood pressure (BP) reduction. To investigate this hypothesis, we designed a series of experiments to examine the effects of hypertension and propranolol upon AAA expansion. Using an established animal model, we induced AAA in normotensive and genetically hypertensive rats by perfusion of the isolated infrarenal aorta with elastase for two hours. Systolic tail BP was monitored with a plethysmograph. AAA size was measured directly with a micrometer on postoperative days 7 and 14. All data are expressed as the mean +/- standard deviation (SD). BP (mmHg) was significantly higher in hypertensive rats: 164 +/- 15 versus 119 +/- 7 (p < 0.001). AAA were also significantly larger in hypertensive rats with a mean expansion rate (mm/day) nearly twice that of normotensive animals: 0.13 +/- 0.09 versus 0.07 +/- 0.03. In a second series of animals, propranolol treatment was compared to placebo. In those animals, hypertensive propranolol-treated rats had significantly smaller AAA than placebo-treated controls (p < 0.05). There was no difference in normotensive animals but these rats had an unexplained paradoxical rise in BP with treatment. In this model, hypertension increases the expansion rate of AAA. Propranolol reduced the size of AAA in hypertensive animals, at least in part because of a decrease in BP. Other possible mechanisms of propranolol's action may be operative and require further study.
The dental phenolic medicaments, eugenol and guaiacol, are partly similar in chemical structure to capsaicin, the pungent constituent of chili peppers, which selectively activates sensory neurons via a specific receptor. We have previously demonstrated that these phenolic compounds show capsaicin-like action. In the present study, an attempt was made to investigate the possibility that these compounds interact with the same cellular site as capsaicin, by using capsazepine, a selective and competitive anta-gonist of capsaicin. Intrathecal (i.t.) treatment with eugenol (12.5 to 50 micrograms), guaiacol (25 to 150 micrograms), or capsaicin (1 to 4 micrograms) for 24 h dose-dependently inhibited the formalin-induced nociceptive response. Capsazepine (5, 10 micrograms, i.t.) shifted these dose-response curves in parallel to the right. Similarly, capsazepine abolished antinociceptive effects of eugenol (50 micrograms), guaiacol (150 micrograms), or capsaicin (2 micrograms) in the acetic acid writhing test. These results suggest that eugenol and guaiacol may exert their antinociceptive effects via the capsaicin receptor located on sensory terminals in the spinal cord.
The active form of vitamin D, 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, is a secosteroid hormone that binds to the vitamin D receptor (VDR), a member of the superfamily of nuclear receptors, and exerts a number of diverse biological functions. The natural hormone and synthetic VDR agonists are well known for their capacity to control calcium and bone metabolism, but they also regulate proliferation and differentiation of many cell types, and possess exquisite immunoregulatory properties, mostly by targeting dendritic cells (DC) and T cells. These properties have been clinically exploited in the treatment of different diseases, from secondary hyperparathyroidism to osteoporosis to psoriasis. The VDR is expressed by most cell types, including cells of the urogenital system such as prostate and bladder cells. In particular, the prostate has been recognized as a target organ of VDR agonists and represents an extra-renal synthesis site of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3, but its capacity to respond to VDR agonists has, so far, been probed only for the treatment of prostate cancer. We have taken a different approach, and have analysed the capacity of VDR agonists to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), a complex syndrome characterized by a static component related to prostate overgrowth, a dynamic component responsible for urinary irritative symptoms, and a possible inflammatory component. Pre-clinical data reviewed here demonstrate that VDR agonists, and notably BXL-628 (Elocalcitol), reduce the static component of BPH by inhibiting the activity of intra-prostatic growth factors downstream of the androgen receptor, and the dynamic component by targeting bladder cells. These data have led to a proof-of-concept clinical study that has successfully shown arrest of prostate growth in BPH patients treated with BXL-628. Ongoing clinical studies will assess the capacity of this VDR agonist to reduce symptoms and ameliorate flow parameters in BPH-affected individuals. The pronounced effects of BXL-628 on bladder smooth muscle cells and its anti-inflammatory properties indeed anticipate beneficial effects also on BPH-related lower urinary tract symptoms.
Clinical uses of doxorubicin (DOX), a highly active anticancer agent, are limited by its severe cardiotoxic side effects associated with increased oxidative stress and apoptosis. In this study we investigated whether aged garlic has protective effects against doxorubicin-induced free radical production and cardiotoxicity in male rats. A single dose of doxorubicin (25mg/kg) caused increased both serum cardiac enzymes LDH and CPK activities and a significant increase malonyldialdehyde (MDA) in plasma. However, pretreatment of rats with aged garlic extract (250 mg/kg) for 27 days before doxorubicin therapy, reduced the activity of both enzymes, and significantly decreased of MDA production in plasma. Total antioxidant activity was increased after aged garlic extract administration. Histopathological examination of heart tissue showed that DOX treatment resulted in alteration of cardiac tissue structure in the form of peri arterial fibrosis and apoptotic changes in cardiomyocytes. Pretreatment with aged garlic extract for 27 days ameliorated the effect of DOX administration on cardiac tissue; cardiomyocytes looked more or less similar to those of control. However, still vascular dilatation, mild congestion and interstitial edemas were observed. Our results suggest that aged garlic extract is potentially protective against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
Anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) are used illicitly at high doses by bodybuilders. The misuse of these drugs is associated with serious adverse effects to the liver, including cellular adenomas and adenocarcinomas. We report two very different cases of adult male bodybuilders who developed hepatocellular adenomas following AAS abuse. The first patient was asymptomatic but had two large liver lesions which were detected by ultrasound studies after routine medical examination. The second patient was admitted to our hospital with acute renal failure and ultrasound (US) studies showed mild hepatomegaly with several very close hyperecogenic nodules in liver, concordant with adenomas at first diagnosis. In both cases the patients have evolved favourably and the tumours have shown a tendency to regress after the withdrawal of AAS. The cases presented here are rare but may well be suggestive of the natural course of AAS induced hepatocellular adenomas. In conclusion, sportsmen taking AAS should be considered as a group at risk of developing hepatic sex hormone related tumours. Consequently, they should be carefully and periodically monitored with US studies. In any case, despite the size of the tumours detected in these two cases, the possibility of spontaneous tumour regression must also be taken in account.
Arterial hypertension occurring during antiangiogenic therapy has been correlated with the biological inhibition of the vascular endothelial growth factor-related pathway and may represent a possible clinical marker for treatment efficacy. The aim of our study was to retrospectively assess if grades 2-3 hypertension were associated with response to bevacizumab, progression-free survival (PFS) and survival in metastatic colorectal cancer patients treated with first-line bevacizumab.
Patients with histologically proven, metastatic colorectal cancer receiving bevacizumab as first-line therapy in combination with irinotecan and 5-fluorouracil were eligible for our analysis.
Thirty-nine metastatic colorectal cancer patients were eligible. Eight patients (20%) developed grades 2-3 hypertension. A partial remission was observed in six of eight cases with bevacizumab-related hypertension (75%) and in 10 of 31 (32%) patients with no hypertension (P = 0.04). Median PFS was 14.5 months for patients showing bevacizumab-related hypertension, while it was 3.1 months in those without hypertension (P = 0.04). Median overall survival was not reached in patients with hypertension while it was 15.1 months in the remaining cases (P = 0.11).
Our data indicate that bevacizumab-induced hypertension may represent an interesting prognostic factor for clinical outcome in advanced colorectal cancer patients receiving first-line bevacizumab.
We examined the efficacy of low-dose erythropoietin in the management of chemotherapy-related anaemia in patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC). We gave recombinant human erythropoietin A (rHuEPO) to 63 SCLC patients, 30 with limited disease (LD) and 33 with extensive disease (ED) who underwent chemotherapy with carboplatin, etoposide and ifosfamide and had previously received blood transfusions for chemotherapy-related anaemia. rHuEPO was given at a dose of 2000 IU subcutaneously three times per week for 2 weeks after every chemotherapy cycle, starting 48 h after the end of chemotherapy. Before the use of rHuEPO, all patients in both groups had to be transfused after a mean of 5.5 CT cycles. In 64 CT cycles following administration of rHuEPO, only 5/30 LD patients (17%) had to be transfused in six cycles (9%). In 88 cycles following the use of rHuEPO, 7/33 ED patients (21%) had to be transfused in 11 cycles (12.5%). Haemoglobin values in patients with ED (but not those with LD) were significantly improved after rHuEPO administration on both day 14 and day 28 after chemotherapy. No adverse effects were recorded. rHuEPO considerably decreased the degree of anaemia and the need for blood transfusion at doses markedly lower (25-30 IU/kg body weight) than those reported in the literature so far (150 IU/kg body weight), without toxicity.
Primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignancies and has the fourth highest mortality rate worldwide. The major risk factors, including chronic infections with the hepatitis B or C virus, are exposure to dietary aflatoxin B1(AFB1), vinyl chloride, or alcohol consumption. Southern China and sub-Saharan Africa have the highest dietary AFB1 exposure, making it and hepatitis B virus (HBV) the major causes of cancer mortality in these geographic areas. Recent studies have discovered genetic and epigenetic changes involved in the molecular pathogenesis of HCC, including somatic mutations in the p53 tumor suppressor gene (TP53). AFB1 induces typical G:C to T:A transversions at the third base in codon 249 of p53. Chronic active hepatitis B and C (HCV) infection, and further inflammatory and oxyradical disorders including Wilson disease (WD) or hemochromatosis, generate reactive oxygen/nitrogen species that can damage DNA and mutate the p53 gene. The X gene of HBV (HBx) is the most common open reading frame integrated into the host genome in HCC. The integrated HBx is frequently mutated and has a diminished ability to function as a transcriptional cotransactivator and to activate the NF-kappa B pathway. However, the mutant HBx proteins still retain their ability to bind to and abrogate p53-mediated apoptosis. In summary, both viruses and chemicals are implicated in the etiology and molecular pathogenesis of HCC. The resultant molecular changes in the ras and Wnt signal-transduction pathways, and the p53 and Rb tumor suppressor pathways significantly contribute to liver carcinogenesis
According to their code of professional conduct, German physicians are obliged to report suspected cases of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to the Drug Commission of the German Medical Association (AkdA). On the basis of an agreement between the German Medical Association and the Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices (BfArM) a common pharmacovigilance database within the German spontaneous reporting system was created. A user-friendly application program developed in-house enables the user to conduct searches about reported ADRs covering a wide variety of questions within a short period of time. ADRs caused by anticoagulants and by antiplatelet drugs still belong to the most reported adverse events. The most frequently reported suspected drugs are heparins, followed by ticlopidine, phenprocoumon, acetylsalicylic acid, and clopidogrel. Bleeding complications are the most often described ADR symptoms of any anticoagulation therapy, especially of phenprocoumon and acetylsalicylic acid. Another serious ADR is heparin-induced thrombocytopenia or changes in blood counts (CBC) due to ticlopidine and clopidogrel. During the past few years a reduction in severe reactions, such as cerebral hemorrhage, especially with fatal outcome was detectable because of better clinical management of oral anticoagulant therapy and of adverse events concerning heparin.
The objective of this study was to assess the acute hemodynamic effects of endogenous adenosine accumulation in patients with chronic heart failure. Exogenously administered adenosine has been shown to reduce pulmonary vascular resistance and to increase cardiac index in normal subjects and in patients with pulmonary hypertension or end-stage biventricular heart failure. Endogenous adenosine accumulation can be provoked by dipyridamole.
Ultra-low-dose dipyridamole (0.07 mg/kg/min for 4 minutes) was administered in 20 patients with either symptomatic idiopathic (n = 12) or ischemic (n = 8) dilated cardiomyopathy and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (mean 25%+/-5%). Hemodynamic variables were measured before and within 1 minute from the end of dipyridamole infusion. After dipyridamole administration, a mild but significant increase in heart rate (4.5%; p = 0.03) and reduction in mean blood pressure (6.8%; p < 0.001) without changes in right atrial pressure (p = NS) were detected. Dipyridamole increased cardiac output by 26.6% (p < 0.001), cardiac index by 24% (p < 0.001), and stroke volume by 19.8% (p < 0.001), with concomitant 24.6% reduction of systemic vascular resistance (p < 0.001). Moreover, dipyridamole reduced mean pulmonary artery pressure by 8.3% (p < 0.01) and pulmonary vascular resistance by 33.3% (p = 0.001), without changes in pulmonary wedge pressure (p = NS). A significant correlation between percent decrease from baseline in pulmonary and systemic vascular resistance (r = 0.66; p = 0.002) was found after administration of dipyridamole.
Endogenous adenosine accumulation induced by ultra-low-dose dipyridamole infusion acutely improves the hemodynamic profile, decreasing pulmonary and, to a lower extent, systemic vascular resistance and increasing cardiac index in patients with severe chronic heart failure.
The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of Ro15-1788 and a placebo in reversing diazepam-induced effects after surgery under epidural block, and to evaluate the local tolerance and general safety of Ro15-1788. Fifty-seven patients were sedated with diazepam for surgery under epidural anaesthesia. Antagonism of diazepam-induced effects by Ro15-1788 was investigated postoperatively in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial. The patient's subjective assessment of mood rating, an objective test of performance, a test for amnesia, and vital signs were recorded for up to 300 min after administration of the trial drug. No significant differences between the two groups were observed for mood rating, amnesia, or vital signs. The Ro15-1788 group showed a significant improvement in the performance test up to 120 min after administration of the drug. There was no evidence of reaction at the injection site.
Mannitol intoxication has been reported as a potentially life-threatening complication when the agent is used unrestrictedly in patients with established renal failure. We report a case of mannitol intoxication in which acute oliguric renal failure occurred without a known predisposing factor other than the intravenous infusion of massive quantities of mannitol.
The tulobuterol transdermal therapeutic system (TTS) is the world's first commercially available transdermal preparation of tulobuterol, a beta-2 stimulant, that can maintain effective blood tulobuterol levels for 24 hours when applied once daily. In the present study, a total of 36 adult patients with mildly persistent (Step 2) or moderately persistent (Step 3) bronchial asthma 19 who were using inhalational steroids and 17 who were not used tulobuterol TTS for one year and underwent measurement of peak expiratory flow (PEF) once daily. Peripheral eosinophil count, serum eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) level and airway responsiveness (Dmin) were evaluated at 6 months and 1 year after the start of the study. PEF exhibited significant improvements at 6 months and 1 year in patients treated with or without inhalational steroids, while serum ECP was improved significantly only in the patients on inhalational steroids. Patients not using inhalational steroids exhibited no significant exacerbation of Dmin at either 6 months or 1 year: One-year treatment with tulobuterol TTS did not appear to cause tachyphylaxis. The significant improvements in Dmin at 6 months and 1 year in the patients using inhalational steroids suggested that inhalational steroids offer beneficial effects in controlling airway inflammation. Tulobuterol TTS is considered quite beneficial in improving quality of life (QOL) in patients with bronchial asthma because its incidence of adverse effects including palpitations and shivering is significantly lower than those of oral preparations, because of its remarkable improvement of pulmonary function and symptoms of airway obstruction without increasing airway responsiveness even after repeated use, and because it is simple to use and offers excellent clinical efficacy.
A very large number of women in the reproductive age group consume cocaine, leading to grave concerns regarding the long term health of millions of children after in utero exposure. The results of controlled studies have been contradictory, leading to confusion, and, possible, misinformation and misperception of teratogenic risk.
To systematically review available data on pregnancy outcome when the mother consumed cocaine.
A meta-analysis of all epidemiologic studies based on a priori criteria was conducted. Comparisons of adverse events in subgroups of exposed vs. unexposed children were performed. Analyses were based on several exposure groups: mainly cocaine, cocaine plus polydrug, polydrug but no cocaine, and drug free.
Thirty three studies met our inclusion criteria. For all end points of interest (rates of major malformations, low birth weight, prematurity, placental abruption, premature rupture of membrane [PROM], and mean birth weight, length and head circumference), cocaine-exposed infants had higher risks than children of women not exposed to any drug. However, most of these adverse effects were nullified when cocaine exposed children were compared to children exposed to polydrug but no cocaine. Only the risk of placental abruption and premature rupture of membranes were statistically associated with cocaine use itself.
Many of the perinatal adverse effects commonly attributed to cocaine may be caused by the multiple confounders that can occur in a cocaine using mother. Only the risk for placental abruption and PROM could be statistically related to cocaine. For other adverse effects, additional studies will be needed to ensure adequate statistical power.
