To determine whether there is an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) with anti-androgen oral contraceptives containing cyproterone acetate and ethinyloestradiol.
Comparison of the frequency of specific oral contraceptive use in patients aged 15 to 55 years discharged from hospital with radiologically confirmed deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and/or pulmonary embolism (PE) with the expected frequency of use derived from national prescription data.
Ratio of observed frequency of specific oral contraceptive use in patients with VTE versus expected frequency of use.
The rank order for observed versus expected use was anti-androgen > third-generation, > second-generation, > progestogen-only oral contraceptive agents with ratios of 1.93, 1.36, 0.70, and 0.39, respectively.
The risk of VTE resulting in hospital admission associated with anti-androgen oral contraceptive use is at least as high as with third generation use.
Tamoxifen is a non-steroidal anti-estrogenic drug widely used for the treatment and prevention of breast cancer in women; however, there is evidence that tamoxifen is hepatocarcinogenic in rats, but not in mice. Additionally, it has been reported that tamoxifen may cause non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in humans and experimental animals. The goals of the present study were to (i) investigate the mechanisms of the resistance of mice to tamoxifen-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, and (ii) clarify effects of tamoxifen on NAFLD-associated liver injury. Feeding female WSB/EiJ mice a 420 p.p.m. tamoxifen-containing diet for 12 weeks resulted in an accumulation of tamoxifen-DNA adducts, (E)-α-(deoxyguanosin-N(2)-yl)-tamoxifen (dG-TAM) and (E)-α-(deoxyguanosin-N(2)-yl)-N-desmethyltamoxifen (dG-DesMeTAM), in the livers. The levels of hepatic dG-TAM and dG-DesMeTAM DNA adducts in tamoxifen-treated mice were 578 and 340 adducts/108 nucleotides, respectively, while the extent of global DNA and repetitive elements methylation and histone modifications did not differ from the values in control mice. Additionally, there was no biochemical or histopathological evidence of NAFLD-associated liver injury in mice treated with tamoxifen. A transcriptomic analysis of differentially expressed genes demonstrated that tamoxifen caused predominantly down-regulation of hepatic lipid metabolism genes accompanied by a distinct over-expression of the lipocalin 13 (Lcn13) and peroxisome proliferator receptor gamma (Pparγ), which may prevent the development of NAFLD. The results of the present study demonstrate that the resistance of mice to tamoxifen-induced liver carcinogenesis may be associated with its ability to induce genotoxic alterations only without affecting the cellular epigenome and an inability of tamoxifen to induce the development of NAFLD.
A 54-year-old woman, with no previously documented thyroid disease, treated with amiodarone (200 mg/day, five days a week for 33 months) for paroxysmal tachyarrhythmia complicating mitral stenosis, suddenly developed extremely severe thyrotoxicosis. After therapeutic failures with carbimazole and propylthyrouracil (PTU) associated with beta-blockers, she was transferred to intensive care for plasma exchange (PE). Two PE were performed, temporarily aggravating the cardiovascular status of the patient, with no secondary improvement. The quantity of T3 removed was very small, about 1,000 ng per exchange. On the 14th day PTU had to be discontinued (toxic thrombopenia) and only symptomatic treatment was maintained (assisted ventilation, digitalis, hyperalimentation). In the 4th month, while the patient had a high total serum iodine, hypothyroidism developed due to partial block of the organification of the iodine with high TSH and fixation; this state also lasted 4 months. Spontaneous recovery was observed after 8 months. In addition a severe peripheral neuropathy was observed during the hyperthyroid phase confirmed by electromyography, distinct from the signs of thyrotoxic myopathy. This gradually regressed over 7 months and may be attributed to amiodarone therapy. The association of these two successive types of thyroid disorder due to amiodarone is an exceptionally rare phenomenon. Severe thyrotoxicosis generally requires long-term symptomatic therapy, its natural course being towards spontaneous regression. PE are ineffective on the circulating hormonal levels and were dangerous because of the underlying cardiac disease. The development of hypothyroidism at the 4th month is explained by the persistent iodine overload, and therefore prolonged surveillance after withdrawal of therapy is advised. The neurological complication of amiodarone was quite distinct from the hyperthyroid myopathy.
To evaluate the level of 2 serum markers of hepatic fibrogenesis, aminoterminal peptide of type III procollagen (NPIIIP) and laminin P1 fragment (Lam), in patients with rheumatoid arthritis at baseline and after one year of low dose methotrexate (MTX) therapy.
Serum levels of NPIIIP and Lam were measured in 20 patients, 17 women and 3 men, mean age 48.83 +/- 9.25 yrs. before and after MTX treatment and compared to levels from 20 sex and age matched, healthy controls.
The baseline values of NPIIIP was higher in patients than in controls; it normalized after MTX treatment. The Lam level did not differ between patients and controls; moreover, it did not change after treatment.
Low dose MTX therapy does not increase serum indicator levels of hepatic fibrogenesis.
Antivitamin K treatments (AVK) are related to increased morbidity and mortality, notably in elderly patients. The International Normalized Ratio (INR) should be well controlled and its stabilisation within the therapeutic range help to prevent the haemorrhagic complications.
A one-year prospective survey on all the cases of excess AVK was conducted in hospitalised patients aged over 70.
During the study period, 225 hospitalised patients treated with AVK (mean age 84 years) were identified: 62% received warfarin, 19% fluindione, 8% acenocoumarol and 11% received several successive AVK. During this period, 1.904 INR measurements were recorded: 97 (5.1%) were > or =5.0 and 12 (0.63%) were > or =9.0. In all, 59 patients (23.1%) exhibited one or several episodes of excess AVK (INR > or =5.0) and 57 exhibited a target INR of 2.5. Three patients died of accidental haemorrhage--two of them due to intra-cerebral bleeding--among the 59 patients with excess AVK. In three cases, the INR was greater than 7.0 at the time of the accident.
In half of the cases of excess, the episode occurred during the month following initiation of treatment with AVK. In nearly two thirds of cases, a change had been made in drug therapy in the 10 days preceding the excess, with the prescription of a drug enhancing the effect of the AVK: anti-infection agents (antibiotics and anti-fungals) and amiodarone were the drugs most frequently involved. Oral or intravenous vitamin K1 was administered in only 19% of cases.
In very old patients treated with oral anticoagulants, certain risk factors must be identified: the initiation period of treatment, the occurrence of an intercurrent disease and the subsequent change in the drug therapy. INR monitoring should be intensified in order to detect any excess and, if detected, ensure the optimal management of the patient.
We investigated the role of oxidative stress in the pathophysiology of haloperidol (HP)-induced orofacial dyskinesia and evaluated the beneficial effect of Withania somnifera (Ws) root extract in the amelioration of HP-induced vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) and tongue protrusions in the rat model for TD. Rats were treated for 21 days with intraperitoneal HP (1 mg/kg); on day 22, VCMs and tongue protrusions were counted during a 5-minute observation period. HP-treated rats significantly developed these extrapyramidal symptoms, but coadministration of Ws root extract (100-300 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced them. Biochemical analysis revealed that chronic HP treatment significantly increased lipid peroxidation and decreased forebrain levels of glutathione and the antioxidant defense enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase. Coadministration of Ws extract significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation and significantly reversed the decrease in forebrain SOD and catalase levels but had no significant effect on the HP-induced decrease in forebrain glutathione levels. These findings strongly suggest that oxidative stress plays a significant role in HP-induced orofacial dyskinesia and that Ws could be effective in preventing neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal side effects.
Meprin (MEP) A is a metalloendopeptidase that is present in the renal proximal tubule brush-border membrane (BBM) and that colocalizes with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE). The MEP beta-chain gene locus on chromosome 18 has been linked to a heightened risk of diabetic nephropathy (DN) in patients with type 2 diabetes. This study evaluated 1) whether MEP-alpha and MEP-beta gene and protein expression are altered in db/db mice before the onset of DN and 2) the role of MEP-alpha in the pathogenesis of DN and the impact of the renin-angiotensin system on this interaction in two experimental models of diabetes. MEP-alpha and MEP-beta gene and protein expression were evaluated in db/db mice, 13-14 wk of age, compared with lean C57BLKS/J littermate animals. A treatment study was then performed in which db/db mice and controls were assigned to one of three groups: control (C) water, no therapy; ACE inhibitor therapy, enalapril (EN)-treated water, 50 mg/l; ANG II receptor type 1 blocker (ARB) therapy, losartan (LOS)-treated water, 500 mg/l. Treatment was started at 8 wk of age and continued for 52 wk. Male Sprague-Dawley rats with diabetes for 52 wk following a single dose of streptozocin (STZ; 60 mg/kg) were also studied. At 13.5 wk of age, MEP-alpha and MEP-beta kidney mRNA abundance and protein expression were significantly lower in db/db mice compared with lean controls, with greater changes in MEP-beta (P < 0.05). In the treatment study, EN ameliorated and LOS exacerbated DN in db/db mice. BBM MEP A enzymatic activity and MEP-alpha protein content were lower in db/db mice vs. control nonobese mice at 52 wk (P < 0.02). EN-treated db/db mice showed increased MEP A activity, MEP-alpha content in BBM, decreased urinary MEP-alpha excretion, and enhanced BBM staining for MEP-alpha protein vs. C and LOS-treated db/db mice. In nonobese mice, EN and LOS treatment had no effect on MEP-alpha expression. In rats with STZ-induced diabetes for 52 wk, urinary MEP-alpha excretion was increased and MEP A activity and MEP-alpha protein content per milligram of BBM protein were decreased compared with age-matched control animals (P < 0.05). These results indicate that db/db mice manifest decreased MEP-alpha and MEP-beta gene and protein expression, before the development of overt kidney disease. Moreover, in db/db mice with DN and rats with STZ-diabetes, there was an inverse relationship between renal MEP-alpha content and the severity of the renal injury. Treatment with an ACE inhibitor was more effective than ARB in ameliorating DN in db/db mice, a change that correlated with alterations in urinary excretion and BBM content of MEP-alpha. MEP-alpha may play a role in the pathogenesis of DN and the benefits of ACE inhibitor therapy on the progression of diabetic kidney disease may be related, in part, to its impact on renal MEP-alpha expression.
We evaluated the effects of d-myo-inositol 1,4,5-tris-phosphate on cardiac hypertrophy. d-myo-inositol 1,4,5-tris-phosphate augmented cardiac hypertrophy as evidenced by its effects on DNA synthesis, protein synthesis, and expression of immediate-early genes c-myc and c-fos, beta-myosin heavy chain, and alpha-actin. The administration of d-myo-inositol 1,4,5-tris-phosphate increased the expression of nuclear factor of activated T-cells and cardiac-restricted zinc finger transcription factor (GATA4). Real-time quantitative RT-PCR showed that d-myo-inositol 1,4,5-tris-phosphate-induced GATA4 mRNA was significantly enhanced even in the presence of the calcineurin inhibitor, cyclosporine A. The effect of d-myo-inositol 1,4,5-tris-phosphate was blocked after inhibition of inositol-trisphosphate receptors but not after inhibition of c-Raf/mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK) or p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways. The study shows that d-myo-inositol 1,4,5-tris-phosphate-induced cardiac hypertrophy is mediated by GATA4 but independent from the calcineurin pathway.
Muscle biopsies were obtained from 33 consecutive HIV-infected patients with symptoms suggestive of muscle disorder. Twenty-three patients had clinical evidence of myopathy; 18 of these had been taking zidovudine (AZT) for between 8 and 28 months, and were found to have a multifocal necrotizing myopathy with little or no inflammation. However, the remaining five clinically myopathic patients, who had never received AZT or had stopped treatment at least 5 months earlier, had either a necrotizing myopathy which appeared indistinguishable for that seen in patients taking the drug, or an inflammatory myopathy. The 10 clinically non-myopathic patients showed no significant histological abnormalities. Tubuloreticular inclusions (TRI), in capillary endothelial cells, were found in all clinically myopathic cases but were not seen in five out of ten clinically non-myopathic cases. We suggest that AZT causes a myopathy only when an underlying HIV-related inflammatory myopathy is present. The drug appears to substantially reduce the inflammatory reaction in the muscle, but this may recur when the drug is stopped. The appearance of TRI may be the first manifestation of HIV activity in muscle.
A case of QT prolongation and ventricular tachyarrhythmia in a 57-year-old patient treated with small therapeutic doses of sotalol is reported. There was no concomitant treatment prolonging the QT interval. Hypokalemia could be excluded. Before treatment an electrophysiological study was performed, and ventricular tachycardia could not be initiated. Coronary artery disease was excluded. QT prolongation and ventricular tachyarrhythmias induced by small therapeutic doses of sotalol in normokalemia may occur on rare occasions. It may be problematic to differentiate between torsade de pointes and polymorphous ventricular tachycardia when describing such a ventricular tachyarrhythmia.
Palbociclib (PD-0332991) is an oral, small-molecule inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) 4 and 6 with preclinical evidence of growth-inhibitory activity in oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer cells and synergy with anti-oestrogens. We aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of palbociclib in combination with letrozole as first-line treatment of patients with advanced, oestrogen receptor-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer.
In this open-label, randomised phase 2 study, postmenopausal women with advanced oestrogen receptor-positive and HER2-negative breast cancer who had not received any systemic treatment for their advanced disease were eligible to participate. Patients were enrolled in two separate cohorts that accrued sequentially: in cohort 1, patients were enrolled on the basis of their oestrogen receptor-positive and HER2-negative biomarker status alone, whereas in cohort 2 they were also required to have cancers with amplification of cyclin D1 (CCND1), loss of p16 (INK4A or CDKN2A), or both. In both cohorts, patients were randomly assigned 1:1 via an interactive web-based randomisation system, stratified by disease site and disease-free interval, to receive continuous oral letrozole 2.5 mg daily or continuous oral letrozole 2.5 mg daily plus oral palbociclib 125 mg, given once daily for 3 weeks followed by 1 week off over 28-day cycles. The primary endpoint was investigator-assessed progression-free survival in the intention-to-treat population. Accrual to cohort 2 was stopped after an unplanned interim analysis of cohort 1 and the statistical analysis plan for the primary endpoint was amended to a combined analysis of cohorts 1 and 2 (instead of cohort 2 alone). The study is ongoing but closed to accrual; these are the results of the final analysis of progression-free survival. The study is registered with the ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00721409.
Between Dec 22, 2009, and May 12, 2012, we randomly assigned 165 patients, 84 to palbociclib plus letrozole and 81 to letrozole alone. At the time of the final analysis for progression-free survival (median follow-up 29.6 months [95% CI 27.9-36.0] for the palbociclib plus letrozole group and 27.9 months [25.5-31.1] for the letrozole group), 41 progression-free survival events had occurred in the palbociclib plus letrozole group and 59 in the letrozole group. Median progression-free survival was 10.2 months (95% CI 5.7-12.6) for the letrozole group and 20.2 months (13.8-27.5) for the palbociclib plus letrozole group (HR 0.488, 95% CI 0.319-0.748; one-sided p=0.0004). In cohort 1 (n=66), median progression-free survival was 5.7 months (2.6-10.5) for the letrozole group and 26.1 months (11.2-not estimable) for the palbociclib plus letrozole group (HR 0.299, 0.156-0.572; one-sided p<0.0001); in cohort 2 (n=99), median progression-free survival was 11.1 months (7.1-16.4) for the letrozole group and 18.1 months (13.1-27.5) for the palbociclib plus letrozole group (HR 0.508, 0.303-0.853; one-sided p=0.0046). Grade 3-4 neutropenia was reported in 45 (54%) of 83 patients in the palbociclib plus letrozole group versus one (1%) of 77 patients in the letrozole group, leucopenia in 16 (19%) versus none, and fatigue in four (4%) versus one (1%). Serious adverse events that occurred in more than one patient in the palbociclib plus letrozole group were pulmonary embolism (three [4%] patients), back pain (two [2%]), and diarrhoea (two [2%]). No cases of febrile neutropenia or neutropenia-related infections were reported during the study. 11 (13%) patients in the palbociclib plus letrozole group and two (2%) in the letrozole group discontinued the study because of adverse events.
The addition of palbociclib to letrozole in this phase 2 study significantly improved progression-free survival in women with advanced oestrogen receptor-positive and HER2-negative breast cancer. A phase 3 trial is currently underway.
Pfizer.
The incidence and correlates of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) in neuroleptic treatment of schizophrenic patients have been reported for chronic patients but not for first-episode patients. We examined the incidence and correlates of extrapyramidal symptoms in a cohort of 70 treatment-naive patients who received fluphenazine at 20-40 mg/day for the first 10 weeks of treatment. Thirty-four percent of our sample developed parkinsonism, 18 percent developed akathisia, and 36 percent developed dystonia. Acute EPS were associated with greater baseline psychopathology. Acute EPS were also associated with better treatment outcome in terms of time to and level of remission. These findings suggest that the EPS response of neuroleptic-naive patients may differ from that of chronically ill patients and that acute EPS status may be an indicator of pharmacologic responsivity in this group.
Although Cadmium (Cd) is a well-known heavy metal pollutant and teratogen, the mechanism behind Cd-mediated teratogenicity remains unknown. Previously, we have reported of the protective role of Nitric oxide (NO), a key signaling molecule in the embryonic developmental process, against Thalidomide-induced teratogenicity. The objective of this study was to obtain a mechanistic in-sight of the antiteratogenic potential of NO against Cd-mediated teratogenicity. To achieve this goal, we first studied the effect of Cd on the vasculature of developing embryos and then we investigated whether Cd mediated its effects by interfering with the redox regulation of NO signaling in the early development milieu. We used a chick embryonic model to determine the time and dose-dependent effects of Cd and NO recovery against Cd assault. The effects of Cd and NO recovery were assessed using various angiogenic assays. Redox and NO levels were also measured. Results demonstrated that exposure to Cd at early stage of development caused multiple birth defects in the chick embryos. Exposure to Cd suppressed endogenous NO levels and cGMP signaling, inhibiting angioblast activation and subsequently impairing yolk sac vascular development. Furthermore, Cd-induced superoxide and lipid peroxidation mediated activation of proapoptotic markers p21 and p53 in the developing embryo. Cd also caused the down-regulation of FOXO1, and up-regulation of FOXO3a and Caspase 3-mediated apoptosis. Addition of exogenous NO through a NO donor was able to blunt Cd-mediated effects and restore normal vascular and embryonic development. In conclusion, Cd-mediated teratogenicity occurs as a result of impaired NO-cGMP signaling, increased oxidative stress, and the activation of apoptotic pathways. Subsequent addition of exogenous NO through NO donor negated Cd-mediated effects and protected the developing embryo.
Environmental or occupational exposure to mineral dusts, mainly silica and asbestos, is associated with an increased incidence of lung inflammation, fibrosis, and/or cancer. To better understand the molecular events associated with these pulmonary diseases, we attempted to identify genes that are regulated by mineral dusts. Using a differential display reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction technique and mRNAs of alveolar macrophages from both normal individuals and coal miners, we identified a novel mineral dust-induced gene named mdig, which had not been fully characterized. The expression of mdig mRNA was detected in alveolar macrophages from coal miners but not from normal subjects. The inducible expression of mdig could be observed in A549 cells exposed to silica particles in a time-dependent manner. The full-length mdig mRNA was expressed in human lung cancer tissues but was barely detectable in the adjacent normal tissues. In addition, a number of lung cancer cell lines constitutively express mdig. Alternative spliced transcripts of mdig were detected in some lung cancer cell lines. Silencing mdig mRNA expression in A549 lung cancer cells by siRNA-mediated RNA interference inhibits cell proliferation and sensitizes the cells to silica-induced cytotoxicity. These results suggest that the mdig gene may be involved in the regulation of cell growth and possibly the development of cancer.
A pharmacist-based consulting service was developed for the pharmacologic management of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) in a nursing home setting. Patients were evaluated using the Behavioral Pathology in Alzheimer's Disease (BEHAVE-AD) rating scale, and pharmacotherapy was selected using a structured approach. Eleven patients were evaluated and treated with various psychotropic drugs. The most commonly administered drug was trazodone at a mean dosage of 70 mg/day (range 50-100 mg/day). Nine of the patients demonstrated satisfactory treatment responses as shown by a decreased BEHAVE-AD score of 30% or more (average BEHAVE-AD scores at baseline and 1 month after treatment were 13 +/- 4 and 4 +/- 3, respectively), and no clinical side effects were observed. The service was well received by the facility staff and primary care providers. These preliminary results suggest that pharmacists can play an important role in the pharmacotherapy of BPSD with positive clinical outcomes.
Naloxone is standard medication for the treatment of heroin intoxications. No large-scale studies have yet been carried out to determine its toxicity in heroin intoxications.
We have undertaken an investigation as to the frequency, type and degree of severity of complications attributable to naloxone administration. Subjects treated between 1991 and 1993 with naloxone for intravenous drug intoxications were prospectively evaluated.
Development of ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation; atrial fibrillation; asystole; pulmonary edema; convulsions; vomiting; and violent behavior within ten minutes after parenteral administration of naloxone.
Six of 453 intoxicated subjects (1.3%; 95% confidence interval 0.4%-3%) suffered severe adverse effects within ten minutes after naloxone administration (one asystole; three generalized convulsions; one pulmonary edema; and one violent behavior). After the ten minute period, no further complications were observed.
The short time between naloxone administration and the occurrence of complications, as well as the type of complications, are strong evidence of a causal link. In 1000 clinically diagnosed intoxications with heroin or heroin mixtures, from 4 to 30 serious complications can be expected. Such a high incidence of complications is unacceptable and could theoretically be reduced by artificial respiration with a bag valve device (hyperventilation) as well as by administering naloxone in minimal divided doses, injected slowly.
Cardiac arrest due to hyperkalemia is a known complication of succinylcholine administration in patients with neuromuscular disease, extensive burns, and prolonged immobility. We report a case of hyperkalemic cardiac arrest following the administration of succinylcholine in a patient suffering from wound botulism.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive motor disease of unknown etiology in the majority of cases. The clinical features of PD emerge due to selective degeneration of dopamine (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc), which project to the caudate putamen (CPu) where they release DA. In the current in vivo mouse model study, we tested trehalose for its ability to protect against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced damage to DA neurons. Trehalose is a naturally occurring disaccharide present in plants and animals and appears capable of protecting cells against various environmental stresses. The effect of trehalose is likely due to its action as a pharmacological chaperone which promotes protein stability. In the present study, there were four treatment groups: saline only (control); probenecid only; MPTP+probenecid; and trehalose+MPTP+probenecid. MPTP-induced losses in tyrosine hydroxylase and DA transporter immunoreactivity in the ventral midbrain SNc and CPu were significantly reduced by trehalose. Decreases in CPu dopamine levels produced by MPTP were also blocked by trehalose. Microglial activation and astrocytic hypertrophy induced by MPTP were greatly reduced by trehalose, indicating protection against neuroinflammation. These effects are commensurate with the observed trehalose sparing of motor deficits produced by MPTP in this mouse model. Two tight junctional proteins, ZO-1 and occludin, are downregulated following MPTP treatment and trehalose blocks this effect. Likewise, the glucose transporter-1 that is expressed in brain endothelial cells is also protected by trehalose from MPTP-induced down-regulation. This study is the first to demonstrate using fluoro-turoquoise FT gel perfusion techniques, the protection afforded by trehalose from MPTP-induced damage to microvessels and endothelial and suggests that trehalose therapy may have the potential to slow or ameliorate PD pathology.
Sixty-three evaluable patients with advanced breast cancer were randomly allocated to receive three-week intravenous courses of carminomycin (18 mg/m2) or 4'-epidoxorubicin (90 mg/m2). The former yielded one (3%) partial response for nine weeks among 29 patients whereas, in the other arm, nine (27%) of 34 patients achieved partial response for a median of 28 weeks (range, nine to 36 weeks; p less than 0.02). The major toxic effect of these anthracyclines was leukopenia with median white blood cell nadirs of 1,600/microL (range, 300-4,000/microL) versus 1,800/microL (range, 500-4,300/microL), respectively. Acute nonhematologic toxic effects were qualitatively similar but carminomycin produced significantly less gastrointestinal intolerance and alopecia. Patients whose disease failed to respond to first-line anthracycline received doxorubicin (60 mg/m2) every three weeks. Four partial responses were obtained among 19 patients previously treated with carminomycin. Following 4'-epidoxorubicin therapy, one of 12 evaluable patients also attained partial response. Survival curves were not affected by the initial treatment option. Carminomycin has marginal activity against breast cancer whereas 4'-epidoxorubicin deserves further evaluation of its therapeutic index relative to doxorubicin. The design used in this trial appears attractive for prompt phase II evaluation of anthracycline analogs.
Drug-induced Parkinsonism (DIP) is the second commonest cause of Parkinson syndrome, after Parkinson disease (PD) and represents between 10% and 30% of all patients with Parkinsonism.
To study the frequency and drugs responsible for DIP and to compare some of the clinical characteristics of these patients and those with PD.
A retrospective community based study in Bajo Aragon district to determine the frequency of PD and other Parkinsonism, including DIP. PD was diagnosed on the criteria proposed by the United Kingdom Parkinson's Disease Society Brain Bank and DIP on the criteria of Jiménez et al.
Calcium antagonists were the cause of 73% of the DIP, followed by neuroleptic drugs (11.5%). There were 73% women (19/26). The patients with DIP were older than those with PD when their symptoms started (p = 0.02). In patients with DIP, 48% presented with bilateral symptoms as compared with 7% in PD (p < 0.0001).
1. Cinarizine is the main drug responsible for DIP (58%) 2. As compared with patients with PD, patients with DIP are mainly women, older, more frequently have bilateral onset of symptoms and consult the doctor sooner.
To investigate the effect of traditional classical compound Wulingsan on renal hemodynamic in rats with adriamycin (ADR)-induced nephrosis.
After establishing a model of rats with adriamycin-induced nephrosis, we administrated wulin-san to the ADR rats via oral gavage for four weeks and measured mean arterial blood preasure (MABP) with manometer. Renal clearance of paraaminohippuric acid (PAH) and inulin were detected, then renal plasma flow (RPF) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) were calculated. Renal vascular resistance (RVR) was calculated as the division of MABP by RPF. Renal endothelin (ET) and angiotensin II (Ang II) were detected with radioimmunity assay kits, and nitrous oxide (NO) was detected with biochemical kits.
There was no significant change of GFR in ARD rats, but RPF and NO were decreased, which accompanied by enhanced RVR, ET and Ang II. RPF was increased in the administrated rats, in company with RVR, ET and Ang II decreased, whereas NO was not influenced after the administration.
Wulingsan can improve the renal hemodynamic in ADR rats, at least in part by modulating the levels of vasoactive factor.
This study examined the effects of long-term delivery of cardiac contractility modulation (CCM) electric signals on left ventricular (LV) function and global, cellular, and molecular remodeling in dogs with chronic heart failure (HF).
Acute studies in dogs with experimentally induced HF showed that CCM signals applied to the failing myocardium during the absolute refractory period improved LV function without increasing myocardial oxygen consumption.
In one study, dogs with intracoronary microembolization-induced HF were randomized to 3 months of active CCM monotherapy or to a sham-operated control group. In another study, 19 HF dogs were randomized to 3 months chronic monotherapy with extended release metoprolol succinate (MET-ER), MET-ER with CCM, or no therapy at all (control group).
In CCM-only treated dogs, LV ejection fraction (EF) increased (27 +/- 1% vs. 33 +/- 1%, p < 0.0001) compared with a decrease in sham-operated control animals (27 +/- 1% vs. 23 +/- 1%, p < 0.001). The increase in EF seen with CCM-treated dogs was accompanied by reduced LV volumes, improved myocardial structure, reversal of the maladaptive fetal gene program, and an improvement in sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium cycling proteins. Dogs treated with a combination of MET-ER and CCM showed a greater increase in LV EF and a greater reversal of LV global, structural, and biochemical remodeling compared with dogs treated with MET-ER alone.
In dogs with HF, long-term CCM therapy improves LV systolic function. The improvements are additive to those seen with beta-blockers. These findings are further strengthened by the concomitant benefits of CCM therapy on LV global, cellular, and biochemical remodeling.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been demonstrated to enhance memory formation in experimental animals. However, the effect of NO precursor, L-arginine has never been tested on the memory impairing action of the aniepileptic drug, phenobarbitone independently and concurrently with the convulsant, picrotoxin (PCT). In view of this, in the present study, rats that acquired the shock avoidance task were treated with PCT (5 mg/ kg). Twenty four h later these animals were injected with L-arginine (500, 1000 mg/kg) and phenobarbitone (10, 20 mg/kg). Retention of the acquired task was tested 30 min later. The effect of these compounds were correlated with the changes produced by them on the concentration of NO in the brain. PCT and phenobarbitone (20 mg/kg) inhibited memory process independently and concurrently. NO concentration was not altered by phenobarbitone but was decreased in PCT-treated animals. L-arginine (1000 mg/kg) increased the concentration of NO in PCT and phenobarbitone treated animals and prevented these compounds from impairing memory process independently and concurrently. These results lead to a conclusion that L-arginine may be used in combination with phenobarbitone to prevent both the cognitive side effect of the antiepileptic drug and the impairment of memory that is associated with the convulsion disorder.
This study investigates the incidence of hepatotoxicity in HIV-infected children during anti-retroviral therapy (ART) and the impact of concomitant use of isoniazid preventive therapy. It is a retrospective cohort analysis of HIV-infected children who commenced ART or were followed up between September 1998 and November 2005. Alanine transferase levels were measured at baseline, at 1, 3 and 6 months and then 6 monthly thereafter. Of the 598 children included in the study, 425 were taking ART alone, 73 ART and isoniazid, 39 isoniazid alone and 61 neither isoniazid nor ART. There was no increased risk of hepatotoxicity with ART with or without isoniazid compared to the control group over a 2-year period. Grade 3 or 4 ALT elevations occurred in 19 (3.4%) children, with no cases of fulminant hepatic failure. Severe hepatic events are uncommon in children on ART or isoniazid. There is no increased risk of hepatotoxicity with ART and concurrent isoniazid preventive therapy.
To determine if furosemide would prevent the renal side effects of indomethacin therapy in premature infants with patent ductus arteriosus, 19 premature infants were randomized into two groups: nine received indomethacin alone, and ten received indomethacin followed immediately by furosemide. There was no significant difference between the groups in birth weight, gestational age, postnatal age, and in cardiopulmonary or renal status at the time of study. Infants who received indomethacin and furosemide had significantly higher urine output (P less than 0.05), higher FENa and FECl (P less than 0.01), and higher glomerular filtration rate (P less than 0.05) than those of infants who received indomethacin alone. Seven infants in each group responded to indomethacin therapy with disappearance of PDA murmur and improvement of cardiovascular status. The results of this study suggest that furosemide may prevent the renal side effects of indomethacin therapy and yet not affect the efficacy of indomethacin in the closure of a PDA.
We report two patients who developed Pisa syndrome after treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors--cognition-enhancing novel agents for patients with Alzheimer's disease. Cholinergic excess could be another factor in Pisa syndrome, especially in cholinergically-imbalanced Alzheimer's disease.
