Typical antipsychotic agents are potent antagonists of Gi-coupled dopamine D2 receptors, but their mechanisms of action following this initial blockade remain poorly understood. We hypothesized that in striatal neurons, interruption of this inhibitory dopamine D2 input would unmask endogenous striatal Gs-coupled receptors. An increase in cAMP levels generated by these unopposed receptors would then lead to the well-described behavioral and molecular effects of antipsychotic administration such as catalepsy and striatal c-fos and neurotensin gene transcription. We examined three striatal Gs-coupled receptor systems (serotonin 5-HT4, serotonin 5-HT6 and adenosine A2a) to assess their potential involvement in the mechanism of action of the typical antipsychotic haloperidol. Antagonists of each of these three receptor systems together with a 1 mg/kg dose of haloperidol were co-administered to Sprague-Dawley rats, and both the degree of catalepsy produced in the animals and the induction of striatal c-fos and neurotensin messenger RNAs were measured. Both the specific adenosine A2a antagonist 8-(3-chlorostyryl)-caffeine and the general adenosine antagonist theophylline reduced haloperidol-dependent induction of striatal neurotensin and c-fos messenger RNA. Administration of these agents also greatly reduced the degree of catalepsy induced by haloperidol. Antagonists of the 5-HT6 receptor failed to block the induction of striatal messenger RNAs, but the 5-HT6 antagonist clozapine (an important atypical antipsychotic agent in its own right) was a potent inhibitor of catalepsy. 5-HT4 agents were unable to alter haloperidol's effects on striatal messenger RNA levels or catalepsy. We conclude that the striatal Gs-coupled adenosine A2a receptor is an important mediator of the molecular and behavioral sequelae following haloperidol administration.
A 21 month old female had voluntarily ingested 0.5-1.51 of isotonic sports drink daily from 10 months of age. She developed hyponatremia and beriberi heart disease, which resulted in metabolic acidosis and cardiogenic shock (shoshin beriberi). Mechanical ventilation was applied for pulmonary edema. Right heart failure was improved after administering vitamin B1. However, 5 days after the shock, hypoxemia and diffuse radiographic infiltrates progressed, and a diagnosis of adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) was made. After the occurrence of an air leak, the patient died of respiratory failure. The cardiogenic shock and pulmonary edema due to cardiac beriberi may have triggered the ARDS.
beta 2-Adrenoceptor characteristics of human mononuclear leukocytes were assayed in hypertensive patients before and after treatment with 100 mg/day atenolol. While no changes have been observed in receptor affinity, a statistically significant increase (36%) has been demonstrated in receptor density following treatment. Blood pressure and heart rate were also measured in order to test the efficacy of the administered drug. All these parameters showed a fall in the post-treatment values. It is concluded that at therapeutic concentration, beta 2-adrenoceptors undergo up-regulation by atenolol in spite of its cardioselectivity. Such a regulation, which may represent a fundamental step in the mechanism leading to withdrawal syndrome, may, therefore, be suggested being quite widespread.
In the last 50 years cocaine usage has had a growing incidence worldwide. Chronic nasal abuse of this drug can cause extensive oromaxillofacial destructive process as oronasal perforation. To author's knowledge the only type of oronasal fistula in cocaine abusers that has been reported to date has been perforation of the hard palate; a case of oronasal fistulas involving another region of oral cavity, the anterior gingival sulcus, has been reported only once. In this article authors present the first case of oronasal fistula involving hard palate and the right supero-lateral vestible induced by prolonged cocaine snort described in literature, review about the better surgical management for this lesion and the relationship between chronic cocaine abuse and elevated serum levels of c-ANCA.
To examine a direct involvement of genotoxic effects of estrogens in the initiation of hormonal carcinogenesis, the abilities of 17beta-estradiol (E2) and 8 of its metabolites to induce cellular transformation and genetic effects were studied using the Syrian hamster embryo (SHE) cell model. Treatment with E2, estrone (E1), 2-hydroxyestrone (2-OHE1), 4-hydroxyestrone (4-OHE1), 2-methoxyestrone (2-MeOE1), 16alpha-hydroxyestrone (16alpha-OHE1), 2-hydroxyestradiol (2-OHE2), 4-hydroxyestradiol (4-OHE2) or estriol (E3) for I to 3 days inhibited SHE cell growth in a concentration-dependent manner. Concentration-dependent increases in the frequency of morphological transformation in SHE cells were exhibited by treatment for 48 hr with each of all estrogens examined, except for E3. The transforming activities of the estrogens, determined by the induced transformation frequencies, were ranked as follows: 4-OHE1 > 2-OHE1 > 4-OHE2 > 2-OHE2 > or = E2 or E1 > 2-MeOE1 or 16alpha-OHE1 > E3. Somatic mutations in SHE cells at the Na+/K+ATPase and /or hprt loci were induced only when the cells were treated with 4-OHE1, 2-MeOE1 or 4-OHE2 for 48 hr. Some estrogen metabolites induced chromosome aberrations in SHE cells following treatment for 24 hr. The rank order of the clastogenic activities of the estrogens that induced chromosome aberrations was 4-OHE1 > 2-OHE1 or 4-OHE2 > 2-OHE2 > E1. Significant increases in the percentage of aneuploid cells in the near diploid range were exhibited in SHE cells treated for 48 hr or 72 hr with each of the estrogens, except for 4-OHE1 and E3. Our results indicate that the transforming activities of all estrogens tested correspond to at least one of the genotoxic effects by each estrogen, i.e., chromosome aberrations, aneuploidy or gene mutations, suggesting the possible involvement of genotoxicity in the initiation of estrogen-induced carcinogenesis.
We present the first report of a patient who underwent heart transplantation (HT) after endomyocardial biopsy (EMB) and revealed chloroquine-induced cardiomyopathy (CIC). This patient, who was treated with chloroquine for 6 years, developed a restrictive cardiomyopathy that progressed to congestive heart failure (CHF) resistant to medical management.
In eight patients with familial hypercholesterolemia the effects of two lipid reducing drugs on subpopulations of high density lipoproteins (HDL) were examined. After a 14-week period of diet and diet/placebo a 12-week therapy followed with either bezafibrate (CAS 41859-67-0) or fluvastatin (CAS 93957-55-2). Throughout both treatments a significant decrease of total and low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol, apolipoprotein B and triglycerides during both therapies were noted as well as an insignificant increase of HDL-cholesterol during bezafibrate. The nondenaturating gradient gel electrophoresis is a valid method for the investigation of the behaviour of HDL and was therefore chosen for this investigation. The individual HDL pattern and HDL diameters did not change in these subjects. The effect on the amounts of HDL 3b and HDL 3c was significantly more extensive during fluvastatin (+2.4% resp. + 2.9%) as compared to during bezafibrate therapy (+1.7% resp. + 2.9%). The changes noted in the HDL subclasses are probably due to a variable lipoprotein metabolism, for example increased activity of lipoprotein lipase, hepatic triglyceride lipase, lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase and cholesterol ester transfer protein.
Reactive astrogliosis is a prominent neuropathologic feature of manganism, a neurodegenerative disorder caused by excessive accumulation of manganese (Mn) in the basal ganglia. Activation of astrocytes has been linked to neuronal injury in manganism resulting from overproduction of inflammatory mediators, including tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), interferon-gamma (IFNgamma), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and nitric oxide (NO), but the signaling mechanisms by which Mn regulates these factors remain poorly understood. We previously reported that Mn enhances production of NO in activated astrocytes that promotes apoptosis in cocultured neuronal cells by a mechanism involving the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) (Liu et al., 2005). Because NF-kappaB-dependent expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2) can be antagonized by the nuclear orphan receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma), we postulated that a novel agonist of this receptor, 1,1-bis(3'-indolyl)-1-(p-trifluoromethylphenyl)methane (cDIM1), would suppress expression of NOS2 in astrocytes and protect cocultured neuronal cells from apoptosis. Submicromolar concentrations of cDIM1 potently suppressed production of NO and expression of NOS2 in cultured astrocytes exposed to Mn and IFNgamma/TNFalpha and prevented apoptosis in cocultures of differentiated PC12 cells, but this neuroprotective effect was lost in the absence of astrocytes. By using fluorescence reporter and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays, we found that cDIM1 prevented activation of NF-kappaB in astrocytes by a mechanism involving stabilization of the nuclear corepressor 2 (NCoR2) on the proximal NF-kappaB binding site of the NOS2 promoter. These data suggest that PPARgamma may be an effective target for limiting inflammatory activation of astrocytes during neurologic injury.
The role of the nuclear peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) in colon tumorigenesis remains controversial. Notwithstanding evidence that PPAR-gamma ligands impede murine colorectal carcinogenesis, PPAR-gamma agonists have been shown to enhance in vivo tumor formation in mouse models of human colon cancer. Our study was designed to determine whether troglitazone (TGZ) induces colonic tumor formation in normal C57BL/6J mice and enhances colorectal carcinogenesis in double mutant Apc1638N/+ Mlh1+/- mice fed a standard AIN-76A diet. We report herein that not only does TGZ enhance carcinogenesis in the large intestine of mutant mice predisposed to intestinal carcinogenesis but TGZ also induces colonic tumors in normal mice without gene targeting or carcinogen administration. This observation indicates that preexisting mutational events are not necessary for induction of colonic tumors by activated PPAR-gamma in vivo.
Metabolic syndrome (MetSyn) is associated with a marked increase in the risk of cardiovascular disease, especially in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM).
To investigate the effect of orlistat plus hypocaloric diet (HCD) vs HCD alone on the cardiovascular risk profile in patients with both MetSyn (National Cholesterol Educational Program--NCEP--Adult Treatment Panel III definition) and type 2 DM.
This was a prospective, multicentre, open-label, randomized, controlled study. One hundred and twenty-six patients, free of cardiovascular disease at baseline, were included in the final analysis. Ninety-four (73%) patients were treated with orlistat (360 mg/day) and HCD for a 6-month period, while 34 (27%) were on HCD alone. Analysis of covariance was used to assess differences between the treatment groups over time.
Components of the MetSyn criteria assessed were: waist circumference; systolic and diastolic blood pressure; fasting glucose, triglycerides; high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) plus body mass index; glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1C); homeostasis model for assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA) index; and total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C).
By protocol, all patients had MetSyn at baseline. After a 6 month treatment period there were significant differences between the orlistat plus HCD vs the HCD-alone groups in body weight (p = 0.0001), waist circumference (p < 0.0001), fasting glucose (p < 0.0001), HbA(1C) (p < 0.0001), systolic blood pressure (p = 0.024), total cholesterol (p < 0.0001), LDL-C (p = 0.034), and HOMA index (p = 0.022), while there were no significant differences in triglycerides and HDL-C. Orlistat was well tolerated. By the end of the study, 65% of the patients on orlistat plus HCD were still meeting the MetSyn criteria and 41% had four to five MetSyn components vs 91% (p < 0.0001) and 53% (p = 0.017), respectively, of those on HCD alone.
Orlistat plus HCD favourably modified several cardiovascular risk factors in patients with both MetSyn and type 2 DM. These effects might partly offset the excess cardiovascular risk and improve outcome in this patient population.
Here we report the case of a patient who presented with acute cardiac tamponade due to drug-induced systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The patient had been treated for a seizure disorder with carbamazepine, a drug that has previously been demonstrated to cause SLE-like syndromes. Further serologic analysis demonstrated the likelihood of drug-induced SLE in this patient, with the rare presentation of cardiac tamponade.
Pancreaticobiliary maljunction is frequently associated with biliary carcinoma, whether or not there is choledochal dilatation. In this anomalous condition, pancreatic juice regurgitates and the mixture of bile and pancreatic juice stagnates in the biliary tree. In cystic choledochal dilatation, cancers arise, mainly in the dilated bile ducts, while in patients not having cystic dilatation, tumors arise in the gallbladder. Gallbladder bile and/or bile duct bile from fifteen cases of pancreaticobiliary maljunction, including five cancer patients, was analysed biochemically and compared with control bile from 6 patients with a normal pancreaticobiliary junction. Bile levels of pancreatic enzymes were extremely high in the anomalous junction group. In the bile duct bile from patients with cystic choledochal dilatation with pancreaticobiliary maljunction, the concentrations of deoxycholic acid (DCA), lithocholic acid (LCA) and unconjugated bile acid fractions were increased regardless of the presence of cancer. Increases of these bile acid fractions, which are known to have a cancer-promoting effect, were also seen in gallbladder bile from the cancer patients without cystic dilatation.
In a patient with tuberculosis and acute renal failure related to administration of therapeutic rifampin, treatment was discontinued for five weeks. It was reinstituted three weeks later. Unlike other patients previously described, the expected adverse renal reaction occurred only gradually and without symptoms, although tubular and glomerular disease developed. Also unique was a striking deposition of immunoglobulin about the tubules. This finding, in association with interstitial nephritis and tubular glycosuria, is similar to an experimental autologous renal disease mediated by antibody to tubular basement membrane.
In an open study 31 patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation for various haematological diseases received fluconazole as prophylaxis or treatment of fungal infections. In 26 of these patients an antecedent oral prophylaxis with polyene antimycotics had failed to prevent infections with Candida species. Five of the 31 patients received fluconazole as primary prophylaxis because of non-compliance for polyene antimycotics. Fluconazole was administered orally at a daily dose of 100 mg and 200 mg, respectively (n = 29), or intravenously at a dose of 100 mg and 400 mg (n = 2). Cure or efficient prophylaxis was achieved in 22/31 patients (71%) after a median of 52 (9 to 546+) treatment days. In three patients (10%) Candida was eradicated but the infection reappeared 14-28 days after cessation of the drug; in 6 patients (20%) the infection was persistent or progressive. Four patients developed lethal Aspergillus infection while on fluconazole medication. A moderate and reversible elevation of liver function tests under therapy was observed in 9 patients and was possibly attributable to fluconazole in 3 of them (10%). One patient developed tremor which resolved after cessation of fluconazole. No other adverse drug reactions could be noted. We conclude that fluconazole is a relatively safe and effective drug for the prevention and treatment of superficial and, possibly, deep Candida infections in severely immunocompromised patients. It is presumably without preventive value in Aspergillus infections.
Plasma cell leukemia (PCL) is a rare lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by a malignant proliferation of plasma cells in blood and bone marrow. Treatment of primary PCL has been mostly disappointing. Three patients with primary PCL are described who received high-dose melphalan with autologous PBSC support after vincristine, doxorubicine and dexamethasone (VAD), high-dose cyclophosphamide, and etoposide, cisplatinum, dexamethasone and cytosine arabinoside (EDAP) courses. All patients were in CR post-transplantation. One patient relapsed after 3 months; the other patients are still in CR, after 14 and 26 months, respectively. These results in conjunction with data from the literature suggest that intensive chemotherapy for PCL is promising.
The frequencies of antipsychotic drug-induced movement disorders documented by physicians and identified by researchers using standardized clinical rating scales were compared, as were the frequencies associated with use of fluphenazine decanoate and haloperidol decanoate. All outpatients at a Veterans Affairs medical center who were being maintained with intramuscular injections of fluphenazine decanoate or haloperidol decanoate and were in otherwise good health were studied. The patients were assessed by a pharmacist using the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale to evaluate the presence and severity of tardive dyskinesia (TD) and the Simpson-Angus EPS Rating Scale to evaluate the presence and severity of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS). The patients' medical records for the previous two years were reviewed to determine whether a movement disorder had been documented, whether the patient's informed consent for antipsychotic drug use had been obtained, and to collect other data about the patient and his or her drug therapy. A total of 50 patients were evaluated. A neurologic examination by a physician had been documented in the chart within six months before clinical testing for 36 patients; abnormal movements had been found in 8 patients. Twenty-one subjects met the study criteria for probable TD or EPS or both. Of these patients, only six had been identified within the previous six months as having a movement disorder. Two patients with medical-record documentation of a movement disorder were not so identified by their test scores. Informed consent had been obtained from only 10 patients. Patients receiving haloperidol decanoate had a higher frequency of EPS but were also receiving higher drug dosages than patients given fluphenazine decanoate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acute ingestions of imidazoline compounds, including clonidine hydrochloride, are a recognized clinical entity. The signs and symptoms of this overdose superficially resemble those of opiate intoxication, leading to attempts to reverse this poisoning with naloxone hydrochloride. Despite previous descriptions of success using naloxone in acute clonidine poisoning, five cases of acute pediatric ingestions of clonidine ranging from mild to severe occurred in which naloxone hydrochloride in doses up to 0.1 mg/kg was unsuccessful in reversing the signs and symptoms of this intoxicant. Although naloxone can be safely administered to children who ingest clonidine to distinguish them from those who are intoxicated by opiates, it is not therapeutically useful to use naloxone to reverse poisoning with this class of agents.
To determine an optimal dosage combination for a nylestriol/levonorgestrel (NYL/LNG) regimen in the treatment of female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats with retinoic acid (RA)-induced osteoporosis in order to examine the rationale of NYL/LNG use for postmenopausal women.
This study included two sets of experiments; one was designed to confirm the success of the RA-induced osteoporosis model involving 48 SD rats, and the other to determine the optimal dosage combination of NYL/LNG. In the second set of experiments, a total of 160 female SD rats at 7 months of age were randomly divided according to their basal body weights into 16 groups (10 in each). Treatment dosages of NYL and LNG were arrayed in a 2 factor-4 level (2(4)) factorial design, i.e., NYL level I (N1 0.015 mg/kg), level II (N(2) 0.05 mg/kg), level III (N3 0.15 mg/kg) and level IV (N4 0.5 mg/kg) and LNG level I (L1 0.005 mg/kg), level II (L2 0.015 mg/kg), level III (L3 0.05 mg/kg) and level IV (L4 0.15 mg/kg). For 14 d, 70 mg/kg/d RA was given intragastrically to establish the osteoporotic model and NYL and LNG were then administered in different dosages on alternate days over a 3 wk period. Subsequently, body weight, uterine weight, endometrial status, Bone mineral density (BMD), bone turnover, and morphometry as well as parameters of biomechanics, serum sex hormones and lipids and estrogen receptor-alpha expression were determined for these rats.
Uterine weights at L2, L3, and L4 dosage levels were significantly lower than those at L1 (P < 0.05). Serum estradiol at N4 and progesterone at N2, N3, and N4 had decreased. Bone mineral density at distal tibiae (R5) in L and LA, and at proximal femora (R3) in L4 had increased. The peak loading of lumbar vertebrae at N3 was higher than that at N1, N2, and N4 dosage levels and that of femora higher at N3 than that at N1 and N4. Serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) levels at N3, N4, L2, L3, and L4 dosage levels were lower than those at N1, N2, and L1 (P < 0.05). Moreover, there were lower levels of trabecular separation (Tb.Sp) at N3 and N4. The mineral apposition rates (MAR) at N2, N3, N4, L2, L3, and L4 were lower than those at N1 or L1. Bone formation rates (BFR) at L3 and L4 had significantly decreased as compared with that at L1. Levels of serum total cholesterol (TC) at N2, N3, and N4 were lower than that at N1 (P < 0.05). Marked squamatization of uterine endometrium with an increased expression of estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha was observed at N4.
The dosage of 0.15 mg/kg NYL prevented bone loss, decreased bone turnover rate and increased the maximal loading of bone without obvious side effects in RA-induced osteoporotic rats. The addition of 0.015-0.15 mg/kg of LNG (L2-L4) reduced uterine weights and serum ALP levels. Overall results showed that 0.15 mg/kg of NYL in combination with 0.015 mg/kg of LNG produced beneficial effects on bone metabolism in RA-induced osteoporotic rats.
A 40-yr-old male was admitted to the intensive care unit following blunt chest trauma. He had multiple rib fractures, bilateral pneumothoraces, and acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation. Sedation was achieved with midazolam and morphine, and later with propofol. The patient was paralysed with a continuous infusion of cisatracurium 1.42-5.75 micro g kg(-1) min(-1). Methylprednisolone 125 mg i.v. every 12 h was also started. After discontinuation of the cisatracurium infusion 7 days later, the patient manifested a flaccid quadriplegia with absence of deep-tendon reflexes. No sensory deficits were observed. Electromyography (EMG), repetitive nerve stimulation testing, and single fibre EMG (SFEMG) were performed at regular intervals after stopping cisatracurium. Clinical symptoms and electrophysiological examinations supported the diagnosis of acute motor axonal polyneuropathy related to concomitant administration of cisatracurium and corticosteroid therapy.
Everolimus, an oral inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), has shown antitumor activity in patients with advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, in two phase 2 studies. We evaluated the agent in a prospective, randomized, phase 3 study.
We randomly assigned 410 patients who had advanced, low-grade or intermediate-grade pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors with radiologic progression within the previous 12 months to receive everolimus, at a dose of 10 mg once daily (207 patients), or placebo (203 patients), both in conjunction with best supportive care. The primary end point was progression-free survival in an intention-to-treat analysis. In the case of patients in whom radiologic progression occurred during the study, the treatment assignments could be revealed, and patients who had been randomly assigned to placebo were offered open-label everolimus.
The median progression-free survival was 11.0 months with everolimus as compared with 4.6 months with placebo (hazard ratio for disease progression or death from any cause with everolimus, 0.35; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.27 to 0.45; P<0.001), representing a 65% reduction in the estimated risk of progression or death. Estimates of the proportion of patients who were alive and progression-free at 18 months were 34% (95% CI, 26 to 43) with everolimus as compared with 9% (95% CI, 4 to 16) with placebo. Drug-related adverse events were mostly grade 1 or 2 and included stomatitis (in 64% of patients in the everolimus group vs. 17% in the placebo group), rash (49% vs. 10%), diarrhea (34% vs. 10%), fatigue (31% vs. 14%), and infections (23% vs. 6%), which were primarily upper respiratory. Grade 3 or 4 events that were more frequent with everolimus than with placebo included anemia (6% vs. 0%) and hyperglycemia (5% vs. 2%). The median exposure to everolimus was longer than exposure to placebo by a factor of 2.3 (38 weeks vs. 16 weeks).
Everolimus, as compared with placebo, significantly prolonged progression-free survival among patients with progressive advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and was associated with a low rate of severe adverse events. (Funded by Novartis Oncology; RADIANT-3 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00510068.).
Four preterm infants receiving long-term furosemide therapy were examined for hypercalciuria, hyperparathyroidism, renal calcification, and bone demineralization. All four infants had increased urinary calcium excretion. Three infants had high serum concentrations of parathyroid hormone, and in these three infants, bone mineral content was below the mean of "osteopenic" preterm infants of comparable gestational and postnatal age. In two of these infants, there was ultrasound evidence of renal calcification. In one infant, autopsy disclosed bone changes of hyperparathyroidism, gallstones, and calcification in the heart and kidney.
The T-cell receptor (TCR) is composed of two glycoproteins (alpha and beta or gamma and delta) associated with four invariant polypeptides (CD3-gamma, delta, epsilon and zeta). The majority of TCR/CD3 complexes contain six polypeptide chains, and although there is some flexibility in the complex subunit stoichiometry the CD3-epsilon chain is central to CD3 core assembly and full complex formation. We have described previously defective expression of the TCR/CD3 complex in an immunodeficient child. We now report that two independent CD3-epsilon gene mutations present in the parents have segregated in the patient, leading to defective CD3-epsilon chain synthesis and preventing normal association and membrane expression of the TCR/CD3 complex.
Mevalonate pathway inhibitor lovastatin inhibited proliferation of human multidrug-resistant promyelocytic leukemia HL-60/ADR cells in vitro, with MRP-gene coded p190 mediated drug resistance, to a markedly lesser extent than that of the parental drug sensitive HL-60 cells and also that of the other human multidrug resistant (MDR-1, P-glycoprotein) myeloid leukemia cell line HL-60/VCR. The sensitivity of the examined human leukemia cell lines to the cytostatic activity of lovastatin correlated approximately with the potential of lovastatin to induce the characteristic cell cycle alteration (i.e. the accumulation of lovastatin-treated cells in the G0/G1 phase of the cell cycle). The P-glycoprotein positive HL-60/VCR cells and the parental drug sensitive HL-60 cells were more sensitive to this cell cycle alteration than the HL-60/ADR multidrug resistant leukemia cells with MRP drug resistance. Lovastatin (72 hours, 20 micromol) induced apoptosis and cell necrosis in HL-60 cells, apoptosis but not cell necrosis in HL-60/VCR cells and neither apoptosis nor necrosis in HL-60/ADR cells.
Chronic infectious diseases and cancers are often associated with suboptimal effector T cell responses. Enhancement of T cell costimulatory signals has been extensively studied for cancer immunotherapy but not so for the treatment of infectious disease. The few previous attempts at this strategy using infection models have lacked cellular specificity, with major immunoregulatory mechanisms or innate immune cells also being targeted. In this study, we examined the potential of promoting T cell responses via the glucocorticoid-induced TNF receptor (GITR) family-related protein in a murine model of visceral leishmaniasis. GITR stimulation during established infection markedly improved antiparasitic immunity. This required CD4(+) T cells, TNF, and IFN-gamma, but crucially, was independent of regulatory T (Treg) cells. GITR stimulation enhanced CD4(+) T cell expansion without modulating Treg cell function or protecting conventional CD4(+) T cells from Treg cell suppression. GITR stimulation substantially improved the efficacy of a first-line visceral leishmaniasis drug against both acute hepatic infection and chronic infection in the spleen, demonstrating its potential to improve clinical outcomes. This study identifies a novel strategy to therapeutically enhance CD4(+) T cell-mediated antiparasitic immunity and, importantly, achieves this goal without impairment of Treg cell function.
The analgesic drug combination Thomapyrin consisting of acetylsalicylic acid (CAS 50-78-2, ASA), paracetamol (CAS 103-90-2, NAPAP) and caffeine (CAS 58-08-2) in the ratio 5:4:1 was investigated for its chronic toxicity in rats. For comparison the individual drugs ASA and NAPAP as well as the double combination ASA+NAPAP were tested in equipotent doses. 20 male and 20 female rats per group (Chbb:THOM/SPF) received doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg of the combination ASA+NAPAP+caffeine, 45 and 180 mg/kg of the combination ASA+NAPAP, and 50 and 200 mg/kg of the individual drugs ASA or NAPAP over a period of 6 months. The daily dose was splitted into two parts and administered 3 h apart. The rats were single housed under standardized conditions with free access to food and drinking water. Plasma concentrations were measured in four additional animals of all high dose groups after the last dosing at seven time points. Besides the usual routine toxicological investigations the kidneys of five females per group were investigated by transmission electron microscopy. All investigations were performed according to GLP regulations. All animals behaved unobtrusively throughout the study with only minor impairment of general conditions in some animals of all ASA, ASA+NAPAP+caffeine and the high dose NAPAP groups. Dose related mortality was observed in the groups receiving ASA alone or in combination, partly with rales and tonic convulsions immediately prior to death. Body weight gain was decreased in males but not in females of the ASA+NAPAP+ caffeine and ASA groups. No consistent drug- and dose-dependent changes in hematological, clinico-chemical or urinanalytical parameters were observed, except for a slight increase in excretion of epithelial cells in both genders of the ASA groups. Plasma drug level monitoring demonstrated that the pharmacokinetics of ASA were not altered by co-administration of caffeine or NAPAP or vice versa. In males, maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) and areas under the curve (AUC) for ASA and NAPAP tended to be slightly lower than in females. The plasma concentrations reached in the study represent a low multiple (2.2-7.9) of therapeutic plasma levels. Therefore, the results reported in the study can be considered representative for normal therapeutic use of the analgesic combination ASA+NAPAP+caffeine. Gastric erosions in the ASA and ASA+NAPAP+caffeine groups, increased kidney weights in females given 200 mg/kg ASA+NAPAP+caffeine, and dose-dependently increased liver weights in females given 200 mg/kg ASA and decreased liver weights in males at 100 and 200 mg/kg ASA-NAPAP+caffeine were the only consistent drug-induced changes observed at necropsy. Except for the above mentioned ulcer, all histopathological findings were iatrogenic or spontaneous lesions. The kidneys demonstrated initial stages of age-associated nephropathy at comparable incidence and severity in all groups including controls. Semi-thin section evaluation and transmission electron microscopy showed only minor changes. Taking all tubular and vascular changes together (total mean), the animals of the NAPAP group were slightly more affected than those of the other groups. Summing up it can be concluded that the nephrotoxic potential of the combination ASA+NAPAP+caffeine, if existing at all, was marginal even after prolonged administration, and that it does not exceed that of the monosubstances when given at pharmacologically equipotent doses and clinically relevant exposures.
A case of severe bradycardia with junctional escape immediately following sublingual nitroglycerin is described. Bradycardia is a rare, but well-documented, complication of nitroglycerin and is often reported in the setting of myocardial ischemia or infarction. This particular case reported was complicated by the presence of an angiographically documented congenital coronary anomaly, but did not have either electrocardiographic or enzymatic evidence of ischemia or infarction during this event. Previously reported cases were reviewed, as well as potential mechanisms for this phenomenon. All cases reported to date were easily corrected with passive leg elevation or atropine.
Four patients with rheumatoid arthritis (R.A.) developed myasthenia gravis after taking penicillamine. In one patient withdrawal of the drug was followed by spontaneous remission of the myasthenia, and in two the dose of anticholinesterase was subsequently reduced. In the fourth patient continuing penicillamine treatment was associated with increasingly severe myasthenic features, but on withdrawal of the drug these resolved. As myasthenia gravis rarely complicates R.A. its onset in these patients shortly after the start of penicillamine treatment suggested that penicillamine may have precipitated this condition.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in humans has a high incidence in Europe and the USA, whereas in East Asia, incidence has been historically low. The risk of IBD appears to increase in Asian immigrants adopting western lifestyles, suggesting a strong link of environmental/dietary factors in the development of IBD. Exposure to high levels of isoflavones such as genistein (Gen) in traditional East Asian diets has been associated with a decreased risk of developing breast cancer and may also be beneficial for the prevention of IBD.
In this study, the effect of orally administered genistein on the inflammatory response in the TNBS-induced chronic colitis rat model was investigated.
Eighteen male Wistar rats, aged 12 weeks, were randomized to one of three groups (n = 6). Two groups received a 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) enema, then were treated daily by oral gavage with either Gen (100 mg/kg b.w.) or vehicle, for 14 days. The last group served as a control group, not receiving the TNBS enema. At the end of the 14 days, animals were killed and tissues collected. Molecular and biochemical inflammatory markers in the colon, specifically cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and myeloperoxidase (MPO), were analyzed. In addition, to assess the efficacy of Gen treatment, relative wet weights of the accessory sexual organs, specifically prostate and the seminal vesicle, were compared between the groups treated or not with Gen.
Wet weights of both prostates and seminal vesicles were significantly (P < 0.01) reduced upon Gen administration. In the colon, expression of COX-2 mRNA and protein was reduced (P < 0.05) in the Gen treatment group, as compared to the control group, whereas there was no significant inhibitory effect of Gen on the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen. In Gen treated animals colon wet weight was not altered, however a decrease in MPO activity (P < 0.01) was seen.
These results may provide evidence that oral administration of Gen exerts beneficial anti-inflammatory effects in a rodent model of TNBS-induced chronic colitis. While the sample size of this study was small, it nevertheless might encourage the realization of larger blinded randomized controlled studies for the proof of concept.
