Aside from the direct ocular manifestations of tuberculosis, significant vision loss can occur during treatment with agents that have potential ocular toxicities. Many thoracic specialists and eye care physicians consider these effects rare and readily reversible. With the alarming increase in incidence of tuberculosis in the United States over the past several years a review of anti-tuberculosis medications and their potential side effects is warranted.
A patient who developed dramatic, permanent vision loss after a 9-month course of treatment with ethambutol and isoniazid for pulmonary tuberculosis is presented. The medical and ophthalmic literature was reviewed for current use of these medications as well as for the reported incidence of visual side effects.
Ethambutol, and to a lesser extent isoniazid, are both implicated in the development of visually related side effects. There is documentation of ocular toxicity with ethambutol when administered at dosages generally pronounced as being safe. Controversy as to what constitutes a safe and effective dose of these medications still exists.
Any patient undergoing medical treatment for tuberculosis requires proper education concerning potential drug side effects. Routine ophthalmic observation for the development of optic neuropathy is strongly recommended for patients with significant risk factors that could increase the chance of side effects and those on longer treatment courses. Baseline and follow-up examinations should include: Snellen acuity, Farnsworth D-15 color testing, automated threshold perimetry and optic nerve head photography.
The aminoterminal peptide of type III procollagen (PIIINP) is formed during the synthesis of type III collagen and can be measured in the serum. It has been used as a marker for hepatic fibrosis in patients on long-term methotrexate and it has been suggested that serial assay of PIIINP could reduce or eliminate the need for liver biopsies in these patients.
To determine whether routine use of the PIIINP assay in a cohort of patients on methotrexate would reliably identify those who were developing hepatic fibrosis and exclude those who were not, thereby reducing or eliminating the need for liver biopsies in this latter group.
Data were available from a clinical series of 38 patients on methotrexate, who had undergone a total of 70 liver biopsies and 306 PIIINP assays. Liver biopsies were graded using the Roenigk classification.
In 34 patients, the findings on 46 liver biopsies could be compared with the results of contemporaneous PIIINP assays. Apart from two biopsies from two patients where fibrosis was no longer detected on a subsequent biopsy, all four biopsies showing fibrosis had abnormal results on over half of the associated PIIINP assays. There were no biopsies showing fibrosis where all associated PIIINP assays were normal. However, 50% of biopsies without fibrosis had at least one abnormal associated assay. In 23 patients, the results of serial PIIINP assays performed between two sequential liver biopsies were correlated with changes in the biopsy in terms of fibrosis. Data were available for 32 pairs of liver biopsies. Apart from a biopsy pair in one patient where fibrosis on the second biopsy was not detected on a third biopsy, all four biopsy pairs defined as showing deterioration had abnormal results on over half of the intervening PIIINP assays. There were no biopsy pairs showing deterioration where all intervening assay results were normal. However, 63% of stable biopsy pairs had at least one abnormal intervening assay. Two patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, which manifests a pattern of fibrosis not scored under the Roenigk classification, had persistently and substantially elevated PIIINP levels.
The data presented support the view that follow-up liver biopsies, as recommended by published guidelines, for patients on long-term low-dose methotrexate can be avoided if PIIINP levels are consistently normal. This approach would have reduced the number of patients requiring biopsy in our series by 45%. The PIIINP assay will also be helpful in the management of patients on methotrexate in whom liver biopsy is contraindicated, and in patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
The effects of 6-OHDA lesions of dopamine terminals within the amygdala were investigated on i) (+) amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity and ii) the acquisition of intravenous self-administration of (+) amphetamine. The lesioned rats exhibited increased locomotor activity in response to (+) amphetamine (0.75 and 1.5 mg/kg), but not at the higher dose (3 mg/kg). Self-administration of (+) amphetamine was also significantly greater than in controls. Biochemical analysis of the 6-OHDA-induced lesions of the amygdala indicated increased turnover of dopamine (DOPAC/DA) in the nucleus accumbens. We hypothesize that the behavioural effects were mediated by amygdala-accumbens interactions.
Primary hepatocytes are widely used in investigating drug metabolism and its toxicological effects. N-Nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA)-induced genotoxicity and cytotoxicity was used in primary cultures of female rat hepatocytes in the presence of phenobarbital (PB). PB pre-treatment (1mM) increased the number of necrotic (2-fold) and apoptotic cells (4-fold) after NDEA treatment (0.21-105 μg/mL). The mitotic indices and the number of micronucleated cells decreased, thus suggesting cytotoxicity. An increased number of chromosomal aberrations were observed after pre-treatment with PB. NDEA-treatment (0.21-21 μg/mL) induced expression of the CYP2B1 and CYP2B2 mRNA and PB treatment alone induced ~6-fold and ~2-fold increases of CYP2B1 and CYP2B2 mRNA, respectively. NDEA treatment following PB exposure increased CYP2B1 mRNA expression under all tested concentrations and also increased CYP2B2 expression at 21 and 105 μg/mL. Our data suggest that the alteration of CYP2B1/2 expression by PB increased the cytotoxicity and genotoxicity of NDEA leading to the final genotoxic metabolite.
Individuals with permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus usually present within the first three months of life and require insulin treatment. We recently identified a locus on chromosome 10p13-p12.1 involved in permanent neonatal diabetes mellitus associated with pancreatic and cerebellar agenesis in a genome-wide linkage search of a consanguineous Pakistani family. Here we report the further linkage analysis of this family and a second family of Northern European descent segregating an identical phenotype. Positional cloning identified the mutations 705insG and C886T in the gene PTF1A, encoding pancreas transcription factor 1alpha, as disease-causing sequence changes. Both mutations cause truncation of the expressed PTF1A protein C-terminal to the basic-helix-loop-helix domain. Reporter-gene studies using a minimal PTF1A deletion mutant indicate that the deleted region defines a new domain that is crucial for the function of this protein. PTF1A is known to have a role in mammalian pancreatic development, and the clinical phenotype of the affected individuals implicated the protein as a key regulator of cerebellar neurogenesis. The essential role of PTF1A in normal cerebellar development was confirmed by detailed neuropathological analysis of Ptf1a(-/-) mice.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is based on the combination of an exogenously administered precursor of photosensitizer [protoporphyrin IX (PpIX)] synthesis and exposure to light. Choosing the optimal wavelength is important. Red light penetrates deeper into tissue, while violet light is more efficient in activating PpIX but does not penetrate so deeply.
We studied PpIX formation and the PDT effect after application to human skin of creams containing aminolaevulinic acid (ALA) and aminolaevulinic acid methyl ester (MAL). The aim of the study was to investigate whether the wavelength of the light used has an influence on pain sensations during topical PDT with the different prodrugs.
ALA cream (10%) and MAL cream (10%) were topically applied on the skin of 10 healthy volunteers. After 24 h the application site was exposed to 8 mW cm(-2) violet laser or to 100 mW cm(-2) red laser light. The erythema index was monitored up to 24 h after light exposure. For the first time the pain during topical ALA- and MAL-PDT was assessed by measuring the time taken for pain to occur. Also, for the first time, the intensities of the light sources were calibrated so as to have the same relative quantum efficiency. Results The pain sensation during ALA-PDT with red light came 22 s sooner than during ALA-PDT with violet light, which is statistically significant (P < 0.05). Moreover, ALA-PDT with red light gave stronger and more persistent erythema than ALA-PDT with violet light. ALA induced about three times more PpIX than MAL. No statistically significant differences were found for erythema, or for the time for pain to occur, in the case of MAL-PDT with red vs. violet light.
Topical ALA-PDT with violet light allows longer exposure times before pain is induced and gives less erythema as compared with topical ALA-PDT with red light.
Key studies on the prevention of human papillomavirus and hepatitis A published during the past year found that: A quadrivalent vaccine against human papillomavirus prevents cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, vulvar and vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia, and anogenital disease in young women. The vaccine is likely cost-effective when given to girls, but perhaps not when given to boys. Although hepatitis A immune globulin is modestly better than hepatitis A vaccine for postexposure prophylaxis against hepatitis A, both are highly effective. Hepatitis A vaccine is now recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices as the preferred agent in healthy individuals between the ages of 2 and 40.
Inhibitors against cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an inducible enzyme that catalyzes prostaglandin synthesis, are widely used in clinical. However, the potential hepatic toxicity of COX-2 inhibitors remains incompletely investigated. We report in this study that a clinically available COX-2 inhibitor, celecoxib, exacerbates porcine serum (PS)-induced hepatic fibrosis and induces hepatocellular necrosis in an experimental liver fibrosis model. Histological results revealed that although celecoxib by itself did not cause notable hepatic damages, it markedly enhanced hepatic fibrosis that had been initiated by PS. While PS alone did not cause any necrotic change in liver cells, the addition of celecoxib resulted in hepatocellular necrosis in PS-treated animals. Notably, celecoxib enhanced reduction of plasma prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) levels induced by PS. Taken together, our results indicate that treatment with celecoxib may exacerbate liver fibrosis and cause hepatocellular necrosis. This may be associated with reduction in PGE(2) as an inheritance consequence of inhibition of COX-2.
We previously reported linkage of a prostate cancer tumor aggressiveness locus to chromosome 7q32-q33, a region also associated with a high frequency of allelic imbalance in prostate tumors. The smallest region of allelic imbalance contains the podocalyxin-like (PODXL) gene, which we evaluate here as a candidate prostate cancer aggressiveness gene mapping to 7q32-q33. DNA from probands of linked families was examined for germ-line mutations in PODXL. A variable in-frame deletion, four missense variants and two nonsense variants were identified in linked men. Variants that affected amino acid sequence were further evaluated for association with risk of prostate cancer and tumor aggressiveness in a family-based case-control population (439 cases and 479 sibling controls). The presence of any single in-frame deletion was positively associated with prostate cancer [odds ratio (OR)=2.14, 95% confidence interval (95%CI)=1.09-4.20, P=0.03] and the presence of two copies of any deletion further increased risk (OR=2.58, 95%CI=1.23-5.45, P=0.01). This finding was strengthened when stratifying among men with more aggressive disease (high grade or stage): OR=3.04 for one deletion (95%CI=1.01-9.15) and OR=4.42 for two deletions (95%CI=1.32-14.85, P=0.02). A weak positive association was also observed between prostate cancer risk and PODXL variant 340A (in linkage disequilibrium with another variant, 587T) (OR=1.48, 95%CI=1.02-2.14, P=0.04). These results implicate PODXL as a candidate prostate cancer tumor aggressiveness gene mapping to chromosome 7q32-q33.
We describe the first case of efavirenz-induced urolithiasis in a 47-year-old HIV-positive patient. Urinary obstruction led to pyelonephritis and septic shock, requiring emergency ureteral catheterisation. The subsequent clinical course was favourable, allowing the patient's discharge on day 5. A 7 mm, radio-translucent, non-crystalline, beige stone was extracted during catheterisation. Stone analysis by Fourier transform infrared spectrometry, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry revealed a stone composed of efavirenz (EFV) metabolites M4, M5, M8 (as described by Mutlib et al. in 1999) and approximately 50% of unspecified proteins. EFV is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor introduced to European markets in 1999. It is principally metabolised by cytochrome P450 3A4 and 2B6. Of the dose, 14-34% is excreted in the urine, 1% as unchanged drug. The patient had been taking 600 mg EFV per day for 3 years. As EFV-induced urolithiasis has not been reported so far, we would like to draw the attention of the medical community to this potentially severe complication.
The endothelial nitric oxide synthase (ecNOS) has an important role in vascular development and in the carcinogenesis process of prostate cancer (PCa). The nitric oxide (NO) production may promote cancer progression by providing a selective growth advantage to tumor cells, by angiogenic stimulus and by direct DNA damage.
The present study aimed at evaluating the ecNOS Glu-298-Asp polymorphism by the PCR-RFLP technique, associating genotypes with gene expression levels and the tumor biomarker, Prostate Cancer Antigen (DD3), through semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Pre-surgical peripheral blood samples from 160 patients were analyzed: 84 PCa, 11 prostate intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) and 65 benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
The GG and GT Glu-298-Asp genotypes were associated with positive DD3 expression in the peripheral blood, presenting a 3.32-fold higher risk of PCa occurrence. There was no association between genotypes and ecNOS mRNA expression levels; however, the presence of the G allele is closely related to the hematogenous dissemination event of tumoral cells, as evidenced by the DD3 positivity. The higher G allele frequency among pT3 and pT4 staged PCa patients suggests that this would be associated with advanced phenotypes of the disease and may also be contributing to higher NO levels, causing cancer progression.
The G allele may have a secondary influence on the prostate cancer predisposition, but an essential role on the event of tumor cells hematogenous dissemination, probably due to the angiogenic stimulus.
In accordance with international recommendations on the need to decrease doses of antihypertensive drugs, a low-dose (1.5 mg) sustained-release form of indapamide was developed so as to optimize the safety/efficacy ratio, while maintaining a once-daily administration. The new formulation ensures that the active ingredient release occurs in a sustained manner over 24 hours, with mean concentrations close to the maximal concentration over a prolonged period, while avoiding peak plasma concentrations. Clinical data were obtained mainly through two European multicenter, randomized, double-blind trials, totalling 690 patients. Firstly, the antihypertensive efficacy' of the new indapamide 1.5 mg form was demonstrated by measuring blood pressure 24 hours after the last drug intake, using a mercury sphygmomanometer; the equivalence of its antihypertensive efficacy with the immediate-release form of indapamide 2.5 mg was then verified. Biochemical safety data showed better acceptability with indapamide 1.5 mg with in particular a reduction of more than 50% of the number of patients with kalemia < 3.4 mmol/l; clinical safety data confirmed the good acceptability observed with the 2.5 mg immediate-release form of indapamide since many years, especially regarding glucose and lipid neutrality. In conclusion, the 1.5 mg sustained-release form of indapamide has an improved antihypertensive efficacy/safety ratio which is in accordance with international recommendations for the usage of low doses of antihypertensive drugs and diuretics in the first-line treatment of hypertension.
We studied the left ventricular filling before and 15 minutes after sublingual absorption of one Nifedipine capsule in 33 untreated hypertensive patients (mean age: 68.6) without other cardiac disease and presenting an hypertensive access. This study was carried out with Doppler-echocardiography. Sample volume was set at the tips of mitral leaflets. The protocol included: early peak filling velocity (VE), atrial peak velocity (VA), mitral pressure half-time (T1/2), isovolumic relaxation time (TRIV), velocity time integral of total mitral curve (VTIT) and velocity time integral of atrial curve (VTIA). We also studied VE/VTIT ratio which has been correlated to peak filling rate/mitral stroke volume ratio in radionuclide angiography.
[table: see text] The variations of VA/VE, VTIA/VTIT, VE/VTIT and T1/2 are statistically significant but decrease of TRIV is not significant. The arterial blood pressure decreases from 184/103 to 153/83 and cardiac rate increases from 81.8 to 87.9 beats/minute.
On hypertensive emergencies sublingual nifedipine significantly improves rapid left ventricular filling without change of TRIV. Acceleration of cardiac rate is moderate.
We report a case of ischemia limited to the upper limb caused by chronic use of ergotamine. The effect of this drug was not related to hypersensitivity or to the potentiating effects of other medications. The patient was successfully treated discontinuing ergotamine and administering an alpha-blocking agent for three months. A review of the literature of the vascular complications of ergotamine is presented.
Diclofenac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug that causes rare but serious hepatotoxicity, the mechanism of which is unclear. The purpose of the present study was to explore the potential role played by the immune processes. Antibodies to diclofenac metabolite-modified liver protein adducts were detected in the sera of seven out of seven patients with diclofenac-induced hepatotoxicity, 12 of 20 subjects on diclofenac without hepatotoxicity, and none of four healthy controls. The antibodies recognized adducts expressed in livers from rats treated with multiple doses of diclofenac, but not in those given single doses. In addition, several potential diclofenac adducts were identified in the liver of a patient with diclofenac-induced hepatic failure, but not from a normal human donor liver, by immunoblotting with an adduct-selective rabbit antiserum. To determine whether or not polymorphisms in genes encoding cytokine-related proteins influence susceptibility to hepatotoxicity, genotyping for the polymorphisms -627 in the interleukin (IL)-10 gene, -590 in the IL-4 gene, and codon 551 in the IL-4 receptor (IL-4R) were performed on DNA from 24 patients on diclofenac with hepatotoxicity, 48 subjects on diclofenac without hepatotoxicity, and healthy controls. The frequencies of the variant alleles for IL-10 and IL-4 were higher in patients (OR [odds ratio]: 2.8 for IL-10; 2.6 for IL-4; 5.3 for IL-10 + IL-4) compared with healthy controls and subjects on diclofenac without hepatotoxicity (OR: 2.8 for IL-10; 1.2 for IL-4; 5.0 for IL-10 + IL-4). In conclusion, the observed polymorphisms, resulting in low IL-10 and high IL-4 gene transcription, could favor a T helper (Th)-2 mediated antibody response to neoantigenic stimulation associated with disease susceptibility.
Renal urinary concentration is associated with enhanced expression of rBSC1, a rat sodium cotransporter, in the thick ascending limb of Henle. Increased expression of rBSC1 was reported recently in nephrogenic diabetes insipidus induced by lithium chloride (Li nephropathy). However, the pathophysiological implication of altered rBSC1 expression has not yet been investigated.
Li nephropathy was induced in rats by an oral administration of 40 mmol lithium/kg dry food. In rats with reduced urinary osmolality to less than 300 mOsm/kg H2O, we examined the expression of rBSC1 mRNA and protein, plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) and RNA expression of kidney-specific water channel, aquaporin-2 (AQP2), of collecting ducts. Rats with Li nephropathy were treated with furosemide (3 mg/kg body weight), which blocks the activity of rBSC1, and changes in urine concentration, plasma AVP, medullary accumulation of Li ions, and apical AQP2 expression were determined.
Rats with Li nephropathy showed increased rBSC1 RNA and protein expression and reduced AQP2 RNA. In these rats, furosemide, which induces dilution of urine and polyuria in normal rats, resulted in a progressive and significant rise in urine osmolality from 167 +/- 11 (mean +/- SD) at baseline to 450 +/- 45 mOsm/kg H2O at three hours after administration, and significant oliguria. In the same rats, plasma AVP decreased significantly from 5.7 to 3.0 pg/mL. In addition, recovery of apical AQP2 expression was noted in a proportion of epithelial cells of the collecting ducts. Although Li+ in the renal medulla was slightly lower in rats with Li nephropathy treated with furosemide, statistical significance was not achieved.
Our results suggest that dehydration or high plasma AVP results in an enhanced rBSC1 expression in Li nephropathy, and that rBSC1 expression is closely associated with the adverse effects of Li ions on collecting duct function.
Preclinical and limited clinical data suggest that statins decrease the progressive decline in renal function that occurs in patients with renal disease. Pooled analysis of data obtained from a population of hyperlipidemic patients enrolled in the rosuvastatin (Crestor) clinical development program permitted assessment of its effects on renal function both early and later in the course of treatment. Study participants were initially included in controlled clinical trials that evaluated the lipid-lowering efficacy and safety of rosuvastatin when compared with placebo or other lipid-lowering agents (i.e., atorvastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin, cholestyramine, fenofibrate or extended-release niacin). The median duration of treatment with the various doses of statins in these trials was approximately 8 weeks. Following completion of a controlled clinical trial, patients were permitted to enter an open-label extension trial and received rosuvastatin treatment. These data permitted assessment of renal function in a diverse group of over 10,000 patients who received rosuvastatin in its recommended dose range (5-40 mg) for up to 3.8 years. Mean serum creatinine concentrations were lower when compared with baseline both early and later in the course of rosuvastatin treatment. In contrast, no change in mean serum creatinine was observed with placebo. Mean glomerular filtration rates (GFR) predicted from the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) equation were higher when compared with baseline both early and later in the course of rosuvastatin treatment. No change in GFR was observed in the placebo group. Among patients who received long-term rosuvastatin treatment (> or =96 weeks), GFR was unchanged or tended to increase, rather than decrease, when compared with baseline irrespective of age, gender, hypertensive or diabetic status, level of renal function (GFR > or =60 vs. <60 ml/min/1.73 m(2)) at entry or urine dipstick protein status prior to or during the period of treatment. These findings suggest that rosuvastatin may arrest the progression of renal disease.
The median lethal dose (LD50) and the median lethal concentration (LC50) of caffeine administered intravenously (i.v.) and orally (p.o.) were calculated in adult male CD2F1/Crl BR mice. Acute toxic behavioral responses to the drug were observed after administration via the two routes. Deaths followed severe tetanic convulsions: some animals had transient convulsions and survived, and others presented no acute toxicity. In a further study, the LD50 of caffeine was given i.v. and by gavage to animals randomly paired. At the death of one of the two mice the other was killed and caffeine assayed in blood and tissues of both. Different patterns of distribution were observed inter- and intra-route of administration, animals which died always having higher drug levels, although they had received the same dose. These findings suggest that besides the well-known factors affecting acute toxic response to exogenous compounds, drug distribution also has to be taken into account in a multifactorial toxicological investigation.
Trøseid M, Henriksen OA, Lindal S. Statin-associated myopathy with normal creatine kinase levels - case report from a Norwegian family. APMIS 2005;113:635-7. Recent reports suggest that statins may cause myopathy with normal creatine kinase levels. We describe four related patients with statin-associated muscle symptoms and normal creatine kinase levels. In two out of the four patients (mother and son), pathological findings on EMG suggested myopathy, and muscle biopsies showed evidence of mitochondrial pathology. A third patient (daughter) had slight myopathic findings on EMG and muscle biopsy, but not enough to be classified as pathological. In a fourth patient, there were no pathological findings. Creatine kinase levels were normal and symptoms diminished after discontinuation of drugs in all four patients. Our findings are consistent with other reports of statin-associated myopathy with normal creatine kinase levels. An inherited vulnerability, possibly a mitochondrial pathology, might cause or aggravate symptoms in some patients.
To evaluate the usefulness of myocardial scintigraphy as a monitoring tool for chronic doxorubicin (DXR) cardiotoxicity, a rat model was used to investigate the relationship between the myocardial uptake of thallium 201 (Tl) or rechnetium 99m pyrophosphate (99mTc-PPi) and histological changes of the heart. Although there was no significant difference in myocardial Tl uptake between control and DXR-treated rats at an early phase after Tl injection, late-phase Tl uptake was significantly higher in the DXR-treated rats than in the control rats, indicating a slow wash-out of Tl from the myocardium. The wash-out rate calculated from scintigraphic examination of DXR-treated rats was significantly decreased with increasing degree of cardiomyopathy. Since the Tl wash-out rate was sharply decreased even in animals with minimal histological changes, it may be a possible monitoring tool for the early detection of chronic DXR cardiotoxicity. On the other hand, myocardial 99mTc-PPi images could be obtained only in rats with severe myocardial changes and hence would not useful for early detection.
Anemia of chronic disease (ACD) is frequently found in patients with chronic immune activation. Since most studies on ACD pathophysiology were performed with cell culture or animal models but not in humans, we examined 37 ACD patients suffering from autoimmune diseases or infections, 10 subjects with iron-deficiency anemia (IDA), 10 anemic patients with hereditary spherocytosis (HS), and 27 age-matched controls. Although hemoglobin concentrations were comparable between ACD and IDA patients, the latter presented with significantly higher serum erythropoietin concentrations than ACD patients. The significant negative correlation between erythropoietin and hemoglobin levels observed in IDA patients was also found in a group of anemic but not hypoferremic hereditary spherocytosis subjects, but not in ACD patients. Increased serum concentrations of the hepcidin precursor prohepcidin were paralleled by a decreased expression of the iron exporter ferroportin in circulating monocytes of ACD patients. In the latter cells, increased amounts of the iron storage protein ferritin and a reduced activity of iron-regulatory protein indicated monocyte iron accumulation. Our data indicate that hypoferremia in ACD may result from downregulation of ferroportin expression by hepcidin and cytokines with subsequent iron retention in monocytes. Together with a diminished erythropoietin formation, the impaired iron recirculation from monocytes may be central in the pathophysiology of ACD in humans.
Rats classified as high responders (HR) based on their response to an inescapable novel environment self-administer more amphetamine and have greater amphetamine-induced sensitization than rats classified as low responders (LR). Recent research suggests that the central nucleus of the amygdala (ACe) contributes to the elevated self-administration in HR rats. Therefore, the current study examined the role of the ACe in the expression of both amphetamine-induced sensitization and conditioned hyperactivity in HR and LR rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were screened for their response to inescapable novelty and classified as HR or LR rats. Rats were implanted with bilateral cannulae into the ACe and received amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline injections immediately prior to 1-h locomotor sessions. Following five training sessions, all rats received an infusion of muscimol (0.5 microg/0.5 microl) or phosphate buffered saline (PBS) followed by a saline injection to measure conditioned hyperactivity. HR rats displayed conditioned hyperactivity, while LR rats did not, suggesting that HR and LR rats differ in the expression of conditioned hyperactivity. While ACe inactivation attenuated the expression of conditioned hyperactivity, it did not differentially affect HR and LR rats. Following additional training and a 10-day rest period, all rats were then tested for amphetamine-induced sensitization (1.0 mg/kg) following an infusion of muscimol or PBS. Inactivation of the ACe attenuated the expression of sensitization only in HR rats. These results suggest the ACe contributes to the greater amphetamine sensitization in HR rats.
Anticancer agents, such as cisplatin, induce vomiting, nausea, and anorexia. Cisplatin primarily acts on vagal afferents to produce emesis, but little is known about how this drug generates nausea and anorexia. Electrophysiology indicates that cisplatin activates vagal afferents of the common hepatic branch (CHB). Rats lack an emetic response but do ingest kaolin clay (a pica response) when made sick by toxins, and this behavior can be inhibited by antiemetic drugs. It has been postulated that pica may serve as a proxy for emesis in the rat. The goal of this study was to assess the effect of CHB or ventral gastric (Gas) or celiac (Cel) branch vagotomies on pica and anorexia produced by cisplatin in the rat. The effects of apomorphine, a dopamine receptor agonist, which induces emesis via a central mechanism, were also assessed. Cisplatin-induced pica was suppressed by CHB vagotomy (a 61% reduction) but not by Gas and Cel vagotomy. Suppression of daily food intake and body weight following cisplatin treatment was also blunted by CHB ablation but not by Gas or Cel vagotomy. No vagotomy condition exhibited altered apomorphine-induced pica. The results indicate that the CHB, which innervates primarily the duodenum, plays an important role in cisplatin-induced malaise. These data suggest that pica has sensory pathways similar to emetic systems, since a vagotomy condition inhibited cisplatin-induced pica but had no effect on apomorphine-induced pica. This investigation contributes to the delineation of the physiology of pica and neural systems involved in malaise in the nonvomiting rat.
Amrinone and milrinone are phosphodiesterase inhibitors with positive inotropic effects useful for the treatment of ventricular dysfunction after cardiac surgery. Forty-four patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery at four centers received either amrinone (n = 22) or milrinone (n = 22) in a randomized, blind fashion. Immediately after separation from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), two bolus doses of either amrinone 0.75 mg/kg or milrinone 25 microg/kg were administered over 30 s, separated by 5 min. Hemodynamic measurements were recorded before each dose and at the end of the 10-min study. Both amrinone and milrinone increased the cardiac index (48% vs 52%, P = not significant [NS] for amrinone and milrinone, respectively). There was a small increase in mean arterial pressure (MAP) after amrinone administration (from 68 +/- 3 to 72 +/- 3 mm Hg at 10 min, P < 0.05) with no significant change in MAP after milrinone administration. Central venous pressure was significantly higher in the amrinone group at baseline and 5 min (12 vs 10 mm Hg and 11 vs 10 mm Hg, respectively; P < 0.05). Systemic and pulmonary vascular resistances decreased significantly and to a similar extent after either amrinone or milrinone administration. Phenylephrine was required in 11 of 22 patients receiving amrinone and in 11 of 22 patients receiving milrinone to maintain arterial blood pressure. The proportion of patients requiring an intravascular volume infusion (15 of 22 vs 17 of 22, P = NS) and the total fluid volume infused were similar (402 +/- 57 vs 350 +/- 49 mL, P = NS for amrinone and milrinone, respectively). Amrinone and milrinone seem to have similar hemodynamic effects after CPB, with the exception of blood pressure, although the need for vasopressor support of blood pressure did not differ. Selection between these two drugs may include nonhemodynamic considerations such as cost.
Amrinone and milrinone are drugs that improve cardiac contraction. Their effects have never been directly compared in patients. We found that amrinone and milrinone produced similar hemodynamic effects in adult patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Choice between the two drugs can be based on nonhemodynamic considerations such as cost.
To stop an epidemic of hepatitis A in rural Alaska by mass immunization of susceptible persons with 1 dose of an inactivated hepatitis A vaccine.
Nonrandomized, uncontrolled trial. Hepatitis A vaccine was offered to all persons in susceptible age groups in villages with documented cases of hepatitis A. Immune globulin was not offered at the time of vaccination.
Twenty-five rural communities located in interior Alaska and along the northwest coast of the Bering Sea and Arctic Ocean.
Persons without a history of acute hepatitis A in age groups selected by applying results of a previous serosurvey conducted on serum collected before the epidemic.
One dose of a formalin-inactivated hepatitis A vaccine was given to each participant. Adults 20 years of age and older received 1440 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay units and persons younger than 20 years received 720 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay units. Prevaccination and postvaccination levels of antibody to hepatitis A IgG were obtained from 136 participants.
An active surveillance system was established to detect persons with symptomatic illnesses compatible with hepatitis A; persons who met the illness criteria were tested for antibody to hepatitis A IgM. One area (the Kotzebue region), where all communities were offered vaccine, was selected for intensive surveillance and analysis.
During the 12-month period before the vaccine trial, 529 cases of icteric hepatitis A were reported, and 443 were confirmed to be positive for antibody to hepatitis A IgM. Hepatitis A vaccine was administered to 4930 persons, 3517 of whom were younger than 20 years. After vaccination began, 237 persons positive for antibody to hepatitis A IgM were identified during a 60-week surveillance period; 46 were vaccines and 191 were unvaccinated susceptible persons. In the Kotzebue region, in communities in which more than 80% of persons considered susceptible were vaccinated, the outbreak ceased in 4 to 8 weeks, whereas in 1 large community in which less than 50% of susceptible persons were vaccinated, the outbreak continued for more than 50 weeks. More than 90% of seronegative persons developed antibody to hepatitis A IgG 3 to 4 weeks after vaccination.
This trial suggested that by providing both short-term and long-term protection, hepatitis A vaccine used without immune globulin halted an established epidemic of hepatitis A in rural Alaska.
Toxic hepatitis or drug-induced liver injury encompasses a spectrum of clinical disease ranging from mild biochemical abnormalities to acute liver failure. The advantages of a long half-life, wide spectrum, high tissue penetration rate, and a good safety profile, make ceftriaxone, a third-generation cephalosporin, a frequent choice in the treatment of childhood infections. Previous studies have reported a few cases of high aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase levels, along with three cases of hepatitis caused by ceftriaxone. Here, we report a case of drug-induced toxic hepatitis in a patient who was treated with ceftriaxone for acute tonsillitis.
