Cefoperazone is a third-generation cefalosporin that contains the N-methyl- thio-tetrazole (NMTT) side chain, which inhibits vitamin K-dependent carboxylation. Administration of NMTT-containing cefalosporins can cause alterations in the hepatic glutathione redox state, resulting in a dose-related increase in oxidised glutathione, which is responsible for the inhibition of microsomal reduction of vitamin K epoxide. In addition, cefoperazone is not metabolised and is excreted predominantly through the bile. In patients with hepatic impairment, the clearance of cefoperazone has been shown to be significantly reduced and the half-life prolonged. We report a case of choledocholithiasis related to a prolonged prothrombin time and INR secondary to cefoperazone therapy.
Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of the 1,4-dihydropyridine (DHP) calcium channel agonist, Bay K8644 (30 micrograms/kg) increased mean blood pressure and the K+-evoked release of [3H]acetylcholine ([3H]ACh) from hippocampal slices in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). The Bay K8644-induced hypertension was inhibited by a pretreatment with methylatropine (80 micrograms/kg i.c.v.). In SHR, nicardipine, a DHP calcium channel antagonist, reduced mean blood pressure when i.c.v. injected (10 micrograms/kg). The nicardipine-induced hypotension was reduced by a pretreatment with hemicholinium-3 (20 micrograms, i.c.v.). Nicardipine (1 microM) did not modify, in SHR, the K+-evoked release of [3H]ACh, but inhibited the Bay K8644-induced increase in the ACh release. In normotensive rats, neither Bay K8644 nor nicardipine modify blood pressure, when centrally injected, or the stimulated release of [3H]ACh from hippocampal slices. The participation of central DHP sites in the cholinergic transmission in genetic hypertension is discussed.
Obesity and its attendant disorders, such as type 2 diabetes, are global health problems. We previously reported that C75, an inhibitor of fatty acid synthase (FAS) and stimulator of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I (CPT I), caused anorexia and profound weight loss in lean and genetically obese mice. To approximate human obesity, we utilized a chronic C75 treatment model for diet-induced obese (DIO) mice. Chronic C75 treatment decreased food consumption and increased energy expenditure due to increased fatty acid oxidation in both DIO and lean mice. There was a substantial loss of adipose tissue and resolution of hepatic steatosis in C75-treated DIO mice. Analysis of changes in the expression of hypothalamic neuropeptides demonstrated that the reduced food consumption in C75-treated DIO mice was accompanied by an increase in cocaine and amphetamine-related transcript expression but not by changes in neuropeptide Y such as seen with acute C75 treatment of lean mice. Inhibition of FAS and stimulation of CPT I provide a means to achieve stable, sustained weight loss in DIO mice.
Diphenylhydantoin (DPH) and Carbamazepine have been widely used as anticonvulsants and known to have antiarrhythmic properties. Previous reports have shown that arrhythmias such as sinus bradycardia and atrioventricular block can be induced by these agents. In this paper, sinoatrial block (SA block) induced by these agents which were used as anticonvulsants in 3 aged patients is reported. Thre patients, 2 women and 1 man, were over 60 years old. In 2 cases, administration of DPH for recurrent epileptic seizures was followed by SA block. After withdrawal of DPH, SA block disappeared, but resumption of DPH resulted in SA block again. In 1 of these 2 patients, overdrive suppression test revealed normal sinus node recovery time. In the third patient, in addition to DPH which was administered for epileptic seizures, Carbamazepine was given for shoulder pain, then SA block occurred. Withdrawal of these agents restored normal sinus rhythm and combined administration of these 2 agents again induced SA block. Autopsy revealed decreased conduction cells in the sinus node.
Human over-use of analgesics containing phenacetin, antipyrene (phenazone) and caffeine has been associated with the development of both renal pelvic and bladder tumors. In Sprague-Dawley rats antipyrene has been shown to be a weak complete urinary tract carcinogen. The present study was designed to evaluate the promoting capacity of antipyrene in N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT)-induced urinary tract carcinogenesis. One hundred and eighty male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into groups of 30 and were treated with the following chemicals in the diet: group 1 received a control diet without chemicals; group 2 was treated with 0.2% FANFT in the diet for five weeks followed by control diet; group 3 received 0.2% FANFT for five weeks followed by 0.535% antipyrene in the diet; group 4 was treated with 0.535% antipyrene; group 5 was treated with 0.102% caffeine; and group 6 was treated with 0.535% antipyrene and 0.102% caffeine in the diet. Ten of 27 rats in group 3 (37%) developed urinary tract tumors (P greater than 0.001, five of which were renal pelvic tumors and five were bladder tumors. The majority of the tumors were well differentiated non-invasive urothelial carcinomas. None of the rats in other groups developed urinary tract tumors. In addition, renal papillary necrosis (RPN) was found in 33% of the rats in group 3, 50% in group 4, and 10% in group 6. The present study clearly shows that antipyrene acts as a promoter of FANFT-induced urinary tract carcinogenesis and that it is nephrotoxic to the renal papilla resulting in renal papillary necrosis.
The potential liver-tumor-initiating activity of acetaminophen (paracetamol, APAP) was investigated in male F344 rats. APAP was administered by intragastric intubation either as 10 doses of 1 g/kg body weight over 5 weeks or as a single dose of 0.5 g/kg body weight 24 h after two-thirds partial hepatectomy. These initiating treatments were followed by administration of 0.1% phenobarbital in the drinking water for 12 weeks as the promoting regimen. Quantitative examination of placental glutathione S-transferase-positive foci revealed no enhancing effect of APAP on the induction of the foci consisting of more than two positive cells with either initiating treatment. If solitary positive hepatocytes were included in the effective number of foci, 10 repeated doses of 1 g/kg APAP increased the number of foci while the validity of the single positive cells is uncertain. This dose of APAP caused centrilobular necrosis. By 32P-postlabeling, although the active metabolite of APAP formed DNA adducts when incubated with isolated DNA, no DNA adduct formation was detected in the liver of rats either fed 0.1-1.5% APAP for 1 week or given 1 g/kg by gastric intubation. These results indicate that APAP possesses no tumor-initiating activity in the rat liver.
Statins exert regression of left ventricular hypertrophy independent of their plasma cholesterol-lowering actions. However, the underlying mechanism is not clear.
We tested the hypothesis that the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) signaling pathway could be a target of simvastatin (SIM) and involved in SIM-induced LVH regression in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Fourteen 14-week old-SHR males were randomly divided into a SHR SIM group (n = 7) or a SHR control group (n = 7). The SHR SIM group was given SIM 40 mg/kg · d via injection ig, while the SHR control group was routinely given only vehicle (0.5% carboxymethyl cellulose ig). Seven Wistar Kyoto rats served as normal controls.
Ten weeks of treatment with SIM in SHR had no influence on blood pressure. The ratio of left ventricle weight to body weight in the SHR SIM group was decreased significantly compared to that in the SHR control group (p < 0.05). Among the three groups there was no significant difference in total ERK expression (p > 0.05). SIM treatment caused a significant reduction in the expression of phosphorylated-ERK, the kinase activity of ERK, the levels of mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphatase-1 protein and its mRNA (p <0.01 for all).
The Hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor SIM prevents the activation of ERK in SHR to mediate regression of myocardial hypertrophy in SHR.
Left ventricular remodeling might be involved in the pathophysiology of right ventricular hypertrophy/failure due to pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), while the left ventricle is considered not under pressure/volume overload.
Rats with monocrotaline-induced PAH were used in the present study to examine whether upregulated neurohumoral factors may induce left ventricular (LV) remodeling and(/or) contribute to prognosis. Morphological analysis revealed a significant increase in the weight of the free walls of both ventricles and the interventricular septum, indicating biventricular hypertrophy, although systemic blood pressure was not elevated. RNase protection assay demonstrated the activation of a fetal gene program in the cardiac muscle of the left and right ventricular free walls. Similar activation of the fetal gene program was observed in the LV of rats continuously infused with angiotensin (AT) II, although this was not the case for rats infused with isoproterenol. Measured plasma levels of ATII, noradrenaline, and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) were all significantly elevated in the PAH rats. Furthermore, the plasma BNP level positively correlated with the ratio of heart weight to body weight and the plasma level of ATII. Not right but LV hypertrophy was significantly reduced by treatment with an AT II type 1 receptor blocker, valsartan, whereas the effect of an adrenergic alpha1 and beta1,2 blocker, carvedilol, was borderline. Survival rate in the PAH rats was significantly improved when they were treated with valsartan or carvedilol.
Upregulated neurohumoral factors seem to play an important role in LV remodeling without mechanical overload, and are associated with impairment of prognosis in rats with PAH.
This report describes three cases of hyponatraemia/syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone. The cases are most likely caused by treatment/intoxication with three different selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors: Fluoxetine, paroxetine and citalopram. All three patients were elderly women (75-83 years). Serum sodium values returned to normal or near normal after discontinuation of the drug and concomitant fluid restriction. Hyponatraemia has previously been described as an adverse effect to fluoxetine and paroxetine, but not to citalopram.
In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that inhibition of renal phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) in patients with liver cirrhosis and ascites increases sodium excretion. The effect of sildenafil citrate was studied in a randomized double-blind. placebo-controlled crossover study. Diuretics were withdrawn, and a fixed sodium diet (100 mmol/day) was given to the patients for 5 days before both study days. After a 60-min basal period, eight patients received either oral sildenafil (50 mg) or placebo. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal blood flow (RBF) were determined by 99mTc-diethylenetriamine-pentaacetate and (131)I-hippuran clearances. In human nephrectomy specimens, PDE5 mRNA was expressed at similar levels in the cortex (n = 6) and inner medulla (n = 4). Histochemical staining showed PDE5 immunoreactivity in collecting ducts and vascular smooth muscle. At baseline, cirrhotic patients exhibited elevated plasma concentrations of ANP, renin, ANG II, and aldosterone that did not differ on the 2 study days. Basal sodium excretion was similar at the 2 study days (median 17 and 18 mmol, respectively), and patients were in positive sodium balance. Sildenafil increased heart rate, plasma renin activity, plasma ANG II, and aldosterone concentrations significantly after 60 min. Plasma cGMP concentration was increased after 120 and 180 min, and urinary sodium excretion and mean arterial blood pressure were decreased significantly at 120 and 180 min. Plasma ANP concentration, GFR, and RBF did not change after sildenafil. In patients with ascites and cirrhosis, inhibition of PDE5 did not promote natriuresis but led to increased plasma levels of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.
In a double-blind, crossover study in 28 patients having infections susceptible to cephalosporins (mostly Staphylococcus or Streptococcus), phlebitis developed in twice as many patients (46.4%) receiving intravenous cephalothin within 48 hours, as in patients (21.4%) receiving intravenous cefazolin over the same time period. Likewise, drug therapy had to be discontinued more frequently with cephalothin (39%) than with cefazolin (21%), and the percentage of patients reporting pain or discomfort scores of 1+ or higher was greater with cephalothin (46.4%) than with cefazolin (21.4%). In our study, the intravenous administration of cefazolin was associated with a lower incidence of phlebitis than was cephalothin.
In plastic and reconstructive surgery, postoperative drug therapy with prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) has been widely used to prevent flap necrosis and to extend flap surviving area. In the present study, we assessed the effects of intra-arterial administration of PGE1 on microcirculation. The left cremaster muscle of male Wistar rats were used to measure microcirculatory hemodynamic parameters. The values of internal vessel diameter and erythrocyte velocity were measured by using the confocal laser-scanning microscope (CLSM) system and fluorescent dyes. The blood flow rate was calculated from measured internal vessel diameter and erythrocyte velocity. Internal vessel diameter and flowing erythrocytes were satisfactorily visualized by using the CLSM system. The blood flow rate of arteriole, venule and capillary were dose dependently increased by the intra-arterial administration of PGE1 from the minimum dose of 0.01 ng/kg/min. It is suggested that the intra-arterial administration of PGE1 is a more effective way of postoperative drug therapy than intravenous injection for flap surgery.
Exposure of mouse cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) to domoic acid induced cell death, either by apoptosis or by necrosis, depending on its concentration. Necrotic damage predominated in response to domoic acid above 0.1 microM. In contrast, cell injury with apoptotic features (assessed by Hoechst staining and DNA laddering assay) was evident after exposure to lower concentrations of domoic acid (< or = 0.1 microM). The AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid)/kainate receptor antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-sulfamoylbenzo [f] quinoxaline, but not the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801, prevented domoic acid-induced apoptosis. To evaluate the role of oxidative stress in domoic acid-induced apoptosis, experiments were carried out in CGNs isolated from wild-type mice (Gclm (+/+)) and mice lacking the modifier subunit of glutamate-cysteine ligase, the first and rate-limiting step of glutathione (GSH) biosynthesis (Gclm (-/-)). CGNs from Gclm (-/-) mice have very low levels of GSH and were more sensitive to domoic acid-induced apoptosis and necrosis than Gclm (+/+) CGNs. The antioxidant melatonin (200 microM) and the membrane-permeant GSH delivery agent GSH ethyl ester (2.5 mM) prevented domoic acid-induced apoptosis. Domoic acid increased formation of reactive oxygen species but did not affect intracellular GSH levels. Domoic acid also increased cytosolic and mitochondrial calcium levels, increased oxidative stress in mitochondria, and altered mitochondrial membrane potential, which ultimately caused cytochrome c release, activation of caspase-3, and degradation of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase. These results indicate that low concentrations of domoic acid cause apoptotic neuronal cell death mediated by oxidative stress.
There are currently groups of women using high-dose estrogen contraceptive pills, especially in the developing countries. The aim of this study was to determine the correlation between the duration of contraceptive pill intake, the dose of steroid contained in the contraceptive pills and the incidence and degree of serum prolactin level elevation in those women.
This study was conducted in 100 contraceptive pill users. Women were randomly selected for this study with an age range from 19 to 35 years and duration of contraceptive pill intake from 6 to 120 months. Cases were classified into two groups. The first group (50 cases) were taking high-dose estrogen pills (50 micrograms) and the second group (50 cases) were taking low-dose estrogen pills (30 micrograms).
The results of the present study showed that there was a significant elevation in serum prolactin level in both groups, with a more significant elevation in the high-dose pill users.
There is a positive relationship between serum prolactin level and the duration of pill intake and their steroid content, and this relationship is not related to the age and parity of the women. The groups of women studied are scheduled for follow-up to determine if there is any future drawback which results as a consequence of the developed hyperprolactinemia. Prolactin determination should be considered for all women prior to pill intake. This determination of serum prolactin level prior to pill use will be useful in the evaluation of the future relationship between the estrogen content of the pills and the later development of hyperprolactinemia.
This study investigated the ability of bilateral excitotoxic lesions of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) to disrupt cocaine self-administration, responding during extinction sessions, and stimulus cued recovery of extinguished responding in rats. BLA and sham lesions following 7 days of 3 h limited access cocaine self-administration sessions (0.33 mg/infusion) on a fixed ratio 1 (FR1) schedule of reinforcement failed to alter cocaine intake and responding on 7 subsequent days of self-administration. This lack of effect suggests that the BLA is not paramount for the maintenance of cocaine's reinforcing effects. In contrast, BLA lesions, but not sham lesions, following 7 to 14 days of cocaine self-administration attenuated responding on a lever associated with cocaine infusions on the first day of extinction sessions and blocked the ability of drug associated stimuli to reinstate extinguished responding following 20 daily extinction sessions. However, lesions of the BLA did not attenuate stimulus cued recovery of responding following 43 days of withdrawal. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the BLA is important for the conditioned incentive properties of reinforcers, but not primary reinforcement itself.
Fifty-two randomized trials (5,318 patients) were included in this meta-analysis. In controls, the incidence of fasciculation was 95%, and the incidence of myalgia at 24 h was 50%. Nondepolarizing muscle relaxants, lidocaine, or magnesium prevented fasciculation (number needed to treat, 1.2-2.5). Best prevention of myalgia was with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (number needed to treat, 2.5) and with rocuronium or lidocaine (number needed to treat, 3). There was a dose-dependent risk of blurred vision, diplopia, voice disorders, and difficulty in breathing and swallowing (number needed to harm, < 3.5) with muscle relaxants. There was evidence of less myalgia with 1.5 mg/kg succinylcholine (compared with 1 mg/kg). Opioids had no impact. Succinylcholine-induced fasciculation may best be prevented with muscle relaxants, lidocaine, or magnesium. Myalgia may best be prevented with muscle relaxants, lidocaine, or nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. The risk of potentially serious adverse events with muscle relaxants is not negligible. Data that allow for a risk-benefit assessment are lacking for other drugs.
Doxorubicin is an anthracycline antibiotic agent used in the treatment of a variety of solid and haematopoietic tumours, but its use is limited by formation of metabolites that induce acute and chronic cardiac toxicities. Angelica sinensis has been widely used to treat cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases in China. In the present study, we used an in vivo mouse model to explore whether A. sinensis could protect against doxorubicin-induced chronic cardiotoxicity. Male ICR mice were treated with distilled water or water extraction of A. sinensis (15 g/kg, orally) daily for 4 weeks, followed by saline or doxorubicin (15 mg/kg, intravenously) treatments weekly. Cardiotoxicity was assessed by electrocardiograph, antioxidant activity in cardiac tissues, serum levels of creatine kinase, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and histopathological change in cardiac tissues. A cumulative dose of doxorubicin (60 mg/kg) caused animal death and myocardial injury characterized by increased QT interval and decreased heart rate in electrocardiograph, decrease of heart antioxidant activity, increase of serum AST, as well as myocardial lesions. Pre-treatment with A. sinensis significantly reduced mortality and improved heart performance of the doxorubicin-treated mice as evidenced from normalization of antioxidative activity and serum AST, preventing loss of myofibrils as well as improving arrhythmias and conduction abnormalities. Furthermore, the in vitro cytotoxic study showed that A. sinensis did not compromise the antitumour activity of doxorubicin. These results suggested that A. sinensis elicited a typical cardioprotective effect on doxorubicin-related oxidative stress, and could be a novel adjunct in the combination with doxorubicin chemotherapy.
The increasing shortage of cadaver donor kidneys has prompted the use of expanded or marginal donor kidneys, ie, from older donors or those with a history of hypertension or diabetes. These marginal kidneys may be especially susceptible to calcineurin inhibitor (CNI)-mediated vasoconstriction and nephrotoxicity. Recipients of renal transplants from marginal donors therefore require non-nephrotoxic immunosuppression. Some investigators have proposed using sirolimus, a novel and potent immunosuppressant, instead of CNIs. Moreover, another complication of solid-organ transplantation is thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), which affects 3% to 14% of patients on immunosuppression therapy treated with CNIs. Therefore, it was suggested that CNIs may be substituted by sirolimus in patients with posttransplantation CNI-induced TMA. We report 3 patients who received marginal cadaveric kidneys and were administered maintenance immunosuppression with sirolimus, prednisone, and mycophenolate mofetil. They each developed de novo TMA despite never having been previously administered a CNI. In these cases, TMA occurred in marginal kidneys with possible endothelial injury before transplantation. Sirolimus may have prevented recovery from these injuries and thus may have promoted TMA in these marginal kidneys. The risk for such a vascular complication should be kept in mind in patients who receive marginal kidneys and are administered sirolimus, even when sirolimus is used without CNIs.
Fetal echocardiograms were evaluated in 315 studies performed in 107 fetuses exposed to indomethacin. In the majority of cases, the results of the fetal echocardiography study were within normal limits (74%). The most common abnormal phenomena were tricuspid valve regurgitation (10%), ductal constriction (6%), tricuspid valve regurgitation and ductal constriction (5%), an increased ductal velocity (2%), and other (3%). The difference between the prevalence of ductal constriction in the whole series of studies (11%) compared to the prevalence of ductal constriction per fetus (25%) (p < 0.001) suggests that this phenomenon was only temporary and disappeared when medication was discontinued. The mean gestational age for detection of tricuspid valve regurgitation was 27.7 +/- 2.8 weeks and for ductal constriction, 30.9 +/- 2.1 weeks (t-test, p < 0.01). Trivial tricuspid valve regurgitation was detected at a mean of 26.7 +/- 2.2 weeks and significant tricuspid valve regurgitation at 29.6 +/- 2.3 weeks (t-test, p < 0.01). We conclude that indomethacin treatment is relatively safe for the fetal heart. The most common side-effects are tricuspid valve regurgitation and ductal constriction. Tricuspid valve regurgitation may be detected before ductal constriction, but by itself it is not a contraindication for the continued use of indomethacin.
The possible role of the autonomic nervous system in the development of myocardial sensitization to isoprenaline produced by DOCA-salt pretreatment was evaluated in bilaterally unanaesthetized rats subject to chronic ganglionic blockade with chlorisondamine or hexamethonium and to treatment with 6-hydroxydopamine. Isoprenaline produced ventricular fibrillation and death in rats pretreated for 6 days with DOCA (20 mg pellet, s.c.) and 0.9% saline. The incidence of mortality was dose dependent and was 76.6% with 150 microgram/kg of isoprenaline. Adrenalectomy did not alter the mortality rate. The combination of adrenalectomy with concurrent chronic ganglionic blockade significantly decreased the incidence of mortality and delayed the time of death. In contrast, 6-hydroxydopamine treatment and adrenalectomy did not alter the incidence of mortality nor time of death. No differences in myocardial noradrenaline turnover were detected in rats susceptible and nonsusceptible to death in ventricular fibrillation. We conclude that myocardial sensitization to isoprenaline induced by DOCA-salt requires a neurogenic component, which is not, however, manifested by changes in myocardial noradrenaline turnover.
The purpose of the study was to ascertain whether the new hypnotic, zopiclone, was likely to produce rebound problems after short-term use, in comparison with placebo and a standard hypnotic, temazepam, and whether tapering the dosage lessened any such effects. Ten normal v olunteer subjects were administered 5 treatment sequences, each lasting 4 weeks, using a balanced design, with at least 2 weeks between sequences. The treatment sequences were: (table: see text) Each drug was given at night before retiring to bed. Daily ratings comprised a Sleep Questionnaire, Mood Rating Scales, the Spielberger State Anxiety Inventory and Bodily Symptom Scales. Both drugs improved quality of sleep but their discontinuation was followed by some worsening which was postponed but not avoided by halving the dosage for a week. Speed of, and feeling on, awakening showed discontinuation effects with temazepam but not with zopiclone. Zopiclone was associated with feelings of being troubled, tense, antagonistic and bored whereas temazepam produced drowsiness, clumsiness, dreaminess and sadness. Some increase in these ratings was noted after stopping temazepam and these were less after having the dosage. Zopiclone was associated with minimal such effects. For bodily symptoms, zopiclone produced some headache, a metallic taste, and some blurring of vision; temazepam induced nausea, memory impairment and pins and needles. Withdrawal effects on bodily symptom ratings were inconsistent and not affected by tapering off the dose. In conclusion, the administration of zopiclone tends to be associated with some dysphoric effects, temazepam with sedation. Rebound effects are minimal with zopiclone and reducing the dosage gradually does not seem necessary.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The kinetics of the antibacterial activity of zosterin, a polysaccharide preparation of a sea grass belonging to Zoster, was studied. By its chemical structure zosterin is a low ++methoxylated pectin. In vitro the preparation markedly inhibited the growth of ++Gram-negative and ++Gram-positive organisms: S. aureus, E. coli, Y. pseudotuberculosis, S. typhimurium and Ps. aeruginosa. On a model of experimental pseudotuberculosis++ infection caused by oral contamination of mice F1 (CBA X C57B1) with a suspension of Y. pseudotuberculosis zosterin was shown to have a therapeutic effect. It protected 30 to 40 per cent of the animals when administered per os simultaneously with or 24 hours after the contamination. The results are in favour of the zosterin further investigation as a preparation useful in prevention of intestinal infections in persons being in contact with the patients.
HIV patients taking antiretroviral protease inhibitors have a lower incidence of infection-associated malignancies, leading to the hypothesis that these drugs have antineoplastic activity. Given the need for novel treatment approaches in ovarian cancer, we sought to determine whether the protease inhibitor saquinavir has antineoplastic activity in ovarian cancer cell lines, and to elucidate the mechanism through which this occurs.
A panel of ovarian cancer cell lines was treated with saquinavir. The effect of saquinavir on cell growth, viability, apoptotic and non-apoptotic cell death was determined. Stimulation of endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) response was assessed by immunoblotting for ERS regulators GRP78 and ATF6. Induction of autophagy was assessed using transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and confocal microscopy was performed to demonstrate changes in green fluorescent protein-labeled LC3 expression patterns.
Saquinavir induced cell death in chemosensitive and chemoresistant ovarian cancer cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Saquinavir treatment resulted in caspase-dependent apoptosis and caspase-independent cell death characterized by induction of ERS and autophagy. Cellular morphology assessed by TEM revealed apoptotic, autophagic, and necrotic cell death.
Saquinavir is an FDA-approved agent for the treatment of HIV, and our data suggest that it may also have clinical application in the treatment of ovarian cancer. Saquinavir induces endoplasmic reticulum stress, autophagy, and apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells. Given the challenges of chemoresistance in ovarian cancer, saquinavir may have particular benefit in the treatment of chemoresistant tumors that may respond to the induction of caspase-independent cell death by mechanisms such as autophagy.
S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM-e), functions as a primary methyl group donor for several metabolic compounds. Since SAM-e is involved in several metabolic processes, its administration may have a role in the amelioration of several disorders. In addition, SAM-e increases catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) enzyme activity, which may ameliorate aggressive symptoms in certain patients. We have therefore investigated the efficacy of SAM-e in managing schizophrenia symptomatology in patients with the low activity COMT polymorphism. Eighteen patients with chronic schizophrenia were randomly assigned to receive either SAM-e (800 mg) or placebo for 8 weeks in double-blind fashion. Results indicated some reduction in aggressive behavior and improved quality of life following SAM-e administration. Female patients showed improvement of depressive symptoms. Clinical improvement did not correlate with serum SAM-e levels. Two patients receiving SAM-e exhibited some exacerbation of irritability. This preliminary pilot short-term study cautiously supports SAM-e as an adjunct in management of aggressive behavior and quality of life impairment in schizophrenia.
Imprinted genes in mammals are expressed from only one of the parental chromosomes, and are crucial for placental development and fetal growth. The insulin-like growth factor II gene (Igf2) is paternally expressed in the fetus and placenta. Here we show that deletion from the Igf2 gene of a transcript (P0) specifically expressed in the labyrinthine trophoblast of the placenta leads to reduced growth of the placenta, followed several days later by fetal growth restriction. The fetal to placental weight ratio is thus increased in the absence of the P0 transcript. We show that passive permeability for nutrients of the mutant placenta is decreased, but that secondary active placental amino acid transport is initially upregulated, compensating for the decrease in passive permeability. Later the compensation fails and fetal growth restriction ensues. Our study provides experimental evidence for imprinted gene action in the placenta that directly controls the supply of maternal nutrients to the fetus, and supports the genetic conflict theory of imprinting. We propose that the Igf2 gene, and perhaps other imprinted genes, control both the placental supply of, and the genetic demand for, maternal nutrients to the mammalian fetus.
