This paper combines new and old data in order to offer a modified perspective of the mechanism of organophosphate-induced delayed polyneuropathy. Neuropathy target esterase (NTE) is though to be the molecular target and neuropathy to be initiated with a two-step mechanism: progressive inhibition of NTE and aging of the phosphorylated enzyme. When neuropathic organophosphates modify more than 70% of NTE in this way, neuropathy develops 2 weeks later. Other chemicals producing an inhibited NTE, which is incapable of aging, were thought to be not neuropathic. When given before a challenging dose of a neuropathic organophosphate they protect animals from neuropathy. However, recent evidence indicates that aging may not always be essential in causing neuropathy. In fact, mipafox and methamidophos as well as certain classic protective inhibitors such as carbamate and sulfonyl fluoride form an inhibited NTE which apparently does not age and yet produces neuropathy. We propose that all NTE inhibitors may have the potential to cause neuropathy. In analogy with pharmacological models of drug-receptor interactions, NTE inhibitors might have variable intrinsic activities to initiate neuropathy once attached to the protein. Strong neuropathic chemicals require about 70% inhibition of NTE, others 80-90%, and the least potent almost 100%. These differences have been amplified by means of promotion. Different levels of NTE inhibition as caused by different compounds were promoted by the same dose of phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride to similar degrees of ataxia. Conversely nearly complete NTE inhibitions obtained in chicks with different chemicals were promoted to varying severities of ataxia. Protection from delayed polyneuropathy by the least neuropathic inhibitors can be explained by their weak intrinsic activity: occupying NTE, they prevent the binding of more neuropathic compounds. Methamidophos represents a particular example because it is protective at lower doses and neuropathic at high doses. Moreover, the levels of NTE inhibited by methamidophos which can be promoted to neuropathy are lower than those required for classic protective chemicals and higher than those of classic neuropathic OPs. This suggests that methamidophos has an intermediate position between the most and the least neuropathic NTE inhibitors.
Catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia occurs in healthy children and young adults causing syncope and sudden cardiac death. This is a familial disease, which affect de novo mutation in 50% of the cases. At least two causative genes have been described to be localized in the chromosome 1; mutation of the ryanodine receptor gene and calsequestrin gene. The classical clinical presentation is syncope triggered by exercise and emotion in children and adolescents with no structural heart disease. Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia during treadmill testing, or after isoproterenol infusion, is the most common feature. Therapeutic options include, beta-blockers, calcium-channel blockers and, an implantable cardioverter defibrillator is indicated in high-risk patients. Risk stratification of this disease is very challenging, since some risk factors proved to be useful in some series but not in others. However, family history of sudden cardiac death and symptoms initiated in very young children are important predictors.
Our previous studies show that 2-methoxyestradiol, a non-estrogenic metabolite of estradiol (E2), attenuates the development and retards the progression of pulmonary hypertension (PH) in male rats, and in female rats prevents the exacerbation of PH and eliminates mortality due to ovariectomy. Recent studies suggest that 2-ethoxyestradiol (2-EE), a synthetic analog of 2-ME, is an even more potent antimitogen than 2-ME. The goals of this study were: 1) to compare the effects of E2, 2-ME and 2-EE on proliferation of human pulmonary artery endothelial (hPAEC) and smooth muscle cells (hPASMC) and lung fibroblasts (hLF); 2) to examine the effects of 2-ME, its metabolic precursor 2-hydroxyestradiol (2-HE) and 2-EE on isoproterenol (ISO)-induced cardiac hypertrophy in male rats; and 3) to investigate in male rats the effects of 2-EE (10 mug/kg/h via osmotic pump) on the development of monocrotaline (MCT; 60 mg/kg i.p.)-induced PH. E2 had biphasic effects on growth (stimulation at low and inhibition at high concentrations) in hPAEC and mild growth inhibitory effects in hPASMC and hLF (1-10 muM). In contrast, in all three pulmonary cell lines, 2-ME and 2-EE inhibited cell growth with 2-EE being ten times more potent than 2-ME. In ISO-induced cardiac hypertrophy, 2-ME, 2-HE and 2-EE similarly reduced (~-50%) left (LV) and right (RV) ventricular hypertrophy and fibrosis (hydroxyproline content). In animals with MCT-induced PH, treatment with 2-EE for 28 days significantly decreased the elevated RV peak systolic pressure and reduced RV/LV+septum weight ratio, strongly inhibited vascular remodeling (media hypertrophy and adventitia widening), markedly reduced inflammatory responses, and eliminated MCT-induced (63%) mortality. This study provides the first evidence that 2-ethoxyestradiol strongly inhibits vascular remodeling in PH and suggests that anti-proliferative agents, including synthetic analogs of estradiol metabolites may be protective in PH.
Pulmonary fibrosis is characterized by inflammation, genesis of myofibroblasts, and abnormal tissue repair. Despite extensive research, its pathogenesis remains incompletely understood. Previously, the transcription factor CCAAT/enhancer binding protein beta (C/EBPbeta) was found to be a key regulator of myofibroblast differentiation in vitro, and to be involved in the acute phase and inflammatory responses. In an attempt to test the role of C/EBPbeta in the development of pulmonary fibrosis, experiments using C/EBPbeta null mice and their wild-type littermates were conducted. Our findings indicated that, compared to wild-type mice, animals deficient in C/EBPbeta showed significantly reduced fibrotic lesions and collagen deposition in the lung upon endotracheal injection of bleomycin. Further studies on the mechanisms by which C/EBPbeta regulates fibrosis indicated that knockout of C/EBPbeta attenuates inflammatory cytokine expression in bleomycin-treated mice. The reduced alpha-smooth muscle actin gene expression in either isolated lung fibroblasts or lung tissue from bleomycin or saline-treated C/EBPbeta deficient mice suggests that C/EBPbeta regulates myofibroblast differentiation during fibrosis. Consistent with this finding, cells from C/EBPbeta deficient mice exhibited higher proliferative rates than those from wild-type mice. These data suggest that C/EBPbeta plays an essential role in pulmonary fibrosis and that this role appears to be multifactorial with respect to cytokine expression, cell differentiation, and proliferation.
Acute mania can be modeled in animals using D-amphetamine (AMPH). Acute AMPH injections are associated with monoamine depletion, loss of neurofilaments and neurite degeneration. However, the precise mechanisms underlying AMPH-induced neurotoxicity are still unclear. Several studies have demonstrated that oxidative stress may play a role in the behavioral and neurochemical changes observed after AMPH administration.
The effects of a single and repeated injections (seven daily injections) of AMPH administered intraperitonially on locomotion and the production of lipid and protein oxidative markers in rat cortex, striatum and hippocampus were assessed. Locomotion was assessed in an open-field task and markers of oxidative stress were assessed in brain tissue.
Both single and repeated injections of AMPH increased protein carbonyl formation in rat brain. Repeated exposure to AMPH induced an additional increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive species in brain tissue.
Longer periods of exposure to AMPH were associated with increased oxidative stress in rat brain. This adds to the notion that repeated manic episodes may be associated with greater brain damage and, therefore, poorer outcomes.
Resveratrol, a natural polyphenolic compound that is found in grapes and red wine, increases metabolic rate, insulin sensitivity, mitochondrial biogenesis, and physical endurance and reduces fat accumulation in mice. Although it is thought that resveratrol targets Sirt1, this is controversial because resveratrol also activates 5' AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), which also regulates insulin sensitivity and mitochondrial biogenesis. Here, we use mice deficient in AMPKalpha1 or -alpha2 to determine whether the metabolic effects of resveratrol are mediated by AMPK.
Mice deficient in the catalytic subunit of AMPK (alpha1 or alpha2) and wild-type mice were fed a high-fat diet or high-fat diet supplemented with resveratrol for 13 weeks. Body weight was recorded biweekly and metabolic parameters were measured. We also used mouse embryonic fibroblasts deficient in AMPK to study the role of AMPK in resveratrol-mediated effects in vitro.
Resveratrol increased the metabolic rate and reduced fat mass in wild-type mice but not in AMPKalpha1(-/-) mice. In the absence of either AMPKalpha1 or -alpha2, resveratrol failed to increase insulin sensitivity, glucose tolerance, mitochondrial biogenesis, and physical endurance. Consistent with this, the expression of genes important for mitochondrial biogenesis was not induced by resveratrol in AMPK-deficient mice. In addition, resveratrol increased the NAD-to-NADH ratio in an AMPK-dependent manner, which may explain how resveratrol may activate Sirt1 indirectly.
We conclude that AMPK, which was thought to be an off-target hit of resveratrol, is the central target for the metabolic effects of resveratrol.
Sertraline is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor that is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of major depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder (in adults and children), and panic disorder. Although numerous studies have found sertraline to be very effective in the treatment of anxiety, there have been few case reports of panic attacks actually being induced by treatment with sertraline. In this article, we present the cases of two patients without any personal or family history of anxiety disorders who developed panic attacks shortly after the initiation of sertraline therapy. We will also review the literature in regard to the development of anxiety symptoms during treatment with the newer antidepressants and discuss the neurochemical basis of these antidepressant-induced panic attacks.
To investigate whether the micronutrients that were shown to reduce the risk of development of age-related macular degeneration in the Age-Related Eye Disease Study (AREDS) can have the same effect on the development of diabetic retinopathy in rats, and to understand the possible mechanisms.
Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats received a powdered diet with or without supplemental micronutrients (ascorbic acid, vitamin E, beta-carotene, zinc, and copper). The retina was used after the rats had diabetes for 12 months to detect vascular histopathology and to measure the biochemical parameters and messenger RNA levels of the genes involved in oxidative and nitrative stress.
The AREDS-based micronutrients prevented a diabetes-induced increase in the number of retinal acellular capillaries. In the same rats, micronutrients inhibited increases in retinal oxidatively modified DNA and nitrotyrosine and decreases in manganese superoxide dismutase. Diabetes-induced alterations in the messenger RNA expression of mitochondrial electron transport complex III (coenzyme Q cytochrome-c reductase) and inducible nitric oxide synthase were also prevented.
Age-Related Eye Disease Study-based micronutrients inhibit the development of diabetic retinopathy in rodents by inhibiting oxidative and nitrative stress.
Micronutrients that slow down the onset and progression of age-related macular degeneration have the potential to inhibit the development of diabetic retinopathy.
Akathisia has previously been reported to exacerbate psychopathology and to be associated with noncompliance, suicidality, and violence. One previous study found brisk decrements in psychopathology after acute treatment of akathisia with intramuscular biperiden. This study assessed changes in akathisia and psychopathology in 19 patients after separate one-day treatments with intramuscular benztropine and oral propranolol. Benztropine and propranolol led to clinically meaningful and statistically significant decrements in ratings of subjective and objective measures of akathisia and in psychopathology scores. Changes in psychopathology correlated significantly with changes in subjective measures of akathisia after benztropine and with subjective and objective measures of akathisia after propranolol. Changes in akathisia accounted for 9%-42% of the variance in changes in psychopathology. After treatment, statistically significant decrements in Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) positive symptoms were noted, and individual items not directly related to the akathisia syndrome, such as conceptual disorganization, hallucinatory behavior, and unusual thought content declined, although not significantly. These findings, taken together with the results of a similar previous study, indicate that the effect of akathisia in exacerbating psychopathology is large. If suspected, akathisia should be treated promptly.
A baby with infantile spasms (West's syndrome) who developed acute-onset transient hydrocephalus 10 days after suspending ACTH treatment is described. Hydrocephalus is an unusual complication of ACTH therapy, the more common complication being benign intracranial hypertension. The probable common pathogenic mechanism of altered CSF reabsorption which may lead to the two different clinical states, depending on age of patient, is discussed.
To further explore the efficacy and safety of subcutaneous apomorphine (APO) in treating off episodes in APO-naïve patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD).
56 patients receiving optimized oral anti-PD medication were evaluated on separate days for response to single increasing doses of APO. Acute response to oral anti-PD medication and APO dose escalation (2-10 mg) was evaluated under unblinded conditions. At the 4 mg APO dose, placebo was randomly introduced under double-blind crossover conditions.
Mean changes from pre-dose in Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor scores indicated significant improvement following APO 4 mg versus placebo at 20 min (p=0.0002), 40 min (p<0.0001; maximum improvement) and 90 min (p=0.0229). Improvements showed significant dose-response at 20 min, 40 min (both p<0.0001) and 90 min (p=0.0049). Adverse events were more common with APO than placebo, and also showed significant dose-response (p<0.0001). Common adverse events associated with APO included yawning, dizziness, nausea, somnolence and dyskinesias, and were generally mild to moderate. There were no significant differences between APO and placebo in the incidence of hypotension associated with a postural change from a sitting to standing position.
Subcutaneous APO provided rapid, effective relief of off episodes associated with advanced PD.
Interleukin-18 (IL-18) is a novel pro-inflammatory cytokine which has been implicated to play a pathogenic role in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) plays an important role in angiogenesis in rheumatoid synoviocytes. In present study, we examined the effect of IL-18 on VEGF production in fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) isolated from the patients with RA. FLS were prepared from the synovial tissues of patients with RA and osteoarthritis (OA) and cultured in the presence of IL-18. The production of VEGF from FLS was measured in culture supernatants by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The VEGF messenger RNA (mRNA) expression and AP-1 binding activity of VEGF transcript were determined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). IL-18 and VEGF levels of sera and synovial fluids (SF) of RA patients (n=30) were significantly higher than those of OA patients (n=20). IL-18 dose-dependently increased the production of VEGF. The effect of IL-18 on VEGF production appeared to be as potent as IL-1beta, whereas tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interferon (IFN)-gamma showed little effects on VEGF production. AP-1-specific inhibitor Curcumin dose-dependently abrogated the effect of IL-18 on VEGF production. The VEGF enhancement of IL-18 was associated with increased AP-1 binding activity to the VEGF promoter site. These findings suggest IL-18 as an angiogenic factor in RA and down-regulation of IL-18 activity or AP-1 signal pathway can be potential therapeutic targets for RA.
Chronic treatment with neuroleptics leads to the development of abnormal orofacial movements described as vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) in rats. Vacuous chewing movements in rodents are widely accepted as one of the animal models of tardive dyskinesia. Oxidative stress and the products of lipid peroxidation are implicated in the pathophysiology of various neurological disorders including tardive dyskinesia. In the present study chronic haloperidol (1.0 mg kg(-1) for 21 days) treatment induced vacuous chewing movements and tongue protrusions in rats. Co-administration of quercetin, a bioflavonoid, dose dependently (25-100 mg kg(-1)) reduced haloperidol-induced vacuous chewing movements and tongue protrusions. Biochemical analysis revealed that chronic haloperidol treatment induces lipid peroxidation and decreases the glutathione (GSH) levels in the forebrains of rats. The antioxidant defense enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase were also decreased due to chronic haloperidol treatment. Co-administration of quercetin (25-100 mg kg(-1)) significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation and restored the decreased glutathione levels in these animals. Further quercetin (50-100 mg kg(-1)) also reversed the haloperidol-induced decrease in forebrain SOD and catalase levels in rats. The major findings of the present study suggested that oxidative stress plays a significant role in neuroleptic-induced orofacial dyskinesia and quercetin co-administration reverses these behavioral and biochemical changes. Quercetin, a naturally occurring bioflavonoid could prove to be a useful agent in neuroleptic-induced orofacial dyskinesia.
Neuroinflammation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an inducible enzyme converting arachidonic acid (AA) to prostaglandins, is the key player in neuroinflammation. It has been long thought that the COX-2-mediated neuronal injury/degeneration is attributed to the increased production of AA-derived prostaglandins. Recent studies show that endogenous cannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) is a natural substrate for COX-2, and it can be oxygenated by COX-2 to form prostaglandin glyceryl esters. In this study, we demonstrate that prostaglandin E(2) glyceryl ester (PGE(2)-G), a major COX-2 oxidative metabolite of 2-arachidonoylglycerol, enhanced hippocampal glutamatergic synaptic transmission indicated by the increased frequency of miniature excitatory post-synaptic currents, and induced neuronal injury/death revealed by the terminal transferase dUTP nick end labeling staining and caspase 3 activation. The actions of PGE(2)-G are not mediated via a cannabinoid receptor 1, but mediated through ERK, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, IP(3), and NF-kappaB signal transduction pathways. In addition, the PGE(2)-G-induced neurotoxicity is attenuated by blockade of the NMDA receptors. Our results suggest that the COX-2 oxidative metabolism of endocannabinoids is an important mechanism contributing to the inflammation-induced neurodegeneration.
We investigated the possible use of clinical signs of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neurotoxicity (CIPN) or of nerve growth factor (NGF) circulating levels to predict the final outcome of CIPN.
Sixty-two women affected by locally advanced squamous cervical carcinoma treated with TP (paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 over a 3 h infusion plus cisplatin 75 mg/m2) or TIP (TP plus ifosphamide 5 mg/m2) were examined and scored according to the Total Neuropathy Score (TNS), before and during chemotherapy.
A correlation with the final severity of CIPN was observed with vibration perception and deep tendon reflex evaluation, while pin sensibility, strength, and autonomic symptoms and signs were not informative. A highly significant correlation existed between the decrease in circulating levels of NGF and the severity of CIPN (r = -0.579; P < 0.001; 95% confidence limits -0.702 to -0.423). However, circulating levels of NGF were not effective as predictors of the final neurological outcome of each patient.
Our study indicates that a precise clinical evaluation of the peripheral nervous system of patients treated with platinum and taxane combination polychemotherapy not only gives reliable information regarding the course of CIPN, but also can be used to predict the final neurological outcome of the treatment.
TwO cases of megaloblastic anaemia, of which one was very severe, occurring in women who had been taking oestrogen-progestogen oral contraception over a long period of time, are reported. The authors take the opportunity, after having reviewed the literature, of pointing out the role of oestro-progestogen products in bringing about vitamin deficiencies. They discuss how and where oestrogen-progestogen products work on folic metabolism and emphasize that there is an associated factor which starts off the deficiencies.
The interaction between beta-adrenoreceptor blockers and calcium antagonists may occasionally be dangerous. The effects of the new calcium antagonist PN 200-110 (isradipine) were compared with those of verapamil in 3 groups of conscious rabbits pretreated with either pindolol 0.3 mg/kg, propranolol 1 mg/kg intravenously or placebo. Each animal received PN 200-110 (0.01, 0.03 and 0.1 mg/kg) and 2 or more days later verapamil (0.1, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg). The calcium antagonists were given to lower mean blood pressure to the same extent as in the placebo group. This blood pressure effect remained unchanged after pretreatment with pindolol or propranolol. Both PIN 200-110 and verapamil increased heart rate to the same extent as in the placebo group. Both beta blockers blunted the effect of PN 200-110 on heart rate but converted the verapamil-induced tachycardia to bradycardia. Propranolol blunted the PN 200-110-induced increase in cardiac output and total peripheral conductance, whereas the high verapamil dose decreased cardiac output and caused peripheral vasoconstriction in propranolol-pretreated animals. Thus, both agents lowered blood pressure by peripheral vasodilatation in the placebo group, after beta blockade; however, the mechanism of the verapamil-induced blood pressure decrease changed from pure vasodilation to a decrease in cardiac output, i.e., cardiac depression. Verapamil but not PN 200-110 prolonged the PQ interval, especially in animals who had received beta blockade. Most differences in the interaction were attributable to differences between the 2 calcium antagonists; the differences between the beta blockers were small and in favor of pindolol.
Human thymidylate synthase is a homodimeric enzyme that plays a key role in DNA synthesis and is a target for several clinically important anticancer drugs that bind to its active site. We have designed peptides to specifically target its dimer interface. Here we show through X-ray diffraction, spectroscopic, kinetic, and calorimetric evidence that the peptides do indeed bind at the interface of the dimeric protein and stabilize its di-inactive form. The "LR" peptide binds at a previously unknown binding site and shows a previously undescribed mechanism for the allosteric inhibition of a homodimeric enzyme. It inhibits the intracellular enzyme in ovarian cancer cells and reduces cellular growth at low micromolar concentrations in both cisplatin-sensitive and -resistant cells without causing protein overexpression. This peptide demonstrates the potential of allosteric inhibition of hTS for overcoming platinum drug resistance in ovarian cancer.
High incidences of malignant mesothelioma (MM) have been observed in New Caledonia. Previous work has shown an association between MM and soil containing serpentinite.
We studied the spatial and temporal variation of MM and its association with environmental factors.
We investigated the 109 MM cases recorded in the Cancer Registry of New Caledonia between 1984 and 2008 and performed spatial, temporal, and space-time cluster analyses. We conducted an ecological analysis involving 100 tribes over a large area including those with the highest incidence rates. Associations with environmental factors were assessed using logistic and Poisson regression analyses.
The highest incidence was observed in the Houaïlou area with a world age-standardized rate of 128.7 per 100,000 person-years [95% confidence interval (CI), 70.41-137.84]. A significant spatial cluster grouped 18 tribes (31 observed cases vs. 8 expected cases; p = 0.001), but no significant temporal clusters were identified. The ecological analyses identified serpentinite on roads as the greatest environmental risk factor (odds ratio = 495.0; 95% CI, 46.2-4679.7; multivariate incidence rate ratio = 13.0; 95% CI, 10.2-16.6). The risk increased with serpentinite surface, proximity to serpentinite quarries and distance to the peridotite massif. The association with serpentines was stronger than with amphiboles. Living on a slope and close to dense vegetation appeared protective. The use of whitewash, previously suggested to be a risk factor, was not associated with MM incidence.
Presence of serpentinite on roads is a major environmental risk factor for mesothelioma in New Caledonia.
Recent toxicological and epidemiological studies have shown associations between particulate matter (PM) and adverse health effects, but which PM components are most influential is less well known.
In this study, we used time-series analyses to determine the associations between daily fine PM [PM ≤ 2.5 µm in aerodynamic diameter (PM2.5)] concentrations and daily mortality in two U.S. cities-Seattle, Washington, and Detroit, Michigan.
We obtained daily PM2.5 filters for the years of 2002-2004 and analyzed trace elements using X-ray fluorescence and black carbon using light reflectance as a surrogate measure of elemental carbon. We used Poisson regression and distributed lag models to estimate excess deaths for all causes and for cardiovascular and respiratory diseases adjusting for time-varying covariates. We computed the excess risks for interquartile range increases of each pollutant at lags of 0 through 3 days for both warm and cold seasons.
The cardiovascular and respiratory mortality series exhibited different source and seasonal patterns in each city. The PM2.5 components and gaseous pollutants associated with mortality in Detroit were most associated with warm season secondary aerosols and traffic markers. In Seattle, the component species most closely associated with mortality included those for cold season traffic and other combustion sources, such as residual oil and wood burning.
The effects of PM2.5 on daily mortality vary with source, season, and locale, consistent with the hypothesis that PM composition has an appreciable influence on the health effects attributable to PM.
The main objective of this study was to determine the modifications induced by the pesticide lindane (gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane) in the regional concentration of neurotransmitters in brain, taking the tonic-clonic seizure as the main sign of its neurotoxic action. The animals were given lindane (150 mg/kg p.o. in olive oil) and killed at the onset of the first seizure (mean latency time: 18.3 +/- 5.5 min, n = 16). The inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and the biogenic amines noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5-HT), as well as its corresponding acidic metabolite, were determined by high performance liquid chromatography with fluorimetric or electrochemical detection in different areas of the brain: hippocampus, mesencephalon, colliculi, frontal cortex, parietal cortex, striatum and thalamus. The concentration of GABA in whole tissue was only significantly decreased in the colliculi. The concentration of serotonin (5-HT) and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were decreased in the colliculi, striatum and frontal cortex, suggesting a decreased synthesis and release of 5-HT, but increased in the parietal cortex. The concentration of NA was significantly decreased in the parietal cortex. Thus, the results indicate that lindane induces some modifications of the concentration of neurotransmitters in cortical structures, basal nuclei, midbrain and colliculi. These changes may be consequent upon the proposed interaction of lindane with the GABAergic system, although a direct action of lindane on other neurotransmitter systems cannot be excluded.
Propofol is a widely used rapidly acting sedating or hypnotic agent in the intensive care setting. It is generally considered safe in both pediatric and adult patients and has been used frequently in cases of refractory status epilepticus. The formulation of propofol is highly lipophilic to facilitate central nervous system penetration and has a high fat content, and prolonged infusions have been known to cause both extrahepatic complications and hepatomegaly secondary to fatty liver. Whereas extrahepatic manifestations of prolonged propofol infusions have been well reported in non-neurologic intensive care patients, cases of pathologically confirmed fatty liver in patients with status epilepticus are relatively few. Furthermore, these cases of hepatomegaly and fatty liver have been also in the context of concomitant extrahepatic side effects. We report on a pediatric patient with refractory status epilepticus treated with a prolonged propofol infusion who developed isolated pathologically confirmed fatty liver without the usually reported extrahepatic manifestations.
Six ketoprofen (CAS 22071-15-4) alkylazacycloalkan-2-one ester derivatives (I-VI) were synthesized and evaluated for their anti-inflammatory, analgesic, and ulcerogenic activities after oral administration. Furthermore these derivatives were assayed to determine in vitro their stability in pH 7.4 phosphate buffer and in simulated gastric fluid (pH 2.0 buffer) and their susceptibility to enzymatic cleavage in rat plasma. All the prodrugs showed a good stability both in pH 7.4 phosphate buffer and in pH 2.0 buffer, and they were readily hydrolyzed by rat plasma. Esters I-VI showed an anti-inflammatory activity, determined as the percent of inhibition of carrageenan-induced edema, similar to that of ketoprofen, although at higher doses. They were significantly less irritating to the gastric mucosa than the parent drug. In the mouse acetic acid induced writhing assay, the prodrugs exhibited, following acute administration, a good analgesic activity.
Current drinking water standards for chromium are for the combined total of both hexavalent and trivalent chromium (Cr(VI) and Cr(III)). However, recent studies have shown that Cr(III) is not carcinogenic to rodents, whereas mice chronically exposed to high levels of Cr(VI) developed duodenal tumors. These findings may suggest the need for environmental standards specific for Cr(VI). Whether the intestinal tumors arose through a mutagenic or non-mutagenic mode of action (MOA) greatly impacts how drinking water standards for Cr(VI) are derived. Herein, X-ray fluorescence (spectro)microscopy (µ-XRF) was used to image the Cr content in the villus and crypt regions of duodena from B6C3F1 mice exposed to 180 mg/l Cr(VI) in drinking water for 13 weeks. DNA damage was also assessed by γ-H2AX immunostaining. Exposure to Cr(VI) induced villus blunting and crypt hyperplasia in the duodenum--the latter evidenced by lengthening of the crypt compartment by ∼2-fold with a concomitant 1.5-fold increase in the number of crypt enterocytes. γ-H2AX immunostaining was elevated in villi, but not in the crypt compartment. µ-XRF maps revealed mean Cr levels >30 times higher in duodenal villi than crypt regions; mean Cr levels in crypt regions were only slightly above background signal. Despite the presence of Cr and elevated γ-H2AX immunoreactivity in villi, no aberrant foci indicative of transformation were evident. These findings do not support a MOA for intestinal carcinogenesis involving direct Cr-DNA interaction in intestinal stem cells, but rather support a non-mutagenic MOA involving chronic wounding of intestinal villi and crypt cell hyperplasia.
A number of environmental contaminants and plant flavonoid compounds have been shown to inhibit the activity of 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/Delta(5)-Delta(4) isomerase (3beta-HSD). Because 3beta-HSD plays a critical role in steroid hormone synthesis, inhibition of 3beta-HSD represents a potentially important mode of endocrine disruption that may cause reproductive dysfunction in fish or other vertebrates. The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that exposure to the model 3beta-HSD inhibitor, trilostane, would adversely affect reproductive success of the fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas). Results of in vitro experiments with fathead minnow ovary tissue demonstrated that trilostane inhibited 17beta-estradiol (E2) production in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, and that the effect was eliminated by providing a substrate (progesterone) that does not require 3beta-HSD activity for conversion to E2. Exposure of fish to trilostane caused a significant reduction in spawning frequency and reduced cumulative egg production over the course of the 21-day test. In females, exposure to 1500 mug trilostane/l reduced plasma vitellogenin concentrations, but did not cause significant histological alterations. In males, average trilostane concentrations as low as 50 mug/l significantly increased testis mass and gonadal somatic index. Trilostane exposure did not influence the abundance of mRNA transcripts coding for 3beta-HSD or other steroidogenesis-regulating proteins in males or females. As a whole, results of this study support the hypothesis that 3beta-HSD inhibition can cause reproductive dysfunction in fish, but did not yield a clear profile of responses at multiple levels of biological organization that could be used to diagnose this mode of action.
Ammonium perchlorate (AP), an oxidizer, has been used in solid propellants. Although AP exposure has been suspected as a risk factor for the development of pulmonary fibrosis, data are still inconclusive. To evaluate the pulmonary toxicity and the potential pulmonary fibrosis caused by occupational exposure to this compound, 25 male rabbits were randomly allocated into five groups to receive AP or bleomycin or saline by intratracheal injection. All rabbits were sacrificed and total RNA from the lungs was extracted. Expressions of types I and III collagens, transforming growth factor-β(1) (TGF-β(1)) and tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) messenger RNA (mRNA) were measured by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The expressions of type I and III collagen mRNA in low, moderate and high dose AP groups were significantly higher (p < 0.01 or p < 0.05) than that in the saline group. There was also a significant increased level of TGF-β(1) and TNF-α mRNA in the three AP groups compared with saline control group (p < 0.01 or p < 0.05). These results reveal that AP can increase gene expressions of types I, III collagens, TGF-β(1) and TNF-α in lung of rabbits exposed to AP. The overexpression of these biomarkers were considered as effective indicator linking to the development of pulmonary fibrosis and finally demonstrated that AP has potential to induce pulmonary fibrosis.
Caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), a natural component of propolis, shows anticarcinogenic properties in the modified resistant hepatocyte model when administered before initiation or promotion of hepatocarcinogenesis process; however, information about the mechanism underlying this chemoprotection is limited. The aim of this work was to characterize the effect of CAPE on cytochrome P450 (CYP), which is involved in diethylnitrosamine (DEN) metabolism during the initiation stage of chemical hepatocarcinogenesis. Male Fischer-344 rats were treated as in the modified resistant hepatocyte model. Liver samples were obtained at four different times: at 12 h after pretreatment with CAPE and at 12 and 24 h and 25 days after DEN administration. Liver damage was determined by histology with hematoxylin and eosin, measurement of total CYP levels and enzyme activity, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase-positive (GGT+) staining of hepatocyte foci. CAPE administration prevented DEN-induced necrosis at 24 h. It also decreased O-dealkylation of 7-ethoxy-resorufin (EROD), O-dealkylation of 7-methoxyresorufin (MROD), and 7-pentoxy-resorufin activities at 12 h after its administration and EROD and MROD activities at 12 h after administration of DEN. CAPE treatment decreased GGT+ foci by 59% on day 25. Our results suggest that CAPE modifies the enzymatic activity of CYP isoforms involved in the activation of DEN, such as CYP1A1/2 and CYP2B1/2. These findings describe an alternative mechanism for understanding the ability of CAPE to protect against chemical hepatocarcinogenesis.
GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition depends on the maintenance of intracellular Cl- concentration ([Cl-]in) at low levels. In neurons in the developing CNS, [Cl-]in is elevated, E(GABA) is depolarizing, and GABA consequently is excitatory. Depolarizing GABAergic synaptic responses may be recapitulated in various neuropathological conditions, including epilepsy. In the present study, rat hippocampal dentate granule cells were recorded using gramicidin perforated patch techniques at varying times (1-60 d) after an epileptogenic injury, pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (STEP). In normal, non-epileptic animals, these strongly inhibited dentate granule cells act as a gate, regulating hippocampal excitation, controlling seizure initiation and/or propagation. For 2 weeks after STEP, we found that E(GABA) was positively shifted in granule cells. This shift in E(GABA) altered synaptic integration, increased granule cell excitability, and resulted in compromised "gate" function of the dentate gyrus. E(GABA) recovered to control values at longer latencies post-STEP (2-8 weeks), when animals had developed epilepsy. During this period of shifted E(GABA), expression of the Cl- extruding K+/Cl- cotransporter, KCC2 was decreased. Application of the KCC2 blocker, furosemide, to control neurons mimicked E(GABA) shifts evident in granule cells post-STEP. Furthermore, post-STEP and furosemide effects interacted occlusively, both on E(GABA) in granule cells, and on gatekeeper function of the dentate gyrus. This suggests a shared mechanism, reduced KCC2 function. These findings demonstrate that decreased expression of KCC2 persists for weeks after an epileptogenic injury, reducing inhibitory efficacy and enhancing dentate granule cell excitability. This pathophysiological process may constitute a significant mechanism linking injury to the subsequent development of epilepsy.
