Retroperitoneal fibrosis is best described as a chronic inflammatory process which may be idiopathic, but can rarely be brought about by medications, such as pergolide, used for treating Parkinson's disease. Pergolide can produce a fibrotic process in heart valves, resulting in valve insufficiency in up to 25% of cases. Herein we describe the case of a 68-year-old man who received pergolide for 2 years for Parkinson's disease. The patient developed retroperitoneal fibrosis resulting in renal failure from ureteral obstruction necessitating ureteral stenting, as well as significant aortic and mitral valve insufficiency. He successfully underwent surgery for combined aortic valve, mitral valve and ascending aorta replacement because of severe valve insufficiency and dilated (d = 5.8 cm) ascending aorta. Retroperitoneal fibrosis improved with pergolide cessation and corticosteroid treatment. This is the second case reported in the literature, of a patient who had double valve and ascending aorta replacement surgery because he suffered from this rare but serious adverse effect of dopamine agonists used for managing Parkinson's disease.
The skin disease erythrokeratoderma variabilis (EKV) has been shown to be associated with mutations in GJB3 and GJB4 encoding connexin (Cx)31 and Cx30.3, respectively. Gap junctions composed of Cx proteins are intracellular channels providing a mechanism of synchronized cellular response facilitating metabolic and electronic functions of the cell. In the skin, Cx31 and Cx30.3 are expressed in the stratum granulosum of the epidermis with a suggested role in late keratinocyte differentiation. Molecular investigations of GJB3 and GJB4 were performed in five pedigrees and three sporadic cases of EKV. Mutational analyzes revealed disease-associated Cx31 or Cx30.3 mutations in only three probands of which two were novel mutations and one was a recurrent mutation. These genetic studies further demonstrate the heterogeneous nature of the erythrokeratodermas as not all individuals that were clinically diagnosed with EKV harbor Cx31 or Cx30.3 mutations.
Hyperprolactinemia, a known modulator of reproductive function, occurs commonly in women undergoing ovarian stimulation with human menopausal gonadotropins (hMG). Clomiphene citrate (CC) and gonadotropin releasing hormone analogues (GnRHa), when administered during the luteal phase, attenuate the hyperprolactinemic response to hMG. We asked whether follicular-phase administration of CC and GnRHa, as employed clinically in women undergoing ovarian stimulation for in vitro fertilization or gamete intrafallopian transfer, would alter the incidence and severity of hMG-induced luteal-phase hyperprolactinemia. Seventy-five percent of all patients had at least one luteal prolactin level greater than 25 ng/ml, and 40% had mean luteal-phase prolactin levels greater than 25 ng/ml. The incidence of hyperprolactinemia was similar in pregnant and nonpregnant cycles. The incidence of hyperprolactinemia was similar for both the GnRH agonist-treated group and those given clomiphene citrate. The increase in mean luteal prolactin levels over the follicular-phase baseline level was significantly greater in the CC-treated group (P = 0.03). This was due to the significant suppression of follicular-phase baseline prolactin levels in patients receiving CC. We conclude that neither CC nor GnRHa administration in the follicular phase prevents luteal-phase hyperprolactinemia in women undergoing ovarian stimulation with hMG.
Leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRA), such as montelukast, have been used as a first-line treatment for patients with aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA). This study evaluated associations between the clinical requirement for LTRA and genetic polymorphisms of the ALOX5, LTC4S, COX-2, CysLTR1 and TBXA2R genes in the arachidonic acid cascade in the long-term management of 89 AIA patients from a Korean population.
Asthma control status was monitored for 1 year with maintenance medications of inhaled corticosteroid and oral LTRA, and AIA patients were classified into three groups according to the mean montelukast dose required per month to maintain asthma control for 1 year: group I (> or = 200 mg montelukast/month; n = 37), group II (5-150 mg/month; n = 25) and group III (< 5 mg/month; n = 27). Genetic polymorphisms in the arachidonic acid cascade were determined using a single-base extension method.
We found that there was a significant difference in the genotype frequency of the CysLTR1 promoter polymorphism -634C > T among the three groups (p = 0.007 for group I vs group II, p = 0.017 for group I vs group III), while there were no significant associations between LTRA requirements and polymorphisms of the other genes. The patients with the variant genotype (CT or TT) of the -634C = T CysLTR1 promoter polymorphism showed a higher expression level than those with the common genotype (CC).
These findings indicate that the CysLTR1 promoter polymorphism is a useful genetic marker for predicting LTRA requirements in the long-term management of AIA patients.
It has been nearly 50 years since the psychotic state caused by amphetamine was first reported. However, the prognosis of methamphetamine (MAP) psychosis and its relationship with chronic schizophrenia are still vague. Some authors preferred MAP psychosis model of schizophrenia, while other studies found difference between the two groups of patients in the aspects of negative symptoms.
In this study we followed 21 psychiatric inpatients with diagnosis of MAP psychosis. Schedule for affective disorders and schizophrenia (SADS), scale for assessment of negative symptoms (SANS) and global assessment scale (GAS) were used for evaluation of these patients during admission and six months after discharge.
Seventeen patients were interviewed and eight of them confessed reuse of MAP. The follow-up examinations found decreased total scores of delusion and hallucination in SADS and increased GAS scores. The SANS scores of the MAP psychotic patients in this study were lower than moderate level. No significant change could be found for most SANS subcategory scores except some items.
Most MAP psychotic patients followed in this study improved much in six months. The results of the SANS evaluation and the clinical course for six months indicated that the MAP psychosis is a psychotic disorder different from chronic schizophrenia.
Adriamycin, a commonly used antineoplastic antibiotic, induces glomerular lesions in rats, resulting in persistent proteinuria and glomerulosclerosis. We studied the effects of dietary protein and of an angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitor on the progression of this nephropathy and the evolution of the histological lesions, as well as mesangial macromolecule flow. Adriamycin nephropathy was induced by injecting a single iv dose of adriamycin (3 mg/kg body weight) into the tail vein of male Wistar rats (weight, 180-200 g). In Experiment I animals with adriamycin-induced nephropathy were fed diets containing 6% (Low-Protein Diet Group = LPDG), 20% (Normal-Protein Diet Group = NPDG) and 40% (High-Protein Diet Group = HPDG) protein and were observed for 30 weeks. In Experiment II the rats with adriamycin nephropathy were divided into 2 groups: ADR, that received adriamycin alone, and ADR-ENA, that received adriamycin plus enalapril, an angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitor. The animals were sacrificed after a 24-week observation period. Six hours before sacrifice the animals were injected with 131I-ferritin and the amount of 131I-ferritin in the glomeruli was measured. In Experiment III, renal histology was performed 4, 8 and 16 weeks after adriamycin injection. At the end of Experiment I the tubulointerstitial lesion index was 2 for LPDG, 8 for NPDG, and 7.5 for HPDG (P < 0.05); the frequency of glomerulosclerosis was 19 +/- 6.1% in LPDG, 42.6 +/- 6% in NPDG, and 54 +/- 9% in HPDG (P < 0.05); and proteinuria was 61.1 +/- 25 mg/24 h in LPDG, 218.7 +/- 27.5 mg/24 h in NPDG, and 324.5 +/- 64.8 mg/24 h in HPDG (P < 0.05). In Experiment II, at sacrifice, 24-h proteinuria was 189 +/- 16.1 mg in ADR, and 216 +/- 26.1 mg in ADR-ENA (P > 0.05); the tubulointerstitial lesion index was 5 for ADR, and 5 for ADR-ENA (P > 0.05); the frequency of glomerulosclerosis was 40 +/- 5.2% in ADR and 44 +/- 6% in ADR-ENA (P > 0.05); the amount of 131I-ferritin in the mesangium was 214.26 +/- 22.71 cpm/mg protein in ADR and 253.77 +/- 69.72 cpm/mg protein in ADR-ENA (P > 0.05). In Experiment III, sequential histological analysis revealed an acute tubulointerstitial cellular infiltrate at week 4, which was decreased at week 8. Tubular casts and dilatation were first seen at week 8 and increased at week 16 when few glomerular lesions were found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
An 18-year-old male suffered from familial progressive myoclonic epilepsy from the age of 7 years. In addition to seizures, there was a marked decline in school performance. At the age of 14 years, sodium valproate was started as add-on therapy; 2 weeks later he was hospitalized in a stuporous state. The serum level of valproate was within the therapeutic range. Cognitive evaluation disclosed moderate mental retardation. No metabolic abnormalities were detected. Valproate was discontinued and during the 4 following months, a slow but significant improvement was documented in cognitive functions. Repeated assessment was within the range of mild mental retardation. Initially, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed mild cortical atrophy. A subsequent MRI study performed 2 years later was normal.
Although beta-blockers can not be used for the treatment of vasospastic angina, the effect of beta-blockers with vasorelaxant property on coronary vasospasm remains uncertain. In this study, we evaluated the effect of betaxolol, a new beta-blocker with calcium antagonistic property, as an additional therapy on vasospastic angina (VSA) with anginal attacks on effort. We enrolled 12 patients with VSA and anginal attacks with ST segment depression during exercise stress test. All patients received 1.25-5 mg of betaxolol for 3 months. Treadmill exercise stress test and adenosine triphosphate stress thallium-201 myocardial scintigraphy were performed before and 3 months after the onset of the betaxolol treatment. The other drugs including calcium antagonists, nitrates and nicorandil were continued. No patients experienced the exacerbation of angina during the betaxolol treatment. Exercise time to chest pain (317.5+/-72.1-454.2+/-75.5 s, P<0.01) and maximal ST segment depression (1.67+/-0.67-1.16+/-0.46 mm, P<0.01) obtained by exercise stress test, the defect score (8.6+/-2.7-5.3+/-2.1, P<0.01), the extent score (14.8+/-5.8-8.8+/-4.6%, P<0.01), the severity score (17.5+/-7.3-11.3+/-5.2, P<0.01) and washout rate (31.4+/-5.6-37.6+/-5.0%, P<0.01) obtained by the scintigraphy were improved by betaxolol. Our results suggest that betaxolol increases regional myocardial blood flow and improves exercise capacity in patients with VSA. Betaxolol may become a drug for a new potential therapy for VSA.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent signalling molecule that acts through two tyrosine kinase receptors, VEGFR1 and VEGFR2. The upregulation of VEGF and its receptors is important in tumour-associated angiogenesis; however, recent studies suggest that several tumour cells express VEGF receptors and may be influenced by autocrine VEGF signalling. Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is the most common paediatric soft-tissue sarcoma, and is dependent on autocrine signalling for its growth. The alveolar subtype of RMS is often characterized by the presence of a PAX3-FKHR translocation, and when introduced into non-RMS cells, the resultant fusion protein induces expression of VEGFR1. In our study, we examined the expression of VEGF and its receptors in RMS, and autocrine effects of VEGF on cell growth. VEGF and receptor mRNA and protein were found to be expressed in RMS cells. Exogenous VEGF addition resulted in extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 phosphorylation and cell proliferation, and both were reduced by VEGFR1 blockade. Growth was also slowed by VEGFR1 inhibitor alone. Treatment of RMS cells with all-trans-retinoic acid decreased VEGF secretion and slowed cell growth, which was rescued by VEGF. These data suggest that autocrine VEGF signalling likely influences RMS growth and its inhibition may be an effective treatment for RMS.
Mesalazine is a derivative of 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA), which is useful in the treatment of intestinal inflammatory disease. Sulfasalazine is formed by two parts, sulfapyridine and 5-ASA, the latter being the active part of the molecule. The new preparatives derived from 5-ASA were developed in an attempt to avoid the traditionally associated side effects to sulfapyridine, although they are still observed and new effects appear. We present two cases. The first is a man diagnosed of inflammatory intestinal disease, with background of two previous reactions of urticaria and angioedema after acetyl salicylic acid, who presented urticaria after taking mesalazine. The second one had generalized urticaria after three months of initiating treatment with mesalazine. Given the need for treatment in both cases, a desensitization protocol to mesalazine was made. It was developed in 17 days in our service. Tolerance to that drug to therapeutic doses is reached. When faced with patients with hypersensitivity to different drugs, that are necessary to treat their disease, "desensitization" regimes, that assure good tolerance, can be made.
Consumption of deoxynivalenol (DON), a trichothecene mycotoxin known to commonly contaminate grain-based foods, suppresses growth of experimental animals, thus raising concerns over its potential to adversely affect young children. Although this growth impairment is believed to result from anorexia, the initiating mechanisms for appetite suppression remain unknown. Here, we tested the hypothesis that DON induces the release of satiety hormones and that this response corresponds to the toxin's anorectic action. Acute ip exposure to DON had no effect on plasma glucagon-like peptide-1, leptin, amylin, pancreatic polypeptide, gastric inhibitory peptide, or ghrelin; however, the toxin was found to robustly elevate peptide YY (PYY) and cholecystokinin (CCK). Specifically, ip exposure to DON at 1 and 5mg/kg bw induced PYY by up to 2.5-fold and CCK by up to 4.1-fold. These responses peaked within 15-120 min and lasted up to 120 min (CCK) and 240 min (PPY), corresponding with depressed rates of food intake. Direct administration of exogenous PYY or CCK similarly caused reduced food intake. Food intake experiments using the NPY2 receptor antagonist BIIE0246 and the CCK1A receptor antagonist devazepide, individually, suggested that PYY mediated DON-induced anorexia but CCK did not. Orolingual exposure to DON induced plasma PYY and CCK elevation and anorexia comparable with that observed for ip exposure. Taken together, these findings suggest that PYY might be one critical mediator of DON-induced anorexia and, ultimately, growth suppression.
The subchronic treatment of mature female Wistar-strain albino rats in diestrous phase with sodium arsenite at a dose of 0.4 ppm/100 g body weight/rat/day via drinking water for period of 28 days (seven estrous cycles) caused a significant reduction in the plasma levels of leutinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and estradiol along with a significant decrease in ovarian activities of delta five, 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (Delta5,3beta-HSD), and 17 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17beta-HSD) followed by a reduction in ovarian and uterine peroxidase activities. A significant weight loss of the ovary and uterus was also observed after this treatment, along with a prolonged diestrous phase and a high accumulation of arsenic in the plasma and these organs. Moreover, sodium arsenite was also responsible for ovarian follicular and uterine cell degeneration characterized by a high number of regressing follicles and a reduction in the uterine luminal diameter, respectively, in comparison with the controls. A dietary supplementation of sodium selenite at the dose of 0.6 mg/100 g body weight/rat/day for a period of 28 days along with arsenic treatment minimized the gonadal weight loss significantly and increased the activities of the ovarian steroidogenic enzymes as well as the ovarian and uterine peroxidase at the control level. Selenium was also able to increase the plasma levels of LH, FSH, and estradiol toward the control level. Vaginal smears showed normal estrous cyclicity in sodium selenite-supplemented arsenic-treated rats along with lower arsenic levels in the plasma and gonadal tissue in comparison with arsenic-only-treated rats. Histological sections of ovary and uterine tissues in the control and experimental groups confirmed that sodium selenite supplementation was able to prevent arsenic-induced histopathological changes in the ovary and uterus. Plasma levels of norepinephrine and dopamine in the midbrain and diencephalon decreased significantly, whereas the serotonin level was increased significantly after 28 days of sodium arsenite treatment. All of these parameters were, in most cases, unchanged from the control level when sodium selenite was co-administered with sodium arsenite. Arsenic intoxication was also associated with increased liver weight and elevation in the activities of hepatic and renal acid phosphatase, alkaline phosphatase, and transaminases, but selenium co-administration was not able to change these toxic effects of arsenic. The results of our experiments indicate the significant protective action of sodium selenite on arsenic-induced toxicity in the female reproductive system, while there was no significant protective effect of selenium on arsenic-induced toxicity in other organs.
Palmar plantar erythrodysesthesia is a cutaneous drug reaction induced by chemotherapy. We present a case of a patient with neurosensorial deficit affected by ovarian cancer who experienced a painless necrosis of a distal phalange of the hand during treatment with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. Palmar plantar erythrodysesthesia may be underestimated by physicians in paucisymptomatic patients.
Arsenic shares many physicochemical properties with phosphorus, so that arsenic can be taken up inadvertently by cells through the pathways for phosphorus. As a phosphate analog, arsenate competes with phosphate and enters cells via phosphate transporters. In the cell, arsenate can be recognized as a substrate by enzymes that usually use phosphate as a substrate. The phosphate for arsenate swap results in wasteful 'futile cycles' in metabolic pathways, uncoupled oxidative phosphorylation and extreme DNA instability. The disrupting metabolic effects of arsenic have an evolutionary meaning, so that all living organisms-from chemoautotrophic organisms that grow by reducing or oxidizing arsenic to metazoan--carry highly conserved arsenic resistance genes. Arsenic resistance can result from different strategies including selective transport to maximize phosphate uptake and minimize entry of arsenate, active transport to export arsenate, arsenic storage in specialized compartments, enzyme selectivity toward phosphate, and increased efficiency of DNA repair systems. None of these strategies is infallible, though, and susceptibility to arsenic toxicity varies between taxa in many orders of magnitude. Even arsenic-hypertolerant organisms will stop to grow and will eventually die when exposed to arsenic over species-specific resistance limits. The arsenic for phosphorus swap is an accidental one, it does not warrant a conclusion in favor of the essentiality of arsenic to life as we know it.
Astemizole (Hismanal), an antihistamine agent, has been reported to be associated with ventricular arrhythmias. In this paper we present a case of QT prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) in a 77-year-old woman who had been taking astemizole (10 mg/day) for 6 months because of allergic skin disease. At the time of admission, the serum concentration of astemizole and its metabolites was markedly elevated at 15.85 ng/ml, approximately 3 times the normal level. The patient was also taking cimetidine, a known inhibitor of cytochrome P-450 enzymatic activity, and during her admission was diagnosed as having vasospastic angina. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of astemizole-induced QT prolongation and TdP in Japan.
Munitions constituents (MCs) including hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX), 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT), and TNT derivatives are recognized to elicit aberrant neuromuscular responses in many species. The onset of seizures resulting in death was observed in the avian model Northern bobwhite after oral dosing with RDX beginning at 8 mg/kg/day in subacute (14 days) exposures, whereas affective doses of the TNT derivative, 2,6-dinitrotoluene (2,6-DNT), caused gastrointestinal impacts, lethargy, and emaciation in subacute and subchronic (60 days) exposures. To assess and contrast the potential neurotoxicogenomic effects of these MCs, a Northern bobwhite microarray was developed consisting of 4119 complementary DNA (cDNA) features enriched for differentially-expressed brain transcripts from exposures to RDX and 2,6-DNT. RDX affected hundreds of genes in brain tissue, whereas 2,6-DNT affected few (<or= 17), indicating that 2,6-DNT exposure had relatively little impact on the brain in comparison to RDX. Birds exhibiting RDX-induced seizures accumulated over 20x more RDX in brain tissues in comparison to non-seizing birds even within a common dose. In parallel, expression patterns were unrelated among seizing and non-seizing birds exposed to equivalent RDX doses. In birds experiencing seizures, genes related to neuronal electrophysiology and signal transduction were significantly affected. Comparative toxicology revealed strong similarity in acute exposure effects between RDX and the organochlorine insecticide dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) regarding both molecular mechanisms and putative mode of action. In a manner similar to DDT, we hypothesize that RDX elicits seizures by inhibition of neuronal cell repolarization postaction potential leading to heightened neuronal excitability and seizures facilitated by multiple molecular mechanisms.
Topiramate [2,3:4,5-bis-O-(1-methylethylidene)-beta-D-fructopyranose sulfamate] is a structurally novel antiepileptic drug that has broad efficacy in epilepsy, but the mechanisms underlying its therapeutic activity are not fully understood. We have found that topiramate selectively inhibits GluK1 (GluR5) kainate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic responses in rat basolateral amygdala (BLA) principal neurons and protects against seizures induced by the GluK1 kainate receptor agonist (R,S)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-tert-butylisoxazol-4-yl)propanoic acid (ATPA). Here, we demonstrate that topiramate also modulates inhibitory function in the BLA. Using whole-cell recordings in rat amygdala slices, we found that 0.3 to 10 microM topiramate 1) inhibited ATPA-evoked postsynaptic currents recorded from BLA interneurons; 2) suppressed ATPA-induced enhancement of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) recorded from BLA pyramidal cells; and 3) blocked ATPA-induced suppression of evoked IPSCs, which is mediated by presynaptic GluK1 kainate receptors present on BLA interneurons. Topiramate (10 microM) had no effect on the AMPA [(R,S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid]-induced enhancement of spontaneous activity of BLA neurons. Thus, although topiramate inhibits GluK1 kainate receptor-mediated enhancement of interneuron firing, it promotes evoked GABA release, leading to a net inhibition of circuit excitability. In addition, we found that topiramate (0.3-10 microM) increased the amplitude of evoked, spontaneous, and miniature IPSCs in BLA pyramidal neurons, indicating an enhancement of postsynaptic GABA(A) receptor responses. Taken together with our previous findings, we conclude that topiramate protects against hyperexcitability in the BLA by suppressing the GluK1 kainate receptor-mediated excitation of principal neurons by glutamatergic afferents, blocking the suppression of GABA release from interneurons mediated by presynaptic GluK1 kainate receptors and directly enhancing GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory currents.
The author participated in two prospective studies of patients receiving aminoglycoside antibiotics. In the first study, 54 patients received amikacin, and 54 received gentamicin. In the second study, 61 patients received gentamicin, 50 received netilmicin, and 52 received tobramycin. The studies were randomized and the investigator was blinded when evaluating auditory and vestibular toxicity and nephrotoxicity. All patients had pure tone audiometric evaluations, and two thirds of the patients had vestibular function tests consisting of an electronystagmogram performed with 30 degrees C and 44 degrees C water. Nephrotoxicity was measured by changes in serum creatinine levels. The incidence of gentamicin toxicity in the first study was 11 per cent, and it was 18 per cent in the second study. Amikacin was ototoxic 12.9 per cent of the time, whereas the incidence of tobramycin ototoxicity was 11.5 per cent, and the incidence of netilmicin ototoxicity was 2 per cent. Cases of unilateral, delayed-onset, and reversible auditory and vestibular toxicities were seen in all drug treatment groups. Nephrotoxicity was rare with amikacin usage. Gentamicin, on the other hand, produced a 18.6 per cent, tobramycin a 25 per cent, and netilmicin a 21.3 per cent rate of nephrotoxicity.
With the approval by the Food and Drug Administration of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) for acute ischemic stroke within 180 minutes of symptom onset, patients and prehospital and hospital systems will now have to treat stroke as a medical emergency. It is thus critical to develop efficient hospital-based methods for hyperacute stroke patient evaluation and intervention at both community-based and tertiary care academic centers.
We describe how the eight centers in the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke rt-PA Stroke Trial developed systems for enrolling patients within 3 hours of symptom onset. The actual methodology and practical sequence of events are detailed. Deming principles of system organization were applied, and each center developed a flowchart of acute stroke patient screening, assessment, and treatment. We divided the process into the following: clinical center background and preparation, screening, stroke team response, data needed before treatment, CT of the head, pharmacy, patient treatment, and monitored care. Critical features, both unique to a given center and shared by several centers (common at four or more centers), were summarized.
Phase I of the trial included several months of preparation with review of every detail involved in the process of acute stroke care at each site. All centers worked closely with emergency medical services. Community stroke awareness and education programs were developed. A stroke team was initiated and worked closely with the emergency department physicians and nurses. Rapid and efficient communication systems and protocols were established to reduce time to complete each task. Standardized stroke examinations and protocols for blood pressure management and intracranial hemorrhage detection as well as nursing flowcharts were used.
Hyperacute stroke treatment can be initiated, often within 55 minutes of patient arrival at the hospital, in both community and academic settings when all aspects of stroke care processes are identified, streamlined, and built into the day-to-day operations of the prehospital and hospital healthcare delivery system.
Dyslipidemia is related to the progression of atherosclerosis and is an important risk factor for acute coronary syndromes. Our objective was to determine the effect of rosuvastatin on myocardial necrosis in an experimental model of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Male Wistar rats (8-10 weeks old, 250-350 g) were subjected to definitive occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery to cause AMI. Animals were divided into 6 groups of 8 to 11 rats per group: G1, normocholesterolemic diet; G2, normocholesterolemic diet and rosuvastatin (1 mg·kg(-1)·day-1) 30 days after AMI; G3, normocholesterolemic diet and rosuvastatin (1 mg·kg(-1)·day-1) 30 days before and after AMI; G4, hypercholesterolemic diet; G5, hypercholesterolemic diet and rosuvastatin (1 mg·kg(-1)·day-1) 30 days after AMI; G6, hypercholesterolemic diet and rosuvastatin (1 mg·kg(-1)·day-1) 30 days before and after AMI. Left ventricular function was determined by echocardiography and percent infarct area by histology. Fractional shortening of the left ventricle was normal at baseline and decreased significantly after AMI (P < 0.05 in all groups), being lower in G4 and G5 than in the other groups. No significant difference in fractional shortening was observed between G6 and the groups on the normocholesterolemic diet. Percent infarct area was significantly higher in G4 than in G3. No significant differences were observed in infarct area among the other groups. We conclude that a hypercholesterolemic diet resulted in reduced cardiac function after AMI, which was reversed with rosuvastatin when started 30 days before AMI. A normocholesterolemic diet associated with rosuvastatin before and after AMI prevented myocardial necrosis when compared with the hypercholesterolemic condition.
Capsaicin causes pain by activating VR1, a cloned capsaicin receptor, in sensory neurons. After the initial excitatory responses, capsaicin produces prolonged analgesia, presumably because of the neurotoxic effect that leads to the death of sensory neurons. However, the mechanism underlying capsaicin-induced cell death of sensory neurons is not known. Here we report that capsaicin induces cell death in VR1-expressing sensory neurons and VR1-transfected human embryonic kidney cells. Cell death of sensory neurons induced by capsaicin is accompanied by DNA fragmentation, TUNEL staining, and shrinkage of the nucleus in a caspase-dependent manner, indicating the apoptotic nature of the cell death. Mitochondrial permeability transition is likely to be a major component of capsaicin-induced cell death because bonkrekic acid and cyclosporin A, inhibitors of mitochondrial permeability transition, block this cell death. These results imply that capsaicin induces mitochondrial dysfunction in VR1-expressing cells, leading to apoptotic cell death, which is a well-known neurotoxic effect of capsaicin.
Long-term treatment with ACE-inhibitors improves left ventricular function in patients with aortic regurgitation. But how does this advantage influence capacity? Using echocardiography and spiroergometry, we investigated 13 patients before and after a 3 month treatment with cilazapril (2.5-5 mg/d). Ventricular enddiastolic diameter-index decreased from 3.5 to 3.1 cm/m2 (p = 0.005), left ventricular endsystolic diameter-index from 2.3 to 2.0 cm/m2 (p = 0.005), and wallstress from 174 to 150 dyn/cm2 (p = 0.01). Left ventricular mass was reduced by 14% to 488 g (= 253 g/m2, p < 0.05). The regurgitant jet area decreased from 10.1 to 8.1 cm2 (p < 0.05). Wall thickness, workload, and maximal oxygen intake showed no significant difference during follow-up. These results indicate that left ventricular volumes and muscle mass in patients with aortic regurgitation are positively influenced by long term ACE-inhibition, which preserves exercise capacity.
Ovarian cancer is the leading cause of death from gynecological malignancies. Although initial therapeutic modalities are successful, 65% of these women relapse with only palliative treatments available thereafter. Endogenous opioids repress the proliferation of human ovarian cancer cells in vitro, and do so in a receptor-mediated manner. The present study examined whether modulation of opioid systems by the opioid antagonist naltrexone (NTX), alone or in combination with standard of care therapies (taxol/paclitaxel, cisplatin), alters human ovarian cancer cell proliferation in tissue culture and tumor progression in mice. Administration of NTX for six hours every two days, but not continuously, reduced DNA synthesis and cell replication from vehicle-treated controls in tissue culture. Moreover, brief exposure to NTX in combination with taxol or cisplatin had an enhanced anticancer action. Mice with established ovarian tumors and treated with a low dosage of NTX (LDN), which invokes a short period of opioid receptor blockade, repressed tumor progression in a non-toxic fashion by reducing DNA synthesis and angiogenesis but not altering cell survival. The combination of LDN with cisplatin, but not taxol, resulted in an additive inhibitory effect on tumorigenesis with enhanced depression of DNA synthesis and angiogenesis. LDN combined with cisplatin alleviated the toxicity (e.g. weight loss) associated with cisplatin. LDN treatment upregulated the expression of the opioid growth factor (OGF, chemical term ([Met(5)]-enkephalin) and its receptor, OGFr. Previous tissue culture studies have reported that OGF is the only opioid peptide with antiproliferative activity on ovarian cancer cells, with OGF action mediated by OGFr. Thus, the common denominator of intermittent opioid receptor blockade by short-term NTX or LDN on ovarian cancer proliferation and tumorigenesis recorded herein appears to be related to the OGF-OGFr axis. These preclinical data may offer a non-toxic and efficacious pathway-related treatment that can benefit patients with ovarian cancer.
The interaction between GABAergic and dopaminergic systems within the central nervous system was investigated in rats using the open-field apparatus and apomorphine-induced stereotypy, and in mice using haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The single intraperitoneal administration of baclofen 3.0 mg/kg, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxasolo-(5,4-c) piridin-3-ol (THIP) 10.0 mg/kg and picrotoxin 2.0 mg/kg decreased both ambulation and rearing frequencies of the rats in the open-field; only the GABA agonists increased the duration of animal immobility. THIP (10.0 mg/kg) increased the duration of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. For apomorphine-induced stereotypy, baclofen 3.0 mg/kg and picrotoxin 1.0 mg/kg induced a significant leftward displacement of the control dose-response curve constructed for apomorphine (0.1-10 mg/kg) in relation to the control. In addition, baclofen, THIP, picrotoxin and 3-mercaptopropionic acid (3-MPA) 10.0 mg/kg decreased both rearing and sniffing behaviors elicited by apomorphine and increased licking and/or gnawing. Different mechanisms seem to be involved in the similar effects induced by GABA agonists and antagonists. Picrotoxin induced stereotyped movements per se with a dose-dependent effect, but baclofen and THIP did not. The present data suggest that GABA manipulation facilitates the progressive activation of the different dopaminergic pathways involved in stereotyped behaviors, thus increasing those stereotyped components (gnawing and licking) that appear after a high level of activation of dopaminergic pathways.
The physical properties of different types of asbestos may strongly affect health outcomes in exposed individuals. This study was designed to provide understanding of the comparative toxicity of naturally occurring asbestos (NOA) fibers including Libby amphibole (LA), Sumas Mountain chrysotile (SM), El Dorado tremolite (ED), and Ontario ferroactinolite (ON) cleavage fragments. Rat-respirable fractions (PM₂.₅) were prepared by water elutriation. Surface area was greater for SM (64.1 m²/g) than all other samples (range: 14.1-16.2 m²/g), whereas mean lengths and aspect ratios (ARs) for LA and SM were comparable and greater than ED and ON. Samples were delivered via a single intratracheal (IT) instillation at doses of 0.5 and 1.5mg/rat. One day post-IT instillation, low-dose NOA exposure resulted in a 3- to 4-fold increase in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) cellularity compared with dispersion media (DM) controls, whereas high-dose exposure had a more severe effect on lung inflammation which varied by source. Although inducing less neutrophilic inflammation than ON and ED, exposure to either LA or SM resulted in a greater degree of acute lung injury. Three months post-IT instillation, most BALF parameters had returned to control levels, whereas the development of fibrosis persisted and was greatest in SM-exposed rats (SM > LA > ON > ED). These data demonstrate that fiber length and higher AR are directly correlated with the severity of fibrosis and that, in the rat, exposure to SM is more fibrogenic than LA which suggests that there may be cause for concern for people at risk of being exposed to NOA from the Sumas Mountain landslide.
To report an adult trauma patient fatality related to propofol administration.
Retrospective case review.
Trauma intensive care unit (ICU) in a level one trauma center.
An 18-yr-old man involved in a motor vehicle crash.
Treatment for multiple trauma injuries and propofol sedation.
Posttrauma ICU monitoring was performed. The patient developed cardiac arrhythmia, metabolic acidosis, and cardiac failure, which resulted in death.
Death related to propofol infusion can occur in adults as well as in pediatric patients.
We discuss the specific urological abnormalities associated with protease inhibitor therapy.
We report on a human immunodeficiency virus positive patient who was on protease inhibitor therapy and presented with renal colic.
The stone passed spontaneously. Stone analysis was not consistent with any known composition of urinary calculus.
The positive effects of protease inhibitors in human immunodeficiency virus positive patients mandate that the urological community become familiar with these drugs and the specific urological complications as the use of these drugs becomes widespread.
Endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) variants were previously demonstrated in cardiovascular disease. To evaluate whether eNOS gene variants are associated with insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes, we evaluated polymorphisms in Exon7 (E298D), intron 18 (IVS18 + 27A-->C), and intron 23 (IVS23 + 10G-->T) in 159 type 2 diabetic patients without macrovascular complications and in 207 healthy control subjects. Samples for all hormonal and metabolic variables were obtained after an overnight fast. The D298 and IVS18 + 27C alleles, but not the IVS23 + 10G-->T variant, were significantly more frequent in type 2 diabetic patients than in control subjects. The two- and three-loci haplotype analysis showed that there is a statistically significant association between the eNOS variants and type 2 diabetes. No significant differences were observed in the clinical characteristics of type 2 diabetic patients according to genotypes (except for visceral obesity [waist-to-hip ratio], which was significantly more present in D298 homozygotes). Healthy control subjects homozygous for both D298 and IVS18 + 27C presented higher insulin, C-peptide, and nitric oxide levels, as well as higher HOMA (homeostasis model assessment) values than the double wild-type homozygotes, with values superimposable on those found in type 2 diabetic patients. In conclusion, we described a significant association between eNOS gene polymorphisms and type 2 diabetes, suggesting a new genetic susceptibility factor for hyperinsulinemia, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes.
