We report on two patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) who developed reversible, short-lived neurological deficit following intrathecal (i.t.) chemotherapy. One patient received i.t. methotrexate for treatment of meningeal disease, and the other received i.t. methotrexate with cytosine arabinoside (ara-C) and hydrocortisone as central nervous system (CNS) prophylaxis. Although transient paresis following i.t. chemotherapy has previously been reported, it has been attributed to the preservatives contained in the diluents. Our two patients, however, received preservative-free solutions.
Immune hemolytic anemia can be caused by sensitivity to many different drugs. In some instances, the sensitizing compound can be identified by in vitro testing, but results are often negative. One reason for this is that a drug metabolite formed in vivo can be the sensitizing agent, but the responsible metabolites have rarely been identified at a chemical level. This report describes a patient who developed severe, Coombs-positive hemolytic anemia on two occasions after taking the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug etodolac. Studies were performed to characterize etodolac metabolites to which this patient was sensitive.
Serum was tested for antibody in the presence and absence of drug using conventional methods and urine from individuals taking etodolac as a source of drug metabolites. Urinary metabolites of etodolac were identified by high-pressure liquid chromatography analysis. Glucuronide conjugates of etodolac and the 6-OH metabolite of etodolac were synthesized in a rat liver microsomal system to obtain reference standards.
The patient's serum gave only trace (+/-) reactions with normal RBCs in the presence of etodolac but reacted strongly (4+) in the presence of urine from an individual taking this drug. The active urinary metabolites were identified as etodolac glucuronide and 6-OH etodolac glucuronide.
This patient appears to have experienced acute, severe immune hemolytic anemia on two occasions because of sensitivity to the glucuronides of etodolac and 6-OH etodolac. In patients suspected of having drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia, RBC-reactive antibodies can sometimes be detected by using urine from an individual taking the implicated medication as the source of drug metabolites in in vitro reactions. For patients who present with acute immune hemolysis, a careful history of drug exposure should be taken, and, where indicated, confirmatory testing should be performed to identify the sensitizing drug and prevent inadvertent reinduction of hemolysis at a later time.
Multidrug resistance (MDR) is the main obstacle to a successful chemotherapy of lung cancer. We tested the potential of sulfinosine and curcumin, alone and in combination, for modulating MDR in the human resistant, non-small cell lung carcinoma cell line (NCI-H460/R). First, we determined the mutational status of the p53 gene in NCI-H460/R cells by PCR-SSCP and DNA sequencing and identified mutations which could at least partially contribute to the development of the MDR phenotype. The effects of sulfinosine and curcumin were studied, both separately and in combination, at the level of cytotoxicity, cell cycle distribution and gene expression. Sulfinosine displayed dose-dependent growth inhibition in both resistant and control sensitive cell lines, whereas curcumin considerably inhibited their growth only at relatively high doses. When sulfinosine was combined with a low dose of curcumin the drugs exerted a synergistic cytotoxic effect in NCI-H460/R cells. The expression of MDR-related genes mdr1, gst-pi and topo IIalpha, was altered by sulfinosine and curcumin. The most pronounced effect was observed when the agents were applied together. Sulfinosine and curcumin caused perturbations in cell cycle distribution in the NCI-H460/R cell line. The combination of the two drugs induced a more pronounced cell cycle arrest in S and G(2)/M in NCI-H460/R cells. Our results show that sulfinosine and curcumin overcome MDR in non-small cell lung carcinoma cell line (NSCLC), especially in combination despite the presence of a mutated p53 gene.
The results of a clinical trial involving 599 patients with inoperable squamous cell, large cell anaplastic, and adenocarcinoma of the lung are summarized. Patients were randomized to initial therapy with Cytoxan (CTX) (cyclophosphamide), or to one of two schedules of Adriamycin (doxorubicin) 50, or 75 mg/m2 IV every three weeks, or to a combined regimen of ADR and CTX. Upon disease progression, CTX patients were randomized to one of the two ADR schedules, while ADR patients were randomly assigned to CTX alone, or in combination with Cisdiamminedichloroplatinum (Cis-Platinum) 15 mg/m2 IV every three weeks. No statistically significant response or survival differences were observed between the two dose schedules of Adriamycin for any of the cell types studied. The two dose levels did, however, differ with respect to toxicity. There were some response and survival differences among the various cell types in the comparison of low-dose Adriamycin and Cytoxan: (1) patients with adenocarcinoma treated with low-dose Adriamycin tended to survive longer (P = 0.04) than those treated with Cytoxan; and (2) patients with large cell carcinoma receiving Cytoxan experienced a greater tumor response rate than those receiving low dose Adriamycin (P = 0.03). Because of the difficulties involved in distinguishing these two cell types on pathologic examination, the evidence of apparent treatment differences should not be regarded as definitive. During the period when Adriamycin plus Cytoxan was open to patient entry 61 evaluable patients received that regimen, 21 received low-dose Adriamycin and 22 received Cytoxan. Because relatively few patients received the latter two regimens, comparisons of these treatments with Adriamycin plus Cytoxan lack statistical power. However, there is no suggestion in the available data that Adriamycin plus Cytoxan increased survival either in the overall population or in the subset of patients with squamous histology. Initial performance status, metastatic disease symptoms, primary disease symptoms, and weight loss were significantly correlated to survival time, and are recommended as stratification factors in future studies.
In Parkinson's disease, nigral dopaminergic neurones degenerate, whereas post-synaptic striatal target neurones are spared. In some atypical parkinsonian syndromes, both nigral and striatal neurones degenerate. Reduced activity of complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain has been implicated in both conditions, but it remains unclear if this affects the whole organism or only the degenerating brain structures. We therefore investigated the differential vulnerability of various brain structures to generalized complex I inhibition. Male Lewis rats infused with rotenone, a lipophilic complex I inhibitor [2.5 mg/kg/day intraveneously (i.v.) for 28 days], were compared with vehicle-infused controls. They showed reduced locomotor activity and loss of striatal dopaminergic fibres (54%), nigral dopaminergic neurones (28.5%), striatal serotoninergic fibres (34%), striatal DARPP-32-positive projection neurones (26.5%), striatal cholinergic interneurones (22.1%), cholinergic neurones in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (23.7%) and noradrenergic neurones in the locus ceruleus (26.4%). Silver impregnation revealed pronounced degeneration in basal ganglia and brain stem nuclei, whereas the hippocampus, cerebellum and cerebral cortex were less affected. These data suggest that a generalized mitochondrial failure may be implicated in atypical parkinsonian syndromes but do not support the hypothesis that a generalized complex I inhibition results in the rather selective nigral lesion observed in Parkinson's disease.
Chronic treatment with the beta-carboline derivative FG 7142 (15 mg/kg i.p. twice a day for 10 consecutive days) produced a long-lasting enhancement of shock-induced suppression of drinking in rats, without affecting unpunished behaviour. This proconflict effect was observed up to 15 days after withdrawal from FG 7142. A significant sensitization to seizures induced by isoniazid, a drug known to inhibit GABAergic transmission, was also found to occur after long-term (25 days) withdrawal. Moreover, the density of low-affinity GABA receptors was decreased by 30% in the cerebral cortex of rats repeatedly injected with FG 7142 at 5 and 15 days after withdrawal. The capacity of high-affinity GABA receptors, as well as the apparent dissociation constants for both high- and low-affinity GABA receptors were unchanged. Similar modifications in [3H]GABA binding were also observed in the cerebellum. The enhancement of punishment suppressed behaviour, the sensitization to isoniazid-induced convulsions and the decrease in the density of low-affinity GABA receptors suggest that chronic administration of FG 7142 induces a persistent down-regulation of GABAergic transmission in the central nervous system.
There is increasing interest in the potential effects of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) on children's neuropsychological development, but only a few small studies have evaluated such effects.
Our goal was to examine the association between PBDE concentrations in colostrum and infant neuropsychological development and to assess the influence of other persistent organic pollutants (POPs) on such association.
We measured concentrations of PBDEs and other POPs in colostrum samples of 290 women recruited in a Spanish birth cohort. We tested children for mental and psychomotor development with the Bayley Scales of Infant Development at 12-18 months of age. We analyzed the sum of the seven most common PBDE congeners (BDEs 47, 99, 100, 153, 154, 183, 209) and each congener separately.
Increasing Σ7PBDEs concentrations showed an association of borderline statistical significance with decreasing mental development scores (β per log ng/g lipid = -2.25; 95% CI: -4.75, 0.26). BDE-209, the congener present in highest concentrations, appeared to be the main congener responsible for this association (β = -2.40, 95% CI: -4.79, -0.01). There was little evidence for an association with psychomotor development. After adjustment for other POPs, the BDE-209 association with mental development score became slightly weaker (β = -2.10, 95% CI: -4.66, 0.46).
Our findings suggest an association between increasing PBDE concentrations in colostrum and a worse infant mental development, particularly for BDE-209, but require confirmation in larger studies. The association, if causal, may be due to unmeasured BDE-209 metabolites, including OH-PBDEs (hydroxylated PBDEs), which are more toxic, more stable, and more likely to cross the placenta and to easily reach the brain than BDE-209.
We describe seven patients who developed symptoms including severe headache, circumoral paresthesia, and facial flushing during high-dose carmustine (BCNU) infusion as part of the preparative regimen for autologous peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation for metastatic breast cancer. Five patients responded to pain medications, including partial and complete opiate receptor agonists. Premedication of subsequent doses of BCNU with corticosteroids, pain medications, or benzodiazepines lessened, but did not prevent the same symptoms from recurring. The incidence and mechanism of this toxicity are unknown, but this adverse syndrome should be considered when administering high-dose BCNU infusions.
The cerebral microvasculature has recently been identified as a source of factors that can influence the generation and survival of neurons, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). However, relatively little is known about signals that regulate secretion of endothelial cell derived BDNF. To approach this issue the present study examined BDNF secretion from brain endothelial cells in response to reduced oxygen availability (hypoxia), using the mouse brain microvascular endothelial cell line, bEnd.3. We found that exposure of bEnd.3 cells to either sustained or intermittent hypoxia (IH) stimulates BDNF expression and release and that IH is the more potent stimulus. IH-induced BDNF release can be partially inhibited by either N-acetyl-L-cysteine, a scavenger of reactive oxygen species, or by the stable superoxide dismutase mimetic manganese(III)tetrakis1-methyl-4-pyridylporphyrin, indicating that oxyradical formation contributes to enhanced secretion of BDNF. In addition, we found that IH-induced BDNF release requires Ca2+ mobilization from internal stores through ryanodine- and inositol (1,4,5-triphosphate) IP3 receptors and is completely blocked by SKF 96365, a nonselective inhibitor of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. These data demonstrate that bEnd.3 cells respond to oxidative stress by increasing BDNF secretion and, in addition, highlight TRP channels as potential therapeutic targets for enhancing BDNF availability from the cerebral microvasculature.
We tested the hypothesis that the alleles at the (CA)n repeat of the proenkephalin gene (PENK) might be associated with opioid addiction in 31 non-Hispanic Caucasian subjects with opioid dependence (heroin), 89 ethnically matched subjects with substance dependence other than opioid dependence and 132 controls. Among the subjects with opioid dependence, 66% carried the > or = 81 bp allele compared with 40% of subjects with other types of substance abuse (chi2 = 11.31, p < 0.004) and 49% of controls (chi2 = 6.0, p < 0.015). These results are consistent with a role of the PENK gene in opioid dependence.
Long-term adverse neurobehavioral sequelae frequently are observed in pediatric patients treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). To clarify the relative contribution of cranial irradiation (CRT) therapy and drug therapy to these outcomes, we evaluated neuropsychologic outcomes associated with different doses of CRT and intravenous (IV) methotrexate (MTX) in long-term survivors.
Fifty-one patients treated for ALL on Dana-Farber Cancer Institute protocol 81-01 were evaluated by standardized cognitive and academic achievement tests. These children had been assigned at diagnosis to a standard-risk (SR) or high-risk (HR) group and received 1,800 cGy or 2,800 cGy CRT, respectively. A subgroup of these patients was randomized to receive MTX during remission induction, either as a single low dose (LD; 40 mg/m2) or a single high dose (HD; 4 g/m2) with leucovorin rescue.
Sex and MTX randomization jointly predicted the intelligence quotient (IQ). Fifty percent of girls versus 14% of boys exhibited low IQ (less than 90; P = .01); 80% of girls who received HD MTX versus 25% of girls who received LD MTX exhibited low IQ (P = .03). In contrast, risk group better predicted performance on tasks sensitive to verbal memory and/or coding.
We conclude that (1) significant neurotoxicity occurred principally in girls; (2) increased dose intensity of IV MTX was associated with lower IQ, but only in girls; and (3) increased dose of CRT may have been associated with impairment of verbal memory and coding.
Despite the considerable interest in the possibility that ATP may function as a peripheral pain mediator, there has been little quantitative study of the pain-producing effects of ATP in humans. Here we have used iontophoresis to deliver ATP to the forearm skin of volunteers who rated the magnitude of the evoked pain on a visual analogue scale. ATP consistently produced a modest burning pain, which began within 20 s of starting iontophoresis and was maintained for several minutes. Persistent iontophoresis of ATP led to desensitization within 12 min but recovery from this was almost complete 1 h later. Different doses of ATP were delivered using different iontophoretic driving currents. Iontophoresis of ATP produced a higher pain rating than saline, indicating that the pain was specifically caused by ATP. The average pain rating for ATP, but not saline, increased with increasing current. Using an 0.8 mA current, subjects reported pain averaging 27.7 +/- 2.8 (maximum possible = 100). Iontophoresis of ATP caused an increase in blood flow, as assessed using a laser Doppler flow meter. The increase in blood flow was significantly greater using ATP than saline in both the iontophoresed skin (P < 0.01) and in the surrounding skin, 3 mm outside the iontophoresed area (P < 0.05). The pain produced by ATP was dependent on capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons, since in skin treated repeatedly with topical capsaicin pain was reduced to less than 25% of that elicited on normal skin (2.1 +/- 0.4 compared with 9.3 +/- 1.5 on normal skin). Conversely, the pain-producing effects of ATP were greatly potentiated in several models of hyperalgesia. Thus, with acute capsaicin treatment when subjects exhibited touch-evoked hyperalgesia but no ongoing pain, there was a threefold increase in the average pain rating during ATP iontophoresis (22.7 +/- 3.1) compared with pre-capsaicin treatment (7.8 +/- 2.6). Moreover, ATP iontophoresed into skin 24 h after solar simulated radiation (2 x minimal erythymic dose) resulted in double the pain rating of normal skin, increasing from 15.3 +/- 4.1 to 32.7 +/- 4.1. The pain response to saline was not significantly altered after UV irradiation at any time-point studied. We conclude that ATP produces pain by activating capsaicin-sensitive nociceptive afferents when applied to skin. The possibility that ATP activates nociceptors indirectly via its degradation products cannot be ruled out. The effects of ATP are dose-dependent and responses desensitize only slowly. In inflammatory conditions, ATP may be a potent activator of nociceptors and an endogenous mediator of pain.
Limonoids from the neem tree (Azadirachta indica) have attracted considerable research attention in recent years owing to their potent antioxidant and anti-proliferative effects. The present study was designed to investigate the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which azadirachtin and nimbolide exert cytotoxic effects in the human cervical cancer (HeLa) cell line. Both azadirachtin and nimbolide significantly suppressed the viability of HeLa cells in a dose-dependent manner by inducing cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 phase accompanied by p53-dependent p21 accumulation and down-regulation of the cell cycle regulatory proteins cyclin B, cyclin D1 and PCNA. Characteristic changes in nuclear morphology, presence of a subdiploid peak and annexin-V staining pointed to apoptosis as the mode of cell death. Increased generation of reactive oxygen species with decline in the mitochondrial transmembrane potential and release of cytochrome c confirmed that the neem limonoids transduced the apoptotic signal via the mitochondrial pathway. Altered expression of the Bcl-2 family of proteins, inhibition of NF-kappaB activation and over-expression of caspases and survivin provide compelling evidence that azadirachtin and nimbolide induce a shift of balance toward a pro-apoptotic phenotype. Antioxidants such as azadirachtin and nimbolide that can simultaneously arrest the cell cycle and target multiple molecules involved in mitochondrial apoptosis offer immense potential as anti-cancer therapeutic drugs.
The general pharmacological effects of cadralazine and its major metabolite ISF 2405 were studied by comparing them with those of hydralazine. Cadralazine at 3.0 mg/kg, i.v., increased respiratory movement and heart rate and decreased blood pressure in cats. Cadralazine at 3.0 mg/kg, i.v., inhibited the hypertensive response induced by adrenaline, but showed little effect on the hypotensive response induced by acetylcholine in cats. Cadralazine and ISF 2405 at 10(-4) g/ml had negative chronotropic effects on isolated guinea-pig atria. The drug at 2.5 mg/kg, p.o., inhibited the passage of BaSO4 in the gastrointestinal tract in mice. The drug at 5.0 mg/kg, i.d. or more inhibited gastric secretion in rats. Cadralazine, except at higher doses, had little effect on spontaneous gastric motility and uterine spontaneous movement in rats. Cadralazine at 2.5 mg/kg, p.o., or more reduced or tended to reduce urine volume and urinary excretion of electrolytes. The drug showed little effect on coagulation and osmotic fragility in blood cell in rats nor on hemolysis and platelet aggregation in rabbits. ISF 2405, however, showed slight or moderate influence on hemolysis at concentrations as high as 0.01-1.0%. Cadralazine at 5.0 mg/kg, p.o. or more antagonized carrageenin-induced hind paw edema in rats. In conclusion, these effects of cadralazine were found to be qualitatively identical with those of hydralazine.
The aim of the present study has been to investigate the effect of conditions of modeled microgravity using a three-dimensional clinostat (Random Positioning Machine, RPM) on edema and thermal hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in the hind paw of rat. Our results showed that RPM reduced PGE2-evoked edema associated to a significant decrease in hyperalgesia compared to ground control animals. To further characterize the mechanisms by which RPM induces anti-inflammatory and anti-hyperalgesic action, we performed biochemical assays of PGE2 and Western immunoblot experiments to assess whether the intraplantar administration of exogenous PGE2 modifies the expression of the iNOS. These results showed that RPM diminished the levels of PGE2 in exudates of paws previously treated with PGE2, but did not influence the iNOS expression.
Temsirolimus (CCI-779) is a novel inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin. This Phase 1 study was aimed at investigating the maximum-tolerated dose, toxicity, pharmacokinetics and antitumor activity in Japanese patients with advanced solid tumors.
Temsirolimus was given as a 30 min intravenous infusion once a week. Patients with solid tumors not amenable to standard forms of treatment were eligible. Dose escalation of temsirolimus was planned from 15, 45, 80 to 165 mg/m(2). The pharmacokinetics of temsirolimus and sirolimus in whole blood were examined for cycles 1, 2, 4 and 5 of treatment.
Ten patients (median age 60.5 years; range 41-69 years) with advanced solid tumors were enrolled. Their primary cancers were renal cell carcinoma (five patients), lung cancer (three patients) and colorectal cancer (two patients). The major toxicities were hypophosphatemia diarrhea, hyperglycemia, stomatitis, pyrexia, elevated aspartate aminotransferase, rash, reduced neutrophil count, elevated alanine aminotransferase, anorexia, hypertriglyceridemia and somnolence. Two of three patients who received temsirolimus 45 mg/m(2) developed dose-limiting toxicities of Grade 3 stomatitis (one patient) and Grade 3 diarrhea (two patients). The maximum-tolerated dose was 15 mg/m(2). The peak blood concentrations of temsirolimus and sirolimus, a major active metabolite, increased in a dose-dependent manner. The area under the concentration-versus-time curve of sirolimus, but not temsirolimus, increased in a dose-dependent manner.
The recommended dose for Phase 2 clinical studies of temsirolimus in Japanese patients with advanced solid tumors is 15 mg/m(2) intravenously once a week.
In the present study, the phytoprotective effects of gypenosides from Gynostemma pentaphyllum throughout the gastrointestinal tract and kidney were examined in indomethacin-treated rats. Indomethacin induced gastric and intestinal damage as well as renal toxicity after a single toxicological dose (10 mg/kg) in rats. Acute oral administration of the gypenoside extract (200 mg/kg) significantly reduced gastric and intestinal toxicity induced by indomethacin as measured by ulceration, caecal haemoglobin and plasma haptoglobin. A significant decrease in small intestinal lactose fermenting enterobacteria was evident in animals treated with indomethacin and those pre-treated with G. pentaphyllum then indomethacin. In the renal system, kidney toxicity was evident after indomethacin and in animals pre-treated with indomethacin plus G. pentaphyllum with an increase in urinary N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase and a decrease in urinary sodium and chloride electrolyte output. However, a significant increase in urinary microprotein in indomethacin-treated animals was not present in indomethacin plus G. pentaphyllum-treated animals. These studies demonstrate the efficacy of Gynostemma pentaphyllum in lowering gastrointestinal damage induced by indomethacin. The results suggest further investigations of Gynostemma gypenosides are warranted to examine the mechanisms of this phytoprotective activity.
The hormonal activity of natural estrogens is influenced by the degree to which they bind to serum proteins. In the pregnant female and in the fetus, greater than 99% of estradiol may be bound by serum binding proteins. Therefore, even though total serum levels of estradiol appear very high in fetuses, we have found that in rodent fetuses, there is a very low free concentration of estradiol (0.2 pg/ml). Naturally occurring variation in fetal serum estradiol predicts differences in numerous postnatal traits, including prostate size. In addition, when this low level of free estradiol was experimentally increased from 0.2 to 0.3 pg/ml during the last third of fetal life, treated male mice showed an increase in adult prostate weight. Fetal exposure to low doses of xenobiotic estrogens by feeding to pregnant females, including the compounds methoxychlor (20 and 2000 micrograms/kg body weight), DES (0.02 to 2 micrograms/kg body weight) and bisphenol A (2 and 20 micrograms/kg body weight), also led to increased prostate weight in adulthood. In contrast, fetal doses of natural estradiol and DES above the physiological range of estrogenic activity, and within a toxicological dose range, led to the opposite outcome, a reduction in subsequent adult prostate weight. This indicates that it may be impossible to assess endocrine-disrupting activities in response to low doses within a physiological range of activity by using high, toxic doses of xenoestrogens in testing procedures. We have developed approaches in vitro to predict the potential estrogenic bioactivity of compounds in the physiologically relevant range in animals and humans. We address the following factors in predicting the final observed endocrine-disrupting effect in the animal: (1) the intrinsic estrogenic activity of a given molecule, (2) the effective free concentration determined by how the molecule is carried in serum, (3) partitioning between aqueous and lipid compartments in body and cell lipids, and (4) absorption and metabolism relative to the route of exposure. The studies and strategies we describe are important in developing criteria for a tiered testing system for the detection of estrogenic chemicals as well as endocrine-disrupting chemicals with different modes of action.
A 39-yr-old female on high-dose Danazol presented with jaundice and pruritus. Danazol-induced cholestasis was suspected, and the drug was discontinued. A liver biopsy revealed panlobular cholestasis with portal and periportal inflammation. The cholestasis resolved completely in 8 wk. This is a rare case of Danazol-induced cholestasis and should be considered in the differential diagnosis of drug-induced liver injury.
Both dopamine agonists and levodopa may induce episodes termed "sleep attacks" in patients with PD. These episodes are well detailed behaviorally, but little is known about their neurophysiologic characterization. The authors performed a 24-hour polysomnography (PSG) in a PD patient taking pergolide in combination with levodopa, in which four of these diurnal sleep episodes occurred. PSG findings were followed up after pergolide withdrawal. Sleep episodes shared with narcolepsy both behavioral and EEG findings. However, pergolide partly restored a more physiologic sleep architecture, which was disrupted during therapy with levodopa alone.
The growing number of psychiatrists who prescribe carbamazepine therapy should be alert to the drug's potential complications. The authors report three such cases: one of hepatitis, one of a fatality due to aplastic anemia, and one of a severe dermatological reaction.
This study was designed to investigate the importance of vagal cardiac modulation in arterial blood pressure (ABP) stability before and after glycopyrrolate or atropine treatment. Changes in R-R interval (RRI) and ABP were assessed in 10 healthy young (age, 22 +/- 1.8 yr) volunteers during graded lower body negative pressure (LBNP) before and after muscarinic cholinergic (MC) blockade. Transient hypertension was induced by phenylephrine (1 microg/kg body wt), whereas systemic hypotension was induced by bilateral thigh cuff deflation after a 3-min suprasystolic occlusion. Power spectral densities of systolic [systolic blood pressure (SBP)] and diastolic ABP variability were examined. Both antimuscarinic agents elicited tachycardia similarly without significantly affecting baseline ABP. The increase in SBP after phenylephrine injection (+14 +/- 2 mmHg) was significantly augmented with atropine (+26 +/- 2 mmHg) or glycopyrrolate (+27 +/- 3 mmHg) and associated with a diminished reflex bradycardia. The decrease in SBP after cuff deflation (-9.2 +/- 1.2 mmHg) was significantly greater after atropine (-15 +/- 1 mmHg) or glycopyrrolate (-14 +/- 1 mmHg), with abolished reflex tachycardia. LBNP significantly decreased both SBP and RRI. However, after antimuscarinic agents, the reduction in SBP was greater (P < 0.05) and was associated with less tachycardia. Antimuscarinic agents reduced (P < 0.05) the low-frequency (LF; 0.04-0.12 Hz) power of ABP variability at rest. The LF SBP oscillation was significantly augmented during LBNP, which was accentuated (P < 0.05) after antimuscarinic agents and was correlated (r = -0.79) with the decrease in SBP. We conclude that antimuscarinic agents compromised ABP stability by diminishing baroreflex sensitivity, reflecting the importance of vagal cardiac function in hemodynamic homeostasis. The difference between atropine and glycopyrrolate was not significant.
