Controlled studies in 1990-1992 with Danish, Sardinian, and Hongkong-Chinese patients consistently revealed a prevalence of goiter of about 50% in lithium treated patients. This is far beyond the frequency generally assumed for Germany, the whole country still known to be an endemic goiter area. Hypothyroidism as a side effect of lithium occurs in a clearly different group of patients and is much less frequent, the overall incidence being not substantially different from the incidence in the general population. But the risk of becoming hypothyroid as well as hyperparathyroid during lithium prophylaxis is markedly higher in women over 45 years of age, who in the general population are also prone to both endocrine dysfunctions. Lithium is considered to have a provoking role. Lithium is known to be accumulated in the bone and an impact on bone metabolism was shown in animal studies. The data reviewed prohibit the use of lithium during lactation and enforce strict indication in children. In adults the effect of lithium on bone should be considered only in osteomalacia and severe osteoporosis. This review is illustrated by the case of a 60-year-old woman, who after 4 years of successful treatment with lithiumcarbonate because of schizoaffective psychosis, developed a syndrome of hypercalcemia. Exstirpation of a parathyroid adenoma rendered her normocalcemic. Moreover, a pre-existing diffuse goiter had grown to a large nodular goiter within the course of her 5-year treatment. As she finally became paraparetic, she was admitted to our rehabilitation center for the diseases of the spinal cord. Her paraparesis may have been caused not only by the lithium-induced primary HPT, but in part by lithium itself. There are a few reports on lithium causing peripheral neuropathy at toxic levels. A transient deterioration of a pre-existing neuropathy, as in our case study, may have happened at lithium serum levels not far beyond the upper limit of 0.8 mmol/l.
We prospectively evaluated the incidence of gallbladder pseudolithiasis in children treated with high doses of ceftriaxone for a variety of serious infections. We also monitored the time interval needed for this phenomenon to develop and resolve completely after initiation and cessation of treatment, respectively. Included in this study are 44 children treated with ceftriaxone 100 mg/kg/d divided into 2 equal intravenous doses and followed by serial abdominal sonography. Eleven children developed pseudolithiasis of gallbladder 2-9 d after initiation of ceftriaxone therapy. Six children (54.5%) developed this complication within the first 3 d. Lithiasis completely resolved 8-23 d after the end of treatment. In conclusion, pseudolithiasis of the gallbladder developed in 25% of sick children and completely resolved in all patients. Early development of this complication was not exceptional. It occurred in more than half of these children.
Carbamazepine is one of the drugs most widely prescribed for the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia and psychomotor seizures. Coincidentally with its use, hypersensitivity reactions to this agent have ben reported with increasing frequency. This report documents our recent encounter with 2 patients who developed hepatitis within one month of beginning carbamazepine therapy for temporal-lobe epilepsy. The occurrence of fever, skin rash and arthralgias suggest immunologic hypersensitivity as does eosinophilia and raised level of IgE, as seen in our patients. After withdrawal of the drug, symptoms and signs disappeared rapidly. We also describe a patient with psychomotor seizures who had ingested carbamazepine for less than 2 months before presenting with a febrile illness characterized by rash, arthritis, lymphadenopathy, epatosplenomegaly and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates with eosinophilia. The reaction cleared on cessation of the drug. Besides showing antinuclear antibody without DNA-precipitating antibody, this patient had an increased helper-T-cell count as well as a decreased number of T lymphocytes with suppressor activity. Taken together, these observations make it reasonable to speculate that carbamazepine may have interfered with lymphocyte triggering, thereby favouring the emergence of B cells with autoimmune propensities.
Physicians and pharmacists should be alerted to the potential adverse effects of phenylpropanolamine-containing products, which may include exaggerated hypertensive effects, arrhythmias (premature ventricular and atrial contractions together with paroxysmal ventricular or atrial tachycardia), psychotic reactions, and neurologic effects (grand mal seizures and intracerebral hemorrhage). A case of paroxysmal atrial tachycardia in a woman, after the ingestion of diet pills containing phenylpropanolamine and caffeine is reported.
This long-term, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2 x 2 factorial, angiographic trial evaluated the effects of cholesterol lowering and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition on coronary atherosclerosis in normocholesterolemic patients.
There were a total of 460 patients: 230 received simvastatin and 230, a simvastatin placebo, and 229 received enalapril and 231, an enalapril placebo (some subjects received both drugs and some received a double placebo). Mean baseline measurements were as follows: cholesterol level, 5.20 mmol/L; triglyceride level, 1.82 mmol/L; HDL, 0.99 mmol/L; and LDL, 3.36 mmol/L. Average follow-up was 47.8 months. Changes in quantitative coronary angiographic measures between simvastatin and placebo, respectively, were as follows: mean diameters, -0.07 versus -0.14 mm (P:=0.004); minimum diameters, -0.09 versus -0.16 mm (P:=0. 0001); and percent diameter stenosis, 1.67% versus 3.83% (P:=0.0003). These benefits were not observed in patients on enalapril when compared with placebo. No additional benefits were seen in the group receiving both drugs. Simvastatin patients had less need for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (8 versus 21 events; P:=0.020), and fewer enalapril patients experienced the combined end point of death/myocardial infarction/stroke (16 versus 30; P:=0.043) than their respective placebo patients.
This trial extends the observation of the beneficial angiographic effects of lipid-lowering therapy to normocholesterolemic patients. The implications of the neutral angiographic effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition are uncertain, but they deserve further investigation in light of the positive clinical benefits suggested here and seen elsewhere.
Literature exists describing the complications associated with therapeutic physostigmine administration. No series exists detailing strictly diagnostic use. Our objective was to document the complications associated with diagnostic physostigmine administration in emergency department (ED) patients suspected of having antimuscarinic delirium.
Two reviewers blinded to the study purpose performed a retrospective chart review on all adult patients administered physostigmine diagnostically over a 79-month period at a tertiary-care hospital. Twenty percent of charts were reviewed by both abstractors. The data abstracted from the chart included total dose of physostigmine, effect on mental status, any subsequent complications, or any use of atropine. Discharge summaries, toxicology consultations, and urine drug screens were used to determine the cause of the altered mental status.
Thirty-nine adult patients were administered varying doses of physostigmine (range 0.5 to 2 mg). The reviewers were able to determine the cause of the altered mental status in 35 patients. The cause was purely antimuscarinic in 19 patients, purely nonantimuscarinic in 10 patients, mixed antimuscarinic and nonantimuscarinic in 2 patients, psychiatric in 4 patients, and unknown in 4 patients. A total of 22 patients had full reversal of delirium, and this group comprised all 19 patients with a purely antimuscarinic cause and 3 patients in whom a cause was never determined. One (2.6%) in 39 patients had a brief convulsion without adverse sequelae. This patient was poisoned with an antimuscarinic drug. No patient had dysrhythmias, had signs of cholinergic excess, or was administered atropine.
Diagnostic physostigmine administration was without significant complication when given to ED patients suspected of having antimuscarinic delirium. Although a relatively small series, it contributes to the safety profile of physostigmine.
Voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) are large transmembrane proteins that conduct sodium ions across the membrane and by doing so they generate signals of communication between many kinds of tissues. They are responsible for the generation and propagation of action potentials in excitable cells, in close collaboration with other channels like potassium channels. Therefore, genetic defects in sodium channel genes can cause a wide variety of diseases, generally called "channelopathies." The first insights into the mechanism of action potentials and the involvement of sodium channels originated from Hodgkin and Huxley for which they were awarded the Nobel Prize in 1963. These concepts still form the basis for understanding the function of VGSCs. When VGSCs sense a sufficient change in membrane potential, they are activated and consequently generate a massive influx of sodium ions. Immediately after, channels will start to inactivate and currents decrease. In the inactivated state, channels stay refractory for new stimuli and they must return to the closed state before being susceptible to a new depolarization. On the other hand, studies with neurotoxins like tetrodotoxin (TTX) and saxitoxin (STX) also contributed largely to our today's understanding of the structure and function of ion channels and of VGSCs specifically. Moreover, neurotoxins acting on ion channels turned out to be valuable lead compounds in the development of new drugs for the enormous range of diseases in which ion channels are involved. A recent example of a synthetic neurotoxin that made it to the market is ziconotide (Prialt(®), Elan). The original peptide, ω-MVIIA, is derived from the cone snail Conus magus and now FDA/EMA-approved for the management of severe chronic pain by blocking the N-type voltage-gated calcium channels in pain fibers. This review focuses on the current status of research on neurotoxins acting on VGSC, their contribution to further unravel the structure and function of VGSC and their potential as novel lead compounds in drug development.
In parkinsonian patients as well as in primate models with levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID), an increase in the expression of preproenkephalin in the striatal output pathways has been demonstrated. Does this increase contribute to the development of LID, or does it rather act as a protection mechanism? To clarify this question, we have investigated the effect of different doses of morphine on the dyskinetic response to L-DOPA, a D2 agonist, and a D1 agonist. We have used MPTP-treated cynomolgus monkeys with a stable parkinsonian syndrome and reproducible dyskinesias to L-DOPA. Co-administration of morphine with dopaminergic agents produces a significant reduction in the severity of dyskinesias, while it does not affect the anti-parkinsonian efficacy of the treatment. This study suggests that the increased production of opioids in the striatal projection neurons might have a protective role to compensate the changes in synaptic transmissions that are responsible for dyskinesias, rather than be the cause of dyskinesias.
An 8-year-old child with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) developed seizures associated with bilateral lucencies on CT scan during standard induction therapy with vincristine and prednisone. Because of the progressive nature of her symptoms, a brain biopsy was performed and revealed neurotubular dissociation, which, in experimental animal models, is characteristic of vincristine toxicity. All other causes of encephalopathy have been ruled out. The drug was withheld and the clinical symptoms and findings resolved. The occurrence of unusual and severe neurologic side effects during the course of conventional induction therapy for childhood ALL warrants careful evaluation for evidence of vincristine toxicity.
Cocaine and its metabolites can produce vasospasm, and cocaine-dependent patients are at increased risk for stroke. Based on previous case reports, we hypothesized that the incidence of hyperintense brain lesions observed on T2-weighted MR images would also be increased in asymptomatic cocaine-dependent individuals.
Sixty-two male "crack" (smoked) cocaine-dependent participants ranging in age from 25 to 66 years were compared with 116 normal male control participants ranging in age from 25 to 80 years. Those with histories of neurologic symptoms or illnesses were excluded. The severity of hyperintense lesions was rated on a 0- to 3-point scale, and ratings of 3 were used in the data analysis as an indicator of a probable pathologic process. Three regions were separately rated: the cerebral white matter, insular subcortex white matter, and subcortical gray matter (basal ganglia and thalamus region).
Significantly increased risk of severe lesions was observed in the two white matter regions of the cocaine-dependent group (odds ratio of 16.7 and 20.3) but not in the subcortial gray matter region (odds ratio of 1.4). In the insula subcortex white matter, the risk of lesions increased with age in the cocaine-dependant sample, but remained essentially absent among normal controls through the age of 80 years. In the cerebral white matter, the relationship of age and risk of lesion among normal participants was similar in shape to that in cocaine-dependent participants, but equivalent risk was seen 20 years earlier among cocaine-dependent participants.
Cocaine-dependent participants had a significantly increased age-related risk of white matter damage. The possible clinical implications of this damage are discussed.
Trazodone possesses minimal anticholinergic properties and, therefore, is generally regarded as having less cardiotoxic potential than other antidepressants. This report describes a young woman who developed significant QT prolongation and delayed atrioventricular nodal conduction after acute trazodone overdose. The case adds to the existing literature because it has a number of strengths, namely that confounding drugs and alcohol were lacking, trazodone exposure was confirmed by drug assay, and early presentation to hospital gave a valuable opportunity to study the time-course of the cardiac effects. This case reminds us to consider the possibility of cardiotoxic effects after trazodone overdose, even in young patients with no established cardiovascular disease.
Accumulating preclinical and clinical evidence data suggests that compounds that selectively activate neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes may have therapeutic utility for the treatment of several neurological disorders. In the present study, the in vitro pharmacological properties of the novel cholinergic channel modulator ABT-089 [2-methyl-3-(2-(S)-pyrrolidinylmethoxy)pyridine], are described. In radioligand binding studies, ABT-089 was shown to display selectivity toward the high-affinity (-)-cytisine binding site present on the alpha4beta2 nAChR subtype (Ki = 16 nM) relative to the [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding site present on the alpha7 (Ki > or = 10,000 nM) and alpha1beta1deltagamma (Ki > 1000 nM) nAChR subtypes. In cation flux and channel current studies, ABT-089 displayed a more complex profile than (-)-nicotine having agonist, partial agonist and inhibitory activities depending on the nAChR subtype with which it interacts. ABT-089 differentially stimulated neurotransmitter release. The compound displayed a similar potency and efficacy to (-)-nicotine to facilitate ACh release (ABT-089, EC50 = 3 microM; (-)-nicotine, EC50 = 1 microM), but was markedly less potent and less efficacious than (-)-nicotine to stimulate dopamine release (ABT-089, EC50 = 1.1 microM; (-)-nicotine, EC50 = 0.04 microM). Additionally, ABT-089 was neuroprotective against the excitotoxic insults elicited by exposure to glutamate in both rat cortical cell cultures (EC50 = 10 +/- 3 microM) and differentiated human IMR32 cells (EC50 = 3 +/- 2 microM). The differential full agonist/partial agonist profile of ABT-089, as compared with (-)-nicotine and ABT-418, illustrates the complexity of nAChR activation and the potential to target responses at subclasses of the neuronal and peripheral receptors.
The occurrence of supraventricular tachycardia after high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone pulse therapy (HIVMPT) in a patient with active rheumatoid arthritis is described for the first time. This case report further expands the range of arrhythmias that can occur with HIVMPT. Other arrhythmias previously reported to occur after HIVMPT include atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, junctional rhythm, and ventricular tachycardia. To the best of our knowledge, supraventricular tachycardia has not been reported previously, although severe bradycardia, hypotension, asystole, cardiovascular collapse, and sudden death have been documented. A review of the literature indicates that these case reports not withstanding, HIVMPT is generally safe, and cardiovascular toxicity is rare. However, close supervision with repeated measurements of blood pressure, electrocardiogram, and blood electrolytes is mandatory during and immediately after HIVMPT, especially for patients with pre-existing cardiovascular disease, and the lowest effective dose of methylprednisolone should be infused at a slow rate.
Thymidylate synthase, dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase, thymidine phosphorylase, and orotate phosphoribosyltransferase gene expressions are reported to be valid predictive markers for 5-fluorouracil sensitivity to gastrointestinal cancer. For more reliable predictability, their expressions in cancer cells and stromal cells in the cancerous tissue (cancerous stroma) have been separately investigated using laser capture microdissection.
Thymidylate synthase, dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase, thymidine phosphorylase, and orotate phosphoribosyltransferase mRNA in cancer cells and cancerous stroma from samples of 47 gastric and 43 colon cancers were separately quantified by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction after laser capture microdissection.
In both gastric and colon cancers, thymidylate synthase and orotate phosphoribosyltransferase mRNA expressions were higher (p < 0.0001, p <0.0001 respectively in gastric cancer and P = 0.0002, p < 0.0001 respectively in colon cancer) and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase mRNA expressions were lower in cancer cells than in cancerous stroma (P = 0.0136 in gastric cancer and p < 0.0001 in colon cancer). In contrast, thymidine phosphorylase mRNA was higher in cancer cells than in cancerous stroma in gastric cancer (p < 0.0001) and lower in cancer cells than in cancerous stroma in colon cancer (P = 0.0055).
By using this method, we could estimate gene expressions separately in cancer cells and stromal cells from colon and gastric cancers, in spite of the amount of stromal tissue. Our method is thought to be useful for accurately evaluating intratumoral gene expressions.
The efficacy and tolerability of moclobemide (300-600 mg daily) and fluoxetine (20-40 mg daily) were compared in a 6-week, double-blind study of 65 inpatients and 34 outpatients suffering from major depressive episodes (DSM III-R). No statistically significant differences between the two treatment groups were noted regarding efficacy (HDRS, CGI) or safety (adverse events, laboratory examination, vital signs). Moclobemide (300-600 mg daily) and fluoxetine (20-40 mg daily) would thus appear to be comparable both in antidepressant efficacy and tolerability. Doubling the low dosage in non-responders after 3 weeks resulted in a statistically significant improvement of CGI in the moclobemide group by comparison with the fluoxetine group at study end, suggesting that 600 mg moclobemide/day can still improve the patient's condition, while 40 mg fluoxetine/day does not. Sexual dysfunction was reported in two patients taking fluoxetine.
A study was made of the effect of systemic injection of lys8-vasopressin (LVP) and Arg8-vasotocin (AVT) on avoidance reaction in male rats. Both the compounds had no appreciable effect on the rate of the formation. However, in the presence of learning disorders induced by cyproheptadine. LVP completely and AVT partially recovered the normal time course of learning.
Diesel engine exhaust (DEE) has recently been classified as a known human carcinogen.
We derived a meta-exposure-response curve (ERC) for DEE and lung cancer mortality and estimated lifetime excess risks (ELRs) of lung cancer mortality based on assumed occupational and environmental exposure scenarios.
We conducted a meta-regression of lung cancer mortality and cumulative exposure to elemental carbon (EC), a proxy measure of DEE, based on relative risk (RR) estimates reported by three large occupational cohort studies (including two studies of workers in the trucking industry and one study of miners). Based on the derived risk function, we calculated ELRs for several lifetime occupational and environmental exposure scenarios and also calculated the fractions of annual lung cancer deaths attributable to DEE.
We estimated a lnRR of 0.00098 (95% CI: 0.00055, 0.0014) for lung cancer mortality with each 1-μg/m3-year increase in cumulative EC based on a linear meta-regression model. Corresponding lnRRs for the individual studies ranged from 0.00061 to 0.0012. Estimated numbers of excess lung cancer deaths through 80 years of age for lifetime occupational exposures of 1, 10, and 25 μg/m3 EC were 17, 200, and 689 per 10,000, respectively. For lifetime environmental exposure to 0.8 μg/m3 EC, we estimated 21 excess lung cancer deaths per 10,000. Based on broad assumptions regarding past occupational and environmental exposures, we estimated that approximately 6% of annual lung cancer deaths may be due to DEE exposure.
Combined data from three U.S. occupational cohort studies suggest that DEE at levels common in the workplace and in outdoor air appear to pose substantial excess lifetime risks of lung cancer, above the usually acceptable limits in the United States and Europe, which are generally set at 1/1,000 and 1/100,000 based on lifetime exposure for the occupational and general population, respectively.
Four patients with inoperable, locally advanced breast cancer were treated i.a. with 25-35 mg/m2 doxorubicin given as a 6-h infusion on 2 successive days. In each patient, the catheter was introduced percutaneously via the femoral or brachial artery using local anaesthetic and positioned in the internal mammary artery without complications. However, within 48 h of starting treatment all four patients developed extensive erythema over the chest wall, which progressed to superficial ulceration in one case. Two patients also developed a raised hemidiaphragm and phrenic nerve paralysis that was associated with a pleural effusion in one case. This study closed prematurely because of unacceptable local toxicity; thus, we cannot assess the activity of doxorubicin given in this way. If this approach to local control is to be tested further in locally advanced breast cancer, lower doxorubicin doses should be used, or different drugs selected.
In 1988, an optimal antiplatelet regimen for secondary stroke prevention remained to be defined. We undertook a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial to investigate the safely and efficacy of low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), modified-release dipyridamole, and the two agents in combination. Patients with prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA) were randomised to treatment with ASA alone (50 mg daily), modified-release dipyridamole alone (400 mg daily), the two agents in a combined formulation, or placebo. Primary endpoints were stroke, death, and stroke or death. TIA and other vascular events were secondary endpoints. Patients were followed on treatment for two years. We concluded that dipyridamole, in a modified-release form, at a dose of 200 mg b.d. and ASA 25 mg b.d., have been shown to be equally effective in the secondary prevention of ischaemic stroke and TIA; that when co-prescribed, the protective effects are additive, the combination being significantly more effective than each agent prescribed singly; and that low-dose ASA does not eliminate the propensity for induced bleeding.
Patients who develop persistent parkinsonism while on chronic neuroleptic therapy may be predisposed towards the development of tardive dyskinesia (TD). We investigated this issue in an animal model of TD by examining the association between catalepsy and the syndrome of neuroleptic-induced vacuous chewing movements (VCMs). VCMs were measured every 3 weeks for 33 weeks while rats received injections of haloperidol decanoate. Catalepsy was measured after the second through the seventh injections of the depot neuroleptic. There were no correlations between the severity of catalepsy scores after the second or third injections of haloperidol and the severity of the overall VCM syndrome. However, the severity of the catalepsy score following the third through seventh injections of haloperidol strongly correlated with the concurrent number of VCMs. Persistent high catalepsy scores across the six catalepsy rating sessions were strongly associated with the development of persistent severe VCMs. These findings suggest that, to the extent that persistent parkinsonian signs in humans are associated with a propensity towards the development of TD, the VCM syndrome in rats is at least a partially faithful animal model of this relationship.
Prolonged exposure of the brain to ethanol is a prerequisite for developing ethanol dependence, but the underlying neural adaptations are unknown. Here we demonstrate that rats subjected to repeated cycles of intoxication and withdrawal develop a marked and long-lasting increase in voluntary ethanol intake. Exposure-induced but not spontaneous alcohol intake is antagonized by acamprosate, a compound clinically effective in human alcoholism. Expression analysis of cingulate cortex and amygdala reveals a set of long-term up-regulated transcripts in this model. These include members of pathways previously implicated in alcohol dependence (glutamatergic, endocannabinoid, and monoaminergic neurotransmission), as well as pathways not previously thought to be involved in this disorder (e.g., members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway). Thus, alternating periods of ethanol intoxication and withdrawal are sufficient to induce an altered functional brain state, which is likely to be encoded by long-term changes in gene expression. These observations may have important implications for how alcoholism is managed clinically. Novel clinically effective treatments may be possible to develop by targeting the products of genes found to be regulated in our model.
Cancer cells have an abnormal energetic metabolism. One of the earliest discovered hallmarks of cancer had its roots in bioenergetics, as many tumours were found in the 1920s to exhibit a high glycolytic phenotype. An animal with cancer shows significant and progressive energy loss from the host (i.e. noncancerous) tissues, which could occur by the establishment of a systemic energy-depriving cycle involving the interaction of tumour glycolysis and host gluconeogenesis. Tamoxifen (TAM) is a nonsteroidal antioestrogen that is widely used in adjuvant therapy for all stages of breast carcinoma. To improve the therapeutic efficacy of TAM and to expand its usage in the treatment of breast cancer, it is necessary to establish an energy-enhancing programme. In order to provide sufficient energy and to prevent cancer cachexia, TAM can be supplemented with energy-modulating vitamins (EMV). In this investigation the augmentation of the efficacy of TAM by the effects of EMV supplementation on carbohydrate-metabolizing enzymes, the mitochondrial Krebs cycle and respiratory enzymes was evaluated in the mammary gland of carcinoma-bearing rats.
Female albino Sprague-Dawley rats were selected for the investigation. The experimental set-up included one control and four experimental groups. Mammary carcinoma was induced with 7,12- dimethyl benz(a)anthracene (25 mg), and TAM was administered orally (10 mg/kg body weight per day) along with EMV which comprised riboflavin (45 mg/kg per day), niacin (100 mg/kg per day) and coenzyme Q(10) (40 mg/kg per day).
Measurements were made on tumour tissue and surrounding normal tissue in all experimental groups. Tumour tissue showed significant (P<0.05) increases in the glycolytic enzymes hexokinase, phosphoglucoisomerase and aldolase, and significant decreases in the gluconeogenic enzymes glucose-6-phosphatase and fructose-1,6-biphosphatase. In contrast, the surrounding tissue showed significant decreases in glycolytic enzymes and significant increases in gluconeogenic enzymes. The activities of the mitochondrial Krebs cycle enzymes isocitrate dehydrogenase, alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, succinate dehydrogenase and malate dehydrogenase, and respiratory chain enzymes NADH dehydrogenase and cytochrome c oxidase were significantly reduced in both tumour and surrounding tissue of the mammary carcinoma-bearing rats. These biochemical disturbances were effectively counteracted by supplementation with EMV, which restored the activities of all these enzyme to their respective control levels.
Combination therapy of TAM with EMV not only alters carbohydrate metabolism but can also prevent body weight loss by enhancing the host energy metabolism.
The free-radical-trapping agent NXY-059 showed promise as a neuroprotectant in the Stroke-Acute Ischemic NXY Treatment I (SAINT I) trial, reducing disability when given to patients who had acute ischemic stroke. We sought confirmation of efficacy in a second, larger trial.
We enrolled 3306 patients with acute ischemic stroke in a randomized, double-blind trial to receive a 72-hour infusion of intravenous NXY-059 or placebo within 6 hours after the onset of stroke symptoms. Our primary end point was the distribution of disability scores on the modified Rankin scale at 90 days. We examined scores on neurologic and activities-of-daily-living scales as secondary end points. We also tested the hypothesis that NXY-059 would reduce alteplase-related intracranial hemorrhages.
The efficacy analysis was based on 3195 patients. Prognostic factors were well balanced between the treatment groups. Mortality was equal in the two groups, and adverse-event rates were similar. The distribution of scores on the modified Rankin scale did not differ between the group treated with NXY-059 (1588 patients) and the placebo group (1607 patients; P=0.33 by the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test; odds ratio for limiting disability, 0.94; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.83 to 1.06). Analysis of categorized scores on the modified Rankin scale confirmed the lack of benefit: the odds ratio for trichotomization into modified Rankin scale scores of 0 to 1 versus 2 to 3 versus 4 to 6 was 0.92 (95% CI, 0.80 to 1.06). There was no evidence of efficacy for any of the secondary end points. Among patients treated with alteplase, there was no difference between the NXY-059 group and the placebo group in the frequency of symptomatic or asymptomatic hemorrhage.
NXY-059 is ineffective for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke within 6 hours after the onset of symptoms. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00061022 [ClinicalTrials.gov].)
Recently a major research effort has been focused on the development of anticancer drugs by targeting the components of a biochemical pathway to induce apoptosis in cancerous cells. Some of the natural products (e.g. paclitaxel) have been proven to be useful in inducing apoptosis in cancer cells with limited specificity. Pancratistatin, a natural product isolated and characterized over a decade ago, has been shown to be cytostatic and antineoplastic. We investigated the specificity and biochemical mechanism of action of pancratistatin. Pancratistatin seemed to show more specificity than VP-16 or paclitaxel as an efficient inducer of apoptosis in human lymphoma (Jurkat) cells, with minimal effect on normal nucleated blood cells. Caspase-3 activation and exposure of phosphatidyl serine on the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane were earlier events than the generation of ROS and DNA fragmentation observed following pancratistatin treatment. This indicates a possible involvement of caspase-3 and plasma membrane proteins in the induction phase of apoptosis. Our results indicate that pancratistatin does not cause DNA double-strand breaks or DNA damage prior to the execution phase of apoptosis in cancer cells. Parallel experimentation with VP-16, a currently used medication for cancer treatment, indicated that VP-16 causes substantial DNA damage in normal non-cancerous blood cells, while pancratistatin does not cause any DNA double-strand breaks or DNA damage in non-cancerous cells. Taken together, our finding that pancratistatin induces apoptosis in cancer cells using non-genomic targets, and more importantly does not seem to have any affect non-cancerous cells, presents a significant platform to develop non-toxic anticancer therapies.
Although of great interest and suggested in prior reports, possible α-synuclein (SNCA) gene-environment interactions have not been well investigated in humans.
We used a population-based approach to examine whether the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD) depended on the combined presence of SNCA variations and two important environmental factors, pesticide exposures and smoking.
Similar to recent meta- and pooled analyses, our data suggest a lower PD risk in subjects who were either homozygous or heterozygous for the SNCA REP1 259 genotype, and a higher risk in subjects who were either homozygous or heterozygous for the REP1 263 genotype, especially among subjects with an age of onset ≤68 years. More importantly, while analyses of interactions were limited by small cell sizes, risk due to SNCA variations seemed to vary with pesticide exposure and smoking, especially in younger onset cases, suggesting an age-of-onset effect.
