We purified the constitutive 73-kDa heat-shock protein (HSP73) from the bovine brain, and produced a specific antibody against the protein in a rabbit. On immunoblotting, the antibody cross reacted only with a protein band with a molecular mass of 73 kDa in a crude extract from normal rat kidneys, which was regarded as rat renal HSP73. The intrarenal immunohistochemical distribution of HSP73 was examined by using this antibody, on both normal rat kidneys and kidneys with puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis. HSP73 was predominantly present in epithelial cells of the glomeruli and the tubules. In normal kidneys, HSP73 was generally localized in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus of these epithelial cells, except for proximal tubular epithelial cells. On the other hand, in kidneys with puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis, HSP73 accumulated in the cytoplasm at a level higher than in the nucleus in association with the severity of renal dysfunction and proteinuria. These findings indicate that HSP73 is mainly expressed in glomerular and tubular epithelial cells in the kidney under a physiological condition, and that its expression changes from the nucleus to the cytoplasm under pathological conditions such as a protein overload to these epithelial cells.
The stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors in the raphe or their blockade in the hippocampus can reduce cognitive deficits induced by blockade of muscarinic receptors in the hippocampus. We investigated the effects of MDL 73005 (8-[2-(2,3-dihydro-1,4-benzodioxin-2-ylmethylamino) ethyl]-8-azaspiro[4,5] decane-7,9-dione methyl sulphonate), an agonist at 5-HT1A somatodendritic autoreceptors and an antagonist at postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors in rats treated systemically with scopolamine. Spatial memory was assessed in a water maze using protocols testing reference and working memory. Home cage locomotor activity was also determined. Working memory and locomotor activity were evaluated before and after para-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA) treatment. Scopolamine produced a weak impairment of reference memory at 0.5 mg/kg, and a more pronounced impairment of working memory at 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg. MDL 73005 alone (2 mg/kg, i.p.) had no effect, but prevented the memory impairments induced by 0.25 mg/kg of scopolamine. Scopolamine induced hyperlocomotion. MDL 73005 alone did not affect locomotor activity, but exacerbated the hyperlocomotion induced by 0.5 mg/kg of scopolamine. pCPA did not abolish the effects of MDL 73005, suggesting that these effects were not due to an action at presynaptic receptors, or even that they involved receptors other than serotonergic ones (e.g., D2). In conclusion, MDL 73005 is able to antagonise moderate spatial memory dysfunctions induced by systemic muscarinic blockade.
The gastroprotective mechanism of the natural diterpene ferruginol was assessed in mice and rats. The involvement of gastric prostaglandins (PGE(2)), reduced glutathione, nitric oxide or capsaicin receptors was evaluated in mice either treated or untreated with indometacin, N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) or ruthenium red, respectively, and then orally treated with ferruginol or vehicle. Gastric lesions were induced by oral administration of ethanol. The effects of ferruginol on the parameters of gastric secretion were assessed in pylorus-ligated rats. Gastric PGE(2) content was determined in rats treated with ferruginol and/or indometacin. The reduction of gastric glutathione (GSH) content was determined in rats treated with ethanol after oral administration of ferruginol, lansoprazole or vehicle. Finally, the acute oral toxicity was assessed in mice. Indometacin reversed the gastroprotective effect of ferruginol (25 mg kg(-1)) but not NEM, ruthenium red or L-NAME. The diterpene (25 mg kg(-1)) increased the gastric juice volume and its pH value, and reduced the titrable acidity but was devoid of effect on the gastric mucus content. Ferruginol (25, 50 mg kg(-1)) increased gastric PGE(2) content in a dose-dependent manner and prevented the reduction in GSH observed due to ethanol-induced gastric lesions in rats. Single oral doses up to 3 g kg(-1) ferruginol did not elicit mortality or acute toxic effects in mice. Our results showed that ferruginol acted as a gastroprotective agent stimulating the gastric PGE(2) synthesis, reducing the gastric acid output and improving the antioxidant capacity of the gastric mucosa by maintaining the GSH levels.
Disopyramide is an effective class I antiarrhythmic drug and widely used for the treatment of arrhythmias, but it has anticholinergic side effects. In vitro studies demonstrated that dextrorotatory (D-) disopyramide has a stronger anticholinergic action, whereas the levorotatory (L-) isomer has a stronger Na channel blocking action. Because the antiarrhythmic mechanism of disopyramide suppressing digitalis- and two-stage coronary ligation-induced canine ventricular arrhythmias is the drug-induced Na channel block, we examined the antiarrhythmic efficacy of D- and L-disopyramide on two arrhythmia models. On ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia (VT), L-disopyramide 3 mg/kg decreased the arrhythmic ratio (number of ectopic beats/total heart rate), whereas the same dose of the D-isomer was ineffective and a higher dose (5 mg/kg) was needed to suppress the arrhythmia. The effective plasma concentrations (IC50) decreasing the arrhythmic ratio to 50% of the control were 5.3 and 11.3 mu g/ml for L- and D-disopyramide, respectively. We obtained similar results using 24-h two-stage coronary ligation VT. The IC50 were 8.9 and 22.2 mu g/ml for the L- and D-isomers, respectively. Our results indicate that L-disopyramide is about twice as strong an antiarrhythmic drug as the D-isomer.
Endometrial carcinoma is a rare iatrogenic complication due to the adverse estrogenic like effect of Tamoxifen on the uterine mucosa. We report the delayed case of an endometrial carcinoma after an unusual twleve year long daily administration of Tamoxifen (cumulative dose = 131 g). Endovaginal contrast ultrasound examination (Levovist, Schering, Germany) and MRI appearances are described.
Mycoplasma hyorhinis (M. hyorhinis) infection leads cultured cells to various biological alterations in cell metabolism including apoptosis. Apoptosis induced by M. hyorhinis has mainly been considered to be due to mycoplasmal endonucleases. We previously reported that apoptosis in a human carcinoma cell line AZ-521 infected with M. hyorhinis was enhanced by addition of L-ascorbic acid to cell cultures. Since both L-ascorbic acid addition and M. hyorhinis infection activated cellular iNOS, we examined the hypothesis that nitric oxide (NO) exerts an apoptotic effect on M. hyorhinis-infected cells and down-regulates E-cadherin. In this study, we showed that M. hyorhinis infection activates iNOS mRNA synthesis, NO production, and caspase-3 activity and attenuates E-cadherin mRNA synthesis by quantitative real-time PCR, Griess assay and fluorescence caspase-3 detection. L-NAME decreased the numbers of apoptotic cells through inhibition caspase-3 activity. Our results indicate that NO causes anoikis throughout attenuation of E-cadherin and activation of caspase-3 in human gastric carcinoma cell line AZ-521 cells infected with M. hyorhinis.
Clinical trials have revealed that progression of immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN), the most common form of human glomerulonephritis, is inhibited by dietary (n-3) polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) supplementation. The early stages of IgAN can be mimicked by feeding mice the mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON). Here, the effects of consuming the (n-3) PUFA eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) on DON-induced IgAN were assessed relative to dose dependency and to expression of interleukin (IL-6). In the dose-response study, weight gain and feed intake did not differ among mice consuming 20 ppm DON supplemented with 0%, 0.1%, 0.5% and 3% EPA for 16 weeks. Mice fed the two highest EPA concentrations exhibited markedly increased splenic EPA, docosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid, whereas arachidonic acid was decreased in all three EPA fed groups. Deoxynivalenol consumption significantly increased serum IgA and IgA immune complexes as well as kidney mesangial IgA deposition. All three IgAN markers were attenuated in mice fed 3% EPA diet but not in those fed 0.1% or 0.5% EPA. Elevated IgA production was observed in spleen and Peyer's patch (PP) cell cultures derived from mice fed DON in control diets, but this was reduced in cultures from mice fed 0.1%, 0.5% and 3% EPA. Acute DON exposure increased serum levels of IL-6, a cytokine that drives differentiation of IgA-committed B cells to IgA secretion. Relatedly, expression of IL-6 mRNA and IL-6 heteronuclear RNA, a marker of IL-6 transcription, was increased in spleen and PP. All three indicators of IL-6 expression were suppressed in mice consuming 3% EPA. Suppressed IL-6 corresponded to decreased binding activity of two factors that regulate transcription of this cytokine, cyclic AMP response element-binding protein and activator protein-1. The results indicate that a threshold existed for EPA relative to suppression of experimental IgAN and that the threshold dose was effective at inhibiting IL-6 transcription.
Pilocarpine-induced seizures can be mediated by increases in oxidative stress and by cerebral amino acid changes. The present research suggests that antioxidant compounds may afford some level of neuroprotection against the neurotoxicity of seizures in cellular level. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the lipoic acid (LA) effects in glutamate and taurine contents in rat hippocampus after pilocarpine-induced seizures. Wistar rats were treated intraperitoneally (i.p.) with 0.9% saline (Control), pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, Pilocarpine), LA (10 mg/kg, LA), and the association of LA (10 mg/kg) plus pilocarpine (400 mg/kg), that was injected 30 min before of administration of LA (LA plus pilocarpine). Animals were observed during 24 h. The amino acid concentrations were measured using high-performance liquid chromatograph (HPLC). In pilocarpine group, it was observed a significant increase in glutamate content (37%) and a decrease in taurine level (18%) in rat hippocampus, when compared to control group. Antioxidant pretreatment significantly reduced the glutamate level (28%) and augmented taurine content (32%) in rat hippocampus, when compared to pilocarpine group. Our findings strongly support amino acid changes in hippocampus during seizures induced by pilocarpine, and suggest that glutamate-induced brain damage plays a crucial role in pathogenic consequences of seizures, and imply that strong protective effect could be achieved using lipoic acid through the release or decrease in metabolization rate of taurine amino acid during seizures.
Intravenous adenosine triphosphate has been proved to be useful for the treatment of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias. The optimal dose to be employed, however, has yet to be stated. Forty-two episodes of spontaneous paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, observed in 33 patients (16 men and 17 women, mean age 51 years) were treated with intravenous boluses. These were given in 10 mg increments at increasing doses from 10 to 50 mg at intervals of three minutes if the arrhythmia persisted despite the previous dose. When using a dose less than or equal to 40 mg, tachycardia was terminated in 37 of 42 episodes in less than 50 seconds. In four of the remaining five, atrial flutter and ectopic atrial tachycardia were diagnosed after administration of adenosine triphosphate. The other patient was subsequently found to have an atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia incorporating two accessory pathways. More than half of the treated episodes of supraventricular tachycardia terminated with the minimal dose of 10 mg and 7.1% required 40 mg. In five patients, arrhythmia ceased and reappeared despite the use of adenosine triphosphate. All the patients experienced an unpleasant feeling of dyspnoea or suffocation after injection of the drug. Sinus pauses and bradycardia following termination of the arrhythmia were directly correlated with the dose employed (P less than 0.05). We conclude that adenosine triphosphate is a useful, safe and effective drug at low dose in correctly diagnosed reentrant tachycardias involving the atrioventricular node. It is also useful as a diagnostic tool in patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmias.
The United Kingdom Parkinson's Disease Research Group (UKPDRG) trial found an increased mortality in patients with Parkinson's disease randomised to receive selegiline (10 mg/day) and levodopa compared with those taking levodopa alone. Unwanted effects of selegiline on cardiovascular regulation have been investigated as a potential cause for the unexpected mortality finding of the UKPDRG trial.
The cardiovascular responses to a range of physiological stimuli, including standing and head up tilt, were studied in patients with Parkinson's disease receiving levodopa alone and a matched group on levodopa and selegiline.
Head up tilt caused selective and often severe orthostatic hypotension in nine of 16 patients taking selegiline and levodopa, but was without effect on nine patients receiving levodopa alone. Two patients taking selegiline lost consciousness with unrecordable blood pressures and a further four had severe symptomatic hypotension. The normal protective rises in heart rate and plasma noradrenaline were impaired. The abnormal response to head up tilt was reversed by discontinuation of selegiline. Drug withdrawal caused a pronounced deterioration in motor function in 13 of the 16 patients taking selegiline.
Therapy with selegiline and levodopa in combination may be associated with severe orthostatic hypotension not attributable to levodopa alone. Selegiline also has pronounced symptomatic motor effects in advanced Parkinson's disease. The possibilities that these cardiovascular and motor findings might be due either to non-selective inhibition of monoamine oxidase or to amphetamine and met-amphetamine are discussed.
The alkylating agent busulfan (Myleran) adversely affects spermatogenesis in mammals. We treated male mice with single doses of busulfan in order to quantitate its cytotoxic action on spermatogonial cells for comparison with effects of other chemotherapeutic agents, to determine its long-term effects on fertility, and to assess its possible mutagenic action. Both stem cell and differentiating spermatogonia were killed and, at doses above 13 mg/kg, stem cell killing was more complete than that of differentiating spermatogonia. Azoospermia at 56 days after treatment, which is a result of stem cell killing, was achieved at doses of over 30 mg/kg; this dose is below the LD50 for animal survival, which was over 40 mg/kg. Busulfan is the only antineoplastic agent studied thus far that produces such extensive damage to stem, as opposed to differentiating, spermatogonia. The duration of sterility following busulfan treatment depended on the level of stem cell killing and varied according to quantitative predictions based on stem cell killing by other cytotoxic agents. The return of fertility after a sterile period did not occur unless testicular sperm count reached 15% of control levels. Dominant lethal mutations, measured for assessment of possible genetic damage, were not increased, suggesting that stem cells surviving treatment did not propagate a significant number of chromosomal aberrations. Sperm head abnormalities remained significantly increased at 44 weeks after busulfan treatment, however, the genetic implications of this observation are not clear. Thus, we conclude that single doses of busulfan can permanently sterilize mice at nonlethal doses and cause long-term morphological damage to sperm produced by surviving stem spermatogonia.
The present study was designed to evaluate the cardioprotective potential of aqueous leaf extract of Azadirachta indica A. Juss. (AI) on the basis of haemodynamic, biochemical and histopathological parameters in isoprenaline induced myocardial infarction in rats and to compare with vitamin E, a known cardioprotective antioxidant. A significant (p<0.01) decrease in mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), systolic arterial blood pressure (SAP), diastolic arterial blood pressure (DAP) and increase in heart rate (HR) were observed in isoprenaline control group. Isoprenaline showed significant decrease in the level of cardiac marker enzymes [Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and Serum Glutamate Oxalotransaminase (SGOT)] in the heart homogenate with a corresponding increase in their level in serum. In vitamin E control group significant (p<0.05) increase in LDH in heart homogenate and decrease of SGOT and LDH in serum was observed. In isoprenaline control group, significant (p<0.01) increase in total cholesterol and triglycerides levels while decrease in high-density lipoproteins (HDL) was observed. On histopathological examination, myocardial damage in isoprenaline control group further confirmed cardiotoxic effect of isoprenaline. Our data showed that AI (250, 500 and 1000 mg/kg, p.o.) and vitamin E (100 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly restores most of the haemodynamic, biochemical and histopathalogical parameters. Finally we concluded that AI leaf extract exerts equipotent cardioprotective activity in the experimental model of isoprenalin induced myocardial necrosis in rats as compared to vitamin E, a known cardioprotective antioxidant.
Cycloheximide influences synaptic reorganization resulting from pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). To investigate the possible behavioral consequences of this effect, we subjected animals to pilocarpine-induced SE either in the absence (Pilo group) or presence of cycloheximide (Chx group). Animals were further divided regarding the occurrence of spontaneous recurrent seizures (SRS). Two months after SE induction animals were exposed to different behavioral tests. Age-matched naïve animals were used as controls. All epileptic groups showed a significantly diminished freezing time in contextual and tone fear conditioning, performed poorly in the Morris water maze and present less seconds in immobility position as compared to controls. Only Pilo animals explored more extensively the open arms of the elevated plus maze and showed increased in horizontal exploratory activity in the open field as compared to controls. With the exception of Pilo animals without recorded SRS, all other groups had extensive tissue shrinkage in central nucleus of the amygdala as compared to controls. Cycloheximide-treated animals differed from Pilo animals in the extent of hilar loss and supragranular mossy fiber sprouting as well as tissue shrinkage in the dorsal hippocampus. Despite the histological differences seen in the dorsal hippocampus between experimental groups, no differences were encountered in the cognitive tests used to evaluate dorsal hippocampal function. The encountered histological differences between Chx and Pilo animals, however, might underlie the different emotional responses between the two groups.
The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of the second controller medications (long-acting beta2-agonist, leukotriene receptor antagonist and sustained-release theophylline) used in addition to inhaler corticosteroid treatment in moderate persistent asthma. A total of 64 patients with asthma, in the moderate persistent asthma category, were divided into three groups. Patients, all of whom were concurrently using inhaled corticosteroid (Budesonide 400 microg twice daily), were treated for 3 months with either inhaled formoterol 9 microg twice daily (first group), oral zafirlukast 20 mg twice daily (second group), or sustained-release theophylline 400 mg once daily (third group). All of the patients were subjected to assessments on the subject of peak expiratory flow (PEF) variability, forced expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV1), asthma symptom scores (daytime and night-time), supplemental terbutalin use, asthma exacerbations and adverse events. Over the 3-month treatment period. In all of the three groups, significant improvements were recorded in the lung function, asthma symptom scores and supplemental terbutalin use criteria, as a result oftreatments applied. Formoterol treatment resulted in significantly greater and earlier improvements compared with the other two groups in several criteria: PEF variability (17.9 +/- 2.5; 21.9 +/- 3.2; 23.7 +/- 3.3; P < 0.001); asthma symptom score (daytime) (1.6 +/- 0.5; 1 +/- 0.5; 2.0 +/- 0,5; P < 0.05); asthma symptom score (night-time) (1.2 +/- 0.4; 2.2 +/- 0.5; 16 +/- 0.6; P < 0001); and supplement alter butalin use (1.2 +/- 0.3; 1.8 +/- 0.5; 1.7 +/- 0.5; P < 0.05). However, at the end of the treatment, in all of the three groups studied, improvements were attained in overall asthma control and there was no statistical difference among the groups. Although there were no side effects which required the discontinuation of the treatment, it was observed that the maximum side effect was in the second group (20%, 31.6% and 20%, respectively). In conclusion, in patients who still have symptoms on treatment with inhaled corticosteroids, the addition of a long-acting beta2-agonist, leukotriene antagonists or sustained-release theophylline to the treatment is a logical approach, and, in addition to inhaled corticosteroids, any one of these second controller medications may be chosen in patients with moderate asthma.
The electrical, behavioral, and pharmacological properties of seizures induced by morphine, leucine-enkephalin, and the muscarinic cholinergic agonist carbachol were examined and compared. Low-dose carbachol given intracerebroventricularly (ICV) produced seizures similar electrically to those produced by ICV morphine and leucine-enkephalin, although there was some difference in site of subcortical origin of onset. Carbachol and morphine were similar in that they had the same anticonvulsant profile, produced similar behavioral changes, caused generalized absence seizures in low doses and generalized convulsive seizures in high doses, and were capable of chemical kindling. However, opiate-induced seizures were not overcome by cholinergic antagonists, nor were carbachol seizures blocked by opiate antagonists. These data suggest that there may be a common noncholinergic, nonopiatergic system involved in mediating carbachol- and morphine-induced seizures but not enkephalin seizures.
Glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has recently been cloned and shown to have trophic effects on dopaminergic nigral neurons. However, GDNF mRNA has not been detected in striatum or other forebrain areas of adult rat. Using limbic motor status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine to activate neurons in motor and limbic areas, we now demonstrate GDNF mRNA signals in the striatum, hippocampus and cortex using in situ hybridisation. The finding of GDNF mRNA in the stimulated striatum opens the possibility that GDNF may be a target-derived, trophic factor in the nigro-striatal system. This expression of GDNF mRNA may be linked to excitatory cortical input. Increases in GDNF mRNA after status epilepticus in hippocampus and neocortex indicate additional roles for GDNF.
The effect of caffeine given in combination with mefenamic acid on the renal papilla was studied. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups and gavage fed either control suspension, mefenamic acid, mefenamic acid and caffeine or caffeine alone for 4 months. Semiquantitative urinalysis was performed at 3 months and showed increased haematuria in the mefenamic acid and caffeine group. There were no significant differences in serum creatinine at sacrifice. Renal histology revealed more advanced papillary necrosis in rats gavage fed mefenamic acid and caffeine compared with all other groups (p less than 0.0001). Rats fed mefenamic acid alone showed more damage than control and caffeine-fed groups (p less than 0.0001, p less than 0.0002, respectively). This suggests that caffeine potentiates the nephrotoxicity of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, mefenamic acid, on the rat renal papilla. The mechanism of this potentiation by caffeine is yet to be defined.
Methylglyoxal is a spontaneous product of glucose metabolism which is known to have cytotoxic actions and to be present in raised concentrations in hyperglycaemia. It could therefore play an important role in glucose toxicity. We have investigated the cytotoxic effects of methylglyoxal on insulin-secreting cells, which are particularly sensitive to glucose toxicity. Methylglyoxal caused a concentration-dependent increase in the number of apoptotic RINm5F cells within 4-6 hours. A similar effect was observed with rat pancreatic beta-cells. tert-butylglyoxal, which is a poor substrate for the glyoxalase pathway, exerted a similar, though more potent apoptotic action. Dexamethasone and NaF were also found to induce apoptosis in RINm5F cells. Flow cytometric analysis suggested a degree of necrosis in addition to apoptosis resulting from treatment with methylglyoxal. The cytotoxic effect of methylglyoxal could contribute towards glucose toxicity in insulin-secreting cells.
If by regulation of the ideal weight, by type-optimated diet and physical conditioning we do not succeed in a satisfying regulation of the hyperlipoproteinaemias, the indication to the medicamentous therapy is given. For the treatment of type IIa in the first place cholestyramine and essential phospholipids are taken into consideration, in unsatisfying effect the combination cholestyramin-regadrin. For the types IIb-V regadrin and preparations of nicotinic acid are the remedies of choice. In an unsatisfying decrease of lipids the combination regadrin-nicotinic acid and regadrin-buformin-respectively, should be used. To what extent by a medicamentous decrease of lipids a primary or secondary prevention of ischaemic vascular diseases is possible, at present cannot be answered definitively.
Our previous study comparing inhalation and aspiration to administer agents directly to lung indicated that aspiration route is as effective as inhalation while reducing costs for equipment and chemopreventive agent. This study evaluated the chemopreventive efficacy and mechanism of licofelone, a dual inhibitor of COX-2 and 5-lipoxygenase (5-Lox), via oropharyngeal aspiration against mouse lung adenoma. Eight-week-old female A/J mice were given three doses of benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P; 2 mg/dose, gavage) to induce lung adenomas. After dysplasia developed, the mice were given licofelone (0, 0.03, 0.1, or 0.3 mg/kg) for 16 weeks, and tumor incidence and multiplicity in lung were measured. In addition, the expression of a series of biomarkers in lung cancer progression was evaluated at 2 and 16 weeks. Licofelone showed dose-related inhibition of B[a]P-induced tumor incidence and multiplicity at 0.03 and 0.1 mg/kg following 16-week treatment. Licofelone also showed dose-dependent inhibition of COX-2 (25%-41%) and 5-Lox (35%-61%) at 2 and 16 weeks and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA; 41%-61%) at 16 weeks. A dose-dependent increase in apoptosis (1.5- to 2.4-fold) was also observed in licofelone groups. A marginal inhibition of survivin was observed at one dose. In conclusion, this study showed that licofelone via aspiration showed chemopreventive efficacy against mouse lung adenoma with good correlation to early and late biomarkers of lung cancer progression. This is the first study to show that the aspiration route can be an excellent inexpensive alternative to inhalation for direct delivery of drugs to rodent lungs for efficacy testing of potential chemopreventive agents.
1. Maximal aerobic exercise capacity, submaximal endurance exercise performance, and exercise haemodynamics have been studied in sixteen patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension during treatment with captopril and atenolol. 2. Administration of atenolol (1 x 100 mg day-1) or captopril (1 x 100 mg day-1) for 6 weeks resulted in similar supine and erect systolic and diastolic blood pressures. Heart rate was significantly lower during atenolol treatment. 3. Exercise heart rate and systolic blood pressure were significantly lower during atenolol than during captopril treatment, exercise diastolic blood pressure (at 100W) did not differ significantly. With atenolol exercise cardiac output was significantly lower and exercise stroke volume significantly higher than with captopril. 4. Maximal work rate, maximal oxygen consumption and maximal heart rate were significantly lower during atenolol than during captopril treatment (respectively 6%, 8% and 25%). Maximal respiratory exchange ratio and lactate concentration did not differ. 5. No statistically significant difference in submaximal endurance time between atenolol and captopril was found. Endurance time was reduced by 19% during atenolol and by 13% during captopril as compared with placebo. No difference in rating of perceived exertion between atenolol and captopril was present. 6. The results indicate that atenolol will reduce blood pressure during exercise more effectively than captopril in patients with hypertension. The limitation of submaximal endurance exercise performance by both agents is of similar magnitude. This may be regarded as an unwanted side effect in certain physically active patients with hypertension.
'Legal highs' are compounds, plant or fungal material which can be readily bought from the internet without legal restriction and the single chemicals may be structurally related to illegal drugs of abuse such as the amphetamines. Several recent deaths in the UK have been attributed to these legal highs and unfortunately there is little chemical or biological literature on these materials or certified standards. Here, we detail the analysis of the widely consumed synthetic N-methyl-cathinone analogue known as mephedrone ((1) 2-aminomethyl-1-tolyl-propan-1-one (4'-methylmethcathinone)) and report its spectral data and molecular properties. Material was purchased from an internet site and examined by extensive one- and two-dimensional NMR studies, high-resolution mass spectrometry, elemental analysis and optical rotation, which demonstrated the sample to be of high purity and racemic in nature. Additionally, we report the molecular modelling properties of methyl-cathinones and compare them to their corresponding methyl-amphetamine series. This indicated that the methyl-cathinones are considerably more hydrophilic than the methyl-amphetamines which may account for the higher doses that are needed to demonstrate similar effects. The presence of a ketone in the side chain introduces a far more planar quality to the methyl-cathinones which is absent in the methyl-amphetamine series, and this planarity may contribute to toxicity.
Lethal ventricular arrhythmias have occurred in patients taking thioridazine. Therefore, we studied two canine models to determine if thioridazine alters vulnerability to ventricular fibrillation. In 30 chloralose-anesthetized dogs, the repetitive response threshold was used to assess vulnerability during right ventricular stimulation with transvenous catheter electrodes. Placebo, 10 mg/kg of thioridazine (therapeutic dose) or 30 mg/kg of thioridazine (high dose) was infused i.v. (n = 10 each group). Repetitive response threshold, diastolic excitability, QRS, Q-Tc and plasma thioridazine concentrations were measured before and after drug. Both 10 and 30 mg/kg of thioridazine increased diastolic excitability threshold (P < .05) while only the 30 mg/kg dose widened QRS (P < .05) and prolonged Q-Tc (P < .05). RRT was unchanged. In 45 pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs, one stage ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery was performed after pretreatment with placebo, 10 or 30 mg/kg of thioridazine (n = 15 each group). Spontaneous ventricular fibrillation occurred in 6 of 15 dogs (40%) after placebo, 8 of 15 dogs (53%) after 10 mg/kg of thioridazine and 14 of 15 dogs (93%) after 30 mg/ kg of thioridazine. Although thioridazine depressed excitability and had no effect on electrical fibrillation threshold, the 30 mg/kg dose increased the likelihood of spontaneous ventricular fibrillation during acute ischemia.
Cocaine addicts have a number of cognitive deficits that persist following prolonged abstinence. These include impairments in executive functions dependent on the prefrontal cortex, as well as deficits on learning and memory tasks sensitive to hippocampal function. Recent preclinical studies using non-human animals have demonstrated that cocaine treatment can produce persistent deficits in executive functions, but there is relatively little evidence that treatment with cocaine produces persistent deficits in performance on hippocampal-dependent tasks. We recently demonstrated that extended (but not limited) access to self-administered cocaine is especially effective in producing persistent deficits on a test of cognitive vigilance, and therefore, we used this procedure to examine the effects of limited or extended access to cocaine self-administration on recognition memory performance, which is sensitive to hippocampal function. We found that extended access to cocaine produced deficits in recognition memory in rats that persisted for at least 2 weeks after the cessation of drug use. We conclude that the deficits in learning and memory observed in cocaine addicts may be at least in part due to repeated drug use, rather than just due to a pre-existing condition, and that in studying the neural basis of such deficits procedures involving extended access to self-administered cocaine may be especially useful.
The Dlx homeobox gene family is expressed in a complex pattern within the embryonic craniofacial ectoderm and ectomesenchyme. A previous study established that Dlx-2 is essential for development of proximal regions of the murine first and second branchial arches. Here we describe the craniofacial phenotype of mice with mutations in Dlx-1 and Dlx-1 and -2. The skeletal and soft tissue analyses of mice with Dlx-1 and Dlx-1 and -2 mutations provide additional evidence that the Dlx genes regulate proximodistal patterning of the branchial arches. This analysis also elucidates distinct and overlapping roles for Dlx-1 and Dlx-2 in craniofacial development. Furthermore, mice lacking both Dlx-1 and -2 have unique abnormalities, including the absence of maxillary molars. Dlx-1 and -2 are expressed in the proximal and distal first and second arches, yet only the proximal regions are abnormal. The nested expression patterns of Dlx-1, -2, -3, -5, and -6 provide evidence for a model that predicts the region-specific requirements for each gene. Finally, the Dlx-2 and Dlx-1 and -2 mutants have ectopic skull components that resemble bones and cartilages found in phylogenetically more primitive vertebrates.
