Gene polymorphisms of the 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) metabolism-related enzymes-cytochrome P450 (CYP) monooxygenase 2A13 (CYP2A13) and UDP-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT)-2B7 could contribute to the levels of NNK-related metabolites in urine, thereby increasing the susceptibility to urothelial carcinoma (UC). Therefore, our study aimed to evaluate the roles of two gene polymorphisms (CYP2A13 and UGT2B7) of NNK metabolism-related enzymes in the carcinogenesis of UC in Taiwan. A hospital-based pilot case-control study was conducted. There were 121 UC cases and 121 age- and sex-matched healthy participants recruited from March 2007 to April 2009. Urine samples were analyzed for NNK-related metabolites using the liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method. Genotyping was conducted using a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism technique. ANCOVA and multivariate logistic regression were applied for data analyses. In healthy controls, former smokers had significantly higher total NNAL and higher NNAL-Gluc than never smokers or current smokers. Subjects carrying the UGT2B7 268 His/Tyr or Tyr/Tyr genotype had significantly lower total NNAL than those carrying His/His genotype. However, no association was seen between gene polymorphisms of CYP2A13 and UGT2B7 and UC risk after adjustment for age and sex. Significant dose -response associations between total NNAL, free NNAL, the ratios of free NNAL/total NNAL and NNAL-Gluc/total NNAL and UC risk were observed. In the future, large-scale studies will be required to verify the association between the single nucleotide polymorphisms of NNK metabolism-related enzymes and UC risk.
An isomeric mixture of S-[(1 and 2)-phenyl-2-hydroxyethyl]glutathione (PHEG), a glutathione conjugate of styrene, is moderately nephrotoxic. Its in vivo nephrotoxicity was characterized by significant elevations in the urinary excretion of glucose, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, glutamate dehydrogenase, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase and lactic dehydrogenase 24 h after an i.v. administration of PHEG (0.5 mmol/kg) in male Fischer-344 rats. The histologic alterations consisted of moderate tubular damage with proximal tubule vacuolization and accumulation of tubular cast material, indicating an early sign of tubular necrosis. The data suggest that nephrotoxic injury induced by PHEG lies preferentially at the tubular region of the rat kidney involving several subcellular targets. The nephrotoxicity of PHEG was blocked by acivicin, a specific inhibitor of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, by phenylalanylglycine, an inhibitor of cysteinylglycine dipeptidase, as well as by probenecid, a competitive inhibitor of renal organic anion transport system. On the other hand, pretreatment with aminooxyacetic acid, a specific inhibitor of renal cysteine conjugate beta-lyase, failed to inhibit the nephrotoxicity of this glutathione conjugate. Similarly, prior administration of alpha-ketobutyrate, an inducer of renal cysteine conjugate beta-lyase, failed to potentiate its nephrotoxicity, suggesting an insignificant role of beta-lyase in such toxicity. A modest decline in renal cellular GSH due to PHEG but without any concomitant oxidation of GSH to GSSG and without any increase in lipid peroxidation indicates that oxidative stress may not be an important mechanism of its nephrotoxicity. Therefore, the following steps at least, are involved in the development of its nephrotoxicity: (1) renal tubular accumulation of PHEG via a probenecid-sensitive transport process; and (2) its renal metabolism via gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and cysteinylglycine dipeptidase to the corresponding cysteine-S-conjugate.
Orlistat, an antiobesity drug, is cytostatic and cytotoxic to tumor cells. The antitumor activity of orlistat can be attributed to its ability to inhibit the thioesterase domain of fatty acid synthase (FAS). The objective of the present study was to test the effect of orlistat on endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis. Orlistat inhibits endothelial cell FAS, blocks the synthesis of fatty acids, and prevents endothelial cell proliferation. More significantly, orlistat inhibits human neovascularization in an ex vivo assay, which suggests that it may be useful as an antiangiogenic drug. The mechanism of these effects can be traced to the fact that orlistat prevents the display of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor (VEGFR2/KDR/Flk1) on the endothelial cell surface. Thus, orlistat is an antiangiogenic agent with a novel mechanism of action.
In this study, evaluation of the myocardiotoxic effect potential of ciprofloxacin and ofloxacin in juvenile rats and the role of oxidative stress in heart toxicity was conducted. Doses (25 and 50 mg/kg) of each drug were administered to the rats for 1 week. Serum biochemical cardiotoxicity parameters and tissue malondialdehyde and nitric oxide levels were measured. All measured parameters were found elevated in the drug-treated rats, being the highest in the 50-mg/kg ofloxacin-treated rats. Ciprofloxacin and ofloxacin may cause myocardiotoxicity by inducing the oxidative stress in the heart, and nitric oxide is partly responsible for this toxicity.
NSAIDs are known to attenuate the effects of some antihypertensive medications. It is not known whether the new class of angiotensin II receptor antagonists is similarly affected. We conducted a multicenter study assessing the effect of indomethacin on the antihypertensive effects of losartan and captopril. After 4 weeks of placebo washout, hypertensive patients received 6 weeks of active antihypertensive therapy with either 50 mg losartan once daily (n=111) or 25 mg captopril twice daily for 1 week, which was increased to 50 mg twice daily for 5 weeks (n=105). This was followed by 1 week of concomitant therapy with indomethacin (75 mg daily). The primary outcome measure was the change in mean 24-hour ambulatory diastolic blood pressure after the addition of indomethacin. Both captopril and losartan significantly lowered ambulatory diastolic blood pressure (losartan -5.3 mm Hg, P:<0.001; captopril -5.6 mm Hg, P:<0.001) after 6 weeks of therapy. Indomethacin significantly attenuated the 24-hour ambulatory diastolic blood pressure for both losartan (2.2 mm Hg, P:<0.05) and captopril (2.7 mm Hg, P:<0.001) and also attenuated the effect of captopril on trough sitting diastolic blood pressure. Changes in daytime diastolic blood pressure (7:00 AM to 11:00 PM) were similar to the 24-hour response in both groups. Nighttime diastolic blood pressure (11:01 PM to 6:59 AM) was significantly attenuated in captopril-treated patients (2.0 mm Hg, P:<0.05), but losartan was unaffected (0.4 mm Hg). Thus, concurrent treatment with indomethacin similarly attenuates the 24-hour antihypertensive response to losartan and captopril.
To provide information on the possible influence that hypertension or its treatment might have on the development of cysts in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, we studied the effects of the sodium content of the diet, DOCA-salt hypertension, renovascular hypertension, and the administration of enalapril or furosemide on the development of 2-amino-4-5-diphenylthiazole (DPT)-induced renal cystic disease. DOCA-salt hypertension caused vascular and glomerular lesions and proteinuria, but it did not enhance the development of cysts. Cytogenesis was enhanced in experimental conditions where the renin-angiotensin system is known to be activated. On the other hand, interventions known to suppress the renin-angiotensin system lessened the development of cysts. We hypothesize that this effect might be mediated by intrarenal angiotensin II and its capacity to promote cell growth and to control the postglomerular vascular resistances and the compliance of the renal interstitium.
Mitomycin-C is used widely in the treatment of malignancies and is associated with serious dose related adverse effects including the occurrence of hemolytic uremic syndrome. We report a patient with a colonic adenocarcinoma who developed hemolytic uremic syndrome after receiving 85 mg/m2 of the drug. The patient was left untreated and died 5 months after this diagnosis was made, of a second malignancy. Differential diagnosis and treatment of this condition are discussed.
Convulsions induced on mice by a dose of 200 mg/kg i.p. of amantadine (Ama) or 1-adamantylcyclopentanamine (Ad1) were studied with tricyclic antidepressants (imipramine, desipramine, chlorimipramine), possessing antiglutamatergic properties, or with GABA-linoleamide, a centrally acting GABAergic drug, or with glycine-linoleamide, a centrally acting glycinergic drug, or with glutamic acid palmitamide, a centrally acting glutamatergic drug. The results of these studies could suggest the existence of important glutamatergic and anti-GABAergic components and, probably, of a slight antiglycinergic activity in the pharmacological action profile of the Ad1. Moderate glutamatergic and anti-GABAergic components could operate in the Ama's mechanism of action.
A retrospective review was undertaken to obtain more precise information about neurotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, and the effects of dexamethasone on the frequency and severity of hyperglycemia in diabetic patients with epithelial ovarian cancer treated with paclitaxel and/or cisplatin. Thirty-three patients were identified from 1254 patients over a 10-year period. In the cisplatin-treated patients, 21 of 24 (67%) had progression of neurological symptoms, three experienced grade 3 sensory neuropathy, and two had ototoxicity. Four patients had evidence of mild nephrotoxicity and two required a 50% dose reduction. In the group of patients treated with paclitaxel, 9 of the 18 (50%) had progression of symptoms, 2 to grade 3, and 2 had ototoxicity. No discontinuation of therapy due to neuropathy was required and no patient had evidence of drug-induced autonomic nervous system dysfunction. Hyperglycemia was frequently exacerbated, and 5 patients required treatment change, but no patient was hospitalized in relation to this. Our results indicate that the paclitaxel/cisplatin combination regimen or paclitaxel alone could be safely administered in diabetic patients at standard doses, with concurrent glucose and creatinine monitoring, as well as history of neurological symptoms and physical examination.
Albuterol overdose can lead to tachycardia, hypotension, tremor, hypokalemia, and hyperglycemia in children. Hypoglycemia had been previously reported in only one child. We describe a 3-year-old boy who ingested high-dose albuterol in this report. On arrival to the emergency department, the child was agitated and had noticeable restlessness, sinus tachycardia, mild hypokalemia (3.2 mEq/L), and hyperglycemia (187 mg/dL). Activated charcoal and intravenous hydration were given, and electrocardiogram monitoring was performed. Sinus tachycardia resolved within 4 to 6 hours. Hypoglycemia (45 mg/dL) was identified 4 hours after admission. The child recovered uneventfully within 24 hours with glucose replacement. This case suggests that hypoglycemia could be a late complication of acute albuterol overdose; thus, the period of observation should be extended in these cases.
We report a case of forearm compartment syndrome caused by extravasation of mannitol in an intoxicated patient. The pathophysiology and management of a forearm compartment syndrome from extravasation of mannitol are discussed in this case.
3-Chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (MX) is a genotoxic chlorination by-product in drinking water. There is some evidence that it has developmental toxic effects in vitro but its potential to cause developmental effects in vivo is not known. The developmental effects were evaluated in Wistar rats. Rats (22-26 dams per dose group) were administered MX by gavage at the dose levels of 3, 30, or 60 mg/kg in water on gestation days 6-19. Control animals received plain water. Clinical signs, body weight, and food and water consumption were recorded for the dams. On gestation day 20, a cesarean section was performed and the ovaries anduterine contents of the dams were examined and the liver, kidneys, spleen, and thyroid glands weighed. The fetuses of all dose groups were weighed, sexed, and observed for external and skeletal malformations and the fetuses of the two highest dose groups were evaluated for visceral malformations. The highest dose, 60 mg/kg of MX, was slightly toxic to the dams. It decreased the corrected body weight gain of dams by 32% and the water consumption by 16-17%. Kidney and liver weights were slightly increased. MX did not affect the number of implantations nor did it cause any resorptions. The body weights of fetuses were not significantly affected. MX did not cause external malformations or skeletal anomalies. Two fetuses at 60 mg/kg and one fetus at 30 mg/kg had major visceral malformations (persistent truncus arteriosus, diaphragmatic hernia, dilated aorta with a stenosis of pulmonary arteries) and two minor artery abnormalities were observed in those animals. The frequency of unilateral displaced testis was slightly higher (9.2%) in the 60-mg/kg dose group than in controls (1.6%). Since the abnormalities did not form a consistent pattern and occurred most at maternally toxic dose, we conclude that MX can be regarded as non-teratogenic.
To reveal the influence of retrobulbar capsaicin treatment on rats' eyes and to test the protective effects of PEDF, a known neurotrophic and antiangiogenic substance, against neurotrophic keratouveitis.
A single retrobulbar injection of capsaicin (50 mg/kg) was performed in young rats, and the effect of subsequent retrobulbar injections of PEDF 3.2 or 6.4 microg was recorded. Tear fluid alterations were evaluated with the Schirmer test and corneal alterations with slit lamp biomicroscopy. Histopathologic alterations were studied with light and electron microscopy. The number of leukocytes (myeloid cells) in the anterior and posterior chambers, peripheral retina, and vitreous were quantitatively evaluated.
Reduced tear secretion was found in capsaicin-treated rats compared with the control, but this effect was significantly attenuated by PEDF. Corneal ulceration developed and was followed by scar formation and neovascularization in the capsaicin-treated, and it was also significantly attenuated by PEDF treatment. Leukocyte infiltration of the anterior and posterior chambers, as well as the peripheral retina and vitreous, was also observed in capsaicin-treated eyes and was significantly reduced by PEDF treatment. The protective effects of PEDF were dose dependent for each parameter, even if the treatment was initiated at day 14 after the challenge.
PEDF accelerated the recovery of tear secretion and also prevented capsaicin-induced neurotrophic keratouveitis and peripheral vitreoretinal inflammation. These effects of PEDF, described herein for the first time, may have a clinical application in inflammatory and neovascular diseases of the eye.
During a period of 9 years we used the pediatric BFM-NHL protocol for treatment of 14 adult patients with Burkitt's lymphoma or L3 acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Ten of 14 patients obtained a complete remission including 5/8 with stage-IV disease or B-ALL. After a median follow-up of 55 months none of these ten patients relapsed. The projected survival after 8 years is 71%. Toxicity was moderate, with one early death; a tumor lysis syndrome occurred in four patients. From our experience we conclude that the BFM-NHL protocol is very effective in adult patients, with a high cure rate and acceptable toxicity, even in advanced stages of disease.
Moderate nephrotoxicity was induced in male and female rats exposed to o-xylene for 4 h at atmospheric concentrations of approximately 3000 ppm. The xylene in vivo nephrotoxicity resulted in low enzyme leakage from the kidney into the urine. This low leakage was confirmed in 24-h urine by an increase in gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (gammaGT), N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activities. Compared to the control, both the 24-h urine output and the glucose excretion increased in male and female rats. These increases were probably a result of damage to the renal proximal tubules. The role of the metabolic pathway of glutathione in the emergence of the renal damage observed with o-xylene was investigated in rats. Recent studies indicate that the metabolic pathway of glutathione may be a bioactivation pathway, which is responsible for nephrotoxic effects with several drugs or chemicals. The renal toxicity of three synthesized o-xylene thio-conjugates was investigated in several groups of female rats. Administration of S-(o-methylbenzyl)glutathione (i.p., 1 mmol/kg), S-(o-methylbenzyl)cysteine (per os, 1 mmol/kg) or N-acetyl-S-(o-methylbenzyl)cysteine (i.p., 0.75 mmol/kg) to female rats did not induce renal toxicity, as monitored by urinary biochemical parameters (gammaGT, NAG, ALP, glucose). The data obtained suggest that the glutathione pathway would appear to be only detoxication, and probably does not contribute to the renal toxicity of o-xylene in female rats. Thus, either another metabolic pathway or other intermediate metabolites are probably involved in the nephrotoxic action of o-xylene.
The combination of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and a calcium antagonist has a synergistic effect in patients with more severe hypertension. However, when this combination fails to control blood pressure, it is not clear which drug is then additive. The aim of this work was to study in a double-blind, randomized, crossover design the effect on blood pressure of the addition of either a thiazide diuretic (bendrofluazide, 5 mg once daily) or a beta-blocker (atenolol, 100 mg once daily) or placebo each for a month in hypertensive patients who are not adequately controlled on the combined treatment of amlodipine 5 mg once daily and lisinopril 5 mg twice daily. Eighteen patients with a supine diastolic pressure of more than 90 mm Hg after at least 1 month on the combined treatment of amlodipine and lisinopril were enrolled in the study. The results show that in patients whose blood pressures are not controlled by the combination of amlodipine and lisinopril, the addition of bendrofluazide 5 mg once daily causes a significant fall in blood pressure compared with placebo and a significantly greater fall than 100 mg atenolol once daily.
Organophosphate induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN) is an uncommon clinical condition. It occurs in association with the ingestion of great amounts of organophosphate after the stimulation of cholinergic receptor. The clinical picture is characterized by a distal paresis in lower limbs associated with sensitive symptoms. Electrodiagnostic studies show a motor axonal neuropathy. Involvement of the central nervous system may occur. We describe a 39 years-old female patient who developed hyperesthesia associated with lower limbs paresis, fourteen days after she had ingested a Dichlorvos-based insecticide. Electrophysiological study was characterized by an axonal polyneuropathy pattern. Pyramidal tract dysfunction was observed later in upper limbs. Considering that both peripheral and central nervous systems are involved we believe that the more appropriated term would be organophosphate induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN) instead of organophosphate induced delayed polyneuropathy (OPIDP).
Mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) have been linked to dominantly inherited forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). To test the hypothesis that the toxicity of mutant SOD1 originates in Cu(2+)-mediated formation of toxic radicals, we generated transgenic mice that express human SOD1 that encodes disease-linked mutations at two of the four histidine residues that are crucial for the coordinated binding of copper (H46R/H48Q). We demonstrate that mice expressing this mutant, which possesses little or no superoxide scavenging activity, develop motor neuron disease. Hence, mutations in SOD1 that disrupt the copper-binding site do not eliminate toxicity. We note that the pathology of the H46R/H48Q mice is dominated by fibrillar (Thioflavin-S-positive) inclusions and that similar inclusions were evident in mouse models that express the G37R, G85R, and G93A variants of human SOD1. Overall, our data are consistent with the hypothesis that the aberrant folding/aggregation of mutant SOD1 is a prominent feature in the pathogenesis of motor neuron disease.
Transcutaneous duplex ultrasound can be used to image and quantify blood flow in the proximal part of the internal thoracic artery to coronary artery bypass grafts. In addition to providing information about graft patency and blood flow for follow-up purposes, the technique also provides an opportunity to study the physiology and pharmacology of the coronary circulation. In this paper we describe and attempt to interpret an unusual pattern of internal thoracic artery graft blood flow observed during inadvertent nitrate-induced syncope.
Osteopontin (OPN) serves as an indicator of resistance to radiotherapy. However, the role of OPN in the development of acquired radioresistance in human lung cancer cells has not yet been fully elucidated. Therefore, the potential importance of OPN as a marker of lung cancer with a potential significant role in the development of radioresistance against repeated radiotherapy has prompted us to define the pathways by which OPN regulates lung cancer cell growth. In addition, autophagy has been reported to play a key role in the radiosensitization of cancer cells. Here, we report that increased OPN expression through induction of nuclear p53 following irradiation was inhibited by exogenous beclin-1 (BECN1). Our results clearly show that BECN1 gene expression led to induction of autophagy and inhibition of cancer cell growth and angiogenesis. Our results suggest that the induction of autophagy abrogated the radioresistance of the cancer cells. Interestingly, we showed that knockdown of OPN by lentivirus-mediated shRNA induced the autophagy of human lung cancer cell. Taken together, these results suggest that OPN and BECN1 can be molecular targets for overcoming radioresistance by controlling autophagy.
Herein we describe the use of intracavernous methylene blue (MB), a guanylate cyclase inhibitor, or internal pudendal artery embolization for the treatment of priapism. Eleven patients with priapism were treated from 1993-1996. Etiologies of priapism included PGE1/papaverine (3), trazodone (2), and sickle cell disease (1), in the other five cases the causes the cause was unknown. The average duration of priapism was 27 h for all patients (6-72 h). Five patients who failed intracavernous MB or an alpha-adrenergic agonist, underwent unilateral or bilateral pudendal artery embolization. The average duration of priapism for patients undergoing embolization was 43 h. Sixty-seven percent of the patients treated with MB responded with immediate detumescence. One-hundred percent of patients with priapism secondary to intracavernous injection therapy or trazodone responded. Of the five patients who underwent embolization, 40% achieved immediate pain relief and subsequent detumescence. The three non-responders exhibited a partial detumescence over 47-72 h. After follow-up of one year embolization available for only two patients revealed that one regained potency while the other remained impotent. These results confirmed that MB is effective for pharmacologically-induced priapism. Embolization is a less invasive option for refractory priapism, although results are less than satisfactory in men with priapism of several days duration.
To design and evaluate a new class of soft anticholinergics with subtype selectivity.
A new class of soft anticholinergics was designed based on the "inactive metabolite" approach. Four compounds were synthesized. The potency and soft nature of the compounds were evaluated by receptor binding, cardiac, and mydriatic studies. Stability and pharmacokinetic studies were also performed on these newly synthesized soft anticholinergics.
Receptor binding studies of the soft anticholinergics on cloned muscarinic receptors indicated pKi values in the range of 7.5 to 8.9. Two compounds, 9a and 13a, of the series showed muscarinic subtype receptor selectivity (M3/M2). In mydriatic studies, 13a and 13b showed shorter duration of action in the treated eyes than tropicamide. In the control eyes, significant dilation of pupils was found only in rabbits treated with atropine and tropicamide, indicating that the soft anticholinergics lack systemic effects because of their facile hydrolytic deactivation. Consistent with their soft nature, this new class of soft anticholinergics displayed much shorter cardiovascular effects in the carbachol-induced bradycardia (10 to 15 min) in rats than atropine (> 60 min). Stability and pharmacokinetic studies suggested that the new soft anticholinergics were rapidly eliminated from plasma (systemic circulation) after i.v. administration.
A new class of anticholinergics was designed and synthesized, and the PK/PD evaluation confirmed they were potent "soft" anticholinergics; two of them showed muscarinic receptor subtype selectivity (M3/M2).
Methanol poisoning during human pregnancy rarely has been described. We report the first human newborn with a documented methanol concentration resulting from maternal exposure.
A 28-year-old pregnant woman EGA 30 weeks with HIV infection and asthma presented to the emergency department in respiratory distress. She was acidotic (pH 7.17) with an anion gap of 26, and fetal bradycardia was noted. Her son was delivered by emergent C-section (birthweight 950 g, Apgars 1 and 3) and required aggressive resuscitation. During his hospital course, acidosis (initial pH 6.9) persisted despite fluid, blood, and bicarbonate administration. His mother also had persistent metabolic acidosis despite fluids, bicarbonate, and dopamine. Results of other laboratory tests on the mother included undetectable ethanol and salicylates and an osmolar gap of 41. An ethanol drip was initiated for the mother 36 h after admission when a methanol level of 54 mg/dL was reported. When consulted on hospital day 3, our regional poison center recommended hemodialysis for the mother and administering fomepizole and testing the methanol level of the newborn (61.6 mg/dL). Because the infant developed a grade 4 intraventricular bleed, no further therapy was offered, and he died on day 4. His mother died on day 10.
Fatal neonatal methanol toxicity can result from transplacental exposure.
In order to assess the role of striatal dopamine (DA) afferents in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, we have studied a large series of rats sustaining 2, 3, or 4 unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in the lateral striatum. This type of lesion produced a dose-dependent depletion of DA fibers in the caudate-putamen, which was most pronounced in the lateral aspects of this structure. An additional group of rats was injected with 6-OHDA in the medial forebrain bundle to obtain complete DA denervation on one side of the brain. During a course of chronic L-DOPA treatment, rats with intrastriatal 6-OHDA lesions developed abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs), which mapped onto striatal domains exhibiting at least approximately 90% denervation, as judged by DA transporter autoradiography. The denervated areas showed local upregulation of preproenkephalin and prodynorphin mRNA, and FosB-like immunoreactivity, which were highly correlated with the rats' AIM scores. When compared to completely DA-denervated animals, the rats with intrastriatal 6-OHDA lesions showed an overall lower incidence, lower severity and different topographic distribution of AIMs. The involvement of proximal limb and axial muscles in the abnormal movements was proportional to the spreading of the lesion from lateral towards medial aspects of the caudate-putamen. Locomotive AIMs were only seen in rats with complete lesions, but not in any of the animals with intrastriatal 6-OHDA (which showed > 5% DA fiber sparing in the medial striatum). Intrastriatally 6-OHDA-lesioned rats had a larger therapeutic window for L-DOPA than did rats with complete bundle lesions, since they exhibited an overall lower predisposition to dyskinesia but a similar degree of drug-induced motor improvement in a test of forelimb stepping. Our results are the first to demonstrate that selective and partial DA denervation in the sensorimotor part of the striatum can confer cellular and behavioral supersensitivity to L-DOPA, and that the phenomenology of L-DOPA-induced rat AIMs can be accounted for by the topography of DA denervation within the caudate-putamen.
The effect of the co-infusion of ursodeoxycholate and its taurine conjugate, 3-O-glucuronide and 3,7-disulfate on estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide-induced cholestasis was examined. Estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide was intravenously administered to bile-drained rats at a rate of 0.075 mumol/min/100 g for 20 min. Co-infusion of ursodeoxycholate and its conjugates was simultaneously begun at a rate of 0.2 mumol/min/100 g and continued for 120 min. Ursodeoxycholate failed to improve and tauroursodeoxycholate only partially improved estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide-induced cholestasis between 20 and 40 min, although both bile acids increased bile flow after 80 min. Tauroursodeoxycholate increased biliary estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide excretion. Ursodeoxycholate-3-O-glucuronide completely inhibited cholestasis induced by estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide without changing biliary estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide excretion. Although ursodeoxycholate-3,7-disulfate had only a minor effect on cholestasis, it increased biliary excretion of estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide. In the Eizai hyperbilirubinuria rat (EHBR), a hyperbilirubinemic mutant Sprague-Dawley rat, the same dose of estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide failed to induce cholestasis with a marked delay in biliary excretion of estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide. In summary, ursodeoxycholate-3-O-glucuronide is more effective than tauroursodeoxycholate in inhibiting estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide-induced cholestasis and ursodoexycholate-3,7-disulfate had little effect. However, the unexpected effects of ursodeoxycholate-3-O-glucuronide and 3,7-disulfate on excretion of estradiol-17 beta-glucuronide suggest that the interaction of these anions at the canalicular membrane is complicated, with interaction occurring at more than two pathways of the biliary excretion of these anions.
Ranitidine is one of the widely prescribed H2 receptor antagonists in the treatment of peptic ulcer. It is well tolerated and has few side-effects. Vasculitic rash occurring in association with ranitidine has been described. We report a case of a 39-year-old man who developed a purpuric rash, polyarthritis, abdominal pain, melaena and impaired renal function characteristic of Henoch-Schonlein purpura, following treatment with ranitidine.
