An extraordinary case of an organic psychosis during the treatment of a patient with a bipolar affective disorder.
Clinical observation and further investigations including monitoring of serum levels (case report).
A significant interaction between venlafaxine and propafenone causes markedly increased serum levels of venlafaxine correlating with unexpected psychopathological changes.
There is a potentially dangerous interaction between venlafaxine and propafenone. Serum levels of venlafaxine should be monitored if propafenone is added.
To generate an experimental neuropathy model in which small-diameter sensory nerves are specifically affected and to test a potential treatment, adult mice were given a single injection (50 microg/kg, i.p.) of the capsaicin analog resiniferatoxin (RTX). On Day 7 after RTX treatment, there was a 53% reduction in unmyelinated nerve density in the medial plantar nerve (p = 0.0067) and a 66% reduction in epidermal nerve density of hind paw skin (p = 0.0004) compared with vehicle-treated controls. Substance P-immunoreactive dorsal root ganglion neurons were also markedly depleted (p = 0.0001). These effects were associated with the functional deficit of prolonged withdrawal latencies to heat stimuli (p = 0.0007) on a hot plate test. The potential therapeutic effects of 4-methylcatechol (4MC) on this neuropathy were then tested by daily injections of 4MC (10 microg/kg, i.p.) from Days 7 to 35 after neuropathy induction. On Day 35, 4MC-treated mice had an increase in unmyelinated (p = 0.014) and epidermal nerve (p = 0.0013) densities and a reduction in thermal withdrawal latency (p = 0.0091) compared with RTX-only controls. These results indicate that 4MC promoted regeneration of unmyelinated nerves in experimental RTX-induced neuropathy and enhanced function.
Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) is responsible for the breakdown of the widely used antineoplastic agent 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), thereby limiting the efficacy of the therapy. It has been suggested that patients suffering from 5-FU toxicities due to a low activity of DPD are genotypically heterozygous for a mutant allele of the gene encoding DPD. In this study we investigated the cDNA and a genomic region of the DPD gene of a cancer patient experiencing severe toxicity following 5-FU treatment for the presence of mutations. Although normal activity of DPD was observed in fibroblasts, the DPD activity in leucocytes of the cancer patient proved to be in the heterozygous range. Analysis of the DPD cDNA showed heterozygosity for a 165bp deletion that results from exon skipping. Sequence analysis of the genomic region encompassing the skipped exon showed that the tumour patient was heterozygous for a G-->A point mutation in the invariant GT splice donor sequence in the intron downstream of the skipped exon. So far, the G-->A point mutation has also been found in 8 out of 11 patients suffering from a complete deficiency of DPD. Considering the frequent use of 5-FU in the treatment of cancer patients, the severe 5-FU-related toxicities in patients with a low activity of DPD and the high frequency of the G-->A mutation in DPD deficient patients, analysis of the DPD activity and screening for the G-->A mutation should be routinely carried out prior to the start of the treatment with 5-FU.
Flow cytometry and confocal microscopy were used to study the effects of vancomycin, daptomycin, telavancin, and PA1409, a new investigational vancomyquine, on the morphology, membrane potential, and permeability of glycopeptide-susceptible and -resistant Enterococcus faecalis strains. Daptomycin exerted the most pronounced effects on bacterial size and bacterial permeability against susceptible and resistant strains.
Recent findings in a bipolar patient receiving maintenance lithium therapy who developed hypercalcemia and severe bradyarrhythmia prompted the authors to conduct a retrospective study of bipolar patients with lithium-associated hypercalcemia. A printout of all cases of hypercalcemia that presented during a 1-year period was generated. After eliminating spurious hypercalcemias or those associated with intravenous fluids, the authors identified 18 non-lithium-treated patients with hypercalcemias related to malignancies and other medical conditions (group A) and 12 patients with lithium-associated hypercalcemia (group B). Patients in group B were not comparable to those in group A, as the latter were medically compromised and were receiving multiple pharmacotherapies. Thus, two control groups were generated: group C1, which included age- and sex-comparable lithium-treated bipolar normocalcemic patients, and group C2, which included bipolar normocalcemic patients treated with anticonvulsant mood stabilizers. The electrocardiographic (ECG) findings for patients in group B were compared with those of patients in groups C1 and C2. It was found that these groups did not differ in their overall frequency of ECG abnormalities; however, there were significant differences in the frequency of conduction defects. Patients with hypercalcemia resulting from medical diseases and bipolar patients with lithium-associated hypercalcemia had significantly higher frequencies of conduction defects. Patients in group A had significant mortality at 2-year follow-up (28%), in contrast to zero mortality in the other three groups. The clinical implications of these findings are discussed.
6-(N,N-Dimethylamino)-2-(naphthalene-1-yl)-4-quinazolinone (DPQZ)-induced apoptosis was accompanied by the characteristics of DNA fragmentation and phosphatidylserine externalization in human oral cancer HSC-3 cells. The IC50 (half maximal inhibitory concentration) value of DPQZ is about 0.25 μM at 24 h. The interference in the dynamics of tubulin and cell division of DPQZ, like vinblastine (0.01 μM), has been proven in this study. Treatment of HSC-3 cells with DPQZ resulted in many of mitotic cells with multipolar spindles. Up-regulation of MAP kinases, such as ERK, JNK, and p38, mediated by DPQZ appears to be involved in DPQZ-induced apoptosis in HSC-3 cells. It is worthy of note that the expression of Ras and c-Raf that lie upstream of ERK were inhibited by DPQZ. In addition, the DPQZ-induced cell death was attenuated by JNK inhibitor SP600125 (3 or 10 μM), not by the ERK or p38 inhibitors. JNK inhibitor abolished the DPQZ-induced increase in the phosphorylation of Bcl-2 and the protein levels of proform caspase-3, caspase-8, and caspase-9, indicating that JNK is an upstream activator of Bcl-2 and caspase family members and plays a key role in DPQZ-induced HSC-3 cell apoptosis. We also attempted to develop an anticancer drug that is designed to kill rapidly dividing cancer cells while causing less damage to normal cells. The DPQZ-induced cytotoxicity against human gingival fibroblasts was less than that against HSC-3 cells. Our work provides a new strategy and mechanism for developing anticancer drug and may contribute to clinical anticancer drug discovery and application.
We report the cases of 2 female patients aged 69 and 61 yr, suffering from fulminant hepatitis induced by pirprofen, a new nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug. The duration of pirprofen administration before the onset of hepatitis was long, 7 and 9 mo, respectively. Hepatitis was not preceded or accompanied by hypersensitivity manifestations. The liver lesion consisted of massive, predominantly centrilobular hepatic cell necrosis and microvesicular steatosis. One patient died of liver failure. Although the risk of fulminant hepatitis is very low, we recommend that, in patients taking pirprofen for more than 2 mo and complaining of asthenia, nausea, or vomiting, serum aminotransferase levels should be measured and administration of the drug should be interrupted as soon as an increased level is noted.
Although chlorpropamide and tolbutamide are well recognized as causes of hepatotoxicity, there are only 3 reported cases of hepatic injury caused by a third oral hypoglycemic agent, tolazamide. In 2 of these cases, the liver-function tests returned to normal when the drug was discontinued. In the third case, the patient had cholestasis from chlorpropamide before administration of tolazamide and developed chronic liver disease. We are reporting the second instance of chronic liver disease induced by tolazamide. Our patient had been taking chlorpropamide, but she had no evidence of liver disease before administration of tolazamide. Tolazamide should be considered as a drug capable of producing hepatotoxicity that on occasion may be chronic.
A reduction in left ventricular volume and an increase in epinephrine levels have been reported in tilt-induced neurally mediated syncope. To compare the mechanisms of isoproterenol-induced and nitroglycerin-induced syncope during head-up tilt and to investigate the role of catecholamines, the temporal changes in plasma levels of norepinephrine and epinephrine and in left ventricular volume were measured.
The first study population consisted of 90 patients with syncope of unknown etiology and 12 control subjects. The second study population consisted of 43 patients with unexplained syncope. In the first study, head-up tilt (80 degree angle) was conducted for 40 minutes, and norepinephrine and epinephrine levels were measured. In the second study, all patients were randomly allocated to either isoproterenol test (20 patients) or nitroglycerin test (23 patients) for 20-minute head-up tilt. Isoproterenol infusion was given at a rate of 1 to 3 microg/min. Intravenous infusion of nitroglycerin was started at 250 microg/hour with increasing dosages up to 1,500 microg/hour. Norepinephrine and epinephrine were measured in peripheral venous blood. Left ventricular volumes were measured by echocardiography with patients in the supine position and during head-up tilt every 1 minute. End-diastolic volume and end-systolic volume were calculated. In the first study, 61 patients demonstrated a positive response and 29 patients demonstrated a negative response. Plasma norepinephrine changes during head-up tilt were not significantly different, whereas epinephrine levels were significantly higher in the positive patients than in the negative and control subjects (148 +/- 118 pg/mL vs 66 +/- 31 pg/mL and 55 +/- 27 pg/mL). Thirteen of the 20 patients given isoproterenol and 15 of the 23 patients given nitroglycerin showed a positive head-up tilt (65.0% vs 65.2%; P = NS). During isoproterenol and nitroglycerin infusion head-up tilt, epinephrine in the positive group determined by the nitroglycerin test was significantly higher than that in the other three groups (103 +/- 38 pg/mL vs 60 +/- 33 pg/mL, 31 +/- 21 pg/mL, and 50 +/- 52 pg/mL). In contrast, end-systolic volume was significantly smaller in the positive group than in the other three groups based on findings of the isoproterenol test.
The findings suggest that nitroglycerin triggers head-up tilt-induced syncope by increasing epinephrine levels, whereas isoproterenol induces syncope by decreasing left ventricular volume.
The cataleptogenic effects of haloperidol, a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist; SCH23390, a D1 receptor antagonist; physostigmine, a cholinesterase inhibitor; and pilocarpine, a muscarinic M1 receptor agonist, were challenged by pretreatment of mice with SKF38393, a dopamine D1 receptor agonist; apomorphine, a dopamine D1/D2 receptor agonist (mainly D2 receptor); pirenzepine, a muscarinic M1 receptor antagonist; and scopolamine, a muscarinic M1/M2 receptor antagonist. The effect of physostigmine and pilocarpine on haloperidol and SCH23390 cataleptic responses was also examined. Each of the challenging agents blocked one or more of the cataleptogenic agents, but only scopolamine blocked all four. Pirenzepine blocked cataleptic responses induced by SCH23390 and pilocarpine, but not those by haloperidol and physostigmine. The results of this study suggest that the action of physostigmine (endogenous acetylcholine) on M2 receptors might be more potent than that on muscarinic M1 receptors. A further interesting observation was that the haloperidol-induced catalepsy was enhanced by physostigmine pretreatment, but not by pilocarpine pretreatment, whereas the SCH23390-induced catalepsy showed the opposite spectrum of enhancement by the two cholinergic agonists. We conclude that, although the four cataleptogenic agents act via the dopaminergic-cholinergic systems, their pharmacological differences may be due largely to the different receptor subtypes that are involved in the mediation of catalepsy produced by each agent. Thus, dopamine receptors not only influence the cholinergic muscarinic receptors, but muscarinic M1 and M2 receptors also might mediate dopamine D1 and D2 receptor responses, respectively. The results suggest that there are, at the least, relationships between muscarinic M1 receptors and dopaminergic D1 receptors, and between muscarinic M2 receptors and dopaminergic D2 receptors. Dopamine D1 and D2 receptors may interact in a synergistic fashion on dopaminergic systems, but act independently of each other in influencing other system such as cholinergic neurons.
A European female sedated with midazolam developed severe aggressive behavior during insertion of implants, which increased with further increments of midazolam. This paradoxical reaction was terminated by the injection of flumazenil, after which the patient calmly underwent the procedure. At the end of the procedure she was found to have amnesia from the time of initial injection of midazolam to the end of the implant procedure.
Chemotherapy resistance in melanoma has been linked to antiapoptotic effects mediated by Bcl-2 protein. We evaluated whether targeting Bcl-2 using an antisense oligonucleotide (oblimersen sodium) could improve the efficacy of systemic chemotherapy in patients with advanced melanoma.
We randomly assigned chemotherapy-naïve patients with advanced melanoma to treatment with dacarbazine (1,000 mg/m2) alone or preceded by a 5-day continuous intravenous infusion of oblimersen sodium (7 mg/kg/d) every 3 weeks for up to eight cycles. Patients were stratified by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, liver metastases, disease site, and serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). The primary efficacy end point was overall survival.
Among 771 patients randomly assigned, the addition of oblimersen to dacarbazine yielded a trend toward improved survival at 24-month minimum follow-up (median, 9.0 v 7.8 months; P = .077) and significant increases in progression-free survival (median, 2.6 v 1.6 months; P < .001), overall response (13.5% v 7.5%; P = .007), complete response (2.8% v 0.8%), and durable response (7.3% v 3.6%; P = .03). A significant interaction between baseline serum LDH and treatment was observed; oblimersen significantly increased survival in patients whose baseline serum LDH was not elevated (median overall survival, 11.4 v 9.7 months; P = .02). Neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were increased in the oblimersen-dacarbazine group; however, there was no increase in serious infections or bleeding events.
The addition of oblimersen to dacarbazine significantly improved multiple clinical outcomes in patients with advanced melanoma and increased overall survival in patients without an elevated baseline serum LDH.
Chronic use of cocaine is associated with impairment in response inhibition but it is an open question whether and to which degree findings from chronic users generalize to the upcoming type of recreational users. This study compared the ability to inhibit and execute behavioral responses in adult recreational users and in a cocaine-free-matched sample controlled for age, race, gender distribution, level of intelligence, and alcohol consumption. Response inhibition and response execution were measured by a stop-signal paradigm. Results show that users and non users are comparable in terms of response execution but users need significantly more time to inhibit responses to stop-signals than non users. Interestingly, the magnitude of the inhibitory deficit was positively correlated with the individuals lifetime cocaine exposure suggesting that the magnitude of the impairment is proportional to the degree of cocaine consumed.
Two-dimensional and Doppler echocardiographic studies and a hemodynamic investigation were performed during dipyridamole testing in 42 subjects (13 control subjects and 29 patients with coronary artery disease [CAD]), to evaluate the ability of dipyridamole Doppler echocardiography in identifying patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction. In the control group, after dipyridamole infusion, Doppler-derived parameters increased significantly from baseline (p less than 0.001). In patients with CAD, peak flow velocity, flow velocity integral and stroke volume failed to increase after dipyridamole infusion (0.89 +/- 0.21 to 0.85 +/- 0.18 m/s, difference not significant; 14 +/- 3 to 12 +/- 4 cm, difference not significant, and 56 +/- 13 to 50 +/- 14 ml/beat, p less than 0.05, respectively). Heart rate, rate pressure product, systemic vascular resistance and mean right atrial pressure had similar variations in the 2 groups. Changes in the 3 Doppler-derived parameters are closely related to the variations of peak positive dP/dt, stroke volume (thermodilution) and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and are closely related to the coronary angiography jeopardy score and to the appearance of wall motion abnormalities. Thus, by combining Doppler and 2-dimensional echocardiography, dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischemia may be detected in a high percentage of CAD patients, providing a sensitive tool for identifying patients with high-risk coronary artery anatomy.
This study sought to assess endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation in long-term users of cocaine.
Cocaine use has been associated with myocardial infarction, stroke and intestinal infarction. Previously demonstrated effects of the drug, including increased heart rate and blood pressure and increased vascular tone, do not explain the sporadic nature of these vascular events or the occurrence of ischemia remote from acute administration. Abnormal endothelial function could contribute to focal vasospasm and thrombosis and predispose to premature atherosclerosis, all of which have been demonstrated in cocaine users with myocardial infarction.
Using plethysmography, we studied the change in forearm blood flow in response to intraarterial acetylcholine and nitroprusside in 10 long-term cocaine users and 13 control subjects of similar age who had not used cocaine; sample size was based on a 70% power to detect a 20% reduction in flow with acetylcholine between subjects and control subjects. Using graded doses of intracoronary acetylcholine (from 10(-9) to 10(-6) mol/liter), we studied a second group of 10 cocaine users with angiographically normal or near-normal arteries.
Mean forearm blood flow during acetylcholine infusion was significantly lower in cocaine users than in control subjects (p = 0.02). During nitroprusside infusion, there was no difference (p = 0.2) between cocaine users and control subjects. Cigarette smoking did not explain the differences between cocaine users and control subjects. Acetylcholine elicited coronary vasoconstriction in 8 of 10 subjects.
We conclude that endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation is impaired in long-term users of cocaine.
A 73-year-old man with multiorgan failure requiring mechanical ventilation and haemodialysis developed herpes labialis infection during his stay in the ICU. This was treated with enteral acyclovir. He developed persistent neurologic impairment soon after acyclovir administration, which, over the course of seven days, progressed to coma, the aetiology of which was unclear. The computed tomograph (CT) of the brain and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination was normal. The electroencephalogram (EEG) showed generalized slowing. The possibility of acyclovir neurotoxicity was considered and the drug was discontinued. Haemodialysis was instituted and the patient made a complete neurological recovery. We believe that this is the first reported case of coma due to enteral acyclovir.
In acute theophylline poisoning hypokalaemia, hyperglycaemia, and other electrolyte disturbances may occur. These abnormalities have been attributed to catecholamine excess with intracellular movement of potassium and catecholamine-stimulated gluconeogenesis. Herein we describe a female teenager, who developed metabolic disturbances with significant toxic response to oral theophylline overdose in a suicide attempt. Severe hypokalaemia (1.8 mmol/L) was among the leading pathological findings, at peak theophylline concentration (68 mg/L). There was high plasma glucose (10.2 mmol/L). Creatinine-kinase was evidently abnormal (8.60 microkat/L) several hours post poisoning, while serum myoglobin was markedly elevated (74.8 microg/L) despite the decrease in the drug level. Ventricular arrhythmia with marked extra systoles has been confirmed on electrocardiograph. Finally, the patient recovered through intensive care management with theophylline level (21.1 mg/L) falling close to reference range after 48 hours, but relative hypokalaemia persisted despite potassium supplementations even after the drug level fall below detection limit. In conclusion, timely gastrointestinal decontamination, determination of serum drug levels in intervals, electrocardiography evaluation followed by treatment of arrhythmias, supportive care including balancing of metabolic disturbances, follow-up assessment of serum electrolytes, in particular potassium and creatinine-kinase parallel with myoglobin level assessment even after significant decrease in theophylline level are very important measures.
In this study, we wanted to investigate if there are differences in endogenous interferon (IFN) plasma levels in patients with different stages of HIV infections before and after therapy with zidovudine (ZDV) and determined the influence of ZDV therapy on the hepatic monooxygenase system by measuring the antipyrine pharmacokinetics. Therefore we investigated the endogenous IFN plasma levels in patients with asymptomatic HIV infection (CDC/WHO A1, n = 10) and patients with AIDS (CDC/WHO C3, n = 10). In AIDS plasma IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma levels are elevated (15.6 +/- 5.8 U/ml; 2.1 +/- 0.7 U/ml) compared to patients with an asymptomatic HIV infection (6.1 +/- 3.3 U/ml; 0.6 +/- 0.3 U/ml). The antipyrine clearance was significantly reduced in the group of AIDS patients (43.1 +/- 7.2 ml/min compared to 56.4 +/- 8.7 ml/min). In a second study with 11 patients in stage CDC/WHO A1/2 and CDC/ WHO B/C3 each, we studied the effect of a 14-day administration of ZDV on the endogenous plasma IFN levels and the CYP450 enzyme activity using the antipyrine pharmacokinetics as a parameter. We investigated the antipyrine clearance, clearance to metabolite and half-life by using HPLC. IFNs were measured by RIA or ELISA, respectively. In the first group no significant alterations of antipyrine kinetics or plasma IFN levels were observed after treatment with ZDV. In contrast to these results, we found a significant decrease in IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma (19.8 +/- 3.6 U/ml, 4.6 +/- 1.5 U/ml before; 7.9 +/- 2.6 U/ml, 1.9 +/- 1.3 U/ml after administration of ZDV), a decrease in antipyrine half-life, an elevation of the antipyrine clearance (49.8 +/- 15.7 ml/min, 57.3 +/- 13.7 ml/min) and an elevation of the clearances to metabolite.
Cardioprotective effect of ethanolic extract of Terminalia chebula fruits (500 mg/kg body wt) was examined in isoproterenol (200 mg/kg body wt) induced myocardial damage in rats. In isoproterenol administered rats, the level of lipid peroxides increased significantly in the serum and heart. A significant decrease was observed in the activity of the myocardial marker enzymes with a concomitant increase in their activity in serum. Histopathological examination was carried out to confirm the myocardial necrosis. T. chebula extract pretreatment was found to ameliorate the effect of isoproterenol on lipid peroxide formation and retained the activities of the diagnostic marker enzymes.
Three cases of orgasmic inhibition by clomipramine are reported, one in a male and two in females. All were depressed patients with obsessive-compulsive features. Orgasmic dysfunction manifested shortly after beginning clomipramine therapy despite a return of libido as the depression lifted. Two of these patients switched to desipramine which led to a resolution of sexual dysfunction while maintaining the patients depression free. The third patient manipulated dosage times to diminish the orgastic problem. Strong anticholinergic and/or anti-adrenergic properties of clomipramine are suspected to underlie the development of this problem.
Depleted uranium (DU) is a dense and heavy metal used in armor, ammunition, radiation shielding, and counterbalances. The military usage has led to growing public concern regarding the health effects of DU. In this study, we used the nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, to evaluate the toxicity of DU and its effects in knockout strains of metallothioneins (MTs), which are small thiol-rich proteins that have numerous functions, such as metal sequestration, transport, and detoxification. We examined nematode viability, the accumulation of uranium, changes in MT gene expression by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR, and the induction of green fluorescent protein under the control of the MT promoters, following exposure to DU. Our results indicate that (1) DU causes toxicity in a dose-dependent manner; (2) MTs are protective against DU exposure; and (3) nematode death by DU is not solely a reflection of intracellular uranium concentration. (4) Furthermore, only one of the isoforms of MTs, metallothionein-1 (mtl-1), appears to be important for uranium accumulation in C. elegans. These findings suggest that these highly homologous proteins may have subtle functional differences and indicate that MTs mediate the response to DU.
The hypothesis that left ventricular hypertrophy regression in hypertension relates to blood pressure (BP) control and to non-antihypertensive activity of some drugs was tested by comparing the effects of telmisartan and carvedilol on 24-h mean ambulatory BP and left ventricular mass (LVM) regression, measured using three-dimensional echocardiography (3-DECHO) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
A total of 82 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension and an optimal echocardiographic acoustic window were randomized to receive once-daily telmisartan 80 mg or carvedilol 25 mg for 44 weeks.
Ten patients withdrew from the study because office diastolic BP remained >90 mm Hg. The 24-h mean ambulatory systolic/diastolic BP reductions were similar in both treatment groups (telmisartan, from 159.6 +/- 10.2/97.8 +/- 5.4 to 128.6 +/- 6.5/78.2 +/- 5.8 mm Hg; carvedilol, from 157.8 +/- 11.1/95.7 +/- 11.9 to 128.2 +/- 5.6/78.7 +/- 5.2 mm Hg). However, night-time and last 6-h mean BP reductions were nonsignificantly greater with telmisartan. Using 3-DE, telmisartan (P< .001) and carvedilol (P< .001) progressively reduced LVM index by 21.97 +/- 5.84 (15.7%) and 12.31 +/- 3.14 (9.1%) g/m2, respectively, at week 44. Similar magnitudes of reductions were observed using MRI (15.5% and 9.6%, respectively). Reductions in LVM index achieved with telmisartan were statistically superior to carvedilol (P< or = .001).
The superior LVM regression with telmisartan versus carvedilol suggests telmisartan has a mechanism that may be beyond that of lowering BP in hypertensive patients.
Epidemiological and experimental studies have suggested that diesel exhaust particles (DEP) may be involved in recent increases in lung diseases. DEP has been shown to generate reactive oxygen species. Intratracheal instillation of DEP induces lung inflammation and edema in mice. Rosmarinic acid is a naturally occurring polyphenol with antioxidative and anti-inflammatory activities. We investigated the effects of rosmarinic acid on lung injury induced by intratracheal administration of DEP (500 microg/body) in mice. Oral supplementation with administration of rosmarinic acid (2 mg/body for 3 d) inhibited DEP-induced lung injury, which was characterized by neutrophil sequestration and interstitial edema. DEP enhanced the lung expression of keratinocyte chemoattractant (KC), interleukin-1beta, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha, which was inhibited by treatment with rosmarinic acid. DEP enhanced expression of iNOS mRNA and formation of nitrotyrosine and 8-OHdG in the lung, which was also inhibited by rosmarinic acid. These results suggest that rosmarinic acid inhibits DEP-induced lung injury by the reduction of proinflammatory molecule expression. Antioxidative activities of rosmarinic acid may also contribute to its protective effects.
Vancomycin was administered intravenously to 10 pregnant women for the treatment of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infections. Auditory brainstem response testing and renal function studies were performed on the 10 babies in the experimental group and 10 babies in each of two control groups to determine the safety of vancomycin use during pregnancy. Auditory brainstem responses were not normal at birth in six infants from the three different groups studied (N = 30) but were normal at 3 months in five. The sixth infant had conductive hearing loss unrelated to vancomycin use that spontaneously disappeared at 12 months of age. Renal function was normal in all infants. Vancomycin was detected in cord blood in two patients and in breast milk in one. Adequate serum levels were achieved with routine doses in eight mothers tested; no adverse reactions occurred. It appears that vancomycin use during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy does not produce sensorineural hearing loss or nephrotoxicity in the infant.
We evaluated the effectiveness of the commonly used antiepileptic drug sodium valproate (400 mg/kg) and two of its amide derivatives, valpromide and valnoctamide (both 100 mg/kg), in an in vivo rat model of focal epilepsy. Our main interest was to get insight into possible changes in extracellular amino acid neurotransmitter levels following administration of the drugs, both in control and in epileptic conditions.
Seizures were evoked in freely moving rats by intrahippocampal administration of pilocarpine via a microdialysis probe (10 mM for 40 min at 2 microl/min). Microdialysis was also used as in vivo sampling technique and alterations in extracellular hippocampal glutamate and GABA levels were monitored. Electrophysiological evidence for the presence or absence of seizures was simultaneously recorded with electrocorticography.
The focally evoked pilocarpine-induced seizures were completely prevented by acute intraperitoneal pretreatment with each of the three drugs in the respective doses. Effective protection was reflected in the electrocorticographic recordings and in the lack of sustained elevations of the extracellular glutamate levels after pilocarpine perfusion. Little effects were seen on the basal extracellular amino acid levels after systemic administration of each of the compounds, nor after the intrahippocampal administration of sodium valproate.
Valnoctamide and valpromide (100 mg/kg) proved to be at least as effective as their parent compound sodium valproate (400 mg/kg) against pilocarpine-induced seizures. All three compounds however failed to induce significant initial alterations in extracellular hippocampal GABA release. This questions the enhancement of GABA-mediated inhibition as being one of their mechanisms of action.
The 40-minute infusion of norepinephrine (NE) into the renal artery of dogs produces a reversible ischemic model of acute renal failure. While the physiology of this model has been extensively studied, no complete description of the pathology exists. This study uses light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy to describe and quantitate the structural and ultrastructural changes which occur in the kidneys of dogs 1, 3, and 24 hours after the intrarenal infusion of 0.75 mg/kg/minute of NE. One hour after a 40-minute NE infusion the majority of convoluted and straight proximal tubules showed apical blebs, loss of brush border, microvillar whorl formation, and mitochondrial condensation and high-amplitude swelling with flocculent densities. Necrotic cells were occasionally seen at 1 hour. The injury was progressive after 3 hours and by 24 hours animals had either complete or partial patchy necrosis of all regions of the proximal tubule. The percentages of injured and necrotic proximal tubules in outer, mid-, and inner cortical regions are presented. We conclude that the extent and pattern of injury seen after NE infusion differs significantly from the renal artery clamping model of ischemia.
We report 2 cases in which lidocaine, given for wide-complex tachycardia in the presence of hyperkalemia, precipitated profound conduction disturbance and asystole. The electrophysiologic effects of hyperkalemia and its interaction with lidocaine are reviewed. In patients with known hyperkalemia and wide-complex tachycardia, treatment should be directed at hyperkalemia, rather than following treatment algorithms for wide-complex tachycardia.
