The role of levetiracetam in different epileptic, nonepileptic, neurologic, and psychiatric disorders is discussed.
Levetiracetam, an antiepileptic drug (AED), was first approved as an adjunctive therapy for the treatment of partial epilepsy in adults. It is currently being used in the treatment of multiple seizure disorders, including generalized tonic-clonic; absence; myoclonic, especially juvenile myoclonic; Lennox-Gastaut syndrome; and refractory epilepsy in children and adults. Data are emerging on possible uses of levetiracetam outside the realm of epilepsy because of its unique mechanisms of action. There is preliminary evidence about the efficacy of levetiracetam in the treatment of different psychiatric disorders, including anxiety, panic, stress, mood and bipolar, autism, and Tourette's syndrome. The most serious adverse effects associated with levetiracetam use are behavioral in nature and might be more common in patients with a history of psychiatric and neurobehavioral problems.
Levetiracetam is an effective AED with potential benefits in other neurologic and psychiatric disorders. The benefit-risk ratio in an individual patient with a specific condition should be used to determine its optimal use. Levetiracetam's use in nonepileptic conditions is not recommended until more data become available from larger trials.
During the June 1998 heat wave in New Orleans, 8 patients came to the emergency department of a large public hospital over a 14-day period. They were subsequently admitted to the intensive care unit with a diagnosis of heat stroke. On each of these days, the ambient temperature exceeded 33.3 degrees C (91.9 degrees F). Although the highest recorded temperature was only 35.6 degrees C (96 degrees F), the heat index reached a high of 44.5 degrees C (112 degrees F). Weather-related heat illnesses are well documented, but the reports rarely address contributing medications or drugs. In this series, 6 patients (75%) had been using medication or drugs known to induce or worsen hyperthermia. A seventh patient had been prescribed a phenothiazine, but actual use could not be established. An eighth patient had an unidentified agent detected on toxicologic screening. The most common drug identified was cocaine. Other drugs included diphenhydramine, tricyclic antidepressants, and phenothiazines. Six patients (75%) had rhabdomyolysis; 3 of them also had disseminated intravascular coagulation. There were 2 deaths, yielding a 25% mortality rate.
In rats with adrenaline-induced myocarditis conditionally therapeutic doses of strophanthin (2.7 mg/kg) and digoxin (0.89 mg/kg) were chosen according to performance of the test of swimming until the complete fatigue. The influence of drugs in these doses on enzymatic activity was evaluated by histochemical methods in heart of control and myocarditis rats. It was found out that both of cardiac glycosides decreased lactate dehydrogenase and membrane Na+, K+-ATPase activity and increased succinate dehydrogenase activity in rats with experimental myocarditis.
A case of amiodarone-induced neurotoxicity is reported.
A 76-year-old man arrived at the emergency department with complaints of increasing imbalance over the past 2.5 months after a recent discharge from the hospital. He reported that his balance had worsened over the past week and that he now must use a cane to walk. His medical history included coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Home medications included enteric-coated aspirin 325 mg orally daily, isosorbide dinitrate 20 mg orally twice daily, amiodarone hydrochloride 400 mg orally three times daily, hydralazine hydrochloride 10 mg orally four times daily, extended-release metoprolol succinate 142.5 mg (equivalent to metoprolol tartrate 150 mg) orally daily, simvastatin 80 mg orally daily, and warfarin sodium 2.5 mg orally daily. Physical examination of the patient revealed finger-to-nose dysmetria, unsteady gait with leftward prevalence, positive Romberg's sign, and inability to perform heel-to-toe walk. All radiographic imaging studies and laboratory test values ruled out acute pathologies, bleeding, masses, and ischemia. As there were no physiological findings for the patient's symptoms and after careful evaluation of the patient's drug regimen, the patient's amiodarone was discontinued. His ataxia began to slowly improve. All neurologic symptoms resolved completely five months after discontinuation of amiodarone.
A 76-year-old man developed ataxia after taking amiodarone hydrochloride 400 mg orally three times daily for more than two months; the regimen was the intended loading dosage. The ataxia lessened over the first two weeks after the amiodarone was discontinued and resolved completely within five months after drug discontinuation.
A case of unstable angina pectoris precipitated by the administration of nifedipine, a complication which has not been well documented, is reported.
Rosiglitazone, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) agonist of the thiazolidinedione class, is a major insulin-sensitizing drug widely used to treat type-2 diabetes. Rosiglitazone causes myocardial hypertrophy in rodents and increases the risk of cardiac events in man. To better characterize its cardiac effects, male Wistar rats were orally administered 0, 10 or 80 mg/kg/day rosiglitazone. Myocardial gene expression profiling, hematology, histopathology and clinical chemistry, including measurement of serum cardiac troponin (cTn) I concentration with the ultrasensitive assay, were evaluated after 6 and 24h and 7 and 14 days of dosing. Heart weight was increased 10% after 7 days and 16% after 14 days of dosing at 80 mg/kg/day in the absence of microscopic changes. At the transcriptomic level, the number of differentially expressed probes was small: it was most at 24h in rats given 80 mg/kg rosiglitazone with 356 differentially regulated probes (fold change >1.3 fold, p<0.05). Also, gene categories typically associated with myocardial damage were not over-represented. Most importantly, serum cTnI concentrations in 5/9 rats after 7 days of dosing at 80 mg/kg/day were above the upper limit of serum cTnI concentration. cTnI concentrations after 14 days of dosing were similar between rats given the vehicle and rosiglitazone at 80 mg/kg. This is the first study to detect increases of serum cTnI concentrations in rats administered rosiglitazone. In light of reported cardiac events in patients chronically dosed with PPARγ agonists, our results support serum cTnI concentrations as an early biomarker of cardiac liability.
We present a young, female patient with clinical and biochemical manifestations of acute cholestasis who had undergone a 10-day course of 1,500 mg/day amoxicillin 3 weeks before the consultation. Diagnosis was based on the absence of alcohol consumption, negative viral markers and antibodies, normal biliary tract, clinical and biochemical improvement when amoxicillin was withdrawn and liver biopsy with histological changes compatible with amoxicillin-induced acute cholestasis. Because hepatotoxicity induced by amoxicillin alone is rare, we believe it important to communicate this new case and to warn of this possible complication. We also stress that simple cholestasis induced by amoxicillin alone, as presented in this case, has been described in only one report, published 10 years ago.
Clinical and pathologic studies of three cases of drug-induced cholestatic jaundice associated with the new antineoplastic agent chlorozotocin are presented. All three patients had received intermittent treatment with high doses of chlorozotocin. The recognition of this unusual form of hepatotoxicity is important in view of the many possible causes of jaundice in cancer patients.
Male F344 rats were first treated with 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl for 20 weeks in the presence of testicular androgens and then administered of a pharmacological dose of testosterone propionate (TP) for various periods (maximum 40 weeks). This resulted in development of invasive carcinomas in the dorso-lateral prostate as well as the seminal vesicles whose incidences were TP duration-dependent. However, in situ carcinomas of the ventral prostate were not affected by the TP treatment and atypical hyperplasias were clearly decreased. When animals were subjected to orchiectomy after 20-weeks-treatment with the TP, invasive adenocarcinomas were still subsequently noted in the dorso-lateral prostate and seminal vesicles, demonstrating a certain androgen-independence. The data indicate that, in spite of the necessity of high dose of TP for induction of invasive prostate carcinomas in the present experimental model, a proportion of the resulting tumors are hormone-independent.
Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are known to lower urinary protein excretion in human renal disease. This proteinuria lowering effect of ACE inhibition has been hypothesized to be a result of renal hemodynamic changes due to the inhibition of angiotensin II (Ang II) production. To test this hypothesis we studied the short-term effects of different doses of exogenous Ang II (5%, 10% and 20% of the pressor dose) on renal hemodynamics and urinary protein excretion in comparison with placebo infusion in six non-diabetic normotensive proteinuric patients, both before and after three months treatment with the ACE inhibitor, lisinopril. Lisinopril lowered proteinuria from 7.5 +/- 1.9 to 2.7 +/- 0.6 g/24 hr and induced a fall in blood pressure, renal vascular resistance and filtration fraction, whereas plasma Ang II levels were similar to the pre-treatment values. Ang II infusion induced typical effects which appeared to be similar before and during lisinopril treatment: a dose-related fall in renal plasma flow and rise in systemic blood pressure, renal vascular resistance and filtration fraction, while the glomerular filtration rate remained relatively stable. However, neither before nor during lisinopril therapy did any changes in urinary protein loss occur during the infusions of Ang II, despite the fact that Ang II reversed the long-term systemic and renal hemodynamic changes induced by the ACE inhibitor. We conclude that the long-term antiproteinuric effect of the ACE inhibitor, lisinopril, is neither mediated through changes in circulatory Ang II levels nor influenced by acute changes in systemic and renal hemodynamics, suggesting a non-hemodynamic mechanism of action.
Bolstering the endogenous oxidative damage defense system is a good strategy for development of treatments to combat neurodegenerative diseases in which oxidative damage plays a role. A first step in such treatment development is to determine the role of various components of the defense system in cells that degenerate. In this study, we sought to determine the role of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) in two models of oxidative damage-induced retinal degeneration. In one model, paraquat is injected into the vitreous cavity and then enters retinal cells and generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) that cause progressive retinal damage. Assessment of retinal function with serial electroretinograms (ERGs) showed that sod1 -/- mice were much more sensitive than sod1 +/+ mice to the damaging effects of paraquat, while sod1 +/- mice showed intermediate sensitivity. Compared to sod1 +/+ mice, sod1 -/- mice showed greater paraquat-induced oxidative damage and apoptosis. In the second model, mice were exposed to hyperoxia for several weeks, and sod1 -/- mice showed significantly greater reductions in ERG amplitudes than sod1 +/+ mice. In both of these models, transgenic mice carrying a sod1 transgene driven by a beta-actin promoter showed less oxidative stress-induced reduction in ERG amplitudes. These data demonstrate that SOD1 protects retinal cells against paraquat- and hyperoxia-induced oxidative damage and suggest that overexpression of SOD1 should be considered as one component of ocular gene therapy to prevent oxidative damage-induced retinal degeneration.
The involvement of excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptors in mediation of the toxic effects of cocaine was studied in male ICR mice. Cocaine HCl (90 mg/kg, IP) induced seizures in 95% and death within 24 h in 68% (n = 135) of the animals. There was a significant correlation (r = .54) between the time to onset of convulsions and the time to death in mice which died within 30 min of injection (n = 84). Pretreatment with selected EAA receptor antagonists 15 min prior to cocaine differentially blocked cocaine toxicity. Selective N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonists (MK-801, dextrorphan, CPP) decreased both the incidence of seizures and mortality. A nonselective EAA antagonist, kynurenic acid, decreased lethality in doses which did not reduce convulsions. A similar action was observed following pretreatment with the selective kainic acid/AMPA receptor antagonist, GDEE. Antagonists at EAA receptors can provide significant protection against cocaine-induced toxicity. Moreover, the data provide evidence for the involvement of both NMDA and non-NMDA receptor subtypes in aspects of cocaine toxicity.
Highly abundant short-chain alcohol dehydrogenases (RDHs) in the retina were assumed to be involved in the recycling of 11-cis-retinal chromophore in the visual cycle. Mutations in human RDH genes are associated with Fundus albipunctatus, a mild form of night blindness (RDH5) and an autosomal recessive, childhood-onset severe retinal dystrophy (RDH12). Rdh12 knockout mice were found to be susceptible to light-induced photoreceptor apoptosis, whereas Rdh5 and Rdh8 knockout mice displayed only delayed dark adaptation. However, each knockout mouse eventually regenerated normal levels of visual pigments, suggesting that RDHs compensate for each other in the visual cycle. Here, we established RDH double knockout (Rdh8(-/-)Rdh12(-/-)) and triple knockout (Rdh5(-/-)Rdh8(-/-)Rdh12(-/-)) mice generated on various genetic backgrounds including a rod alpha-transducin knockout to test cone function. RDH activity was severely reduced in Rdh8(-/-)Rdh12(-/-) retina extracts, whereas Rdh8(-/-) RDH activity was intermediate and Rdh12(-/-) RDH activity was reduced only slightly. Surprisingly, all multiple knockout mice produced sufficient amounts of the chromophore to regenerate rhodopsin and cone pigments in vivo. Three-month-old Rdh8(-/-)Rdh12(-/-) mice characteristically displayed a slowly progressing rod-cone dystrophy accompanied by accumulation of N-retinylidene-N-retinylethanolamine (A2E), a toxic substance known to contribute to retinal degeneration. A2E accumulation and retinal degeneration were prevented by application of retinylamine, a potent retinoid cycle inhibitor. The results suggest that RDH8 and RDH12 are dispensable in support of the visual cycle but appear to be key components in clearance of free all-trans-retinal, thereby preventing A2E accumulation and photoreceptor cell death.
The objective of this study was to examine the cerebral circulation during spontaneous migraine attacks and to compare changes to an experimental headache model induced by nitroglycerin (NTG) infusion. This prospective study was carried out in a tertiary care hospital on migraineurs with or without aura. Healthy volunteers served as controls. There were no interventions. Flow velocity (FV) and pulsatility index (PI) were measured in migraineurs between and during headache attacks. In controls, FV and PI of the middle cerebral arteries were performed at baseline and after each IV infusion of 0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 microg/kg/min of NTG. In migraineurs, a significant increase in the mean flow velocity (MFV) in the left vertebral artery (VA) and the PI of the right VA during spontaneous migraine headache was found. In controls, all FV significantly decreased after infusion of NTG. The NTG model produces expected and substantially different vascular effects than those seen with spontaneous migraine headache.
Tolerance to abused drugs may impact on patterns of abuse, and in the case of agonist therapies, may be beneficial in that it reduces the reward value of a given dose of abused drug. Cocaethylene, a psychoactive metabolite resulting from concurrent alcohol and cocaine consumption, was examined because of its use in human research studies of drug reward mechanisms, and its potential as a model compound for an agonist based therapy for cocaine dependence.
Comparisons were made between cocaine and cocaethylene in the acute development of tolerance to the neurochemical and behavioral effects of cocaine. With chronic exposure, tolerance to the behavioral effects of cocaine was examined.
In awake rats with a microdialysis probe in the nucleus accumbens and a jugular catheter, an IV bolus/3-h infusion of cocaine or cocaethylene and a subsequent cocaine challenge was administered while extracellular dopamine and locomotion were monitored. Chronic IV treatment with cocaine, cocaethylene, and a water control was accomplished for 7 days using osmotic minipumps attached to jugular catheters. Animals were then challenged with an IV bolus of cocaine.
With acute treatment, the IV bolus of cocaethylene at the beginning of the infusion period resulted in an initial behavioral activation equivalent to that caused by cocaine, after which there was a striking difference in that the cocaethylene group displayed a return to predrug levels of activity, while the cocaine group showed high levels of activity throughout the 3-h period. Both cocaethylene and cocaine resulted in an initial increase in the extracellular concentration of dopamine. However, after that initial increase, levels of dopamine dropped in the cocaethylene group while the cocaine group levels remained elevated. A 1-week infusion of cocaine or cocaethylene resulted in tolerance to the behavioral activating effects of a subsequent cocaine challenge.
These results demonstrate a rapid induction of tolerance to the behavioral and neurochemical properties of cocaethylene, resulting in a diminished behavioral response to a cocaine challenge both acutely, and after 7 days. The relevance of these data for the use of cocaethylene as a model compound for an agonist approach to therapy for cocaine dependence is discussed.
This pilot study compared the toxicity of a one hour with a four hour amphotericin B infusion in children. There were more severe chills in the former group on the first day of infusion, and more hypotension in the latter group over the study duration.
Specific ocular complications, namely retinopathy, keratopathy and optic neuritis, have been described in women being treated with tamoxifen for metastatic breast cancer or taking this drug as an adjuvant postoperative therapy. We examined 61 patients who had been using tamoxifen for at least one year, in order to detect the incidence of ocular complications. Two patients had retinopathy after having taken high cumulative doses of tamoxifen. Another had corneal deposits and a fourth had optic neuritis. It thus appears that systematic screening of all symptom-free patients using this drug for metastatic breast cancer is superfluous. However, an ophthalmological assessment every two years or earlier in case of visual complaints for patients taking tamoxifen as an adjuvant therapy remains useful, because the oncological therapy can be adjusted if serious ocular complications arise.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), a well-known side effect of heparin therapy, occurs in 1% to 5% of adults exposed to heparin. Of those, about 29% to 88% develop thrombosis. Most data on HIT-associated thrombosis in children are confined to anecdotal reports.
To determine the incidence of HIT-associated thrombosis in heparin-exposed children.
We performed a retrospective cohort study on all patients admitted to our pediatric intensive care unit between August 1996 and January 1999. Patients who received heparin for >/=5 days were eligible. Within these patients, we identified all cases of radiologically confirmed thrombosis. Cases of thrombosis were reviewed for fulfillment of clinical HIT criteria. HIT-associated thrombosis was confirmed serologically by determination of levels of antibodies against heparin/platelet factor 4 complexes.
Of 1950 children admitted during the study period, 612 were exposed to heparin for >/=5 days. Thrombosis occurred in 57 patients (9.3%). Plasma samples were available for 38 cases, of which 14 satisfied clinical HIT-criteria. Calculated incidence rate for HIT-associated thrombosis: 2.3%, (95% confidence interval: 1.3%-3.9%, for patients exposed to heparin >/=5 days). Nine patients suffered from venous, 2 patients from arterial, and 3 had combined arterial and venous thrombosis. None of the 14 patients died or underwent amputation. Six patients had heparin and platelet factor 4-complex antibody levels above the cutoff level for adults. The remaining 8 patients had significantly higher antibody levels than a matched control group.
Compared with that reported for adults, HIT-associated thrombosis in pediatric intensive care unit patients has a similar incidence but a less severe outcome.
The most common mutation (F508del) causing cystic fibrosis (CF) results in misfolding of the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), leading to its degradation via the proteasome pathway. To study the mechanism of action of several pharmacological chaperones benzo[c]quinolizinium (MPB), we analyzed their effects on two CF mutations; F508del-CFTR and G622D-CFTR. The replacement of Gly622 by an aspartic acid (G622D) alters the trafficking and activity of the protein. G622D, similar to F508del, was functionally rescued by the glucosidase inhibitor miglustat but, unlike F508del, could not be rescued by MPB. A structure-activity relationship for F508del functional correction revealed the following profile: MPB-104-91-07-80 > 05 > 89 > 9-hydroxyphenanthrene = phenanthrene. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments on human airway epithelial F508del/F508del CF15 cells showed that MPB did not prevent the interaction of F508del-CFTR with heat shock protein (HSP)70, HSP90, or calnexin. Functional rescue of F508del-CFTR by MPB and miglustat was abolished by brefeldin A (BFA) but potentiated by thapsigargin (TG) and geldanamycin. The proteasome inhibitor MG132 potentiated the effect of miglustat but only modestly affected that of MPB. It is noteworthy that MPB inhibited proteasome activity in F508del-CFTR-expressing cells but did not directly affect the activity of purified 20S proteasome. With the mutant G622D-CFTR, MPB did not inhibit proteasome activity, as in mock-transfected cells. Inhibition of cellular degradation machinery by MPB is not only CFTR-dependent, but it also follows similar structure-activity relationship as demonstrated by functional correction. We conclude that G622D is a partial trafficking-deficient mutant with dysfunctional chloride channel activity, and that Gly622 is part of the putative site for interaction of MPB with CFTR, protecting the channel from proteasome-mediated degradation.
Cardiac symptoms, including hypotension, developed in three patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma while being treated with cisplatin (CDDP) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). In two patients, hypotension was associated with severe left ventricular dysfunction. All three patients required therapy discontinuation. Cardiac enzymes remained normal despite transient electrocardiographic (EKG) changes. The presentation and cardiac evaluation (hemodynamic, echocardiographic, and scintigraphic) of these patients suggest new manifestations of 5-FU cardiotoxicity that may be influenced by CDDP. The possible pathophysiologic mechanisms are discussed.
Epstein Barr virus-associated lymphoproliferative disease is an increasing complication in patients with immunosuppressive conditions. Although the current therapies for this disorder are effective, they are also associated with significant toxicity. In an attempt to identify newer therapeutic agents, this study investigated the effects of Resveratrol, a naturally occurring polyphenolic compound, on the EBV transformation of human B cells.
This study demonstrates that resveratrol prevents EBV transformation in human B cells. These effects are mediated by specific cytotoxic activities of resveratrol against EBV-infected B cells that are associated with the downregulation of the anti-apoptotic proteins Mcl-1 and survivin. This occurs as a consequence of the inhibition of EBV-induced NFκB and STAT-3 signaling pathways and a resveratrol-induced decrease in the expression of the oncogenic viral product LMP1 in EBV-infected B cells. In addition, resveratrol decreased the expression of miR-155 and miR-34a in EBV-infected B cells, blocked the expression of the anti-apoptotic viral gene BHRF1, and thus interrupted events that are critical for EBV transformation and the survival of EBV-transformed cells.
These results suggest that resveratrol may therefore be a potentially effective therapeutic alternative for preventing EBV-associated lymphoproliferative diseases in immune compromised patients.
Paroxystic hypertension was observed in two patients receiving isoniazide treatment, after they had ingested gruyere cheese. It is highly probable that isoniazide was responsible, as hypertension did not reoccur under the same conditions after interrupting treatment. One patient developed a vasomotor reaction identical to that which sometimes occurs after the eating of foods rich in tyramine by patients taking monoamine oxydase inhibitors. It could be that in our patients this phenomenon was consecutive to the inhibition of plasma monoamine oxydase by the isoniazide. It was not due to an overdose of isoniazide. This unusual reaction suggest that patients taking isoniazide should be questioned whether they have had post-prandial vasomotor flushes, and if so, advised to avoid foods rich in tyramine.
Results in the Carcinogenic Potency Database (CPDB) on 11 mutagenic heterocyclic amines (HA) tested for carcinogenicity in rats, mice and cynomolgus monkeys are compared to results for other chemicals. An analysis of strength of evidence of carcinogenicity for HA vs. other mutagenic carcinogens and vs. all rodent carcinogens, indicates strong carcinogenicity of HA in terms of positivity rates and multiplicity of target sites. The liver is the most frequent target site in each species. Despite several target sites in each species, concordance in target sites between rats and mice is restricted to the liver for each HA except one. In cynomolgus monkeys, liver tumors have been induced rapidly by 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ). Human exposures to HA in cooked animal foods are small, in the low ppb range. A comparison of possible carcinogenic hazards from a variety of exposures to rodent carcinogens in the American diet is presented, using an index (Human Exposure/Rodent Potency, HERP) that relates human exposure to carcinogenic potency in rodents. Results indicate that there is a large background of exposures to naturally-occurring rodent carcinogens in typical portions of common foods, and that possible hazards from HA rank below those of most natural pesticides and products of cooking or food preparation; synthetic pesticide residues also rank low.
Cerebral vasospasm remains a major complication in patients who have suffered a subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Previous studies have shown that 17beta-estradiol (E2) attenuates experimental SAH-induced cerebral vasospasm. Moreover, E2 has been shown to reduce neuronal apoptosis and secondary injury following cerebral ischemia. Adenosine A1 receptor (AR-A1) expression is increased following ischemia and may represent an endogenous neuroprotective effect. This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of E2 in preventing cerebral vasospasm and reducing secondary injury, as evidenced by DNA fragmentation and AR-A1 expression, following SAH.
A double-hemorrhage model of SAH in rats was used, and the degree of vasospasm was determined by averaging the cross-sectional areas of the basilar artery 7 days after the first SAH. A cell death assay was used to detect apoptosis. Changes in the protein expression of AR-A1 in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and dentate gyrus were compared with levels in normal controls and E2-treated groups (subcutaneous E2, 0.3 mg/ml).
The administration of E2 prevented vasospasm (p < 0.05). Seven days after the first SAH, DNA fragmentation and protein levels of AR-A1 were significantly increased in the dentate gyrus. The E2 treatment decreased DNA fragmentation and prevented the increase in AR-A1 expression in the dentate gyrus. There were no significant changes in DNA fragmentation and the expression of AR-A1 after SAH in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus in the animals in the control and E2-treated groups.
The E2 was effective in attenuating SAH-induced cerebral vasospasm, decreasing apoptosis in the dentate gyrus, and reducing the expression of AR-A1 in the dentate gyrus after SAH. Interestingly, E2 appears to effectively prevent cerebral vasospasm subsequent to SAH as well as attenuate secondary injury by reducing both apoptosis and a compensatory increase in AR-A1 expression in the dentate gyrus.
