We report a 67 years old female patient out of a multigenerational family with spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) with an unusually benign course of disease. Although all SCA2 gene carriers have by now developed the predominant gait ataxia and brainstem oculomotor dysfunction, the index patient presented with a very mild course of disease, scoring only six points on the Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia after a disease duration of 13 years. Otherwise, intragenerational variability within family members such as the age at onset of disease and the course of disease was low. Reinvestigation of the genetic background variables in the SCA2 gene carrier reported here showed 27 repeats in the normal allele and 37 noninterrupted repeats in the abnormal allele. Interestingly, this patient has been taking lithium-carbonate over more than 30 years because of psychotic depression. Although anecdotic, this SCA2 case may provide promising insights into possible disease modifying mechanisms in SCA2.
An elderly patient was referred to the ophthalmologist for evaluation of photopsia. An ophthalmic examination demonstrated no objective visual alterations. The patient had been receiving digitalis for two months. We suspected digitalis intoxication and the patient was remitted to the Emergency Service. The patient's digoxin blood level was normal. We obtained a rapid improvement in the patient's symptoms by discontinuing the medication.
We must remember that ocular toxicity may occur with therapeutic blood level of the medication and not only when the intoxication appears.
Bromocriptine-induced tachycardia, persisting after adrenalectomy, is mediated by central dopamine D2 receptor stimulation through activation of the sympathetic outflow to the heart. The present study investigated the effects of malnutrition during pregnancy on bromocriptine-induced tachycardia in adult conscious rats. Malnourished rats were obtained by feeding dams a multideficient diet (providing 8% protein) during mating and pregnancy. Birth weight was significantly reduced in malnourished rats when compared to control rats born to dams fed standard commercially diet (23% protein) during mating and pregnancy. Baseline mean aortic pressure and heart rate in malnourished rats were comparable to those of well-nourished rats. Tachycardia (33+/-9 beats/min.), but not the hypotensive response to intravenous bromocriptine (150 microg/kg) was significantly reduced in malnourished rats, compared with control rats (70+/-10 beats/min.). In malnourished rats, pretreatment with intravenous domperidone (500 microg/kg) blocked the bromocriptine-induced hypotension, without affecting the tachycardia. Neither cardiac vagal (40+/-6 beats/min.) nor sympathetic tone (76+/-6 beats/min.) was significantly altered by multideficient diet-induced malnutrition (51+/-6 and 67+/-10 beats/min., respectively). In isolated perfused heart preparations from malnourished rats, positive inotropic response to isoproterenol (10-8 to 10-4 M) was not significantly different compared to that in control rats. In summary, malnutrition during foetal life blunted the bromocriptine-induced tachycardia, an effect that could be related to central dopamine D2 receptor desensitization rather than to impairment of autonomic regulation of the heart or cardiac beta-adrenoceptor desensitization.
The objective of this study was to test our hypothesis that pregnancy modifies the central nervous and cardiovascular toxicity of cocaine. Ten chronically catheterized term pregnant rats and 13 chronically catheterized nonpregnant female rats were infused with cocaine (2 mg/kg/min) intravenously to observe the sequential toxic manifestation of cocaine from mild central nervous stimulation (hyper-locomotor activities) to fatal cardiovascular collapse. Arterial blood samples were withdrawn at the onset of major toxic signs or symptoms--namely convulsion, hypotension, and circulatory collapse--for determination of cocaine concentrations and plasma cholinesterase activity. The dosage and plasma concentrations of cocaine associated with the onset of convulsions and cardiovascular depression were significantly lower in pregnant rats when compared with the nonpregnant animals. The mean time required to develop convulsions in the pregnant rat was significantly shorter (21 minutes) than that in the nonpregnant animal (33 minutes). However, once convulsive activity had developed, the time interval to achieve circulatory collapse was similar in both groups. Although the baseline plasma cholinesterase activity was higher in the pregnant rats than in the nonpregnant ones, the values in the samples obtained from the pregnant group at the onset of circulatory collapse were similar to the baseline values for the nonpregnant group. These findings suggest that a higher enzyme activity does not protect the development of toxic manifestations in the pregnant rat as compared to the nonpregnant animal when cocaine was administered at the same infusion rate.
The aim of this study was to develop a prognostic model of outcome for patients with paracetamol induced acute liver injury based on admission parameters
We used a cohort of 97 patients admitted to the Scottish Liver Transplant Unit between 1997 and 1998 to identify biochemical prognostic markers of outcome and thus create a prognostic model. Blood samples were taken on admission for analysis. The model was subsequently validated by testing it on a second cohort of 86 patients admitted between 1999 and 2000.
The following were identified as independent variables of poor prognosis (death/ transplant); phenylalanine, pyruvate, alanine, acetate, calcium, haemoglobin and lactate. A prognostic model was then constructed by stepwise forward logistic regression analysis: (400xPyruvate mmols/L)+(50xPhenylalanine (mmols/L)-(4 x Hemoglobin (g/dL). A value of <16 had an accuracy of 93% in predicting death correctly. When applied to the validation cohort this model had a positive predictive value of 91%, a negative predictive value of 94%, a sensitivity of 91%, and a specificity of 94%. On the same population overall, the positive and negative predictive value of the King's criteria were 94% and 93% respectively, whereas their sensitivity and specificity were 88% and 96% respectively.
Using admission characteristics our model is able to identify patients who die from paracetamol overdose fulminant hepatic failure as accurately as King's College criteria, but at a much earlier stage in their condition.
Conflicting evidence exists surrounding the increased risk of adverse outcome conferred by preinjury anticoagulant and antiplatelet treatment in patients with head injury. The aim of this study was to determine the epidemiology of patients with head injury on anticoagulant and antiplatelet treatment admitted to a hospital from an emergency department (ED).
This was a retrospective analysis of all patients with head injury admitted to a hospital from a major UK ED between 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2007.
399 patients met the inclusion criteria. 110 patients underwent CT, with 24 having traumatic haemorrhage. Of 271 patients on aspirin, 75 (28%) underwent CT, with 19 of these (25%) having traumatic haemorrhage. Of 89 patients on warfarin, 27 (30%) underwent CT, with 4 of these (15%) having traumatic haemorrhage. Seven of the 24 (29%) patients with traumatic haemorrhage on CT did not undergo urgent ED scanning. All these patients were on aspirin.
This study confirms the need for caution in the early discharge of patients with head injury taking anticoagulant medication. This study also raises concerns that patients taking antiplatelet medication prior to injury may also be at high risk of developing covert serious intracranial haemorrhage and suggests the need for a well-designed cohort study looking at antiplatelet risk in head injury.
The HDL Atherosclerosis Treatment Study (HATS) demonstrated a clinical benefit in coronary artery disease patients with low HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) levels treated with simvastatin and niacin (S-N) or S-N plus antioxidants (S-N+A) compared with antioxidants alone or placebo. Angiographically documented stenosis regressed in the S-N group but progressed in all other groups. To assess the mechanism(s) responsible for these observations, surrogate markers of cholesterol absorption and synthesis were measured in a subset of 123 HATS participants at 24 months (on treatment) and at 38 months (off treatment). Treatment with S-N reduced desmosterol and lathosterol levels (cholesterol synthesis indicators) 46% and 36% (P < 0.05), respectively, and elevated campesterol and beta-sitosterol levels (cholesterol absorption indicators) 70% and 59% (P < 0.05), respectively, relative to placebo and antioxidant but not S-N+A. Treatment with antioxidants alone had no significant effect. Combining S-N with antioxidants reduced desmosterol and lathosterol by 37% and 31%, and elevated campesterol and beta-sitosterol levels by 54% and 46%, but differences did not attain significance. Mean change in percent stenosis was positively associated with a percent change in lathosterol (r = 0.26, P < 0.005) and negatively associated with a percent change in beta-sitosterol (r = -0.21, P < 0.01). These data suggest that changes in stenosis were attributable, in part, to changes in cholesterol metabolism.
This is a report of a 10-year-old female neutered Doberman Pinscher with a clinical diagnosis of myelopathy. The dog was anesthetized using oxymorphone, thiopental, and halothane in oxygen for a cerebrospinal tap and a myelogram. Iohexal injection into the subarachnoid space by lumbar puncture was uneventful. Additional iohexal was given into the cerebeliomedullary cistern. Immediately following iohexal administration into the cerebellomedullary cistern, several electrocardiographic changes occurred. Two extended periods of asystole responded to intravenous glycopyrrolate administration. A slow multiform ventricular escape rhythm was established after the second dose of glycopyrrolate. Ultimately, atrial activity with apparent AV dissociation resumed, atrial fibrillation developed, and the rhythm converted to normal sinus rhythm. The dog had a normal cardiac examination the following day. Two days later, the dog was anesthetized using a similar anesthetic regimen with maintenance on isoflurane in oxygen for a hemilaminectomy. The dog recovered uneventfully from surgery and was discharged 2 days later.
Behavioural effects on dopaminergic transmission of a phenylindane derivative, Lu 19-005 [(+/-)-trans-3-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-N-methyl-l-indanamine, HCI], with potent inhibitory effect on dopamine (DA), noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5-HT) uptake in rats and the effect on DA, NA and 5-HT activity in mice have been studied and compared with those of other known DA, NA and 5-HT uptake inhibitors with different selectivity ratios. Lu 19-005 induced stereotyped behaviour after parenteral and oral administration with a duration of action of more than 24 h. The stereotyped licking and biting induced by Lu 19-005 was antagonized by reserpine and cis(Z)-flupentixol, but not affected by prazosin, p-chlorophenylalanine and alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine pretreatments. Metergoline slightly facilitated the onset of stereotypy. Lower doses of Lu 19-005 induced ipsilateral circling in unilaterally 6-hydroxy-DA-lesioned rats. Finally, Lu 19-005 antagonized the catalepsy induced by perphenazine. In mice, Lu 19-005 potentiated the apomorphine-induced gnawing, reversed tetrabenazine-induced ptosis and potentiated the behavioural effects of 5-HTP within a similar dose range. The effects of Lu 19-005 were compared with those of other reference compounds. Nomifensine had qualitatively similar effects in rats although of much shorter duration. In mice, nomifensine selectively reversed tetrabenazine-induced ptosis. Weaker effects in all test models were found with bupropion, LR 5182 and GBR 13.069, compounds with inhibitory effect on DA and NA uptake. The DA-, NA- and 5-HT-uptake inhibitor diclofensine, however, had no effect in rats except in the 6-hydroxy-DA-circling test and had low potency in mice. The specific 5-HT- and NA-uptake inhibitors citalopram and talsupram, respectively, were ineffective in all rat models.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Previous studies have provided evidences that resveratrol can protect the brain from ischemia/reperfusion injury; the mechanisms of its neuroprotective effects remain unknown. To investigate whether resveratrol has neuroprotective effects on ischemia and reperfusion injury and whether resveratrol exerts its neuroprotective effects through inhibition of calpain proteolysis of TRPC6, a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model was employed in rats. Western blot analysis was performed to detect the protein levels of aII-spectrin, transient receptor potential canonical (subtype) 6 (TRPC6) and phosphorylated cAMP/Ca(2+) response element-binding protein (p-CREB). The immunoreactivity of p-CREB and TRPC6 were measured by quantum dot-based immunofluorescence analysis. Our results showed that MCAO rats showed large cortical infarct volumes and neurological scores. By contrast, resveratrol, when applied for 7 days before MCAO onset, significantly reduced infarct volumes and enhanced neurological scores at 24 h after reperfusion, and these results were accompanied by elevated TRPC6 and p-CREB activity and decreased calpain activity. When MEK or CaMKIV activity was inhibited by the addition of PD98059 or KN62, the neuroprotective effects of resveratrol were attenuated, and we observed a correlated decrease in CREB activity. Our results demonstrated that resveratrol prevented the brain from ischemia/reperfusion injury through the TRPC6-MEK-CREB and TRPC6-CaMKIV-CREB pathways.
Alfuzosina has a specific antagonist effect on the alfa-1-adrenergic post-junctional receptor posed at urethral laeve musculature, prostatic capsule and vesical trgonum. It's and ideal drug the symptoms of the difficult urinary flow typical of the benign prostatic hypertrophia (IPB) and of some patologies of vesical collum to attenuate. With this work we want to demonstrate the anatomic alterations of vesical collum and prostatic urethra by means of dynamic recording mictional phase with transrectal scan carried out before and after treatment. In this study, 30 patients were divided into three groups of 10 in relation to the pathology: overtone of vesical collum, little benign prostatic ipertrophia and great benign prostatic ipertrophia have included. The patients of each group have also been divided in undergroups of five (selected with the method of double-blind) of which the first treated with alfuzosina 7.5 mg/die for 30 days and the second with placebo. Considering the limits of this study, the analysis of the results have permitted to conclude that the drug has determined a subjective improvement in all patients except those with great IPB, while the objective valuation, reached comparing scan dynamic pictures before and after treatment, has made it possible to visualize an improvement on the opening of the vesical collum and the prostatic urethra after therapy with great variations of the size of che mictional funnel and same prostatic urethra. The alfuzosina is efficacious, in the cases under examination, except the third group were the compression on the urethra was of an elevated degree.
Temporal lobe epilepsy is the most common type of epilepsy in adults, and its underlying mechanisms are unclear. To investigate how the medial entorhinal cortex might contribute to temporal lobe epilepsy, we evaluated the histology and electrophysiology of slices from rats 3-7 d after an epileptogenic injury (pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus). Nissl staining, NeuN immunocytochemistry, and in situ hybridization for GAD65 mRNA were used to verify the preferential loss of glutamatergic neurons and the relative sparing of GABAergic interneurons in layer III. From slices adjacent to those that were used for anatomy, we obtained whole-cell patch recordings from layer II medial entorhinal cortical neurons. Recordings under current-clamp conditions revealed similar intrinsic electrophysiological properties (resting membrane potential, input resistance, single spike, and repetitive firing properties) to those of controls. Spontaneous IPSCs were less frequent (68% of controls), smaller in amplitude (57%), and transferred less charge (51%) than in controls. However, the frequency, amplitude, and rise time of miniature IPSCs were normal. These findings suggest that after epileptogenic injuries the layer II entorhinal cortical neurons receive less GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic input because presynaptic inhibitory interneurons become less active. To investigate the possible consequences of reduced spontaneous inhibitory input to layer II neurons, we recorded field potentials in the dentate gyrus, their major synaptic target. At 5 d after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus the spontaneous field potentials recorded in vivo were over three times more frequent than in controls. These findings suggest that an epileptogenic injury reduces inhibition of layer II neurons and results in excessive synaptic input to the dentate gyrus.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), the most abundant heterocyclic amine in cooked meat and fish, is carcinogenic to the mammary glands of rats. Mutations in the H-ras gene were here examined in PhIP-induced mammary tumors of female F344 rats by the polymerase chain reaction followed by single strand conformation polymorphism analysis (PCR-SSCP) and restriction enzyme length polymorphism analysis (RFLP). Mutations in codon 12 of the H-ras gene were detected in four out of 13 tumors by PCR-SSCP. Three of them were GGA to GAA, and one was GGA to GTA. However, by RFLP analysis, four additional mutations in codon 13 were also detected in the same samples. Two had a GGC to CGC mutation, and the other shifts were GGC to GAC and GGC to GTC. Therefore, overall eight out of 13 cases had H-ras gene mutations. These results indicate that changes in H-ras function may play important roles in PhIP-induced mammary carcinogenesis.
The present study investigated whether the anticataleptic effect of (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)-cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK 801) is due to a blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in striatal output pathways as well as in the striatum. Catalepsy induced by haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.) was more effectively reversed by MK 801 (0.2 mg/kg i.p.) given 10 min prior to rather than 45 min after the neuroleptic. Catalepsy evoked by intrastriatal haloperidol (7 micrograms/side) was also strongly attenuated by systemic MK 801 (0.2 mg/kg i.p.). We also found that the cataleptic rigidity induced by systemic haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.) could be prevented by prior injection of MK 801 into the striatum (10 micrograms), subthalamic nucleus (5 micrograms), entopeduncular nucleus (5 micrograms) or substantia nigra pars reticulata (1 microgram). These results suggest that the anticataleptic action of systemic MK 801 versus haloperidol, is due to the blockade of NMDA receptors in the striatum as well as in striatal output circuits through the subthalamus. However, systemic MK 801 (0.2 mg/kg i.p.) was without effect on the catalepsy elicited by injecting muscimol into the globus pallidus (25 ng) or ventromedial thalamus (50 ng). These findings suggest that MK 801 has little influence over thalamic excitatory feedback to the cortex, and that hypoactivity of the pallidum may not be a prerequisite for hyperactivity in the subthalamus.
Tellurium is an element used in the vulcanization of rubber and in metal-oxidizing solutions to blacken or tarnish metals. Descriptions of human toxicity from tellurium ingestion are rare. We report the clinical course of 2 children who ingested metal-oxidizing solutions containing substantial concentrations of tellurium. Clinical features included vomiting, black discoloration of the oral mucosa, and a garlic odor to the breath. One patient developed corrosive injury to the esophagus secondary to the high concentration of hydrochloric acid in the solution. Both patients recovered without serious sequelae, which is typical of tellurium toxicity. An awareness of situations in which children may be exposed to tellurium and its clinical presentation may assist clinicians in the diagnosis of this rare poisoning.
Two allosteric alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor positive modulators, 1-(1,3-benzodioxol-5-ylcarbonyl)piperidine (1-BCP) and 1-(quinoxalin-6-ylcarbonyl)piperidine (CX516), and the antipsychotic drug, haloperidol, were tested for their ability to inhibit hyperactivity induced by amphetamine and dizocilpine in mice. Haloperidol (0.03-1.0 mg/kg) and 1-BCP (20.0-120.0 mg/kg) attenuated hyperactivity induced by both amphetamine and dizocilpine, with higher potency against amphetamine. CX516 (30.0-170.0 mg/kg), however, failed to attenuate amphetamine- and dizocilpine-induced hyperactivity up to a dose which decreased spontaneous locomotor activity. These results indicate that AMPA receptor positive modulators may not be uniform with regard to their effects on dopamine-mediated behaviors and their antipsychotic potential.
Epoxy resin compounds (ERC) include a large number of sensitizing chemicals such as epoxy resins (ER), hardeners (curing agents), and reactive diluents. Allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) caused by ERCS is often occupational.
We report a patient, sensitized to a hardener of a two-component epoxy paint. Three conventional patch test sessions were performed to diagnose the causative chemical. We also review the literature on sensitizing epoxy-resin hardeners.
A 47-year-old nonatopic woman developed dermatitis from a two-component epoxy paint. Patch testing with epoxy resin was negative, but 2,4,6-tris(dimethylaminomethyl)phenol (tris-DMP), used in the paint hardener, induced an allergic patch test reaction. We also review briefly other epoxy hardeners that have caused allergic dermatitis, including: (1) aliphatic polyamines, e.g., ethylenediamine, diethylenetriamine, triethylenetetramine, 3-dimethylaminopropylamine, and trimethylhexamethylenediamine; (2) cycloaliphatic polyamines, e.g., isophoronediamine and 3,3'-dimethyl-4,4-diaminodicyclohexylmethane; (3) aromatic amines, such as 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane, m-phenylene diamine, and 1,3-xylylene diamine; (4) dicyanodiamide; (5) triglycidyl isocyanurate, an epoxy compound that may be used as an epoxy-resin hardener; and (6) additives in epoxy accelerators, such as hexavalent chromate.
No one chemical can be used to screen for sensitization to the many different epoxy hardeners. Extensive patch testing may be required to reveal the hardener that has caused the allergy. The hardener, 2,4,6-tris-(dimethylaminomethyl)phenol (tris-DMP), is a new sensitizer. To verify ACD caused by tris-DMP, patch-testing at 1% in petrolatum is suggested.
Our objective was to study whether products of oxidative stress, such as hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), trans-2-hexenal, and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE), cause DNA damage in genes, relevant for human colon cancer. For this, total DNA damage was measured in primary human colon cells and colon adenoma cells (LT97) using the single-cell gel electrophoresis assay, known as "Comet Assay." APC, KRAS, and TP53 were marked in the comet images using fluorescence in situ hybridization (Comet FISH). The migration of APC, KRAS, or TP53 signals into the comet tails was quantified and compared to total DNA damage. All three substances were clearly genotoxic for APC, KRAS, and TP53 genes and total DNA in both types of cells. In primary colon cells, TP53 gene was more sensitive toward H(2)O(2), trans-2-hexenal, and HNE than total DNA was. In LT97 cells, the TP53 gene was more sensitive only toward trans-2-hexenal and HNE. APC and KRAS genes were more susceptible than total DNA to both lipid peroxidation products but only in primary colon cells. This suggests genotoxic effects of lipid peroxidation products in APC, KRAS, and TP53 genes. In LT97 cells, TP53 was more susceptible than APC and KRAS toward HNE. Based on the reported gatekeeper properties of TP53, which in colon adenoma is frequently altered to yield carcinoma, this implies that HNE is likely to contribute to cancer progression. This new experimental approach facilitates studies on effects of nutrition-related carcinogens in relevant target genes.
After menopause women are more susceptible to coronary heart disease due to increased risk of atherosclerosis. Tibolone (Livial) is an innovative synthetic steroid analogue for the treatment of postmenopausal climacteric symptoms including atherosclerosis, but the mechanisms of its effect are still unclear. The present study investigated the effect of tibolone and simvastatin on atherosclerosis and the expression of both estrogen receptor A (ERA) and LDL receptor (LDLR) mRNA in ovariectomized cholesterol-fed rabbits.
Fifty New Zealand white rabbits were included for the study. Of them, 40 underwent bilateral ovariectomy and the other 10 were sham-operated. The sham-operated group only received atherogenic diet (group SC) and the ovariectomized rabbits were divided into 4 groups of 10 each, with group N received normal diet, group C received atherogenic diet, group T received atherogenic diet and tibolone (2.5 mg/day) and group SI received atherogenic diet and simvastatin (20 mg/day). After 12 weeks of the treatments, the animals were euthanized and the extent of thoracic aortic atherosclerosis was measured morphologically and the level of ERA and LDLR mRNA in heart and liver was determined by real-time RT-PCR.
The extent of atherosclerosis in the thoracic aorta was 0.75+/-0.24 for group C, 0.56+/-0.27 for group SC, almost 0 for group N, 0.10+/-0.02 for group T and 0.09 +/-0.08 for group SI (P<0.01; groups T versus C, T versus SC, SI versus C, SI versus SC). The relative copies of ERA at group C, SC, N, T and SI were 0.29, 0.53, 0.46, 0.85 and 0.30, respectively in heart and 0.32, 0.51, 0.49, 0.68 and 0.30, respectively in liver; the relative copies of LDLR at group C, SC, N, T and SI were 0.22, 0.24, 0.33, 0.27 and 0.23, respectively in heart and 0.68, 0.93, 1.52, 1.27 and 0.88, respectively in liver.
Both tibolone and simvastatin prevented the atherosclerosis in ovariectomized cholesterol-fed rabbits and this effect was associated with up-regulation of ERA and LDLR expression by tibolone but not by simvastatin.
Cathepsin D (CD) is an enzyme that promotes breast cancer. CD is stored intracellularly; however, we demonstrated that IGF-II promotes CD secretion in estrogen receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer cells. We also showed that resveratrol (RSV) stimulates IGF-II in ER(+) breast cancer cells. Thus, we designed this study to determine whether RSV regulates CD in MCF-7, T47D (ER+) breast cancer cells as well as in Hs578t (cancer) and MCF-10A (normal) ER - cell lines. RSV (10(- 6) M) increased CD and IGF-II secretion in ER+ but not ER - cells. RSV treatment (10(- 4) M) inhibited CD in ER+ but not in ER - cells. Transfection of ER - cells with proIGF-II increased CD secretion. RSV (10(- 6) M) modulates CD secretion through IGF-II while RSV (10(- 4) M) inhibits CD in ER+ but not ER - cells. Regulation of CD by RSV represents a novel mechanism by which RSV may protect against breast cancer.
Mirror-image polydactyly of hands and feet (MIP) is a very rare congenital anomaly characterized by mirror-image duplication of digits. To isolate the gene responsible for MIP, we performed translocation breakpoint cloning from an MIP patient with t(2;14)(p23.3;q13). We isolated a good candidate gene for MIP that was disrupted by the translocation of the patient. We had previously con structed a 1.2-megabase bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)/P1-derived artificial chromosome (PAC) contig covering the 14q13 breakpoint of t(2;14)(p23.3;q13). From a 500-kb segment consisting of seven BAC/PAC clones in the contig, we isolated a novel gene (the mirror-image polydactyly 1 gene, designated as MIPOL1, GenBank Accession No. AY059470), in addition to the hepatocyte nuclear factor 3 alpha gene (HNF3A, GenBank Accession No. XM 007360). MIPOL1 spans about 350kb, comprises 15 exons, and encodes 442 amino acids. Northern blot analysis revealed that MIPOL1 expression is definite but very weak in adult heart, liver, skeletal muscle, kidney, and pancreas, and in fetal kidney. In view of the genome sequence and the contig map constructed, the 14q13 breakpoint of the patient was identified as located in intron 11 of MIPOL1, indicating that the gene was disrupted by the translocation, and that the breakage resulted in MIPOL1 protein truncation. Whole-mount in situ hybridization in mouse resulted in mouse Mipol1 signals all over E10.5-E13.5 mouse embryos. Two other unrelated patients with limb anomalies similar to MIP were subjected to mutation analysis of MIPOL1, but none had any mutations. We then isolated BAC clones from the other breakpoint, 2p23.3. A search for genes and expressed sequence tags in a more than 300-kb region around the 2p23.3 breakpoint found only the neuroblastoma-amplified protein gene (NAG, GenBank Accession No. NM 015909), which is located at least 50kb centromeric to the breakpoint and is not likely to be related to MIP. MIPOL1 is a good candidate gene for the MIP type of anomaly.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a clonal disorder characterized by proliferation of hematopoietic cells that possess the BCR-ABL fusion gene resulting in the production of a 210 kDa chimeric tyrosine kinase protein. CML, when left untreated, progresses to a blast phase during which the disease turns aggressive and shows poor response to known treatment regimens. We have studied a Siddha herbal agent, Semecarpus anacardium Linn. nut milk extract (SA) for its antileukemic activity and its effect on the changes in energy metabolism in leukemic mice. Leukemia was induced in BALB/c mice by tail vein injection of BCR-ABL(+) 12B1 murine leukemia cell line. This resulted in an aggressive leukemia, similar to CML in blast crisis, myeloid subtype, confirmed by histopathological study and RT-PCR for the p210 mRNA in the peripheral blood, spleen and liver. Leukemia-bearing mice showed a significant increase in lipid peroxides, glycolytic enzymes, a decrease in gluconeogenic enzymes and significant decrease in the activities of TCA cycle and respiratory chain enzymes as compared to control animals. SA treatment was compared with standard drug imatinib mesylate. SA administration to leukemic animals resulted in clearance of the leukemic cells from the bone marrow and internal organs on histopathological examination and this was confirmed by RT-PCR for the p210 mRNA. Treatment with SA significantly reversed the changes seen in the levels of the lipid peroxides, the glycolytic enzymes, the gluconeogenic enzymes and the mitochondrial enzymes. These effects are probably due to the flavonoids, polyphenols and other compounds present in SA which result in total regression of leukemia and correction of the alterations in energy metabolism. Study of animals treated with SA alone did not reveal any adverse effects. On the basis of the observed results, SA can be considered as a readily accessible, promising and novel antileukemic chemotherapeutic agent.
The need to avoid hypokalemia during diuretic therapy in nondigitalized patients has been questioned. Twenty-one patients with (1) mild essential hypertension, (2) plasma potassium of less than 3.5 meq/liter during previous diuretic treatment, and (3) normal findings [less than 6 unifocal ventricular premature beats/hour] on 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring and exercise testing were treated with hydrochlorothiazide (50 mg twice a day) for four weeks and then ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring and exercise testing were repeated. Ambulatory electrocardiographic monitoring revealed that ventricular ectopic activity developed in seven patients and complex ventricular ectopic activity (multifocal ventricular premature beats, ventricular couplets and/or ventricular tachycardia) in four. Only two of these seven had ventricular ectopic activity during exercise testing while they were hypokalemic. Potassium repletion in these seven patients with spironolactone abolished complex ventricular ectopic activity and reduced unifocal ventricular premature beats significantly (p less than 0.01) from an average of 71.2 ventricular premature beats/hour/patient during hydrochlorothiazide treatment to 5.4 ventricular premature beats/hour/patient after potassium repletion. Although complex ventricular ectopic activity was more likely to occur with plasma potassium less than 3.0 meq/liter, restoration of normokalemia was required in several patients to abolish residual ventricular ectopic activity. Persistent ventricular ectopic activity in one patient suggested that myocardial injury sustained during hypokalemia may initiate chronic ventricular ectopic activity. Even in nondigitalized patients, the hazard of diuretic-induced ventricular ectopic activity warrants correction of hypokalemia.
Nodularin is a natural toxin with multiple features, including inhibitor of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A as well as tumor initiator and promoter. One unique feature of nodularin is that this chemical is a hepatotoxin. It can accumulate into the liver after contact and lead to severe damage to hepatocyte, such as apoptosis. Fas receptor (Fas) and Fas ligand (FasL) system is a critical signaling network triggering apoptosis. In current study, we investigated whether nodularin can induce Fas and FasL expression in HepG2 cell, a well used in vitro model for the study of human hepatocytes. Our data showed nodularin induced Fas and FasL expression, at both mRNA and protein level, in a time- and dose-dependent manner. We also found nodularin induced apoptosis at the concentration and incubation time that Fas and FasL were significantly induced. Neutralizing antibody to FasL reduced nodularin-induced apoptosis. Further studies demonstrated that nodularin promoted nuclear translocation and activation of p65 subunit of NF-κB. By applying siRNA targeting p65, which knocked down p65 in HepG2 cells, we successfully impaired the activation of NF-κB by nodularin. In these p65 knockdown cells, we observed that Fas and FasL expression and apoptosis induced by nodularin were significantly reduced. These findings suggest the induction of Fas and FasL expression and thus cell apoptosis in HepG2 cells by nodularin is mediated through NF-κB pathway.
Proto-oncogene expression by cultured urothelial cells prepared from the bladders of male F344 rats that had been treated with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide (FANFT) or N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN) were examined. Although all of the cultured cells showed varying degrees of anchorage-independent growth, only 9 of them were transplantable into nude mice. A Northern blot technique was employed for the detection of proto-oncogene transcripts. The c-Ha-ras transcripts were detected in all the cultured urothelial cells prepared from the carcinogen-treated rats and in normal urothelial cells. However, the transcript levels were several-fold higher in the former than in normal cells. Increased expression of p21, as determined by immunohistochemical techniques, was also observed in all the original bladder tissues from which the cultures were derived. c-myc transcripts were detected in the cells from carcinogen-treated rats but not in the normal cells. The presence of myc product in hyperplastic urothelial lesions and carcinomas of original bladder tissues was confirmed by immunohistochemical methods. Transcripts of mos, erb B, Ki-ras, abl and src were not detected. Since increased expression of c-myc and c-Ha-ras were present in both transplantable and non-transplantable cell lines, and the expression of p21 occurs in preneoplastic cells, this suggests that elevated expression of these 2 genes may be an early genetic event during bladder carcinogenesis in the rat and further alteration of these 2 genes or mutation of additional genes may be required for the completion of malignant transformation.
Hexavalent chromium (CrVI) has been widely used in industries throughout the world. Increased usage of CrVI and atmospheric emission of CrVI from catalytic converters of automobiles, and its improper disposal causes various health hazards including female infertility. Recently we have reported that lactational exposure to CrVI induced a delay/arrest in follicular development at the secondary follicular stage. In order to investigate the underlying mechanism, primary cultures of rat granulosa cells were treated with 10 μM potassium dichromate (CrVI) for 12 and 24h, with or without vitamin C pre-treatment for 24h. The effects of CrVI on intrinsic apoptotic pathway(s) were investigated. Our data indicated that CrVI: (i) induced DNA fragmentation and increased apoptosis, (ii) increased cytochrome c release from the mitochondria to cytosol, (iii) downregulated anti-apoptotic Bcl-2, Bcl-XL, HSP70 and HSP90; upregulated pro-apoptotic BAX and BAD, (iv) altered translocation of Bcl-2, Bcl-XL, BAX, BAD, HSP70 and HSP90 to the mitochondria, (v) upregulated p-ERK and p-JNK, and selectively translocated p-ERK to the mitochondria and nucleus, (vi) activated caspase-3 and PARP, and (vii) increased phosphorylation of p53 at ser-6, ser-9, ser-15, ser-20, ser-37, ser-46 and ser-392, increased p53 transcriptional activation, and downregulated MDM-2. Vitamin C pre-treatment mitigated CrVI effects on apoptosis and related pathways. Our study, for the first time provides a clear insight into the effect of CrVI on multiple pathways that lead to apoptosis of granulosa cells which could be mitigated by vitamin C.
