2-Amino-4-oxo-6-substituted pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine antifolates with a thienoyl side chain (compounds 1-3, respectively) were synthesized for comparison with compound 4, the previous lead compound of this series. Conversion of hydroxyl acetylen-thiophene carboxylic esters to thiophenyl-α-bromomethylketones and condensation with 2,4-diamino-6-hydroxypyrimidine afforded the 6-substituted pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine compounds of type 18 and 19. Coupling with l-glutamate diethyl ester, followed by saponification, afforded 1-3. Compound 3 selectively inhibited the proliferation of cells expressing folate receptors (FRs) α or β, or the proton-coupled folate transporter (PCFT), including KB and IGROV1 human tumor cells, much more potently than 4. Compound 3 was more inhibitory than 4 toward β-glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GARFTase). Both 3 and 4 depleted cellular ATP pools. In SCID mice with IGROV1 tumors, 3 was more efficacious than 4. Collectively, our results show potent antitumor activity for 3 in vitro and in vivo, associated with its selective membrane transport by FRs and PCFT over RFC and inhibition of GARFTase, clearly establishing the 3-atom bridge as superior to the 1-, 2-, and 4-atom bridge lengths for the activity of this series.
Clonidine hydrochloride was found to be effective in the treatment of methadone hydrochloride withdrawal. Under controlled inpatient conditions established to assess dosage guidelines and to examine specific signs and symptoms of withdrawal, 20 of 25 (80%) patients were able to withdraw completely from methadone by the end of a two-week period. In most patients, ten to 11 days of clonidine administration, with a peak mean dose of 16 micro g /kg/day, resulted in a perceived reduction in symptoms compared with previous attempts to become opiate free. At these doses clonidine significantly reduced standing blood pressure without producing clinical problems. The withdrawal symptoms of anxiety, restlessness, insomnia, and muscular aching were most resistant to clonidine treatment and were reported by the majority of patients.
The incidence and severity of hyperkalemia and azotemia was investigated in a prospective randomized study involving 74 patients receiving either sulindac 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. or indomethacin 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. and 100 mg p.r. The mean +/- SE posttreatment increment in serum potassium was 0.8 +/- 0.1 mmol/l in patients treated by indomethacin compared to 0.5 +/- 0.1 in those receiving sulindac (p less than 0.025). The mean +/- SE posttreatment increment in blood urea nitrogen (BUN) was 3.1 +/- 0.4 mmol/l in patients on indomethacin compared to only 0.9 +/- 0.3 in patients on sulindac (p less than 0.001). In 5 patients who developed hyperkalemia while on indomethacin, changing to sulindac resulted in a sharp reduction of serum potassium in 3, and normalization of BUN in all patients. These data support the claim of a reduced risk of impaired renal function associated with the use of sulindac.
In a young woman with rheumatoid arthritis misoprostol induced urinary incontinence. The urodynamic study described here revealed a deficiency in urethral resistance which may explain the phenomenon. This side-effect may be more common than expected, and misoprostol should be administered with caution to patients suffering from urinary stress incontinence.
Aluminum phosphide poisoning has high mortality resulting from cardiac impairment and hemodynamic disorders. We report two cases of aluminum phosphide associated with reversible myocardial injury.
A 19-year-old woman and a 28-year-old man were admitted to hospital following ingestion of aluminum phosphide. The clinical course was characterized by the development of a shock syndrome requiring the use of vasoactive amines in the woman. However, the arterial hypotension in the man was improved by fluid filling and vasoactive drugs. The myocardial injury was objectively documented in both cases. The electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevations and diffusely abnormal repolarization. The plasma concentrations of cardiac enzymes were elevated. In the second case, echocardiography showed similar myocardial involvement with left ventricular hypokinesis (left ventricle ejection fraction 30%). In both cases, there was progressive improvement in hemodynamic status, cardiac traces, and biochemical values. A simultaneous improvement was observed in echocardiogram of the second case (left ventricle ejection fraction increased to 50%).
Reversible myocardial injury following aluminum phosphide poisoning has been described in few cases. We objectively documented progressive clinical and electrical improvement in two cases.
--To ascertain if low-dose multiagent chemotherapy, with central nervous system prophylaxis and antiretroviral therapy, might be associated with increased efficacy and decreased risk of intercurrent infection in patients with malignant lymphoma related to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
--A phase II prospective clinical trial, with median follow-up of 33 months.
--Eight university hospitals, within the context of the AIDS Clinical Trials Units, sponsored by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
--Forty-two patients with AIDS-related malignant lymphoma. All were evaluable for toxicity assessment, and 35 for response.
--A low-dose modification of the M-BACOD regimen (day 1): cyclophosphamide, 300 mg/m2 intravenously (IV); doxorubicin, 25 mg/m2 IV; vincristine sulfate, 1.4 mg/m2 IV; bleomycin, 4 mg/m2 IV; dexamethasone, 3 mg/m2 orally on days 1 through 5; methotrexate, 500 mg/m2 IV on day 15, with leucovorin rescue. Intrathecal cytosine arabinoside (50 mg) to all on days 1, 8, 21, and 28, with radiation therapy to a helmet field to those with central nervous system involvement. Zidovudine for 12 months after completion of four to six cycles of chemotherapy.
--Response rate and number of opportunistic infections.
--Response rate was 51% with a complete response of 46%. Of 16 complete responses, relapse occurred in four, none isolated to the central nervous system. Opportunistic infections occurred in 21% of those receiving treatment. Median duration of survival among all 42 patients is 5.6 months, 6.5 months in 35 patients evaluable for response, and 15 months in patients with complete response. Lower concentration of CD4 cells, history of prior AIDS, bone marrow involvement, and stage IV disease were independently associated with decreased survival.
--Low-dose chemotherapy with central nervous system prophylaxis and zidovudine maintenance may be associated with durable remissions in AIDS-related lymphoma with fewer opportunistic infections than noted in prior reports.
There is no pharmacological treatment to increase the glomerular filtration rate in end-stage renal disease (ESRD). The administration of 100 microgram/kg of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) I twice a day to patients with ESRD increases inulin clearance. However, its effect is short-lived and IGF-I has major side effects when given this way. To assess whether the use of a lower intermittent dose of IGF-I would effect sustained improved function with tolerable side effects we performed 1) a prospective open-labeled 24-day trial in which we enrolled five patients and 2) a 31-day randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial in which we enrolled 10 patients. Patients with ESRD [creatinine clearance of <15 ml. min-1. (1.73 m2)-1] and scheduled to initiate renal replacement therapy received subcutaneous IGF-I, 50 microgram. kg-1. day-1, or vehicle. Treatment with IGF I resulted in significantly increased glomerular filtration rates (inulin clearances) during the 3rd and 4th wk of therapy in both prospective and double-blinded studies. Vehicle had no effect. No patient required discontinuation of drug secondary to side effects. We conclude that IGF-I effects sustained improvement of renal function (clearances comparable to those generally achieved by dialysis) in patients with ESRD and is well tolerated.
Pain following intravenous injection as well as thrombophlebitis are substantial side effects of etomidate that have been reported from the first clinical study (1972-1973) onwards. Investigations of our own and by Gran et al. have pointed out that injectable etomidate with intralipid as a solvent removes side effects without impairing the good hypnotic action. The idea of using a lipid emulsion as a solvent was presented a few years later, inducing two further studies. METHOD. Both pharmacodynamic (continuous EEG registration) and pharmacokinetic [determination (HPLC) of plasma levels of the active substance] investigations were carried out on volunteers. At random 16 volunteers received etomidate in propylene glycol or etomidate in lipid emulsion for general anesthesia. A dose of 0.3 mg kg-1 was given over 60 s. In a clinical study 100 patients were divided into two independent groups of 50 each. They received either the commercially available etomidate in 35% propylene glycol (group I) or the new formulation containing 20 mg etomidate in 10 ml of a lipid-emulsion (Lipofundin MCT 20%) (group II). A dose of 0.3 mg kg-1 etomidate was given. RESULTS. There was a higher concentration of etomidate for 8 min after injection in lipid emulsion compared with etomidate in propylene glycol. The plasma concentration of etomidate (200 ng/ml) correlates with C2 corresponding to the light sleep stage after etomidate in propylene glycol, but with D0 according to the deep sleep stage after etomidate in lipid emulsion. At lower plasma concentrations, the hypnotic action of etomidate in propylene glycol is stronger than the effect of the lipid emulsion. This result means that it is possible that a part of the etomidate remains in the lipid particles. In the clinical study the anesthetic induction time was nearly identical in both groups; blood pressure and heart rate were stable. Following etomidate in propylene glycol, 36% of the patients complained of a painful injection. On the first postoperative day, 9 of 47 patients showed signs of phlebitis and three others thrombosis. On the 7th day a venous reaction was evident in 22% of these patients; 2 patients had developed phlebitis, 5 thrombosis and 4 thrombophlebitis. After etomidate in lipid emulsion, there were no signs of local irritation. The same results have been obtained in the study with volunteers. CONCLUSION. Two unpleasant side effects of etomidate, pain on injection and postoperative thrombophlebitis, were abolished by the solvent "lipid emulsion".
Of patients who are prescribed metformin, 10-30% have evidence of reduced vitamin B12 absorption. B12-intrinsic factor complex uptake by ileal cell surface receptors is known to be a process dependent on calcium availability Metformin affects calcium-dependent membrane action. The objective of this study was to determine the magnitude and mechanism of the reduction in serum vitamin B12 after metformin administration.
A comparative study design was employed using 2 groups (metformin and control). A total of 21 patients with type 2 diabetes received sulfonylurea therapy; 14 of these 21 patients were switched to metformin. Monthly serum total vitamin B12 measurements and holotranscobalamin (holoTCII) (B12-TCII) were performed. After 3 months of metformin therapy, oral calcium supplementation was administered.
Serial serum vitamin B12 determinations revealed a similar decline in vitamin B12 and holoTCII. Oral calcium supplementation reversed the metformin-induced serum holoTCII depression.
Patients receiving metformin have diminished B12 absorption and low serum total vitamin B12 and TCII-B12 levels because of a calcium-dependent ileal membrane antagonism, an effect reversed with supplemental calcium.
A zinc finger protein, GATA4, is one of the hypertrophy-responsive transcription factors and increases its DNA binding and transcriptional activities in response to hypertrophic stimuli in cardiac myocytes. Activation of GATA4 during this process is mediated, in part, through acetylation by intrinsic histone acetyltransferases such as a transcriptional coactivator p300. However, p300-targeted acetylated sites of GATA4 during myocardial cell hypertrophy have not been identified. By mutational analysis, we showed that 4 lysine residues located between amino acids 311 and 322 are required for synergistic activation of atrial natriuretic factor and endothelin-1 promoters by GATA4 and p300. A tetra-mutant GATA4, in which these 4 lysine residues were simultaneously mutated, retained the ability to localize in nuclei and to interact with cofactors including FOG-2, GATA6, and p300 but lacked p300-induced acetylation, DNA binding, and transcriptional activities. Furthermore, coexpression of the tetra-mutant GATA4 with wild-type GATA4 impaired the p300-induced acetylation, DNA binding, and transcriptional activities of the wild type. When we expressed the tetra-mutant GATA4 in neonatal rat cardiac myocytes using a lentivirus vector, this mutant suppressed phenylephrine-induced increases in cell size, protein synthesis, and expression of hypertrophy-responsive genes. However, its expression did not affect the basal state. Thus, we have identified the most critical lysine residues acting as p300-mediated acetylation targets in GATA4 during hypertrophic responses in cardiac myocytes. The results also demonstrate that GATA4 with simultaneous mutation of these sites specifically suppresses hypertrophic responses as a dominant-negative form, providing further evidence for the acetylation of GATA4 as one of critical nuclear events in myocardial cell hypertrophy.
Fifty patients attending a neurological outpatient clinic for Parkinson's disease were assessed by standardized methods for both physical and psychiatric symptoms. The patients then received treatment with L-dopa with carbidopa or anticholinergic drugs and/or amantadine. During the following six-month period the subjects were assessed at intervals, both physically and psychiatrically. Forty patients were followed up for the full six-month period. The severity of physical signs and affective symptoms was shown to be significantly related at several stages of the investigation. Initially, the patients showed a high psychiatric morbidity. During treatment, 22 patients developed a depressive disorder, 12 or which had a history of previous depressive episodes. By contrast, of the 11 patients who showed very few affective symptoms during follow-up, none had a history of depression. Of the 22 patients with a depressive disorder, only two were in the anticholinergic/amantadine group, compared with nine and 11 in the other groups. L-dopa was not an effective antidepressant agent. The probable relevance of the findings of the study to the management of patients with Parkinson's disease is outlined.
Feeding a high-fructose diet induces hypertension and insulin-resistance in Sprague-Dawley rats.
To investigate whether insulin receptors contribute to abnormal glucose metabolism and whether their regulation is differentially regulated in different tissues, we evaluated the glycemic and insulinemic response to an oral glucose load, insulin receptor binding, and insulin receptor messengerRNA (mRNA) levels in tissues of rats that were fed either standard rat chow or a diet containing 66% fructose for 2 weeks.
Blood pressure and plasma triglycerides increased significantly in the fructose-fed rats, whereas body weight, fasting plasma glucose, and plasma insulin did not differ significantly from controls. Plasma glucose and insulin responses to oral glucose were significantly greater in fructose-fed than in control rats. Insulin receptor-binding characteristics were determined by an in situ autoradiographic technique associated with computerized microdensitometry. The insulin receptor number was significantly lower in both skeletal muscle and liver of fructose-fed rats as compared to controls, whereas no difference was observed in the kidney. No significant differences were found in binding affinity. Insulin receptor mRNA levels were determined by slot-blot hybridization with a cRNA probe encoding the 5' end of the rat insulin receptor cDNA. Consistent with binding data, mRNA levels were significantly lower in skeletal muscle and liver of fructose-fed rats as compared to controls, but not in the kidney.
Decreased number of insulin receptors occurring at the level of gene expression is present in skeletal muscle and liver of fructose-fed rats and might contribute to insulin resistance in this model.
Risperidone, a rather selective blocker of D-2 and 5-HT-2 receptors, was, in the doses 1 mg, 4 mg, 8 mg, 12 mg and 16 mg a day, compared to the rather selective D-2 blocker haloperidol in the dose of 10 mg a day, in 88 chronic schizophrenic patients. After one week placebo wash-out, the patients were randomly assigned to one of the six treatment groups and the study was performed as a double blind parallel-group study for 8 weeks. In the present analysis, a special emphasis has been laid on the effects on single symptoms and separate factors in the schizophrenic syndrome. Overall, risperidone in a dose of 4 mg a day was comparable to haloperidol in a dose of 10 mg a day. Risperidone was found to have a curvilinear dose-response curve with an optimum effect of 4 mg day on the negative, anxious/depressive and cognitive factors and with an optimum effect of 8 mg day on the positive and excited factors. While haloperidol had significant effects on the negative and anxious/depressive factors, risperidone had significant effects on all five factors - the positive, the negative, the excited, the anxious/depressive and the cognitive. The fact that the novel drug had significant effects on the cognitive factor might be of great importance as concerns the possibilities for rehabilitation of chronic schizophrenic patients.
Dietary supplementation exerts beneficial effects in reducing incidence of chronic neurodegenerative diseases. The purpose of this study was to examine protective effects of mussel (Mytilus edulis) oligopeptides supplementation on brain function in D-galactose induced aging mice. Sixty female 8-month-old mice were randomly divided into five groups: vehicle control, D-galactose, and D-galactose combined with 200, 500, 1000 mg/kg mussel oligopeptides. The results showed that mussel oligopeptides could improve cognitive learning and memory ability and protect the hippocampal neurons. In addition, GSH, SOD and GSH-pX activities were increased and MDA level was significantly decreased in mice fed with mussel oligopeptides. It was also found that mussel oligopeptides supplementation prevented D-galactose-induced elevations of iNOS activity and NO production and lactate acid levels in brain. Moreover, PI3K and Akt genes were up-regulated by mussel oligopeptides supplementation. These findings suggest that mussel oligopeptides are able to enhance exercise capacity and protect against oxidative damage caused by D-galactose in aging model mice through regulating oxidation metabolism and PI3K/Akt/NOS signal pathway. Therefore, mussel oligopeptides are good materials for future development of healthcare products to combat age-related brain dysfunction and to improve healthy life span.
Baclofen, the most effective drug for treating spasticity, is a specific agonist of gamma-aminobutyric acid-B receptors, and is very abundant in the superficial layers of the spinal cord. Given orally, baclofen does not easily penetrate the blood-brain barrier, and is distributed equally to the brain and spinal cord. Direct intrathecal administration was given in order to change the distribution of the drug by preferentially perfusing the spinal cord. Eighteen patients presenting a severe spastic syndrome were treated with chronic intrathecal infusion of baclofen in the lumbar cerebrospinal fluid. After clinical preselection, 38 patients were implanted with a lumbar access port allowing long-term trials in order to determine the efficacy of baclofen therapy and the effective 12-hour dose. The 18 patients selected for chronic administration were implanted with a programmable pump. The pathology in these cases was: multiple sclerosis (6 cases), posttrauma spastic syndrome (eight cases), and (one case each) cerebral palsy, ischemic cerebral lesion, spinal ischemia, and transverse myelitis. The mean follow-up period was 18 months (range 4 to 43 months). The clinical results were evaluated according to muscular hypertony on Ashworth's scale (changed for occurrence of painful spasms) and functional improvement. Results were better for spastic syndrome secondary to traumatic medullary lesion than for demyelinating disease. Hypertonia was improved in all cases as confirmed by the registration of the Hoffman (H) reflex. Painful muscular spasms disappeared in 14 of the 16 affected patients. Significant functional improvement was noted in nine patients and was considerable in three. The risk of side effects secondary to overdose (such as excessive hypotonia or central depression) and the absence of a specific baclofen antagonist stresses the necessity for accurate determination of the efficient dose. After an initial titration period and adjustment of the therapeutic dose, the individual doses were from 21 to 500 micrograms/24 hrs (mean 160 micrograms/24 hrs). This new conservative method is very effective, perfectly reversible, and safe when administered in conditions favorable to its use.
To clarify the autonomic nerve mechanisms whereby isoproterenol induces vasovagal reaction, 32 patients with recurrent syncopal episodes of unknown origin underwent head-up tilt testing. Syncope was induced in 11 patients by a control tilt (control/+ group). The remaining 21 patients (control/- group) underwent the procedure during isoproterenol infusion. Syncope was induced in 13 (isoproterenol/+ group), but not in the remaining 8 patients (isoproterenol/- group). High-frequency component (HF) and low-frequency component (LF)/HF, which are indices of heart rate variability, were assessed for 2-min intervals at baseline (T1) during the initial phase (T2) and at the end (T3) of tilting in each test. The ratios of HF and LF/HF at T2/T1 and T3/T2 were calculated. The HF value at T3 in the control/+ group was greater than that in the control/- group (1.47+/-0.91 vs 0.75+/-0.34; p<0.05). The HF value at T3 in the isoproterenol/+ group was significantly greater than those in the isoproterenol/- group (1.19+/-1.04 vs 0.43+/-0.23; p<0.05). The HF value at T2 in the isoproterenol/+ tended to be greater than in the isoproterenol/- group (1.30+/-0.85 vs 0.66+/-0.53; p=0.07). The ratio of HF for T2/T1 in isoproterenol/+ was greater than in the other groups (2.04+/-1.26 in isoproterenol/+ vs 0.58+/-0.39 in control/-, 0.47+/-0.18 in control/+ and 0.71+/-0.45 in isoproterenol/-; p=0.0001), whereas that of HF for T3/T2 in the control/+ group was greater than in the other groups (1.48+/-0.62 in control/+ vs 0.97+/-0.33 in control/-; p<0.05, 0.79+/-0.35 in isoproterenol/- and 0.88+/-0.37 in isoproterenol/+; p<0.01). No difference was observed in either LF/HF or the ratio of LF/HF among the groups. The early and persistent increase in parasympathetic nerve tone provoked by isoproterenol plays an important role in enhancing the vasovagal reaction during head-up tilt testing.
Oxygen radicals are known to be produced by the cerebral vasculature during acute, pressor-induced hypertension and are also known to inactivate endothelium-derived relaxing factor. The objective of our present study was to determine if the oxygen radical scavenger superoxide dismutase (24,000 units/kg plus 1,600 units/kg/min) alters the pressor, cerebral blood flow, and mortality responses to systemic norepinephrine in rats. Increasing doses (0.01-30 micrograms/kg i.v.) of norepinephrine were given by bolus injection to eight rats, and changes in the cortical microcirculatory blood flow were measured by laser-Doppler flowmetry. Superoxide dismutase shifted the norepinephrine-blood pressure and -cerebral blood flow dose-response curves moderately, but significantly, to the right such that it took more norepinephrine to reach a given blood pressure. However, superoxide dismutase had no effect on the autoregulation of cerebral blood flow. Additionally, whereas five (63%) of the eight control rats died after the 10 micrograms/kg norepinephrine dose, all eight rats treated with superoxide dismutase survived this dose. The mechanism by which superoxide dismutase reduced mortality is uncertain. The blood pressure and cerebral blood flow results suggest that superoxide dismutase prevents oxygen radicals from destroying endothelium-derived relaxing factors, which reduce the pressor effects of norepinephrine.
Health concerns have been raised because perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is commonly found in the environment and can be detected in humans. In rodents, PFOA is a carcinogen and a developmental toxicant. PFOA is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) activator; however, PFOA is capable of inducing heptomegaly in the PPARalpha-null mouse. To study the mechanism associated with PFOA toxicity, wild-type and PPARalpha-null mice were orally dosed for 7 days with PFOA (1 or 3 mg/kg) or the PPARalpha agonist Wy14,643 (50 mg/kg). Gene expression was evaluated using commercial microarrays. In wild-type mice, PFOA and Wy14,643 induced changes consistent with activation of PPARalpha. PFOA-treated wild-type mice deviated from Wy14,643-exposed mice with respect to genes involved in xenobiotic metabolism. In PFOA-treated null mice, changes were observed in transcripts related to fatty acid metabolism, inflammation, xenobiotic metabolism, and cell cycle regulation. Hence, a component of the PFOA response was found to be independent of PPARalpha. Although the signaling pathways responsible for these effects are not readily apparent, overlapping gene regulation by additional PPAR isoforms could account for changes related to fatty acid metabolism and inflammation, whereas regulation of xenobiotic metabolizing genes is suggestive of constitutive androstane receptor activation.
The authors evaluated the efficacy of medium term prophylaxis of atrial fibrillation (AF) with propafenon (P) in 33 symptomatic patients. Consecutive patients were treated with P replacing previous therapy with amiodarone (A) withdrawn on account of adverse side effects occurring on average after 1.8 years' treatment. Quantification of AF episodes was based on symptoms reported by patients, ECG, and dynamic Holter-ECG performed every 3-6 months. During A treatment (average daily dosage 216 mg) 32% of patients had reported more than two episodes of AF, 52% one or two episodes, and 16 none during the last 6 months. During 6 months of P treatment (average daily dosage 586 mg) 28% had more than two episodes, 64% had one or two, and 8% had none. The difference of incidence of AF episodes between the two treatments was not statistically significant. Side effects requiring withdrawal of the drug were not observed with P. The results obtained confirm P as a valid therapeutic resource for treatment of recurrent paroxysmall AF. In addition, the drug was also well tolerated during medium term application.
To clarify how troglitazone, an insulin-sensitizing agent, affects lipid metabolism and postheparin plasma lipoprotein lipase (LPL).
Fifteen patients (3 male, 12 female) (the average age 62+/-7 years; the mean body mass index (BMI) 25+/-3 kg/m2 ) were recruited for this study. The serum lipids and postheparin plasma lipoprotein lipase (LPL) mass before and 4 weeks after oral administration of troglitazone (200 mg day-1 ) were measured. A mouse preadipocyte cell line, 3T3-L1, was incubated with troglitazone and LPL enzyme protein mass in the culture media was measured by an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. A reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using primers specific for the carboxyl terminal 135 amino acid of mouse LPL cDNA was used to evaluate the effect of troglitazone on expression of LPL and Northern blot analysis carried out to determine expression of LPL.
The average levels before treatment of fasting serum total cholesterol, triglycerides, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, plasma glucose and glycohaemoglobin A1c were 5.6+/-0.9, 1.8+/-1.0, 1.5+/-0.5, 8.1+/-1.7 mmol l-1 and 7.8+/-1.6% respectively. Four weeks after treatment, those levels were 5.4+/-0.9, 1.2+/-0.3 (P=0.004), 1.6+/-0.5 (P=0.02) mmol l-1, 7.7+/-2.3 mmol l-1 and 7. 3+/-0.6% (P=0.01), respectively. The postheparin plasma LPL mass increased from 226+/-39 to 257+/-68 ng ml-1 (P=0.03) during that period. The LPL mass in the media of 3T3 L1 cells cultured in the presence of 10, 20 or 30 microm of this compound increased in a dose dependent manner. RT-PCR revealed that the area of the bands of the RT-PCR products on 1.5% agarose gel analyzed with NIH image from the cell extracts cultured in the presence of 10 microm troglitazone was significantly larger (P=0.0069) than that in the absence of this compound. Northern blot analysis revealed that in the cultured 3T3-L1 cells, the expression of LPL was enhanced in the presence of 10 microm troglitazone.
Troglitazone improves plasma triglyceride-rich lipoproteins metabolism by enhancing the expression of LPL in adipocytes.
A longitudinal clinical-electrophysiological study has been carried out on 6 leukaemic children during the treatment with vincristine. The Authors emphasize: 1) in the vincristine neuropathy the motor and sensitive fibres are initially affected in the distal segments with subsequent centripetal discussion, this agrees with the neuropathological picture characterized by distal axonal degeneration with processes dying-back type; 2) there is a relationship between dose-duration of the treatment and neurotoxic effects.
The adriamycin (ARD) effects on the myocardium and the microcirculatory system (m.s.) of the heart and the skeletal muscle were studied enzyme histochemically and histomorphometrically. Normotensive Wistar rats (ADR-NWR) and SHR (ADR-SHR) were given 3 weekly intravenous injections of 1 mg ADR/kg b.wt. Controls were injected with saline. Besides the well-known ADR-induced single-cell degeneration observed in both strains, ADR-SHR have developed focal myocardial lesions (f.m.l.) to be characterized as ischemic alterations. Their number and size have distinctly increased as compared to saline-treated SHR. In the coronary m.s. the ADR applications were followed by signs of structural adaptation to chronic contractions, especially in ADR-SHR and within the f.m.l. The latter were considered to be decisively engendered by the pathological reactions of the m.s. In ADR-SHR possible the cardiotoxic ADR actions have aggravated these microvessel reactions and their consequences.
We hereby report a case of manic depressive psychosis. The patient had been treated for years with lithium carbonate (600 mg/die, lithium serum concentration equal to 0.7 mEq/l) and came to us under observation for a sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy with mostly axonal degeneration. The central nervous system had not been involved. Excluding any possible causes of peripheral neuropathy and since no precipitating circumstances were ascertained, a clinical improvement was noticed after suspending the therapy.
Experiments were designed to study the effects and mechanism of action of cocaine (COC) on cerebrovascular tissues. Acute exposure to COC (10(-9) to 5 x 10(-3) M) induced contractile responses in isolated canine basilar (BA) and middle cerebral arteries in a dose-dependent manner, but not in mesenteric arteries. The presence or absence of intact endothelium did not alter COC concentration-response curves. The sensitivity to COC was higher in BA (ED50 = 7.20 +/- 0.16 x 10(-5) M) than middle cerebral arteries (ED50 = 1.25 +/- 0.12 x 10(-4) M). Similar effects of COC were also noted in BA from piglets (ED50 = 0.99 +/- 0.25 x 10(-4) M) and sheep (ED50 = 1.34 +/- 0.31 x 10(-4) M). A variety of amine antagonists, an opiate antagonist and an N-MDA receptor antagonist failed to interfere with the COC-induced contractions. However, haloperidol, indomethacin, verapamil and excess [Mg++]0 (4.8 x 10(-3) M) as well as removal of [Ca++]0 completely prevented vasospasms induced by COC. Dopamine and COC resulted in very similar concentration-response curves on canine BA. COC stimulation failed to affect vascular release of thromboxane B2, prostaglandins or 6-Keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha. Interestingly, 10(-7) M COC rapidly elevated intracellular free Ca++ concentrations of cultured cerebral vascular muscle cells about 50% over initial resting levels. The data suggest that COC produces cerebrovasospasm, probably by a direct action on cerebral blood vessels via promoting Ca++ influx and/or intracellular Ca++ release in cerebral vascular muscle cells, which may be modulated by Mg++.
Mitomycin C (MMC) is used fairly widely as an anticancer drug, as it possesses mechanisms of action which are preferable to other chemotherapeutic compounds, including cisplatin, docetaxel, and lovastatin. In the previous study, we established the RSV-luc promoter analysis system, which is used to screen drugs against cervical carcinomas caused by HPV infection. We then demonstrated the repression of HPV E6-activated RSV promoter activity by anticancer agents such as carboplatin (CA), cisplatin (CIS), and MMC. In these studies, we focused on the investigation of apoptotic mechanisms in MMC-treated cervical carcinoma cell lines, most notably SiHa/pRSV-luc (KCTC 0427BP) and SiHa. DNA fragmentation assays and TUNEL staining revealed that MMC and CIS, but not CA, resulted in apoptosis. MMC treatment induced a reduction in the expressions of the E6 oncogene and IL-18, in a p53-independent manner. MMC also increased FasL expression and induced the processing of caspases-8 and -3. Our results indicated that MMC induced apoptosis in SiHa/pRSV-luc and SiHa cells via caspase-8 and -3 processing, in a Fas/FasL-dependent manner. MMC also suppressed the expression of IL-18 in the same cells. MMC also down-regulated IkappaB expression, and up-regulated p65 expression. These results suggest that MMC induces apoptosis, not only through caspase-8 and -3 dependent Fas/FasL pathway, but also via the regulation of NF-kappaB activity and IL-18 expression.
Animal and human studies have shown increased delivery of radiolabeled compounds across the blood-brain-tumor barrier using intra-arterial (IA) Cereport (RMP-7; Alkermes Inc., Cambridge, MA) with a radiolabeled tracer. This present study assesses the safety, tolerance, and preliminary efficacy of the IA administration of carboplatin with Cereport.
An open-label dose escalation study of IA Cereport (10-300 ng/kg) with 100 mg of IA carboplatin was conducted in 11 patients with recurrent malignant gliomas and 1 patient treated adjuvantly after radiation therapy. Tumor size and laboratory and clinical statuses were assessed.
Adverse events were mainly neurological in nature and corresponded to the anatomic location of the tumor. Karnofsky performance scale scores did not decline, overall, for those patients who had tumor response. Tumor shrinkage was observed in three of six evaluable patients who received a dose of 300 ng/kg with durable responses of 60, 64, and 106+ weeks.
Previous studies have demonstrated increased permeability in human gliomas using IA Cereport. This study demonstrates durable imaging responses using 100 mg of IA carboplatin in combination with Cereport. The drug combination in this patient population seems to be safe and acceptable, providing a novel means of antitumor dose intensification.
