Adrenergic receptors mediate some of the physiological and possibly behavioral effects of cocaine. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of treatment with a peripherally acting adrenergic blocking drug labetalol on the cardiovascular and subjective response to repeated deliveries of smoked cocaine. In this double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study, 12 cocaine users were treated with a single 100 or 200 mg dose of labetalol, or placebo in each of three experimental sessions. Starting 2 h after the medication treatment, subjects received three doses of 0.4 mg/kg smoked cocaine, 30 min apart. Labetalol treatment significantly attenuated the cocaine-induced increases in heart rate and systolic blood pressure. This effect of labetalol on the cardiovascular response did not decrease with repeated cocaine deliveries. The subjective response to smoked cocaine deliveries was not affected by labetalol treatment. These results suggest that labetalol effectively attenuates the systolic blood pressure and heart rate increases induced by repeated doses of smoked cocaine, but does not alter subjective effects.
A 31-year-old healthy woman received Ritodrine (Pre-Par) from the 26th week of gestation because of twin pregnancy. Three weeks before birth continous intravenous medication with the same drug was commenced because of premature uterine contractions. Five days later a heart rate of over 200/minute was noted in one of the twins. This tachycardia persisted until birth while the heart rate of the other twin remained normal. At 33 weeks monozygotic female twins were delivered after artifical rupture of membranes. One twin was normal, birth weight 1.6 kg. The other baby showed persistent atrial flutter, was hydropic (weight 2.75 kg) and suffered from gross cardiac failure. Atrial flutter was converted to sinus rhythm one hour after birth by DC-countershock. Digoxin was commenced, the child rapidly improved and now still remains in sinus rhythm six month later.
Arterial infusion chemotherapy is considered to be an extremely effective treatment for liver metastasis from colorectal cancer in terms of its tumor reduction and preventing recurrence in residual liver after resection. However, there still remain some unclear points as to the influence on hepatic artery and bile duct when this treatment is used over the long term. We report some conclusions obtained by examining cases of hepatic arterial occlusion (stenosis) and biliary complication who received this treatment.
Thirty-six cases who received this treatment over 3 months were the objects of this study, with the aim of direct effect against metastatic focus (21 cases) and prevention of recurrence in residual liver (15 cases). The ages were from 27 to 81; 22 cases were male and 14 were female. Indwelling routes of catheter were gastroduodenal artery (GDA) in 28 cases and femoral artery (FA) in 8 cases. Intermittent high-dose infusion (WHF: 5-FU 1,000 mg/m2/5 hrs qw) was adopted as the method.
Hepatic arterial occlusion or stenosis was observed in 12 cases (GDA: 10; FA: 2). There seemed to be no correlation with the total dosage of 5-FU or the number of administrations. Even when hepatic arterial occlusion or stenosis occurred, no change was observed in liver function, and there no death was caused by this. However, CT showed a low-density area followed by atrophy in the right lobe in one case with right hepatic arterial stenosis, despite normal portal blood flow. Of the 6 cases which developed obstructive jaundice, 4 were due to the increase of metastatic focus or lymph nodes, and 1 case without dilatation of bile duct died from suspected sclerosing cholangitis. In this case, ALP had been increasing since 1 month before the onset of jaundice. Another case which developed biloma accompanied by the increase of serum bilirubin improved by discontinuance of chemotherapy.
Since arterial infusion chemotherapy for liver metastasis from colorectal cancer causes hepatic arterial occlusion (stenosis) at a high rate, early detection of abnormalities by liver function test and imaging diagnosis which leads to early treatment is important.
Effects of chronic glucocorticoid treatment on arterial baroreflex function and on cardiac beta- and vascular alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated responses were assessed in conscious, unrestrained Wistar-Kyoto rats. Cortisol (25 mg/kg/day) was administered for seven days using a subcutaneous reservoir pump. Arterial baroreflex-cardiac sensitivity was assessed by examining the relationship of the cardiac interbeat interval to the mean arterial blood pressure during phenylephrine or nitroprusside challenge; baroreflex-sympathoneural sensitivity was assessed from the ratio of the increase in the arterial norepinephrine concentration to the decrease in mean arterial pressure at 15 min during intravenous infusion of nitroprusside; cardiac beta-adrenoceptor-mediated responsiveness was estimated from heart rate responses to bolus-injected isoproterenol; and vascular alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated responsiveness was estimated from peak mean arterial pressure responses to bolus-injected phenylephrine. Cortisol treatment increased mean arterial pressure, decreased heart rate, and increased heart rate responses to isoproterenol, whereas baroreflex-vagal sensitivity, baroreflex-sympathoneural sensitivity, and pressor responses to phenylephrine were unaffected. The results indicate that hypertension due to chronic cortisol administration is not associated with decreased sensitivity of the baroreceptor-cardiac reflex. Baroreflex-sympathoneural sensitivity and alpha 1-adrenoceptor responsiveness also remain normal, whereas beta-adrenoceptor responsiveness is increased. The findings suggest that the pattern of neurocirculatory adjustment in glucocorticoid hypertension differs from that seen in other forms of hypertension.
A 77-years-old woman was admitted to our hospital due to uncontrolled myoclonus and generalized seizure. Since the age of 17, she has been suffering from myoclonic jerks and partial convulsions in her right arm. Administration of several unknown anticonvulsants had not alleviated her condition. She was able to spend her life without a handicap, except for the symptoms described above. She has been experiencing psychological stress since the age of 50, which has resulted in worsening of her symptoms, and she was prescribed phenytoin, carbamazepine, and phenobarbital, which were also ineffective. When a generalized convulsive attack occurs, she shows rapid muscle twitches in her right arm and her consciousness is clear. She also has cerebellar ataxia in her extremities. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed obvious cerebellar atrophy, and an electroencephalogram revealed a diffuse spike and wave complexes. A surface electromyogram (EMG) confirmed myoclonus in both arms. We diagnosed her as having juvenile myoclonus epilepsy and initiated sodium valproate monotherapy, which relieved the symptoms. The observed cerebellar ataxia might be due to long-term administration of phenytoin. When a neurologist encounters an intractable seizure without loss of consciousness, surface EMG is useful for diagnosing this treatable disease.
A 48-year-old man underwent left hemicolectomy and right extended hepatectomy for colon cancer and its synchronous multiple liver metastasis. Sixteen months after, multiple metastases in the remnant liver were found, so he was given bolus hepatic infusion of 5-FU 1,000 mg/week, total amount, 25 g. The response was CR, but he developed a liver abscess in segment 4.
Combination antimalarial therapy is recommended for the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in Africa; however, some concerns about the safety and tolerability of new regimens remain. This study compared the safety and tolerability of three combination antimalarial regimens in a cohort of Ugandan children.
A longitudinal, single-blind, randomized clinical trial of children was conducted between November 2004 and May 2007 in Kampala, Uganda. Upon diagnosis of the first episode of uncomplicated malaria, participants were randomized to treatment with amodiaquine + sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine (AQ+SP), artesunate + amodiaquine (AS+AQ), or artemether-lumefantrine (AL). Once randomized, participants received the same regimen for all subsequent episodes of uncomplicated malaria. Participants were actively monitored for adverse events for the first 14 days after each treatment, and then passively followed until their next study medication treatment, or withdrawal from study. Outcome measures included the risk of adverse events at 14 and 42 days after treatment.
Of 601 enrolled children, 382 were diagnosed with at least one episode of uncomplicated malaria and were treated with study medications. The median age at treatment was 6.3 years (range 1.1 - 12.3 years). At 14 days of follow-up, AQ+SP treatment was associated with a higher risk of anorexia, weakness, and subjective fever than treatment with AL, and a higher risk of weakness, and subjective fever than treatment with AS+AQ. Treatment with AL was associated with a higher risk of elevated temperature. Repeated episodes of neutropaenia associated with AS+AQ were detected in one participant. Considering only children less than five years, those who received AQ+SP were at higher risk of developing moderate or severe anorexia and weakness than those treated with AL (anorexia: RR 3.82, 95% CI 1.59 - 9.17; weakness: RR 5.40, 95% CI 1.86 - 15.7), or AS+AQ (anorexia: RR 2.10, 95% CI 1.04 - 4.23; weakness: RR 2.26, 95% CI 1.01 - 5.05). Extending the analysis to 42 days of follow-up had little impact on the findings.
This study confirms the safety and tolerability of AS+AQ and AL in Ugandan children, and suggests that AQ+SP is safe, but less well-tolerated, particularly in younger children. As newer antimalarial regimens are deployed, collecting data on their safety and tolerability will be essential.
Current Controlled Trials Identifier ISRCTN37517549.
The toxicological effects of zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO-NPs) are attracting increasing concern as the field of nanotechnology progresses. Although the literature suggests that toxicity of ZnO-NPs may be related to their dissolution, the mechanism for ZnO-NP perturbation of cytosolic zinc concentration ([Zn(2+)](c)) homeostasis remains obscure. Using FluoZin-3 and RhodZin-3, this study investigated changes in both [Zn(2+)](c) and mitochondrial free Zn(2+) concentration ([Zn(2+)](m)) under conditions of ZnO-NP treatment in vivo and in vitro. In human leukemia Jurkat cells and human lung carcinoma H1355 cells, ZnO-NP treatment resulted in an elevation of both [Zn(2+)](c) and [Zn(2+)](m). In H1355 cells, ZnO-NP treatment induced depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential, as well as caspase-3 activation and lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) release. In our in vivo experiments, when rats were exposed to ZnO-NPs, higher [Zn(2+)](c) and [Zn(2+)](m) were recorded in both broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL) cells and white blood cells isolated from ZnO-NP-exposed rats, compared with high efficiency particulate air-filter-protected controls LDH levels were also elevated in the BAL of ZnO-NP-exposed rats compared with controls. A mechanical toxicological pathway for ZnO-NP toxicity is suggested by these results: an elevation in [Zn(2+)](c) resulting from ZnO-NP dissolution in the intracellular endosome; cytosolic Zn(2+) sequestration by mitochondria; and elevated [Zn(2+)](m) leading to mitochondrial dysfunction, caspase activation, and cell apoptosis. We conclude that exposure to ZnO-NPs interferes with the homeostasis of [Zn(2+)](c,) and that elevated [Zn(2+)](c) results in cell apoptosis.
We evaluated 124 patients for nephrotoxicity associated with gentamicin or amikacin therapy. The incidence of definite nephrotoxicity was 10.5% during therapy, with a mean increase in creatinine of 1.0 mg/100 ml (range, 0.5-3.6 mg/100 ml). Nephrotoxicity developed late in therapy (mean, day 10) and the creatinine continued to increase after cessation of therapy for as long as nine days. Age, initial creatinine, total dose and initial "peak" and "valley" levels did not correlate with nephrotoxicity. Nephrotoxicity developed in 8 of 97 patients treated for less than or equal to 11 days and 5 of 19 treated for greater than 11 days (chi square, p less than .01). "Peak" and "valley" levels rose significantly (t-test, p less than .05) during therapy and increased more in those with nephrotoxicity. A "peak" level of amikacin of greater than or equal to 38.5 micrometer/ml or of gentamicin of greater than or equal to 10 micrometer/ml or a rise in the "valley" levels of amikacin above 10 micrometer/ml was also associated with nephrotoxicity (chi square, p less than .025). These data help define the natural history and the host and drug factors that affect the development of gentamicin- and amikacin-induced nephrotoxicity.
The search for effective treatments of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), now the most common chronic liver disease in affluent countries, is hindered by a lack of animal models having the range of anthropometric and pathophysiological features as human NASH.
To examine if mice treated with gold thioglucose (GTG) - known to induce lesions in the ventromedial hypothalamus, leading to hyperphagia and obesity - and then fed a high-fat diet (HF) had a comprehensive histological and dysmetabolic phenotype resembling human NASH.
C57BL/6 mice were injected intraperitoneally with GTG and then fed HF for 12 weeks (GTG+HF). The extent of abdominal adiposity was assayed by CT scanning. A glucose tolerance test and an insulin tolerance test were performed to evaluate insulin resistance (IR). Histological, molecular and biochemical analyses were also performed.
Gold thioglucose+HF induced dysmetabolism, with hyperphagia, obesity with increased abdominal adiposity, IR and consequent steatohepatitis, with hepatocyte ballooning, Mallory-Denk bodies, perivenular and pericellular fibrosis as seen in adult NASH, paralleled by an increased expression of the profibrogenic factors, transforming growth factor-β1 and TIMP-1. Plasma adiponectin and the expression of adiponectin receptor 1 and receptor 2 were decreased, while PPAR-γ and FAS were increased in the livers of GTG+HF mice. In addition, GTG+HF mice showed glucose intolerance and severe IR.
Treatment with GTG and HF diet induce, in mice, a comprehensive model of human NASH, with the full range of dysmetabolic and histological abnormalities.
The condition of status epilepticus induced by systemic administration of kainic acid (KA) causes an apparent translocation of vesicular zinc from presynaptic boutons into postsynaptic neurons. The accumulation of zinc in the somata has been identified as a contributing cause of neuronal injury. We show here that another form of status epilepticus, induced by administration of the muscarinic agonist pilocarpine, produces changes in zinc that are essentially the same as those produced by the kainic acid-induced seizures. Moreover, neurons that develop zinc staining after pilocarpine seizures are the same that shown degenerative changes. This result suggests that the loss of zinc from presynaptic boutons and the appearance of zinc in postsynaptic somata may both occur in seizures per se, regardless of etiology.
1. Tyr-K-MIF-1 is a melanocyte inhibiting factor (MIF) neuropeptide, isolated from the brain. Opposite to other MIFs (Tyr-MIF-1, Tyr-W-MIF-1), it has a very low affinity for opiate mu-receptors, but interacts with Tyr-MIF-1 specific binding sites. Tyr-MIF-1 and Tyr-W-MIF-1 evoke antinociception mainly by activating opioid receptors. We investigated the possible antinociceptive effect of Tyr-K-MIF-1 and the involvement of histaminergic system in its mechanism of action. 2. Tested on rats by paw-pressure test, Tyr-K-MIF-1 (0.5, 1 and 2 mg kg(-1)) was associated with short-lasting analgesia, which was abolished by naloxone (1 mg kg(-1)). 3. Injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) 15 min before Tyr-K-MIF-1, antagonists of H(1) (diphenhydramine, 100 mg kg(-1)) or H(2) (famotidine, 0.3 and 0.6 mg kg(-1)) histamine receptors diminished peptide antinociceptive effect. Simultaneous H(1)- and H(2) blockade, as well as pretreatment with 5 mg kg(-1) dimaprit (H(2) agonist) abolished Tyr-K-MIF-1-induced analgesia. Tyr-K-MIF-1-induced analgesia was also abolished by treatment with R-(alpha)-methylhistamine (10 mg kg(-1), i.p.), an H(3) histamine receptor agonist that acts to inhibit histamine release. 4. Our results together with data reported in the literature support the conclusion that activation of the histaminergic system is involved in the mechanism of Tyr-K-MIF-1-induced antinociception.
Matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) have attracted considerable attention as critical mediators of pathological tissue remodeling processes. However it remains an unresolved challenge to detect their active forms in biological samples. To prove the efficacy of a recently developed MMP activity-based probe, we examined the content in MMP active forms of bronchoalveolar lavage fluids (BALf) from male C57BL/6 mice exposed to ultrafine carbon black nanoparticles, a model of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. This probe was shown to label proteins, mostly expressed in BALf of mice exposed to nanoparticles. Using competition assays with a selective MMP-12 inhibitor as well as MMP-12 knock-out mice, one of these proteins was identified as the active form of the catalytic domain of MMP-12. This new probe can detect the active form of MMP-12 down to a threshold of 1 fmol. Radioactive counting showed the concentration of the active form of MMP-12 to be around 1 fmol/μl in BALf from nanoparticle-treated mice. A less sensitive probe would therefore not have detected MMP-12. As the probe can detect other MMPs in the femtomolar range, it is a potentially powerful tool for monitoring the levels of MMP active forms in various diseases.
Transcription factor p63, a member of the p53 family, shares a high degree of sequence similarity with p53. Because of transcription from two distinct promoters, the p63 gene encodes two isoforms, TAp63 and ΔNp63. Although TAp63 acts as a tumor suppressor, ΔNp63 functions as an oncogene and is often overexpressed in squamous cell carcinomas. Thus, therapeutic agents targeting ΔNp63 might be used to manage tumors that overexpress ΔNp63. Here we found that arsenic trioxide, a frontline agent for acute promyelocytic leukemia, inhibits ΔNp63 but not TAp63 expression in time- and dose-dependent manners. In addition, we found that arsenic trioxide decreases the stability of ΔNp63 protein via a proteasome-dependent pathway but has little effect on the level of ΔNp63 transcript. Furthermore, we found that arsenic trioxide activates the Pirh2 promoter and consequently induces Pirh2 expression. Consistent with this, we found that knockdown of Pirh2 inhibits, whereas ectopic expression of Pirh2 enhances, arsenic-induced degradation of ΔNp63 protein. Importantly, we found that knockdown of ΔNp63 sensitizes, whereas ectopic expression of ΔNp63 inhibits, growth suppression induced by arsenic. Together, these data suggest that arsenic degrades ΔNp63 protein at least in part via Pirh2-dependent proteolysis and that inhibition of ΔNp63 expression facilitates tumor cells to arsenic-induced death.
The sigma1 receptor is critically involved in the rewarding effect of cocaine, as measured using the conditioned place preference (CPP) procedure in mice. Neuroactive steroids exert rapid neuromodulatory effects in the brain by interacting with GABA(A), NMDA, and sigma1 receptors. At the sigma1 receptor level, 3beta-hydroxy-5-androsten-17-one [dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA)] and 3beta-hydroxy-5-pregnen-20-one (pregnenolone) act as agonists, whereas 4-pregnene-3,20-dione (progesterone) is an efficient antagonist. The present study sought to investigate the action of neuroactive steroids in acquisition of cocaine-induced CPP in C57BL/6 mice. None of these steroids induced CPP alone. However, pretreatment with DHEA or pregnenolone (5-20 mg/kg, s.c.) during conditioning with cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) increased the conditioned score. On the contrary, pretreatment with either progesterone (10 or 20 mg/kg, s.c.) or finasteride (25 mg/kg, twice a day), a 5alpha-reductase inhibitor, blocked acquisition of cocaine (20 mg/kg)-induced CPP. A crossed pharmacology was observed between steroids and sigma1 ligands. The sigma1 antagonist N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-N-methyl-2-(dimethylamino)ethylamine blocked cocaine-induced CPP and its potentiation by DHEA or pregnenolone. Progesterone blocked cocaine-induced CPP and its potentiation by the sigma1 agonist igmesine. These results showed that neuroactive steroids play a role in cocaine-induced appetence, through their interaction with the sigma1 receptor. Therefore, neuroendocrine control of cocaine addiction may not involve solely glucocorticoids. The importance of neuroactive steroids as factors of individual vulnerability to drug addiction should, thus, be considered.
Diethylstilbestrol (DES) was used widely in the late 1940s in an attempt to prevent adverse pregnancy outcomes. In 1971 the US Food and Drug Administration proscribed its use for pregnancy support secondary to its association with clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina. Several studies in animal models demonstrated an association with endometrial cancer among offspring following in utero DES exposure. To date, there is only one case report of endometrial cancer in women exposed to DES in utero. We present the first case, to our knowledge, of a woman exposed to DES in utero who presented with double primaries of clear cell cancer of the vagina concomitant with endometrial cancer.
Pseudotumor cerebri, also termed idiopathic intracranial hypertension, is defined by increased intracranial pressure in the setting of normal brain imaging and cerebrospinal fluid analysis. It can often be associated with optic nerve head edema. Several medications have been associated with pseudotumor cerebri,(1) including the use of lithium carbonate in the adult population(3) as well as in adolescents.(4) Signs and symptoms of increased intracranial pressure typically resolve after cessation of lithium carbonate usage.(5) We report a case of the onset of pseudotumor cerebri associated with lithium treatment in a child who sustained long-term optic atrophy and vision loss and required acetazolamide treatment for approximately 1 year after cessation of lithium.
Drug administration causes 16 to 18 per cent of cases of acquired immune haemolytic anaemia. The pathogenesis of erythrocyte sensitisation by drug-related antibody with or without fixation of complement is variable and there is a relationship between the responsible drug, the mechanism of red cell sensitisation, clinical manifestations, and laboratory methods of diagnosis. Drugs such as phenacetin and quinidine form a complex with the antidrug antibody, and the immune complex attaches to red cells usually fixing complement and causing acute intravascular haemolysis. Other drugs (e.g. penicillins) when given in high doses coat normal red cells in vivo and some patients develop a high titre IgG antidrug antibody which reacts with the coated cells. Haemolytic anaemia may develop, with red cell destruction being primarily extravascular. Cephalosporins cause positive direct antiglobulin tests in a small percentage of patients either by the same mechanism as penicillins or by modification of the red cell membrane leading to non-immunological absorption of serum proteins. Haemolytic anaemia has been reported only rarely. A few drugs (notably alpha-methyldopa) cause the development of autoimmune haemolytic anaemia. A knowledge of clinical manifestations and laboratory aids to diagnosis are necessary to distinguish immunohaematological abnormalities caused by drugs fron other causes. Drugs may also cause haemolytic anaemia by nonimmunologic mechanisms as a result of oxidative denaturation of haemoglobin. Factors which make red cells particularly susceptible to the effects of oxidant drugs are intraerythrocytic metabolic abnormalities or the presence of unstable haemoglobins.
We have examined the anxiolytic activity of acute and chronic antidepressant treatment in an animal model of anxiety involving novelty-suppressed feeding. Rats were food deprived for 48 h, placed into a novel environment containing food, and the latency to begin eating was recorded. Chronic (21 days), but not acute injections of desipramine (DMI; 10 mg/kg) and amitriptyline (AMI; 10 mg/kg) significantly reduced the latency to begin eating compared to controls, but the percentage decrease was not as great as that seen with either acute or chronic treatment with diazepam (2 mg/kg) or adinazolam (20 mg/kg). A time course study indicated that at least 2 weeks of treatment was necessary to observe a significant anxiolytic effect of antidepressants. The anxiolytic effect of the antidepressants was specific to the novel environment, as 2 weeks of treatment with either diazepam or DMI did not influence the latency to begin eating in the home cage. Finally, a single dose of the central benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, Ro15-1788 (20 mg/kg), given 15 min prior to testing, did not block the anxiolytic effects of chronic DMI, while it completely eliminated the effect of chronic diazepam treatment. These data suggest that antidepressants acquire anxiolytic properties following chronic administration and that this effect appears to be independent of the benzodiazepine receptor system.
One of the most common chemicals that behaves as an endocrine disruptor is the compound 4,4'-isopronylidenediphenol, called bisphenol-A (BPA). We previously reported that prenatal and postnatal exposure to BPA potentiated central dopaminergic neurotransmission, resulting in supersensitivity to psychostimulant-induced pharmacological actions. Many recent findings have supported the idea that astrocytes, which are a subpopulation of glial cells, play a critical role in neuronal transmission in the central nervous system. The present study aimed to investigate the role of neurone-astrocyte communication in the enhancement of dopaminergic neurotransmission induced by BPA. We found that treatment of mouse purified astrocytes and neurone/glia cocultures with BPA in vitro caused the activation of astrocytes, as detected by a stellate morphology and an increase in levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein. A low concentration of BPA significantly enhanced the Ca2+ responses to dopamine in both neurones and astrocytes. Furthermore, a high concentration of BPA markedly induced the activation of caspase-3, which is a marker of neuronal apoptotic cell death in mouse midbrain neurone/glia cocultures. By contrast, treatment with 17beta-oestradiol (E2) had no such effects. Prenatal and neonatal exposure to BPA led to an enhancement of the dopamine-dependent rewarding effect induced by morphine. These findings provide evidence that BPA alters dopamine responsiveness in neurones and astrocytes and that, at least in part, it may contribute to potentiate the development of psychological dependence on drugs of abuse.
Cisplatin is used in the treatment of a wide variety of solid tumors, but its use is limited by its serious adverse effects, including ototoxicity. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is a ubiquitously expressed serine/threonine kinase that regulates a variety of cellular functions by phosphorylating its substrates. However, the otoprotective effect of GSK-3 inhibitors is poorly understood. Here, we investigated whether GSK-3 is involved in cisplatin-induced ototoxicity in HEI-OC1 cells and organs of Corti (OCs). GSK-3 inhibitors suppressed cisplatin-induced apoptosis determined by decreased p53 activity, and also decreased expression of PARP and p53 target genes such as p21 and PUMA. The effect of GSK-3 inhibitors was mediated by markedly increased nuclear β-catenin that in turn blocked nuclear translocation of NF-κB. siRNA-mediated β-catenin knockdown markedly increased the expression of NF-κB target genes, such as TNF-α and IL-6. Our data suggest that the GSK-3/β-catenin pathway may play a central role in cisplatin-mediated cytotoxicity in HEI-OC1 cells and hair cells of OCs in vitro.
The use of perhexiline maleate as an antianginal agent is occasionally associated with side effects, particularly neuropathy and liver damage. The reason why some individuals develop these toxic reactions is not clear, though some evidence suggests that they may result from impaired oxidative metabolism, due to genetic or hepatic factors, and consequential accumulation of the drug in toxic concentrations. Drug oxidation was measured with an oxidation phenotyping procedure in 34 patients treated with perhexiline, 20 of whom had developed neuropathy and 14 of whom had not. Most of the 20 patients with neuropathy, but not the unaffected patients, showed an impaired ability to effect metabolic drug oxidation. This impairment was independent of hepatic function, concurrent drug therapy, or tobacco or alcohol consumption. The fact that the ability to oxidise several drugs is genetically controlled points to a genetic susceptibility to developing neuropathy in response to perhexiline. Routine determination of the drug oxidation phenotype might lead to safer use of perhexiline by predicting patients who may be more at risk of developing a neuropathic reaction associated with its long-term use.
Pinacidil is an orally administered antihypertensive drug that acts via direct relaxation of vascular smooth muscle to produce peripheral vasodilatation and a reduction in blood pressure without significant direct effects on cardiac electrophysiology. Pinacidil is unrelated to other antihypertensive drugs in clinical use, either in structure or mechanism of action. It belongs to a new class of agents called 'potassium channel openers' which act via potassium efflux to hyperpolarize cell membranes, indirectly causing a net reduction in intracellular calcium that leads to relaxation of vascular smooth muscle. Pinacidil is indicated in the management of essential hypertension. In clinical trials of up to 1 year duration, pinacidil administered twice daily in a controlled release capsule formulation has been shown to achieve adequate blood pressure control both in previously untreated patients and in those with blood pressure inadequately controlled by beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs or thiazide diuretics. In long term (up to 1 year) comparative studies pinacidil was at least as effective as hydralazine, prazosin or nifedipine in maintaining blood pressure control. Pinacidil may also have a potential use in the treatment of patients with secondary renal hypertension. Clinical trials to date have usually allowed the addition of a thiazide diuretic and/or beta-adrenoceptor blocking drug to enhance the efficacy of pinacidil and/or to reduce the incidence of adverse effects. The main adverse effects of pinacidil treatment, which result from its peripheral vasodilator activity, are headache, oedema, palpitations and tachycardia. Although the overall incidence of adverse effects is quite high, they are usually mild, transient in nature and respond to a reduction in dose. Nevertheless, these effects may occasionally be severe, necessitating withdrawal from therapy. Thus, pinacidil is an effective antihypertensive drug for the treatment of mild to moderate essential hypertension. Despite its novel mechanism of action pinacidil causes adverse effects typical of peripheral vasodilators; during long term use with twice daily administration of the controlled release capsule formulation, the addition of a diuretic is often necessary to attenuate peripheral oedema and maintain adequate control of blood pressure. Further long term controlled trials are needed to determine the precise role of pinacidil relative to that of the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and calcium channel blocking drugs.
This study was aimed at investigating the effects of propranolol on esophageal variceal pressure in patients with portal hypertension. Variceal pressure was measured at endoscopy using a miniature pressure-sensitive gauge in 20 patients with portal hypertension. Measurements were obtained under baseline conditions and 20 min after double-blind administration of propranolol (0.15 mg/kg; n = 10) or an identical amount of placebo (normal saline, 0.3 ml/kg; n = 10). Under baseline conditions, variceal pressure was similar in propranolol and placebo groups (14.1 +/- 5 mm Hg vs. 14.9 +/- 6.6 mm Hg, respectively; not significant). Placebo had no significant effect on variceal pressure (baseline = 14.9 +/- 6.6 mm Hg; placebo = 15.5 +/- 6.6 mm Hg; not significant), and values after placebo administration were closely correlated with baseline values (r = 0.98; y = 1.1 + 0.97 x; p less than 0.0001). In contrast, propranolol caused a significant decrease in the pressure of esophageal varices (from 14.1 +/- 5 mm Hg to 11.3 +/- 4.4 mm Hg; p less than 0.0002). No significant changes in the size of esophageal varices were observed after propranolol or placebo administration. This study shows (a) the endoscopic pressure-gauge technique has a low variability and may be used to assess acute drug-induced changes in variceal pressure; and (b) propranolol causes significant decreases in variceal pressure in patients with portal hypertension and esophageal varices.
It has been reported that during chronic treatment with digitalis, the number of digitalis binding sites is increased in human erythrocytes [22]. From this finding a tachyphylaxis for cardiac glycosides has been postulated. We reinvestigated this problem in several groups of patients. The number of 3H-ouabain binding sites per erythrocyte in control persons (group I) was 214 +/- 60, n = 43 (means +/- SD). The dissociation constant (KD) was 1.8 +/- 0.5 nM. Thirteen patients (group II) taking cardiac glycosides only, for at least 6 months, had 281 +/- 99 (p less than 0.05) ouabain binding sites per single red cell, KD = 1.8 +/- 0.7 nM. Group III (34 patients) took digitalis for more than 6 months and diuretics for at least 3 months (352 +/- 126 (p less than 0.001), KD = 1.6 +/- 0.6). Twenty-three of these (group IV) were taking a combination with "K+-saving" diuretics (336 +/- 194 (p less than 0.01), KD = 1.6 +/- 0.5) and (group V, 11 patients) a combination with "K+-losing" diuretics (462 +/- 133 (p less than 0.001), KD = 1.4 +/- 0.4). Nine patients (group VI) had a chronic hypokalemia, mainly due to taking furosemide (437 +/- 98 (p less than 0.001), KD = 1.5 +/- 0.4). Four control persons took 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide daily for more than 4 months without measurable K+-losses and without changes in ouabain binding sites. It is concluded from these findings that diuretic treatment with chronic hypokalemia in addition to digitalis is accompanied by a significant increase in ouabain binding sites in human red cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
