The HER2 gene, which encodes the growth factor receptor HER2, is amplified and HER2 is overexpressed in 25 to 30 percent of breast cancers, increasing the aggressiveness of the tumor.
We evaluated the efficacy and safety of trastuzumab, a recombinant monoclonal antibody against HER2, in women with metastatic breast cancer that overexpressed HER2. We randomly assigned 234 patients to receive standard chemotherapy alone and 235 patients to receive standard chemotherapy plus trastuzumab. Patients who had not previously received adjuvant (postoperative) therapy with an anthracycline were treated with doxorubicin (or epirubicin in the case of 36 women) and cyclophosphamide alone (138 women) or with trastuzumab (143 women). Patients who had previously received adjuvant anthracycline were treated with paclitaxel alone (96 women) or paclitaxel with trastuzumab (92 women).
The addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy was associated with a longer time to disease progression (median, 7.4 vs. 4.6 months; P<0.001), a higher rate of objective response (50 percent vs. 32 percent, P<0.001), a longer duration of response (median, 9.1 vs. 6.1 months; P<0.001), a lower rate of death at 1 year (22 percent vs. 33 percent, P=0.008), longer survival (median survival, 25.1 vs. 20.3 months; P=0.01), and a 20 percent reduction in the risk of death. The most important adverse event was cardiac dysfunction of New York Heart Association class III or IV, which occurred in 27 percent of the group given an anthracycline, cyclophosphamide, and trastuzumab; 8 percent of the group given an anthracycline and cyclophosphamide alone; 13 percent of the group given paclitaxel and trastuzumab; and 1 percent of the group given paclitaxel alone. Although the cardiotoxicity was potentially severe and, in some cases, life-threatening, the symptoms generally improved with standard medical management.
Trastuzumab increases the clinical benefit of first-line chemotherapy in metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2.
Members of the evolutionarily conserved T-box family of transcription factors are important players in developmental processes that include mesoderm formation and patterning and organogenesis both in vertebrates and invertebrates. The importance of T-box genes for human development is illustrated by the association between mutations in several of the 17 human family members and congenital errors of morphogenesis that include cardiac, craniofacial, and limb malformations. We identified two unrelated individuals with a complex cranial, cervical, auricular, and skeletal malformation syndrome with scapular and pelvic hypoplasia (Cousin syndrome) that recapitulates the dysmorphic phenotype seen in the Tbx15-deficient mice, droopy ear. Both affected individuals were homozygous for genomic TBX15 mutations that resulted in truncation of the protein and addition of a stretch of missense amino acids. Although the mutant proteins had an intact T-box and were able to bind to their target DNA sequence in vitro, the missense amino acid sequence directed them to early degradation, and cellular levels were markedly reduced. We conclude that Cousin syndrome is caused by TBX15 insufficiency and is thus the human counterpart of the droopy ear mouse.
An account of the side-effects of 30 patients treated with lithium at Athens University Department of Psychiatry during the last two years is presented. The most frequent side-effects were: tremor of bands, polydipsia, polyuria, increase in appetite, dryness of mouth, general muscular weakness and memory reduction. Most side-effects were infrequent, mild and in no case necessitated discontinuation of treatment.
Topical applications of monobenzylether of hydroquinone (MBEH) or intraperitoneal injections of phenol induced graying of hair in eumelanic mice but had little effect on hair color in pheomelanic mice. Amcinonide, an anti-inflammatory agent, elicited whitening of a few hairs in both pheomelanic and eumelanic mice. In phenol-treated eumelanic mice, damaged follicular melanocytes were uprooted from hair bulbs and incorporated into the developing hair. The fate of follicular melanocytes in MBEH- or amcinonide-treated mice was not determined since hair growth and graying were more variable than in phenol-treated mice. In contrast to the susceptibility of eumelanic hair follicles to depigmentation by phenol or MBEH, the tail skin of eumelanic or pheomelanic mice was not depigmented by these agents. Overall, during the 3 week period of treatment that was sufficient for phenol or MBEH to elicit graying of hair, epidermal melanocytes of the tails of eumelanic or pheomelanic mice either failed to respond (phenol) or were stimulated in their "proliferative" and melanogenic activity (MBEH). In contrast, amcinonide brought about a marked reduction in the numbers of DOPA-positive epidermal melanocytes inhabiting the tails of eumelanic or pheomelanic mice. Amcinonide exerted a deleterious influence on the structure and function of tail epidermis. Its actions were partly reversed by simultaneous treatment with MBEH but not with prostaglandin (PGE2).
A solution containing S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), a nitric oxide (NO.-releasing compound, was microinjected in doses of 0.25-2 mumol into a lateral ventricle of conscious rats. SNAP produced dose-dependent convulsions similar to those associated with limbic stimulation, such as tonic extension of the hindlimbs and tail, and dystonia of the forepaws. At 2 mumol, SNAP evoked hyperventilation (arterial hypocapnia), arterial hyperglycemia and caused necrotic lesions of periventricular gray (e.g. lateral septal nucleus) and white matter structures. In the caudate nucleus and lateral septal nucleus ipsilateral to injection, SNAP elicited a bipolar metabolic pattern of low glucose metabolism proximal to the ventricle with higher values occurring more distally. In control studies, we proved that the residue of SNAP decomposition, N-acetylpenicillamine disulfide injected intraventricularly (2 mumol), was without physiological, behavioral, or histological effects. Ventricular pretreatment with methylene blue (2 nmol), a putative inhibitor of guanylate cyclase and superoxide generator, suppressed several of the behavioral manifestations of 1 mumol SNAP, such as the forepaw dystonia, squinting, and facial clonus, but was ineffective on the physiological and histological variables affected by the 2 mumol SNAP dose. Another NO. donor, sodium nitroprusside (2 mumol), produced fewer behavioral and cytotoxic effects over a 55-min observation period, but caused more intense and widely distributed metabolic stimulation, especially in commissural and projection white matter tracts. The results are the basis for a conscious rat model using intraventricular injection of nitrocompounds to examine the physiological, behavioral, metabolic and cytotoxic properties of NO. in the brain.
The present study was designed to elucidate the involvement of acid phosphatase (ACP) in metastasis and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) as an immediate compensatory alleviation mechanism for energy stress in liver lesions induced by hexachlorocyclohexane in Swiss mice. Animals were continuously exposed to hexachlorocyclohexane (500 ppm) for 2, 4, and 6 months. Neoplastic nodules and tumors developed after continuous exposure for 4 and 6 months, respectively. The distribution pattern of both enzymes markedly varied in neoplastic nodules and tumors. Intense ACP activity was more observed only in sinusoids and blood vessels of neoplastic nodule, whereas an overall increase in ACP activity was observed in the tumor. Noticeably, a significant decline in LDH activity was noted after 2 and 4 months of exposure, whereas LDH in a tumor region showed intense enzymatic activity. The role of acid phosphate in metastasis and LDH in oxidative stress during hepatocarcinogenesis induced by hexachlorocyclohexane has been discussed.
Biphasic dose-response relationship induced by environmental agents is often characterized with the effect of low-dose stimulation and high dose inhibition. Some studies showed that arsenite may induce cell proliferation and apoptosis via biphasic dose-response relationship in human cells; however, mechanisms underlying this phenomenon are not well understood. Our present study shows that, for human keratinocytes (HaCaT) cells, a low concentration of arsenite activates extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), which leads to up-regulation of nuclear factor κB (NF-κB) binding to DNA and to elevated, NF-κB-dependent expression of mot-2 (a p53 inhibitor) and survivin (an inhibitor of apoptosis). Activation of p53 is blocked, and neoplastic transformation is enhanced. Inhibition of ERKs reduces cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation. In contrast, a high concentration of arsenite activates c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs), positive regulators of p53, by binding to p53 and preventing its murine double minute 2 (mdm2)-mediated degradation. The elevated levels of p53 lead to repair of DNA damage and apoptosis. Inhibition of JNKs increases DNA damage but decreases apoptosis. By identifying a mechanism whereby ERKs and JNKs-mediated regulation of the p53-survivin signal pathway is involved in the biphasic effects of arsenite on human keratinocytes, our data expand understanding of arsenite-induced cell proliferation, neoplastic transformation, DNA damage, and apoptosis.
Repeated ecstasy (MDMA) use is reported to impair cognition and cause increased feelings of depression and anxiety. Yet, many relevant studies have failed to control for use of drugs other than MDMA, especially marijuana (THC). To address these confounding effects we compared behavioural performance of 11 MDMA/THC users, 15 THC users and 15 non-drug users matched for age and intellect. We tested the hypothesis that reported feelings of depression and anxiety and cognitive impairment (memory, executive function and decision making) are more severe in MDMA/THC users than in THC users. MDMA/THC users reported more intense feelings of depression and anxiety than THC users and non-drug users. Memory function was impaired in both groups of drug users. MDMA/THC users showed slower psychomotor speed and less mental flexibility than non-drug users. THC users exhibited less mental flexibility and performed worse on the decision making task compared to non-drug users but these functions were similar to those in MDMA/THC users. It was concluded that MDMA use is associated with increased feelings of depression and anxiety compared to THC users and non-drug users. THC users were impaired in some cognitive abilities to the same degree as MDMA/THC users, suggesting that some cognitive impairment attributed to MDMA is more likely due to concurrent THC use.
The effect of prenatal cocaine exposure on the motor development of full-term infants was examined in a prospective study, controlling for maternal characteristics and exposure to other substances. Intrauterine cocaine exposure was determined at birth by maternal self-report and was verified by hair analysis. At 4 months, 120 cocaine-exposed (COC) and 186 non-cocaine-exposed (NON-COC) infants were assessed by blinded examiners using a standard evaluation of neuromotor function, the Movement Assessment of Infants (MAI). Relative to NON-COC infants, COC infants had significantly higher full-scale MAI total risk scores after adjusting for covariates (p = .05). Infants exposed through the third trimester of pregnancy (n = 48) had higher MAI scores for both total risk (p = .02) and Volitional Movement (p = .01), and when compared with infants exposed only within the first two trimesters (n = 72), they had significantly more deficits in Volitional Movement (p = .03). Although MAI scores for the majority of exposed infants were within the normal range, infants exposed through the third trimester were at significantly increased risk for motor dysfunction (relative risk = 1.6; 95% confidence interval = 1.1, 2.8). Intrauterine cocaine exposure had an adverse effect on infant motor development after the neonatal period; this association was related to the timing and duration of gestational exposure. Further study is needed to evaluate the long-term clinical implications of neuromotor abnormalities in prenatally exposed infants.
Adolescent drug abuse has been shown to be highly prevalent. Similarly, chest pain is a frequent complaint among adolescents. The cardiovascular effects of adolescent drug abuse, however, are infrequently considered. We present a case report of a 17-year-old drug abuser who presented with a myocardial infarction. The potential cardiovascular complications of the commonly abused drugs are discussed. When dealing with an adolescent with potential cardiovascular symptoms, we stress an awareness of the potential cardiovascular effects of drug abuse and that such cardiovascular effects are not unique to the habitual or intravenous drug abuser.
Previous work has shown that exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is associated with a dose-dependent increase in the incidence and severity of endometriosis in the rhesus monkey. Studies also suggest that immune mechanisms participate in TCDD-mediated toxicity and the pathogenesis of endometriosis. Thirteen years after TCDD treatment was terminated, we characterized the phenotypic distribution of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from TCDD-exposed and -unexposed rhesus monkeys and determined the ability of these cells to produce cytokines and exert cytolytic activity against NK and T-cell-sensitive cell lines. We also determined whether elevated serum levels of TCDD, dioxin-like PHAH congeners, and triglycerides correlated with changes in PBMC phenotype or function. For all animals, TCDD exposure correlated with increased PBMC tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) secretion in response to stimulation by T-cell mitogen and decreased cytolytic activity against NK-sensitive target cells. Furthermore, increased production of this cytokine by PHA-stimulated leukocytes was associated with elevated serum triglyceride levels. Leukocyte TNF-alpha secretion in response to viral antigen and PBMC production of interferon gamma (IFNgamma), IL-6, and IL-10 following exposure to mitogen or antigen were unaffected by previous TCDD treatment. Although TCDD exposure was not associated with changes in PBMC surface antigen expression, elevated serum concentrations of TCDD, 1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorodibenzofuran and 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl correlated with increased numbers of CD3+/CD25- and CD3-/CD25+ leukocytes and enhanced secretion of TNF-alpha by mitogen-stimulated PBMC. These findings indicate that TCDD-exposed rhesus monkeys with endometriosis exhibit long-term alterations in systemic immunity associated with elevated serum levels of specific PHAH congeners.
Exposure to the potent tumor promoter 2,3,7, 8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) or related agonists of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) can result in hepatocarcinogenesis in rodents. Changes in the expression and/or the level of growth factors may be a critical event in TCDD-mediated hepatocarcinogenesis. In this study, the influence of TCDD, the most potent AhR agonist, on the expression of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF beta1), an inhibitor of hepatocellular proliferation synthesized in fat-storing cells (FSC) of the liver, was investigated in Wistar rats of both sexes in vitro and ex vivo. FSC were isolated from rat liver, cultured, and treated with 10(-10) and 10(-8) M TCDD, respectively, and TGF beta1 gene expression was determined at the levels of mRNA and protein. Furthermore, adult rats were treated with TCDD (10 micrograms/kg body wt, given by a single ip injection), FSC were isolated, and TGF beta1 gene expression was analyzed at different time points. Exposure to TCDD had no effect on the expression of TGF beta1 either at the RNA or at the protein level. Surprisingly, expression of CYP1A1, an AhR-regulated gene, was also not detectable either in untreated FSC or after TCDD treatment in vitro or ex vivo. Western blot analysis revealed that the lack of TCDD responsiveness of CYP1A1 is due to the absence of detectable amounts of the AhR in FSC. Based on these results we conclude that FCS may be the only liver cell type that lacks AhR-dependent inducibility of drug metabolism.
Large doses of doxepin given intravenously to animals cause tachyarrhythmias, and still higher doses lead to a progressive and, finally, lethal bradycardia. The effect of pretreatment with five different beta-adrenoceptor blocking drugs (propranolol, alprenolol, practolol, metoprolol or tolamolol), p physostigmine, or atropine on these toxic actions of doxepin was investigated. Mice were sedated with diazepam. Doxepin was injected i.v. 0.1 mg every 15 sec until death. ECG was recorded at 10 sec after every injection. All five beta-blockers injected i.p. 30 min before doxepin inhibited the doxepin-induced tachyarrhythmias. None of the drugs prevented or postponed the death of mice. Large doses of beta-blockers dose-dependently enhanced the doxepin-induced bradycardia and accelerated death. The cardioselective beta-blocking drugs practolol and metoprolol proved less active in enhancing bradycardia than the third cardio-selective drug, tolamolol, and non-selective propranolol and alprenolol. This difference may have resulted from properties other than beta-blockade since practolol and metoprolol lack the "cardiodepressant" and local anaesthetic properties. Since physostigmine and atropine did not modify the doxepin effects the anticholinergic property may not be important in the severe cardiotoxic effects of doxepin.
Schizophrenia is associated with several chronic physical illnesses and a shorter life expectancy, compared with life expectancy in the general population. One approach to improving the health of patients with schizophrenia is to improve the monitoring of physical health that occurs in psychiatric settings. The authors discuss a consensus panel's recommendations for improving the physical health monitoring of patients with schizophrenia who are treated in outpatient settings.
A consensus meeting including psychiatric and other medical experts assembled on October 17-18, 2002, to evaluate the existing literature and to develop recommendations for physical health monitoring of patients with schizophrenia. Conference participants reviewed the literature in the following areas: 1) weight gain and obesity; 2) diabetes; 3) hyperlipidemia; 4) prolongation of the QT interval on the ECG; 5) prolactin elevation and related sexual side effects; 6) extrapyramidal side effects, akathisia, and tardive dyskinesia; 7) cataracts; and 8) myocarditis. Experts for each topic area formulated monitoring recommendations that were discussed by all of the participants until a consensus was reached.
Consensus recommendations included regular monitoring of body mass index, plasma glucose level, lipid profiles, and signs of prolactin elevation or sexual dysfunction. Information from monitoring should guide the selection of antipsychotic agents. Specific recommendations were made for cardiac monitoring of patients who receive medications associated with QT interval prolongation, including thioridazine, mesoridazine, and ziprasidone, and for monitoring for signs of myocarditis in patients treated with clozapine. Patients who receive both first- and second-generation antipsychotic medications should be examined for extrapyramidal symptoms and tardive dyskinesia. Patients with schizophrenia should receive regular visual examinations.
The conference participants recommended that mental health care providers perform physical health monitoring that typically occurs in primary care settings for their patients who do not receive physical health monitoring in those settings. This change in usual practice is recommended on the basis of the conference participants' belief that this additional monitoring will result in the earlier detection of common, serious risk factors that could, without detection and intervention, contribute to impaired health of patients with schizophrenia.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether beta blockade presents a risk of intermittent claudication and how it affects the walking capacity and lower limb haemodynamics in patients with intermittent claudication. The study was divided into six parts: A case-control study with 55 pairs, cases with hypertension and intermittent claudication and controls with hypertension only, matched for age, sex, place of residence, and time of examination, all without coronary heart disease, which is a known confounding factor. An open controlled study on the effect of withdrawal of beta blockade on walking capacity of 28 patients with intermittent claudication. A placebo-controlled double-blind crossover study on the effect of antihypertensive treatment on the walking capacity of 14 patients with intermittent claudication. Three placebo-controlled double-blind crossover studies on the effect of propranolol, metoprolol, pindolol, labetalol, and/or methyldopa on calf blood flow in 34 hypertensive subjects without peripheral arterial disease and in altogether 21 patients with intermittent claudication. Walking capacity was measured on a treadmill. Calf blood flow was measured with strain gauge plethysmography by the venous occlusion technique. The case-control comparison showed that beta blockers were used as often by patients with intermittent claudication as by controls. Walking capacity increased during the first month of the open controlled study irrespective of whether the beta blockade was withdrawn or continued. There was no difference in this respect between the various types of beta blockers. Antihypertensive treatment with metoprolol or methyldopa did not affect walking capacity. Resting calf blood flow was unaffected by propranolol or metoprolol, regardless of the presence or absence of peripheral arterial disease, as well as by pindolol, labetalol, or methyldopa in patients with intermittent claudication. During reactive hyperaemia, propranolol and metoprolol reduced flow in patients without peripheral arterial disease. Propranolol also reduced hyperaemic blood flow in the limb with less or no symptoms in patients with intermittent claudication. None of the active drugs decreased the hyperaemic flow consistently in the limb with the stronger symptoms. In a comparison of haemodynamic effects between the drugs, calf blood flow at rest was higher after pindolol than after propranolol and hyperaemic flow of the better limb was higher after pindolol than after propranolol and labetalol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Previous cases of diltiazem overdose described patients who presented with hypotension, heart block, bradycardia, or ultimately death. This report concerns an elderly patient presenting to the emergency room with hypotension, an ischemic leg and confusion. He underwent an emergency thrombectomy of the femoral artery. He had severe lactic acidosis, persistent hypotension requiring prolonged inotropic support and difficulty being weaned from the ventilator after the operation. Subsequent investigations confirmed that he attempted suicide by taking an unknown quantity of diltiazem. Because diltiazem has been increasingly prescribed to treat various cardiovascular disorders, overdose may become a more common problem. A high index of suspicion is required to ensure prompt diagnosis and appropriate treatment when patients taking this medication present with sudden circulatory collapse. A guide to the management of diltiazem overdose is provided.
Hereditary hemochromatosis resulting either from homozygosity for the C282Y polymorphism of the HFE gene, or compound heterozygosity for C282Y and H63D, manifests with liver disease and hypogonadism. However, it is unclear whether men who are heterozygotes for C282Y or H63D exhibit subtle abnormalities of sex hormone status.
To evaluate whether heterozygosity for either of the HFE gene polymorphisms C282Y or H63D is associated with circulating testosterone and SHBG in men.
We performed a cross-sectional analysis of 388 community-dwelling men. Men were genotyped for C282Y and H63D. Sera were analysed for testosterone and SHBG, and insulin resistance was estimated using a homeostatic model (HOMA2-IR).
Mean age of men in the cohort was 56.9 yr. Men who were heterozygous for the C282Y polymorphism in the HFE gene had higher SHBG levels than men who did not carry this polymorphism (mean ± SE, 38.2 ± 1.64 vs 32.8 ± 0.71 nmol/l, p=0.006). Total and free testosterone levels did not differ in the two groups. In multivariate analysis adjusting for potential confounders including age, waist circumference, testosterone, and HOMA2-IR, C282Y heterozygosity remained associated with SHBG levels (p<0.001).
The C282Y polymorphism is associated with SHBG levels in men who do not manifest iron overload. Further studies are needed to clarify potential mechanisms and determine the clinical relevance of this finding.
We have studied the effect of chemotherapy on the level of a particular kind of genetic instability in patients with Hodgkin's disease. The particular type of genetic instability assayed is exemplified by trans-rearrangements between two (rather than within one) T cell antigen receptor. 16 patients were studied during their course of treatment. Presentation samples were available for 13 of these patients; 9 of them showed an increase in the level of trans-rearrangements during their exposure to chemotherapeutic agents (P < 0.043). All patients for whom posttherapy samples were available (10 out of 16) showed a return to baseline levels of trans-rearrangements 1-5 mo after completion of therapy (P < 0.03). Thus, this assay appears to be a marker for the "destabilizing" effects of certain chemotherapeutic agents.
Spinosad 0.9% suspension is a topical treatment for head-lice infestation (pediculosis capitis) that has been approved in the US as a prescription medicine. Spinosad is a natural mixture of the pediculicidal tetracyclic macrolides spinosyn A and spinosyn D. Spinosad 0.9% mainly interferes with nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in insects, thereby producing neuronal excitation that results in paralysis of lice from neuromuscular fatigue after extended periods of hyperexcitation. Spinosad 0.9% kills both permethrin-susceptible and permethrin-resistant populations of lice. It is also ovicidal, killing both eggs (nits) and lice. Systemic absorption was not detectable after a single topical application of spinosad 1.8% for 10 minutes in children. In randomized, evaluator-blind, multicenter clinical trials, topical spinosad 0.9% without nit combing was significantly more effective than permethrin 1% with nit combing in the eradication of head lice assessed 14 days after one or two treatments. The majority of subjects treated with spinosad 0.9% without nit combing required only a single treatment to eradicate head lice, while the majority of those treated with permethrin 1% with nit combing required two treatments. Spinosad was generally well tolerated in clinical trials, with no severe or serious adverse events. Cutaneous and ocular irritation were the most common adverse events.
Lipid metabolism of intestine, liver and kidney was examined in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats. 1) Phospholipids, triglycerides and cholesterol contents in chylomicrons were increased in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats. 2) Cholesterol absorption in intestine (in vivo and situ) was similar in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats and control rats. 3) Total bile acids levels in bile and portal vein were similar in two groups. 4) There was no difference in incorporation of 14C-mevalonate into cholesterol by liver and kidney slices in two groups. The oxidation of 14CO2 from 14C-mevalonate in kidney slices was decreased in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats. These results show that the hypercholesterolemia in daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats are not caused by increased absorption of cholesterol in intestine. The increased cholesterol esters in liver are not derived from decreased bile acids catabolism. The increased cholesterogenesis in the liver of daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats may be due to an increased rate at the step prior to mevalonate. The oxidation of 14CO2 from mevalonate by shunt pathway may be decreased in the kidney of daunomycin-induced nephrotic rats.
In this study, the cardiotoxicity of isoproterenol, hydralazine and minoxidil was compared between young (1.5 months old) and mature (5 months old) rats. Both age classes were also compared for the effect of hydralazine on blood pressure and heart rate. For the 3 compounds, myocardial necrosis was observed and was more marked in mature than in young rats. The age-related increase in sensitivity to cardiotoxic effects which has already been described for isoproterenol, can therefore be extended to hydralazine and minoxidil. Hydralazine produced hypotension and reflex tachycardia. This latter effect appeared to have a longer duration in mature animals, which may be one of the explanation for their increased sensitivity to the cardiotoxic effect of the compound.
Myocardial mast cells (MC) respond to cardiovascular pathology. The behavior of MC population in myocardium and pericardium of rats has been studied 24 h, 14, 28 and 60 days after two isoproterenol injections (at 24 h intervals). The extent of heart failure has been estimated by supersonic inspection 28 and 60 days after isoproterenol injections. The density of MCs of different degrees of maturity was estimated on paraffin sections stained with Alcian blue--Safranin. The MC density in myocardium of intact and experimental rats was relatively low: from 4 to 6 cells/mm2. The MC density in pericardium of intact rats was several times higher than in myocardium: 48.6 +/- 13.0 cells/mm2. In 24 h and 14 days after isoproterenol injections the pericardial MC density was 1.5 times higher than in control rats (P < 0.05) at the expense of increase in the number of mature MCs with Safranine-positive granules without the increase in the number of immature cells with Alcian blue-positive granules. In 28 days the pericardial MC density was 2 times higher than in intact rats (P < 0.05) at the expense of increase in number of immature and mature cells. In 60 days after isoproterenol injections the pericardial MC density and the ratio of immature and mature cells compared with control did not reach statistical significance. The changes in pericardial MC population corresponded to severity of heart failure according to functional indices. The findings show active reaction of pericardial MCs on myocardium dysfunction that stimulates the maturation of resident immature MCs in pericardium and migration of immature cells to pericardium of damage heart.
The results of ketamine anesthesia are analyzed in 327 patients after stomach resection and cholecystectomy. Preoperative determination of nervous system type, using MMPI test, has revealed maximum incidence of psychotic disorders after ketamine anesthesia in anosognosia syndrome and paranoia. Administration of a neurometabolic stimulator nootropil (pyracetam) prior to extubation in 143 patients decreased the incidence of psychotic disorders from 23.3% to 3.5%, which was confirmed by the results of psychophysiological tests. It is concluded that ketamine anesthesia is inadvisable in patients with anosognosia syndrome and paranoia. To prevent psychotic disorders it is recommended to administer nootropil that recovers intra- and inter-hemisphere connections in the brain.
Cancer cells (relative to normal cells) show increased steady-state levels of hydroperoxides that are compensated by increased glucose and hydroperoxide metabolism. The current study determined whether inhibitors of glucose and hydroperoxide metabolism could induce chemoradiosensitization by enhancing oxidative stress in lung cancer cells.
A549 and NCI-H292 human lung carcinoma cells were treated with 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2DG) combined with carboplatin + ionizing radiation (IR). Lung cancer cells were further sensitized with inhibitors of glutathione (GSH)- and thioredoxin (Trx)-dependent metabolism [buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) and auranofin, respectively] in vitro and in vivo.
When 2DG was combined with carboplatin + IR, clonogenic cell killing was enhanced in A549 and NCI-H292 cells, and this combination was more effective than paclitaxel + carboplatin + IR. The thiol antioxidant (N-acetylcysteine, NAC) was capable of protecting cancer cells from 2DG + carboplatin -induced cell killing. Simultaneous treatment of cancer cells with BSO and auranofin, at doses that were not toxic as single agents, also enhanced lung cancer cell killing and sensitivity to 2DG + carboplatin. This treatment combination also increased oxidation of both GSH and Trx, which were inhibited by NAC. Mice treated with auranofin + BSO showed no alterations in circulating leukocytes or red blood cells. Xenograft lung tumor growth in mice was more effectively inhibited by treatment with auranofin + BSO + carboplatin than animals treated with carboplatin or auranofin + BSO alone.
These results show in vitro and in vivo that simultaneous inhibition of GSH and Trx metabolism can effectively inhibit lung cancer cell growth and induce chemosensitization by a mechanism that involves thiol-mediated oxidative stress.
Metoclopramide is a useful medication in the anesthesia provider's armamentarium. Its primary indication in the preoperative phase is to reduce gastric contents and increase lower esophageal sphincter tone for pharmacologic pulmonary aspiration prophylaxis. Metoclopramide can precipitate extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS)/drug-induced movement disorders (DIMD). Tardive dyskinesia and Parkinsonism is generally seen after long-term use, whereas dystonia and akathisia can occur after a single dose of metoclopramide. Recognition of dystonia and/or akathisia by the perianesthesia nurse after the administration of metoclopramide is important for prompt treatment of this distressing condition. It is imperative that the perianesthesia nurse is knowledgeable in metoclopramide's basic pharmacology, uses as an anesthetic adjunct, guidelines for administration, and EPS/DIMD associated reactions, as well as measures that may reduce the incidence and/or facilitate treatment of this medication-induced condition. This case report presents a male patient in his 40s experiencing akathisia after a single 10-mg dose of metoclopramide.
