Medulloblastoma is the most common malignant brain tumor in children and is associated with a poor outcome. We were interested in gaining further insight into the potential of targeting the human kinome as a novel approach to sensitize medulloblastoma to chemotherapeutic agents. A library of small interfering RNA (siRNA) was used to downregulate the known human protein and lipid kinases in medulloblastoma cell lines. The analysis of cell proliferation, in the presence or absence of a low dose of cisplatin after siRNA transfection, identified new protein and lipid kinases involved in medulloblastoma chemoresistance. PLK1 (polo-like kinase 1) was identified as a kinase involved in proliferation in medulloblastoma cell lines. Moreover, a set of 6 genes comprising ATR, LYK5, MPP2, PIK3CG, PIK4CA, and WNK4 were identified as contributing to both cell proliferation and resistance to cisplatin treatment in medulloblastoma cells. An analysis of the expression of the 6 target genes in primary medulloblastoma tumor samples and cell lines revealed overexpression of LYK5 and PIK3CG. The results of the siRNA screen were validated by target inhibition with specific pharmacological inhibitors. A pharmacological inhibitor of p110γ (encoded by PIK3CG) impaired cell proliferation in medulloblastoma cell lines and sensitized the cells to cisplatin treatment. Together, our data show that the p110γ phosphoinositide 3-kinase isoform is a novel target for combinatorial therapies in medulloblastoma.
Although treatment of bipolar depression is a frequent clinical problem, double-blind studies of the treatment of bipolar depression are scarce. Some case series and uncontrolled data suggest antidepressants may differ in their propensity to induce mania or their efficacy for bipolar depression.
The authors conducted a prospective double-blind trial to assess efficacy and rate of treatment-emergent mood elevation in depressed bipolar patients when bupropion or desipramine was added to an ongoing therapeutic regimen of lithium or an anticonvulsant. Results were assessed after 8 weeks of acute treatment and during maintenance treatment up to 1 year.
No difference was found for acute efficacy between the two drugs. Mania/hypomania was observed in 5 of 10 desipramine-treated patients, but only 1 of 9 bupropion-treated patients. The occurrence of hypomania or mania was correlated with treatment group (Kendall's tau correlation = 0.42; Z = -2.5, p < .012).
These pilot findings suggest that bupropion is less likely to induce mood elevation than desipramine. For treatment of bipolar depression, bupropion and desipramine appear to have similar antidepressant efficacy.
The present study was designed to compare the cardioprotective effects of the combination of lisinopril with growth hormone over lisinopril alone in doxorubicin (Dox)-induced cardiomyopathy in rats. Forty male Wister albino rats were divided into 4 groups: group 1, control group; group 2, received Dox; group 3, received lisinopril + Dox; and group 4, received lisinopril + Dox + growth hormone. Dox (cumulative dose) was administered to rats in 6 equal intraperitoneal injections over a period of 2 weeks. Histopathological changes and plasma aspartate aminotransferase, lactate dehydrogenase, and creatine kinase and plasma levels of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, tissue inhibitor matrix metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1, and cardiac inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) messenger RNA (mRNA) expression were determined 9 weeks after the first dose of Dox. Dox produced cardiac structural injury and significant elevation in plasma levels of cardiac enzymes, MMP-2, and cardiac iNOS mRNA expression together with significant reduction in plasma TIMP-1 level. Lisinopril significantly decreases plasma MMP-2 level and cardiac iNOS mRNA expression by 13% and 15%, respectively, in group 3 compared with 36% and 47%, respectively, in group 4 as compared with group 2. In addition, compared with Dox group, lisinopril significantly increases plasma TIMP-1 level by 23% compared with 49% in group 4. We can conclude that the combination of lisinopril and growth hormone produced better cardioprotective effect against Dox-induced cardiomyopathy. This effect may be attributed on their antiremodeling actions by regulating plasma MMP-2/TIMP-1 levels and to the reduction of cardiac iNOS mRNA expression.
The efficacy of intravenously administered metoprolol, a cardioselective beta-adrenergic blocking agent, was evaluated in the treatment of supraventricular tachyarrhythmias in 16 patients. The arrhythmias that were treated were atrial fibrillation (11 patients), atrial flutter (2 patients), supraventricular tachycardia (2 patients), and multifocal atrial tachycardia (1 patient). Mean dose of metoprolol was 9.5 mg (range: 2-15 mg) administered in one or two separate infusions of up to 7.5 mg each over a cumulative maximum interval of 25 minutes. In the 13 responders (81%), mean ventricular rate decreased from 134 +/- 6 to 106 +/- 7 beats/min 10 minutes after metoprolol administration and was controlled for 40 to 320 minutes without further therapy. Minimum ventricular rate (98 +/- 6 beats/min) was reached 48 minutes after initiation of metoprolol. Metoprolol reduced ventricular rate by greater than 15% (decrease of 26-60 beats/min) in 11 (69%) of 16 patients, including 9 (82%) of 11 patients with atrial fibrillation. In two other patients, one with atrial fibrillation and one with supraventricular tachycardia, ventricular rate was reduced by greater than 12%. Hypotension, occurring in five patients, was the most frequent side effect but was transient and readily managed. Cardioselective beta-adrenergic blockade by metoprolol was rapidly effective in controlling ventricular rate in a majority of patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmias and may be of particular use in selected patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in whom intravenous beta-adrenergic blockade is indicated. Hypotension is an important potential side effect.
Nimesulid (Mesulid) is a non-steroid anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), acting by the selective inhibition of the Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) isoenzyme. In this study the efficacy of nimesulid following cardiac surgery has been investigated in comparison with that of a COX-1 isoenzyme inhibitor drug.
200 cardiac surgical patients operated on cardiopulmonary bypass have been involved in this prospective study. 100 patients received 100 mg. nimesulid bd. routinely in the postoperative period (group M). Another 100 patients were given 275 mg naproxen bd. (group A). In both groups the White Blood Cell (WBC), the blood sedimentation (We), the C-Reactive Protein (CRP) levels were determined from venous blood samples before the operation and on the first five postoperative days. Venous blood samples of 20 patients of each group in the same period were used to determine the Interleukin-6 (IL-6), and the Soluble Tumour Necrosis Factor Receptor-I (sTNF-RI) levels. Postoperative complications related to the use of the investigated drugs as well as the side effects have been compared in the two groups. A visual analogue pain scale was used before and after drug administration. Kruskal Wallis and student t tests were used for the statistical analysis.
No serious complication related to the use of the investigated drugs has developed in either group. In group A gastrointestinal side effect were recorded in 7 cases (7%) whilst in group M no such complaints were found. Drug doses defined in the study protocol had to be raised or another drug had to be added in 11 and 3 cases in group A and M respectively. Neither the laboratory findings, nor the visual pain scale results have not shown any significant difference between the groups.
The efficacy of nimesulid in postoperative inflammatory inhibition and pain relief has proved equal to that of the investigated COX-1 inhibitor drug, however less gastrointestinal side effects have been related to its administration.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) administered into the cerebral ventricles of rats during the first postnatal week caused a specific and stereotyped behavior sequence: rhythmic chewing and licking (jaw myoclonus) were followed by 'limbic'-type seizures. The onset of the seizures was much more rapid (2-45 min vs 3-7 h) than in adult rats, and the convulsant doses were much lower (50 x 10(-12) mol per gram brain weight vs 750 x 10(-12) mol per gram brain weight in adults). CRH potency in inducing seizures varied inversely with age. CRH-induced seizures occurred prior to any changes in serum corticosterone, and were eliminated by the administration of a CRH antagonist, as well as of phenytoin. Electrocorticographic correlates of CRH-induced behaviors in the infant rat were inconsistent, suggesting a subcortical origin of CRH-induced paroxysmal events in the immature brain.
The hemodynamic effects of dobutamine were studied by non invasive techniques in 6 full term neonates with severe perinatal asphyxia. At 10 micrograms/kg/min, dobutamine significantly increased the cardiac output, the heart rate and the aortic blood flow velocity. The mean arterial pressure increased but not significantly and the stroke volume remained unchanged. These changes seem to be dose dependent. The increase of cardiac output may be due to a chronotropic and inotropic effect of dobutamine. Dobutamine seems to be an effective agent for the treatment of low cardiac output in asphyxiated neonates.
Cardiac glycosides still belong to the most frequently prescribed drugs, although the usefulness of digitalization in patients with sinus rhythm has been repeatedly challenged. In elderly patients, especially, the objective hemodynamic improvement remains minimal and treatment can often be interrupted without subsequent deterioration. On the other hand, signs of digitalis toxicity, such as nausea, vomiting, AV-block, ventricular extrasystoles or CNS-symptoms, occur in 15-30% of patients. Adverse effects are mainly due to toxic accumulation of digoxin in cases with age related reduction of kidney function. In view of its non-renal elimination digitoxin would seem to have a certain advantage in geriatric patients, however, its long t 1/2 (6-7 days) makes dose adjustments more difficult, as peak effects will only be attained after 4-5 weeks. For these reasons digitalis treatment in elderly patients should not be given without clinically manifest congestive heart failure and/or atrial fibrillation. Even in such cases a periodic reassessment of the therapeutic indication is recommended. Suspected "latent" cardiac failure or cerebrovascular insufficiency are no reasons for utilizing such potentially toxic drugs.
Azacitidine and decitabine are cytidine analogues that inhibit DNA methylation, and are used to treat myeloid haematological malignancies. Hydroxycarbamide (HC) (also known as hydroxyurea), a ribonucleotide reductase (RR) inhibitor, blocks the conversion of ribonucleotides to deoxyribonucleotides, and is also used to treat leukaemia and sickle-cell disease. Azacitidine is a ribonucleoside and decitabine is a deoxyribonucleoside; therefore, we hypothesized that inhibition of RR by HC would be antagonistic to azacitidine and synergistic to decitabine. HL-60 and T24 cancer cell lines were treated with azacitidine or decitabine in combination with HC and DNA methylation of LRE1, MAGEA1 and CDKN2A was quantitatively measured by bisulphite-polymerase chain reaction pyrosequencing. Surprisingly, we found that HC blocked the ability of both azacitidine and decitabine to inhibit DNA methylation and this antagonistic effect was attributable to the arrest of the cell cycle induced by HC. However, this antagonism could be avoided with sequential treatment of HC followed by azacitidine or decitabine. This data suggest that concurrent combination of HC blocks the ability of azacitidine and decitabine to inhibit DNA methylation and therefore these drugs should be used sequentially.
Pseudohypoaldosteronism type 1 (PHA1, OMIM 264350) is an uncommon inherited disorder characterized by salt-wasting and end-organ unresponsiveness to mineralocorticoids. A complete genome search using homozygosity mapping in eleven consanguineous families with PHA1 provided conclusive evidence of linkage with heterogeneity. The disease locus mapped to chromosome 16p12.2-13.11 in six families and to 12p13.1-pter in the other five families. These two chromosomal regions harbour the genes encoding the three subunits of the human amiloride sensitive epithelial sodium channel (hENaC): SCNN1B and SCNN1G on 16p and SCNN1A on 12p. Our linkage results have been further supported by the recent report of mutations in the alpha and beta subunit genes in PHA1 patients. We now report the identification of a 3' splice site mutation in SCNN1G (318-1 G-->A) in three families showing linkage to 16p. Abnormal splicing results with the production of two messenger RNAs, one arising from activation of an adjacent cryptic splice site and the other from skipping of the downstream exon. The two corresponding mutant gamma hENaC subunits are predicted to have three highly conserved amino acids in the extracellular domain replaced by a novel amino acid (KYS106-108-->N) and truncation from 649 to 134 amino acids respectively. These three families all originate from the Indian sub-continent and the probands have severe generalized PHA. They share a common haplotype which suggests the presence of a founder mutation in this sub-population.
We did 2 consecutive randomized studies to compare the effects of diatrizoate, ioxaglate, and iohexol. Sixty patients were studied: 15 with diatrizoate (group I) versus 15 with ioxaglate (IIA), and 15 with ioxaglate (IIB) versus 15 with iohexol (III). Group I had hypotension and severe increase in end-diastolic pressure. Severe bradycardia was seen in 27% of the cases. Group IIA and IIB had identical changes, with a moderate increase in systolic and end-diastolic pressure. Group III only presented a mild increase in end-diastolic pressure. None of the low-osmolar contrast media produced severe bradycardia, but ioxaglate induced frequent (20%) nausea. Our results suggest the best contrast media for angiocardiography is, in decreasing order: iohexol, ioxaglate, and diatrizoate.
We describe a case of acute cardiovascular collapse in a patient with end-stage renal failure undergoing endoluminal repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. The 61-yr-old man suffered cardiac arrest shortly after administration of radiocontrast medium (Omnipaque), during deployment of the endovascular device. He had received the same contrast solution for diagnostic angiography on the previous day. He was successfully resuscitated and recovered completely. The differential diagnosis and management are discussed.
An 85-year-old woman presented at the emergency ward. She had had shortness of breath for several days and no bowel movements for 3 days. On the day ofhospitalisation she experienced sudden abdominal pain and collapsed as she went to the toilet. She was being treated for multiple conditions, including type-2 diabetes. She appeared to have lactic acidosis. At first, the symptoms were not attributed to metformin because she was receiving a low dose and serum-creatinine concentrations were within the normal range (98 micromol/l). Bowel ischaemia was suspected and surgery was performed but no defects were found. She was subsequently treated for metformin-related lactic acidosis but died shortly thereafter due in part to postoperative complications. Lactic acidosis is a rare side effect of metformin. In this patient, the retrospectively calculated glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was extremely low (23 ml/min). The serum-creatinine concentration was normal because the patient's body weight was low (40 kg). Impaired renal function is a risk factor for metformin-related lactic acidosis. Renal function can appear to be normal when measured by serum-creatinine concentration in older patients with reduced muscle mass, but calculation of GFR often reveals impairment. Metformin is contraindicated in patients with poor renal function. The increasing use of metformin in older patients for the treatment of diabetes mellitus warrants renewed attention to this severe side effect.
Excessive body iron or iron overload occurs under conditions such as primary (hereditary) hemochromatosis and secondary iron overload (hemosiderosis), which are reaching epidemic levels worldwide. Primary hemochromatosis is the most common genetic disorder with an allele frequency greater than 10% in individuals of European ancestry, while hemosiderosis is less common but associated with a much higher morbidity and mortality. Iron overload leads to iron deposition in many tissues especially the liver, brain, heart and endocrine tissues. Elevated cardiac iron leads to diastolic dysfunction, arrhythmias and dilated cardiomyopathy, and is the primary determinant of survival in patients with secondary iron overload as well as a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in primary hemochromatosis patients. In addition, iron-induced cardiac injury plays a role in acute iron toxicosis (iron poisoning), myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury, Friedreich ataxia and neurodegenerative diseases. Patients with iron overload also routinely suffer from a range of endocrinopathies, including diabetes mellitus and anterior pituitary dysfunction. Despite clear connections between elevated iron and clinical disease, iron transport remains poorly understood. While low-capacity divalent metal and transferrin-bound transporters are critical under normal physiological conditions, L-type Ca2+ channels (LTCC) are high-capacity pathways of ferrous iron (Fe2+) uptake into cardiomyocytes especially under iron overload conditions. Fe2+ uptake through L-type Ca2+ channels may also be crucial in other excitable cells such as pancreatic beta cells, anterior pituitary cells and neurons. Consequently, LTCC blockers represent a potential new therapy to reduce the toxic effects of excess iron.
Ischemic acute kidney injury (AKI) triggers expression of adaptive (protective) and maladaptive genes. Agents that increase expression of protective genes should provide a therapeutic benefit. We now report that bardoxolone methyl (BARD) ameliorates ischemic murine AKI as assessed by both renal function and pathology. BARD may exert its beneficial effect by increasing expression of genes previously shown to protect against ischemic AKI, NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPARγ), and heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1). Although we found that BARD alone or ischemia-reperfusion alone increased expression of these genes, the greatest increase occurred after the combination of both ischemia-reperfusion and BARD. BARD had a different mode of action than other agents that regulate PPARγ and Nrf2. Thus we report that BARD regulates PPARγ, not by acting as a ligand but by increasing the amount of PPARγ mRNA and protein. This should increase ligand-independent effects of PPARγ. Similarly, BARD increased Nrf2 mRNA; this increased Nrf2 protein by mechanisms in addition to the prolongation of Nrf2 protein half-life previously reported. Finally, we localized expression of these protective genes after ischemia and BARD treatment. Using double-immunofluorescence staining for CD31 and Nrf2 or PPARγ, we found increased Nrf2 and PPARγ on glomerular endothelia in the cortex; Nrf2 was also present on cortical peritubular capillaries. In contrast, HO-1 was localized to different cells, i.e., tubules and interstitial leukocytes. Although Nrf2-dependent increases in HO-1 have been described, our data suggest that BARD's effects on tubular and leukocyte HO-1 during ischemic AKI may be Nrf2 independent. We also found that BARD ameliorated cisplatin nephrotoxicity.
Lergotrile mesylate, an ergot alkaloid derivative and putative dopamine agonist, was effective in the majority of patients with Parkinson's disease who were showing signs of disease progression despite treatment with levodopa combined with a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor (carbidopa). Among 20 patients completing a six-month trial, there was a significant (P less than .01) reduction in rigidity, tremor, bradykinesia, gait disturbance, and total score when lergotrile was added to levodopa plus carbidopa. Mean daily dose of lergotrile mesylate was 52 mg, and the mean daily dose of levodopa was reduced by 15%. Abnormal involuntary movements were decreased on addition of lergotrile and reduction in levodopa while mental changes and orthostatic hypotension were increased. Elevations in serum transaminase levels were noted in three patients. The ergot alkaloids promise to be an important new class of antiparkinsonian drugs.
Following major intracranial surgery in a 35-year-old man, sodium pentothal was intravenously infused to minimize cerebral ischaemia. Intense vasospasm with threatened gangrene arose in the arm used for the infusion. Since the cranial condition precluded use of more usual methods, lidocaine was given intra-arterially, with careful cardiovascular monitoring, to counteract the vasospasm. The treatment was rapidly successful.
Cholinergic supersensitivity of the iris sphincter helps to make the diagnosis of "tonic pupil." Because uncertain responses sometimes occur with mecholyl 2.5%, dilute solutions of pilocarpine are often used. There has always been some question as to whether individual variation in corneal permeability was one of the factors contributing to the variability in pupillary constriction to topical cholinergics in these patients. In this study, the degree of intraocular penetration of topical fluorescein was compared with the degree of pilocarpine-induced miosis in six tonic pupils and in seven age-matched normal controls. A noncontact fluorophotometer and a computerized videopupillogram were used. The patients showed a significant cholinergic supersensitivity in their affected tonic pupils and had normal intraocular penetration of fluorescein through the cornea in both eyes. It is concluded that the cholinergic supersensitivity of the iris in tonic pupils is not the result of increased corneal permeability but instead results from an increased sensitivity of the cholinergic receptors in iris sphincter muscles.
Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, alternatively known as stress cardiomyopathy, is an increasingly recognized clinical syndrome characterized by acute reversible apical ventricular dysfunction. To elucidate the mechanism, we tried to make a new model of takotsubo-like cardiomyopathy in non-human primates. Echocardiography revealed that repeated intravenous infusion of epinephrine overdose in cynomolgus monkeys induced takotsubo-like cardiomyopathy, which is characterized by progressive left ventricle and depressed systolic function with severe hypokinesis in apical regions and hyperkinesis in the basal region. Although this cardiac dysfunction almost normalized after a month even without any treatment, metoprolol, a beta-blocker, improved the decreased ejection fraction earlier than in the control. Luxol fast blue staining, which is useful for estimating myocytolysis, showed that increased myocytolysis was observed in the apical ventricle of the epinephrine-infused heart. Metoprolol diminished epinephrine-induced cardiomyocytolysis. To explain the mechanism of takotsubo myopathy and the effect of metoprolol, gene expressions in apical or basal ventricle were compared. Heart failure-related genes, such as brain natriuretic peptide, connective tissue growth factor and osteopontin; calcium signaling-related genes, such as ryanodine receptor 2, sarcoendoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase 2A2 and adenylate cyclase 7; renin-angiotensin system-related genes, such as angiotensinogen, angiotensin II receptor, type 1 and type 2; and mitochondria-related genes, such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma co-activator-1alpha, cytochrome c and transcription factor A mitochondrial, were significantly changed at the apical ventricle rather than at the basal ventricle. The changes of some genes improved with metoprolol treatment. These results indicate that this model is valuable in understanding the pathogenesis of takotsubo cardiomyopathy and the effectivity of beta-blockers.
The authors report a case of hydranencephaly which could result from a massive intake of oestrogens in a 18 week-gravid mother. After a brief clinical summary, the role of oestrogens in the triggering of a fetal circulatory disorder is discussed.
Stress is known to enhance the abuse of various drugs. Although the effects of chronic stress and the neurotoxicity of methamphetamine (METH) are influenced, in part, by hyperthermia, the role of hyperthermia in the hypothesized stress-induced enhancement of METH-induced dopamine (DA) and serotonin depletions and decreases in vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT-2) immunoreactivity is unknown. Rats were exposed to 10 days of unpredictable stress and then challenged with METH (7.5 mg/kg, i.p., once every 2 hx4 injections). There were no differences in the extracellular DA concentrations of stressed and non-stressed rats administered METH. Prior exposure to chronic unpredictable stress augmented the acute METH-induced hyperthermia, the decreases in VMAT-2 immunoreactivity, and the depletions of striatal DA and serotonin content. Prevention of enhanced hyperthermia through cooling of chronically stressed rats to levels exhibited by non-stressed but METH-exposed rats blocked the enhanced depletions. This study reports the novel finding that chronic stress enhances METH toxicity through enhanced hyperthermia and suggests that this effect may be mediated by early METH-induced decreases in VMAT-2 immunoreactivity.
Growing evidence indicates that the expression of synaptic plasticity in the central nervous system results in dendritic reorganization and spine remodeling. Although long-term potentiation of glutamatergic synapses after cocaine exposure in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) has been proposed as a cellular mechanism underlying addictive behaviors, the relationship between long-term potentiation and dendritic remodeling induced by cocaine on the dopaminergic neurons of the VTA has not been demonstrated. Here we report that rat VTA cells classified as type I and II showed distinct morphological responses to cocaine, as a single cocaine exposure significantly increased dendritic spine density in type I but not in type II cells. Further, only type I cells had a significant increase in the AMPA receptor:NMDA receptor ratio after a single cocaine exposure. Taken together, our data provide evidence that increased spine density and synaptic plasticity are coexpressed within the same VTA neuronal population and that only type I neurons are structurally and synaptically modified by cocaine.
Ten patients with acute myeloid leukemia were treated with a high-dose ara-c regimen (3 g twice daily for 6 days). 5 patients (50%) achieved a complete remission lasting for a median duration of 5 months. These patients had all achieved a complete remission following standard treatment with ara-c. High-dose ara-c was ineffective in 2 patients resistant to standard ara-c protocols. The most important side effects of high-dose ara-c were conjunctivitis and cerebellar symptomatology. In one case a severe diffuse encephalopathy with cerebellar predominance set in at a remarkably late stage (45 days after starting treatment). Our results and those of other authors suggest that treatment with high-dose ara-c should be used with caution.
Phospholipidosis (PL), a disorder characterized by an accumulation of phospholipids in lysosome-derived multilamellar vesicles owing to abnormal lipid metabolism. Amiodarone (AM), an antiarrhythmic drug, can induce pulmonary PL. First, to evaluate potential mechanisms of phospholipidosis, we found lipid metabolism--related genes by microarray. PPARG, FADS2, and SCD out of these genes were key genes in lipid metabolism and PPAR signaling by AM. The messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of PPARG, FADS2, and SCD were upregulated by AM. The PPARγ antagonist GW9662 was used to investigate the possible involvement of PPARγ as a mediator of AM-induced PL, and FADS2 and SCD small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) were used to examine the involvement of FADS2 and SCD in AM-induced PL. The inhibition of PPARγ by GW9662 significantly attenuated the AM-induced upregulation of SCD and slightly decreased the AM-induced upregulation of FADS2. And the pretreatment of GW9662 significantly decreased the AM-induced uptake of the fluorescent phospholipid analog NBD-PC. The siRNA-mediated gene silencing of FADS2 and SCD also decreased the AM-induced NBD-PC uptake. These results suggest that the activation of the PPARγ signaling pathway, including FADS2 and SCD, may play an important role in AM-induced PL. PPARG, FADS2, and SCD are AM-induced PL-related genes and may serve as potential biomarkers for PL caused by pulmonary toxicity. We also provide evidence for a possible mechanism of PL, the accumulation of phospholipid in the induction of FADS2 and SCD by PPARγ, in AM-induced pulmonary toxicity.
Cisplatin is one of the most potent and active cytotoxic drug in the treatment of cancer. However, side-effects in normal tissues and organs, notably nephrotoxicity in the kidneys, limit the promising efficacy of cisplatin. The present study was designed to ascertain the possible in vivo protective potential of a synthetic organoselenium compound diphenylmethyl selenocyanate (3 mg/kg.b.w.) against the nephrotoxic damage induced by cisplatin (5 mg/kg.b.w. for 5 days) in Swiss albino mice. Treatment with diphenylmethyl selenocyanate markedly reduced cisplatin-induced lipid peroxidation, serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels. Renal antioxidant defense systems, such as glutathione-S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase, catalase, activities and reduced glutathione level, depleted by cisplatin therapy, were restored to normal by the selenium compound. The selenium compound also reduced renal tubular epithelial cell damage, nitric oxide levels and expression of COX-2, and iNOS in kidneys injured by cisplatin. These results demonstrate the protective effect of diphenylmethyl selenocyanate against cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in mice.
Ketamine, a highly lipophilic drug, was rapidly distributed into highly vascular organs and subsequently redistributed to less well perfused tissues, with concurrent hepatic metabolism and urinary and biliary excretion, after both i. m. and i. v. administration in the rat. Halothane, a potent cardiovascular depressant, was found to prolong the plasma and brain half-life of ketamine (50 mg/kg i.m.) and also increased the duration of ketamine-induced ataxia when the two drugs were administered concomitantly. Halothane anesthesia (0.8% halothane in oxygen) produced a decrease in the rate of uptake and delayed distribution and redistribution of ketamine (50 mg/kg i. m.), while the rate of urinary excretion of ketamine was not significantly altered. Similarly, redistribution of intravenously administered ketamine (30 mg/kg i. v.) was slowed in the presence of halothane. In vitro hepatic microsomal metabolism of ketamine and its principle N-demethylated metabolite, metabolite I, was inhibited noncompetitively by halothane with inhibitor constants (Ki) for halothane estimated to be 1.56 and 1. 64 mM,respectively. The gas anesthetic also decreased the overall rate of in vivo metabolism of ketamine (30 mg/kg i. v.) in a concentration-dependent manner. Thus halothane anesthesia by decreasing uptake, distribution, redistribution and metabolism of intramuscularly administered ketamine produced significant prolongation of its pharmacologic action on the central nervous system. Our results imply that concomitant use of inhalational anesthetics may prolong pharmacologic actions of other agents via effects on distribution/redistribution processes as well as on metabolism.
