Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been extensively used in Parkinson's disease and is also currently being investigated in tardive dyskinesia (TD), a movement disorder induced by chronic treatment with antipsychotic drugs such as haloperidol (HAL). In rodents, vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) following chronic HAL administration are suggested to model orofacial dyskinesias in TD. We show that 60 min of DBS (100 μA, 90 μs, 130 Hz) applied to the entopeduncular (EPN) or subthalamic (STN) nuclei significantly decreases HAL-induced VCMs. Using zif268 as a neural activity marker, we found that in HAL-treated animals EPN stimulation increased zif268 mRNA levels in the globus pallidus (+65%) and substantia nigra compacta (+62%) and reticulata (+76%), while decreasing levels in the motor cortex and throughout the thalamus. In contrast, after STN DBS zif268 levels in HAL-treated animals decreased in all basal ganglia structures, thalamus and motor cortex (range: 29% in the ventrolateral caudate-putamen to 100% in the EPN). Local tissue inactivation by muscimol injections into the STN or EPN also reduced VCMs, but to a lesser degree than DBS. When applied to the EPN muscimol decreased zif268 levels in substantia nigra (-29%), whereas STN infusions did not result in significant zif268 changes in any brain area. These results confirm the effectiveness of DBS in reducing VCMs and suggest that tissue inactivation does not fully account for DBS effects in this preparation. The divergent effects of STN vs. EPN manipulations on HAL-induced zif268 changes suggest that similar behavioral outcomes of DBS in these two areas may involve different neuroanatomical mechanisms.
To investigate interleukin-2-induced antinociception in morphine-insensitive rats.
Paw withdrawal latencies (PWL) to noxious radiant heat were taken as the measurement of pain threshold.
Intraplantar injection of human recombinant interleukin-2 (1.5 x10(4) U) significantly increased PWL in normal rats. PWL was also markedly increased by IL-2 in 45-d-post-complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-treated rats, which have been proven morphine-insensitive. IL-2-induced antinociception in CFA-treated rats were significantly lower than that in normal rats. IL-2-induced antinociception was partially blocked by naloxone (1 mg/kg, ip) in normal rats but remained unchanged in CFA group.
IL-2-induced antinociception is partially mediated by mu-opioid receptors. Therapeutic applications of IL-2 may also be expanded to relieve morphine-insensitive pain.
Occupational painters are exposed to ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE), a widely used emulsifying solvent known to cause testicular degeneration and bone marrow depression, together with toluene (TOL) and xylene (XYL) as a mixture. In the previous study (Chung et al., Tox. Lett. 104:143, 1999), testicular atrophy caused by EGEE (200 mg/kg) was shown to be antagonized by co-administration of TOL (250 mg/kg) and XYL (500 mg/kg). This study was conducted to provide histological support for the previously observed antagonistic protective effect of TOL + XYL on EGEE inducible testicular toxicity and to determine whether a similar antagonistic effect can be demonstrated against the EGEE derived hematopoietic toxicity. Compared to the extent of seminiferous tubule degeneration caused by EGEE (150 mg/kg, six times per week for 4 weeks), testes of rats given co-administration of TOL (250 mg/kg) + XYL (500 mg/kg) showed dramatically reduced tubular degeneration. Hyperplasia of Leydig cells in the interstitium was observed in both EGEE and EGEE + TOL + XYL-treated rats. Although a minimal dose of EGEE causing testicular atrophy was used, WBC and platelet counts were decreased significantly. In the TOL + XYL-treated control group, the WBC and platelet counts were not decreased. However, the bone marrow depression caused by EGEE was not reversed by the combined administration of TOL + XYL. In all experimental groups (EGEE alone, TOL + XYL, EGEE + TOL + XYL), plasma levels of creatinine and alkaline phosphatase were significantly decreased. In addition to the marked testicular atrophy, EGEE also decreased the weights of adrenal glands and epididymis. In conclusion, while the testicular degeneration caused by EGEE was antagonized by TOL + XYL, the EGEE derived hematopoietic suppression was not reversed.
To investigate the apoptotic effect of As2S2 on K562 cells and its mechanism.
The effect of As2S2 on proliferation of K562 cells was determined by counting the number of cells. Apoptosis was assessed by flow cytometry, DNA fragmentation analysis, and morphology observation. Expression of protein was determined by Western blot. RT-PCR was used to evaluate changes in gene expression.
As2S2 greatly inhibited the proliferation and induced apoptosis of K562 cells in a concentration- and time-dependent manner at the concentration range of 1-5 micromol/L during 24-72 h. Viable cells were decreased to approximately 71 % of control at the concentration of 5 micromol/L after 48-h incubation, 31.4 % after 72-h incubation, and 45.4 % at 3 micromol/L after 72-h incubation. At 3 micromol/L for 72 h, 5 micromol/L for 48 h, and 5 micromol/L for 72 h, the apoptosis rate were 34.4 %, 21.8 %, and 46 % of the treated-cells, respectively. As2S2 decreased the Bcr-Abl fusion protein and protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) activity of c-abl and Bcr-Abl, but it did not change the transcription of bcr-abl assayed. As2S2 also induced apoptosis in fresh mononuclear cells derived from chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) patients. CML Ph+ leukemia cells were more sensitive to the apoptotic effect of As2S2 than Ph- mononuclear cells (P<0.05).
As2S2 inhibited the proliferation and induced apoptosis in K562 and fresh CML mononuclear cells. The decline of the Bcr-Abl protein and its PTK activity may play an important role in the apoptotic effect of As2S2. As2S2 may be a useful agent for the treatment of CML.
We report the case of a patient with severe myocardial dysfunction after nasal infiltration of cocaine during septoplasty. Complete recovery of myocardial function was observed in twelve days. Several reports have described chronic cardiomyopathy in long-term cocaine users, but only one case of acute cardiomyopathy. None of these cases were related to the medical use of cocaine.
C57BL/6J-Min/+ (multiple intestinal neoplasia) is a murine model for familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP), where the mice are heterozygous for a nonsense Apc(Min) (adenomatous polyposis coli) mutation, and therefore develop numerous spontaneous adenomas in the small intestine and colon. Neonatal exposure of Min/+ mice to the food carcinogen 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) (eight subcutaneous injections of 25 or 50 mg/kg PhIP to pups or 50 mg/kg PhIP to lactating dams) markedly increased (2--9-fold) the number of intestinal tumours, especially in the small intestine. We examined whether the Apc gene was affected in small intestinal and colonic tumours induced by PhIP. In spontaneous tumours formed in these mice, the main mechanism for tumour induction is loss of the wild-type Apc(+) allele, i.e. loss of heterozygosity (LOH). Also in the PhIP-induced tumours, this is a major mechanism, since large fractions of PhIP-induced tumours had LOH in APC: However, mechanisms other than LOH must also prevail, since a lower frequency of LOH was found in the small intestinal tumours from male mice exposed to PhIP either via breast milk (65%) or by direct injection (68%), compared with the untreated controls (92%). Tumours that had retained the wild-type Apc(+) allele were further analysed for presence of truncated Apc proteins with in vitro synthesized protein (IVSP) assay. Truncated Apc proteins, indicating truncation mutations in exon 15 of the Apc gene, were detected in 20% (8 of 40) of the tumours not showing LOH from the small intestine after PhIP exposure, all in segment 2 (codons 686--1217). Seventeen percent (2 of 12) of the colonic tumours had a truncated Apc protein in segment 3 (codons 1099--1693). Importantly, no truncated proteins were detected in tumours from unexposed mice with apparently retained wild-type Apc(+) allele. These results show that PhIP induces intestinal tumours in the Min/+ mice both by causing LOH and truncation mutations in the wild-type Apc(+) allele.
Extracellular proteolysis of basement membranes and matrix is required for leukocyte diapedesis and migration to the inflammatory focus. Neutrophil elastase (NE) and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are among the enzymes involved in these processes, as shown in mice genetically deprived of such enzymes. However, studies with MMP-9(-/-) mice revealed that albeit neutrophil influx is impaired initially in these animals versus controls, neutrophilia is subsequently augmented during later stages of zymosan peritonitis. MMP-9 as a MMP and NE as a serine protease belong to different enzyme classes. As MMP-9 and NE are produced by neutrophils and have similar biological effects on matrix remodeling, it was evaluated whether enhanced NE activity might compensate for the lack of MMP-9. In genetically uncompromised mice, two waves of NE expression and activity during zymosan peritonitis were observed in inflammatory neutrophils and macrophages at the time of influx of the respective cell populations into the peritoneum. Additionally, NE expression was associated with the activity of resident peritoneal mast cells and macrophages, as their depletion reduced NE activity. Most importantly, the NE mRNA and protein expression and activity were enhanced significantly in MMP-9(-/-) mice during late stages of zymosan peritonitis. In addition, the application of a selective NE inhibitor restrained enhanced neutrophil accumulation significantly. In conclusion, during acute peritoneal inflammation, NE expression and activity increase gradually, facilitating leukocyte influx. Moreover, increased NE activity might compensate for a genetic lack of MMP-9 (as detected in MMP-9(-/-) mice), resulting in delayed accumulation of neutrophils during late zymosan peritonitis.
Three patients experienced rapidly reversible azotemia related to the use of naproxen or ibuprofen but tolerated full-dose sulindac. This article discusses renal toxicity of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), with emphasis on the role of inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, and reviews evidence supporting a renal-sparing property of sulindac. The current literature assumes that all NSAIDs possess a similar potential for renal toxicity. The data presented suggest that sulindac has less potential for renal toxicity and may be the preferred NSAID for use in patients with impaired renal function.
This study investigated the incidence of clozapine-associated urinary incontinence (UI) in schizophrenic patients, the percentage of these patients with persistent urinary incontinence (PUI), and the possible factors affecting the occurrence of UI.
A total of 61 Chinese in-patients with schizophrenia (according to DSM-IV) treated with clozapine for more than 3 months were assessed retrospectively for the occurrence of UI. Patients who still had UI at the time of assessment were classified as having PUI. Patients whose UI had resolved at the time of assessment were classified as having self-limited urinary incontinence (SUI). We compared the characteristics of UI and non-UI cases and of PUI and SUI cases.
The results showed that urinary incontinence developed at some time in 27 of 61 patients (44.3%), and that it was persistent in 15 of 61 patients (25%). There were no statistically significant differences in age, sex, clozapine dose, duration of clozapine use, duration of index admission, duration of illness, age at onset of schizophrenia, or concurrent treatment with other psychiatric medications between the UI and non-UI groups and between the PUI and SUI groups.
Clozapine-associated urinary incontinence may be persistent in some patients, and it should be cautiously monitored in every patient taking clozapine.
Generalized seizures may be associated with therapeutic or intentional theophylline overdose. Toxic levels of theophylline are also associated with a fall in potassium which could potentiate theophylline-induced seizures. To evaluate the role of serum potassium concentration in theophylline-induced seizures we investigated the seizure threshold in normokalemic and hyperkalemic rats during theophylline infusion to toxic levels. Hyperkalemic rats were prepared with intraperitoneal amiloride and potassium chloride and had a mean +/- SEM initial potassium of 5.29 +/- 0.15 mEq/L. Control animals received either amiloride or potassium and had initial serum potassium concentrations of 4.00 +/- 0.08 and 3.93 +/- 0.16 mEq/L, respectively. Potassium levels after 30 minutes of theophylline infusion were 4.11 +/- 0.18 mEq/L in the hyperkalemic rats and 3.47 +/- 0.06 and 3.51 +/- 0.12 mEq/L in the control animals. There were no significant differences in the serum theophylline concentrations at time of seizure, nor was there a correlation between serum potassium concentration and theophylline concentration at time of seizure. Since the preservation of normokalemia does not influence the onset of seizures in theophylline toxicity, this suggests that the potassium level has little effect on seizure activity in this model.
The synthesis and structure-activity relationship of a novel series of compounds with combined effects on 5-HT(3A) and 5-HT(1A) receptors and on the serotonin (5-HT) transporter (SERT) are described. Compound 5m (Lu AA21004) was the lead compound, displaying high affinity for recombinant human 5-HT(1A) (K(i) = 15 nM), 5-HT(1B) (K(i) = 33 nM), 5-HT(3A) (K(i) = 3.7 nM), 5-HT(7) (K(i) = 19 nM), and noradrenergic β(1) (K(i) = 46 nM) receptors, and SERT (K(i) = 1.6 nM). Compound 5m displayed antagonistic properties at 5-HT(3A) and 5-HT(7) receptors, partial agonist properties at 5-HT(1B) receptors, agonistic properties at 5-HT(1A) receptors, and potent inhibition of SERT. In conscious rats, 5m significantly increased extracellular 5-HT levels in the brain after acute and 3 days of treatment. Following the 3-day treatment (5 or 10 (mg/kg)/day) SERT occupancies were only 43% and 57%, respectively. These characteristics indicate that 5m is a novel multimodal serotonergic compound, and 5m is currently in clinical development for major depressive disorder.
This experiment was designed to investigate the hypothesis that single small dosages of lithium (1.5 mEq/kg), the muscarinic agent pilocarpine (15 mg/kg) and spinal cord emulsion encourage perivascular infiltration of lymphocytes into the brain even when overt symptoms of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis are not apparent. The brains of rats that had received this small dosage of lithium and pilocarpine exhibited discernable infiltrations of lymphocytes within limbic tracts but no discernable neuronal loss. Although the brains of the rats that displayed overt seizures following larger dosages of lithium (3 mEq/kg) and pilocarpine (30 mg/kg) exhibited the usual pattern of neuronal loss within multiple thalamic and limbic structures and conspicuous foci of lymphocytic infiltration (particularly within the hippocampal formation) the correlation between the numbers of foci and the proportions of neuronal damage in these structures was not significant statistically. These results indicate that infiltrations of lymphocytes into brain parenchyma are not simple artifacts of the amount of neuronal damage and may be sensitive toxicological markers for subclinical interactions between drugs and immune responses.
From January 1983 through August 1988, 318 consecutive patients with refractory germ cell neoplasms were treated with ifosfamide-containing combination chemotherapy. The patients received ifosfamide at 1.2 gm/m2/day with cis-platin 20 mg/m2/day for 5 days and etoposide 75 mg/m2/day for 5 days or vinblastine 0.11 mg/kg on days 1 and 2 for each cycle. Of 277 evaluable patients, NAC was used as an uroprotector in the initial 86 patients while the latter 191 consecutive patients received mesna to reduce urothelial toxicity. Dosages of NAC was 2.0 gm po q 6 hr and for mesna 120 mg/m2 IV push prior to ifosfamide and then 1200 mg/m2/day as continuous infusion of 5 consecutive days. All patients received 3.0 liters of normal saline per day. The number of courses of chemotherapy given in the two groups were similar. Twenty-four of the 86 patients (27.9%) receiving NAC developed hematuria (13 patients - grade 1, 4 patients - grade 2, and 7 patients - grade 3 toxicity). While 8 out of 191 (4.2%) mesna patients developed hematuria (6 - grade 1 and 2 - grade 3) (p < 0.0001). The incidence of severity of renal toxicity was similar in the two groups. Ifosfamide dosage was reduced solely for urothelial toxicity in 11 patients receiving NAC compared with none of the patients receiving mesna (p < 0.0001). Chemotherapy response was similar in the two groups. In conclusion, mesna provides better urothelial protection from ifosfamide-induced toxicity than NAC and allows better maintenance of the drug dosage.
Amnesia produced by scopolamine and cycloheximide were reversed by morphine given 30 min before the test trial (pre-test), and pre-test morphine also facilitated the memory retrieval in the animals administered naloxone during the training trial. Similarly, pre-test scopolamine partially reversed the scopolamine-induced amnesia, but not significantly; and pre-test cycloheximide failed to reverse the cycloheximide-induced amnesia. These results suggest that the facilitation of memory retrieval by pre-test morphine might be the direct action of morphine rather than a state dependent effect.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive death of cortical and spinal motor neurons, for which there is no effective treatment. Using a cell-based assay for compounds capable of preventing motor neuron cell death in vitro, a collection of approximately 40,000 low-molecular-weight compounds was screened to identify potential small-molecule therapeutics. We report the identification of cholest-4-en-3-one, oxime (TRO19622) as a potential drug candidate for the treatment of ALS. In vitro, TRO19622 promoted motor neuron survival in the absence of trophic support in a dose-dependent manner. In vivo, TRO19622 rescued motor neurons from axotomy-induced cell death in neonatal rats and promoted nerve regeneration following sciatic nerve crush in mice. In SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice, a model of familial ALS, TRO19622 treatment improved motor performance, delayed the onset of the clinical disease, and extended survival. TRO19622 bound directly to two components of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore: the voltage-dependent anion channel and the translocator protein 18 kDa (or peripheral benzodiazepine receptor), suggesting a potential mechanism for its neuroprotective activity. TRO19622 may have therapeutic potential for ALS and other motor neuron and neurodegenerative diseases.
The posttranslational modification sumoylation can have multiple effects on its substrate proteins. We studied a patient with isolated cleft lip and palate and a balanced chromosomal translocation that disrupts the SUMO1 (small ubiquitin-related modifier) gene, resulting in haploinsufficiency. In mouse, we found that Sumo1 is expressed in the developing lip and palate and that a Sumo1 hypomorphic allele manifests an incompletely penetrant orofacial clefting phenotype. Products of several genes implicated in clefting are sumoylated, and the Sumo1 hypomorphic allele interacts genetically with a loss-of-function allele for one of these loci. Thus, sumoylation defines a network of genes important for palatogenesis.
How do drugs of abuse modify neural circuitry and thereby lead to addictive behaviour? As for many forms of experience-dependent plasticity, modifications in glutamatergic synaptic transmission have been suggested to be particularly important. Evidence of such changes in response to in vivo administration of drugs of abuse is lacking, however. Here we show that a single in vivo exposure to cocaine induces long-term potentiation of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole propionic acid)-receptor-mediated currents at excitatory synapses onto dopamine cells in the ventral tegmental area. Potentiation is still observed 5 but not 10 days after cocaine exposure and is blocked when an NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate) receptor antagonist is administered with cocaine. Furthermore, long-term potentiation at these synapses is occluded and long-term depression is enhanced by in vivo cocaine exposure. These results show that a prominent form of synaptic plasticity can be elicited by a single in vivo exposure to cocaine and therefore may be involved in the early stages of the development of drug addiction.
Pharmacological activation of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR2/3) inhibits cocaine self-administration and reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior, suggesting a possible use of mGluR2/3 agonists in the treatment of cocaine dependence. In this study, we investigated whether elevation of the endogenous mGluR2/3 ligand N-acetyl-aspartatylglutamate (NAAG) levels by the N-acetylated-alpha-linked-acidic dipeptidase inhibitor 2-(phosphonomethyl)pentanedioic acid (2-PMPA) attenuates cocaine self-administration and cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug seeking. N-acetylated-alpha-linked-acidic dipeptidase is a NAAG degradation enzyme that hydrolyzes NAAG to N-acetylaspartate and glutamate. Systemic administration of 2-PMPA (10-100 mg/kg, i.p.) inhibited intravenous self-administration maintained by low unit doses of cocaine and cocaine (but not sucrose)-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. Microinjections of 2-PMPA (3-5 microg/side) or NAAG (3-5 microg/side) into the nucleus accumbens (NAc), but not into the dorsal striatum, also inhibited cocaine-induced reinstatement, an effect that was blocked by intra-NAc injection of LY341495, a selective mGluR2/3 antagonist. In vivo microdialysis demonstrated that 2-PMPA (10-100 mg/kg, i.p.) produced a dose-dependent reduction in both extracellular dopamine (DA) and glutamate, an effect that was also blocked by LY341495. Finally, pre-treatment with 2-PMPA partially attenuated cocaine-enhanced extracellular NAc DA, while completely blocking cocaine-enhanced extracellular NAc glutamate in rats during reinstatement testing. Intra-NAc perfusion of LY341495 blocked 2-PMPA-induced reductions in cocaine-enhanced extracellular NAc glutamate, but not DA. These findings suggest that 2-PMPA is effective in attenuating cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior, likely by attenuating cocaine-induced increases in NAc DA and glutamate via pre-synaptic mGluR2/3s.
Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, the two main types of chronic inflammatory bowel disease, are multifactorial conditions of unknown aetiology. A susceptibility locus for Crohn's disease has been mapped to chromosome 16. Here we have used a positional-cloning strategy, based on linkage analysis followed by linkage disequilibrium mapping, to identify three independent associations for Crohn's disease: a frameshift variant and two missense variants of NOD2, encoding a member of the Apaf-1/Ced-4 superfamily of apoptosis regulators that is expressed in monocytes. These NOD2 variants alter the structure of either the leucine-rich repeat domain of the protein or the adjacent region. NOD2 activates nuclear factor NF-kB; this activating function is regulated by the carboxy-terminal leucine-rich repeat domain, which has an inhibitory role and also acts as an intracellular receptor for components of microbial pathogens. These observations suggest that the NOD2 gene product confers susceptibility to Crohn's disease by altering the recognition of these components and/or by over-activating NF-kB in monocytes, thus documenting a molecular model for the pathogenic mechanism of Crohn's disease that can now be further investigated.
Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract, which is thought to result from the effect of environmental factors in a genetically predisposed host. A gene location in the pericentromeric region of chromosome 16, IBD1, that contributes to susceptibility to Crohn's disease has been established through multiple linkage studies, but the specific gene(s) has not been identified. NOD2, a gene that encodes a protein with homology to plant disease resistance gene products is located in the peak region of linkage on chromosome 16 (ref. 7). Here we show, by using the transmission disequilibium test and case-control analysis, that a frameshift mutation caused by a cytosine insertion, 3020insC, which is expected to encode a truncated NOD2 protein, is associated with Crohn's disease. Wild-type NOD2 activates nuclear factor NF-kappaB, making it responsive to bacterial lipopolysaccharides; however, this induction was deficient in mutant NOD2. These results implicate NOD2 in susceptibility to Crohn's disease, and suggest a link between an innate immune response to bacterial components and development of disease.
Sustained pressure overload causes cardiac hypertrophy and the transition to heart failure. We show here that dietary supplementation with physiologically relevant levels of copper (Cu) reverses preestablished hypertrophic cardiomyopathy caused by pressure overload induced by ascending aortic constriction in a mouse model. The reversal occurs in the continued presence of pressure overload. Sustained pressure overload leads to decreases in cardiac Cu and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels along with suppression of myocardial angiogenesis. Cu supplementation replenishes cardiac Cu, increases VEGF, and promotes angiogenesis. Systemic administration of anti-VEGF antibody blunts Cu regression of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In cultured human cardiomyocytes, Cu chelation blocks insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1- or Cu-stimulated VEGF expression, which is relieved by addition of excess Cu. Both IGF-1 and Cu activate hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha and HIF-1alpha gene silencing blocks IGF-1- or Cu-stimulated VEGF expression. HIF-1alpha coimmunoprecipitates with a Cu chaperone for superoxide dismutase-1 (CCS), and gene silencing of CCS, but not superoxide dismutase-1, prevents IGF-1- or Cu-induced HIF-1alpha activation and VEGF expression. Therefore, dietary Cu supplementation improves the condition of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy at least in part through CCS-mediated HIF-1alpha activation of VEGF expression and angiogenesis.
A 23 years old woman, diagnosed as having manic-depressive psychosis, in treatment with lithium carbonate for eight months, developed a benign cranial hypertension secondary to the lithium. Suppression of the lithium gave place to the normalization of the pressure of the cerebrospinal liquid which increased again with the reintroduction of the drug. This rare complication of the lithium salts, has only been described in five other cases, all women, with a relative short time of treatment, non-toxic lithium serum levels and without precipitating factors.
