Diclofenac has been implicated in many cases of life-threatening immune hemolytic anemia (IHA). Nevertheless, confusion still occurs at the bedside and in the laboratory. Herein we report nine new patients and summarize all published cases (total, n = 61). Direct and indirect antiglobulin tests were performed according to standard procedures. Tests for drug-dependent antibodies were performed in the presence and absence of the target drugs and their ex vivo antigens (in the urine of patients treated with the drug). Diclofenac- and/or ex-vivo-antigen-dependent red cell antibodies were detected in all new cases. We identified nine new cases with diclofenac-dependent IHA. All cases were initially suspected to have an abdominal illness and/or autoimmune hemolytic anemia of warm type. Acute renal failure was present in three of the 9 new patients and in 20 of 37 published patients. Seven of the 46 patients died (15%), and clinical information is lacking in 15 other published cases. Diclofenac-dependent and/or ex-vivo-antigen-dependent IHA should always be considered when a patient on diclofenac develops acute renal failure and/or IHA.
Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological disorders in humans with a prevalence of 1% and a lifetime incidence of 3%. Several genes have been identified in rare autosomal dominant and severe sporadic forms of epilepsy, but the genetic cause is unknown in the vast majority of cases. Copy number variants (CNVs) are known to play an important role in the genetic etiology of many neurodevelopmental disorders, including intellectual disability (ID), autism, and schizophrenia. Genome-wide studies of copy number variation in epilepsy have not been performed. We have applied whole-genome oligonucleotide array comparative genomic hybridization to a cohort of 517 individuals with various idiopathic, non-lesional epilepsies. We detected one or more rare genic CNVs in 8.9% of affected individuals that are not present in 2,493 controls; five individuals had two rare CNVs. We identified CNVs in genes previously implicated in other neurodevelopmental disorders, including two deletions in AUTS2 and one deletion in CNTNAP2. Therefore, our findings indicate that rare CNVs are likely to contribute to a broad range of generalized and focal epilepsies. In addition, we find that 2.9% of patients carry deletions at 15q11.2, 15q13.3, or 16p13.11, genomic hotspots previously associated with ID, autism, or schizophrenia. In summary, our findings suggest common etiological factors for seemingly diverse diseases such as ID, autism, schizophrenia, and epilepsy.
Intracellular trafficking is critical for delivering molecules and organelles to their proper destinations to carry out normal cellular functions. Disruption of intracellular trafficking has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative disorders. In addition, a number of genes involved in vesicle/organelle trafficking are also essential for pigmentation, and loss of those genes is often associated with mouse coat-color dilution and human hypopigmentary disorders. Hence, we postulated that screening for mouse mutants with both neurological defects and coat-color dilution will help identify additional factors associated with intracellular trafficking in neuronal cells. In this study, we characterized a mouse mutant with a unique N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU)-induced mutation, named nur17. nur17 mutant mice exhibit both coat-color dilution and ataxia due to Purkinje cell degeneration in the cerebellum. By positional cloning, we identified that the nur17 mouse carries a T-to-C missense mutation in archain 1 (Arcn1) gene which encodes the delta subunit of the coat protein I (COPI) complex required for intracellular trafficking. Consistent with this function, we found that intracellular trafficking is disrupted in nur17 melanocytes. Moreover, the nur17 mutation leads to common characteristics of neurodegenerative disorders such as abnormal protein accumulation, ER stress, and neurofibrillary tangles. Our study documents for the first time the physiological consequences of the impairment of the ARCN1 function in the whole animal and demonstrates a direct association between ARCN1 and neurodegeneration.
Amiodarone was administered to 154 patients who had sustained, symptomatic ventricular tachycardia (VT) (n = 118) or a cardiac arrest (n = 36) and who were refractory to conventional antiarrhythmic drugs. The loading dose was 800 mg/day for 6 weeks and the maintenance dose was 600 mg/day. Sixty-nine percent of patients continued treatment with amiodarone and had no recurrence of symptomatic VT or ventricular fibrillation (VF) over a follow-up of 6 to 52 months (mean +/- standard deviation 14.2 +/- 8.2). Six percent of the patients had a nonfatal recurrence of VT and were successfully managed by continuing amiodarone at a higher dose or by the addition of a conventional antiarrhythmic drug. One or more adverse drug reactions occurred in 51% of patients. Adverse effects forced a reduction in the dose of amiodarone in 41% and discontinuation of amiodarone in 10% of patients. The most common symptomatic adverse reactions were tremor or ataxia (35%), nausea and anorexia (8%), visual halos or blurring (6%), thyroid function abnormalities (6%) and pulmonary interstitial infiltrates (5%). Although large-dose amiodarone is highly effective in the long-term treatment of VT or VF refractory to conventional antiarrhythmic drugs, it causes significant toxicity in approximately 50% of patients. However, when the dose is adjusted based on clinical response or the development of adverse effects, 75% of patients with VT or VF can be successfully managed with amiodarone.
In 6 of 24 courses of a disease a nephrotic syndrome appeared under the application of penicillamine. An acute renal failure with exitus letalis developed under the penicillamine therapy of a scleroderma. In the treatment of a mercurial poisoning by penicillamine the nephrotic syndrome increased to a proteinuria of 50 g/24 hours which receded after discontinuation of the remedy. In one group of patients with chronic pyelonephritis could be demonstrated that penicillamine in a primarily damaged kidney must not lead to a secondary glomerular lesion. These findings led to the conclusion that in the appearance of a proteinuria under penicillamine a strong observation of the renal function is necessary, if a continution of the therapy is given from vital indication.
Following operation for bladder papilloma and subcutaneous heparin therapy, a patient developed severe thrombopenia with biological signs of disseminated intravascular coagulation (D. I. C.). Heparin therapy was discontinued and the platelet count became normal, no further signs of (D. I. C.) being apparent. Histological examination of the excised tumor showed that it was non-malignant, the thrombopenia being directly related to the heparin treatment. A review of the published literature demonstrated variations in the frequency of this complication reported, with an apparently higher incidence in the USA than in France. This could possibly depend upon whether the heparin was prepared from pulmonary or intestinal tissue. The thrombopenia may be severe (platelet count less than 100,000/mm3) with resulting hemorrhages or more commonly thromboses, or moderate without clinical expression. The dose or mode of administration of the heparin does not appear to be a factor in the development of the thrombopenia, its mechanism not being clearly elucidated. From the practical point of view, a platelet count should be performed before heparin treatment, and this should be repeated if the treatment is continued for more than four days.
Marijuana is the most commonly abused illicit drug by pregnant women. Its major psychoactive constituent, Delta(9)-THC (Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol), crosses the placenta and accumulates in the foetus, potentially harming its development. In humans, marijuana use in early pregnancy is associated with miscarriage, a fetal alcohol-like syndrome, as well as learning disabilities, memory impairment, and ADHD in the offspring. Classical studies in the 1970 s have reached disparate conclusions as to the teratogenic effects of cannabinoids in animal models. Further, there is very little known about the immediate effects of Delta(9)-THC on early embryogenesis. We have used the chick embryo as a model in order to characterize the effects of a water-soluble Delta(9)-THC analogue, O-2545, on early development. Embryos were exposed to the drug (0.035 to 0.35 mg/ml) at gastrulation and assessed for morphological defects at stages equivalent to 9-14 somites. We report that O-2545 impairs the formation of brain, heart, somite, and spinal cord primordia. Shorter incubation times following exposure to the drug show that O-2545 interferes with the initial steps of head process and neural plate formation. Our results indicate that the administration of the cannabinoid O-2545 during early embryogenesis results in embryotoxic effects and serves to illuminate the risks of marijuana exposure during the second week of pregnancy, a time point at which most women are unaware of their pregnancies.
The ability of cocaine to produce lasting neural adaptations in mesocorticolimbic brain regions is thought to promote drug seeking and facilitate addiction in humans. The Ras-controlled Raf-MEK-ERK protein kinase signaling cascade has been implicated in the behavioral and neurobiological actions of cocaine in animals. However, these pharmacological studies have not been able to determine the specific role of the two predominant isoforms of ERK (ERK1 and ERK2) in these processes. We report here that deletion of the ERK1 isoform, which leads to increased ERK2 stimulus-dependent signaling, facilitates the development of cocaine-induced psychomotor sensitization and the acquisition of a cocaine conditioned place preference. Conversely, pharmacological blockade of ERK signaling attenuates the development of psychomotor sensitization to cocaine. Finally, cocaine-evoked gene expression in mesocorticolimbic brain regions is potentiated in ERK1-deficient mice. Thus, alterations in ERK signaling influence both the neurobiological impact of cocaine and its ability to produce enduring forms of drug experience-dependent behavioral plasticity. Our results suggest that enhanced ERK2 signaling following repeated drug exposure may facilitate the development of forms of cocaine-induced plasticity that contribute to addiction.
The interplay among pain, allergy and dysregulated inflammation promises to yield significant conceptual advances in immunology and chronic pain. Hapten-mediated contact hypersensitivity reactions are used to model skin allergies in rodents but have not been utilized to study associated changes in pain perception in the affected skin. Here we characterized changes in mechanical hyperalgesia in oxazolone-sensitized female mice challenged with single and repeated labiar skin exposure to oxazolone. Female mice were sensitized with topical oxazolone on their flanks and challenged 1-3 times on the labia. We then measured mechanical sensitivity of the vulvar region with an electronic pressure meter and evaluated expression of inflammatory genes, leukocyte influx and levels of innervation in the labiar tissue. Oxazolone-sensitized mice developed vulvar mechanical hyperalgesia after a single labiar oxazolone challenge. Hyperalgesia lasted up to 24 hours along with local influx of neutrophils, upregulation of inflammatory cytokine gene expression, and increased density of cutaneous labiar nerve fibers. Three daily oxazolone challenges produced vulvar mechanical hyperalgesic responses and increases in nerve density that were detectable up to 5 days post-challenge even after overt inflammation resolved. This persistent vulvar hyperalgesia is resonant with vulvodynia, an understudied chronic pain condition that is remarkably prevalent in 18-60 year-old women. An elevated risk for vulvodynia has been associated with a history of environmental allergies. Our pre-clinical model can be readily adapted to regimens of chronic exposures and long-term assessment of vulvar pain with and without concurrent inflammation to improve our understanding of mechanisms underlying subsets of vulvodynia and to develop new therapeutics for this condition.
Workers engaged in manufacture and use of dynamite experience acute toxic reactions with headache during work, weakness at the end of the working day, tachycardia and hypotension. Sudden death has been reported in dynamite workers after 2-4 days freedom of exposure, possibly due to rebound vasoconstriction resulting in acute hypertension or myocardial ischemia. In the present study 12 volunteers were examined before and during GTN exposure. Most of them experienced headache during work, and a slight but significant rise in heart rate and a fall in systolic blood pressure was found. In serial blood samples from cubital vein very high concentrations of GTN were detected. These high values can be explained by local absorption through the skin of the hand and the lower arm, and do not reflect the mixed venous plasma concentrations. Great interindividual variations were found in GTN plasma concentrations during work, probably indicating different working habits.
A double-blind crossover study was designed to compare the antihypertensive and hypokalaemic effects of chlorthalidone administered at 10h00 and 22h00 to sixteen patients with primary hypertension. Blood pressure values during chlorthalidone treatment at 10h00 did not differ significantly from those at 22h00. Significant correlation (r = 0.8987) was seen, however, only between the patients' blood pressure during the placebo period and the fall in blood pressure obtained by administration of chlorthalidone at 22h00. The serum potassium level fell significantly (p less than 0.01) during morning treatment while a slight, insignificant fall was found during evening treatment. No correlation was seen between decrease in blood pressure and decrease in serum potassium level.
Drug-induced myocardial infarction is not a common phenomenon and the underlying mechanism has been related with the coronary artery spasm in the majority of cases. It is mainly related to illicit substances such as cocaine, ecstasy, LSD and amphetamine. According to the findings in the literature, it is most likely that myocardial ischemia due to amphetamine abuse is a result of combined mechanisms which include coronary artery vasospasm, and in lesser extent thrombus formation or direct myocardial toxicity. Diazepam is also usually found as a substance of abuse. Recent findings indicate that diazepam exerts an inhibitory activity on different isoforms of the enzyme cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase, which can be found in the heart muscle and also show that diazepam potentate the positive inotropic effect of both noradrenaline and adrenaline, which subsequently leads to increase in myocardial contractility. We propose that dual intoxication with amphetamine and benzodiazepine potentate their effects on cardiac tissue and coronary arteries which results in larger myocardial injury.
Secreted proteins from cancer cells may be potential serologic biomarkers of cancer. It's important to globally identify secreted proteins of cancer cells. This study was to identify secreted proteins of lung cancer cells.
Proteins in the conditioned medium of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell line A549 was collected and the proteome analysis was subsequently performed. Specific protein spots in A549 cells were identified by peptide mass fingerprints using mass spectrometry and through searching database. The expression of identified secreted proteins was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in 15 specimens of NSCLC tissue and paired distant lung tissue. Manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) activity in serum and conditioned medium was detected by spectrophotometry.
Fourteen secreted proteins were identified, which included peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase A (PPIA), Mn-SOD, peroxiredoxin 1 (PDX1), phosphatidylethanolamine binding protein (PEBP), glutathione S-transferase P (GSTP1-1), glucose-dependent insulinotropic protein receptor (GIPR), ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase isozyme L1 (PGP9.5), alpha enolase (ENO1), dihydrodiol dehydrogenase (DDH), phosphoglycerate mutase 1 (PGAM1), galectin-1 (GAL1). PPIA, DDH, PGAM1, PDX1, PGP9.5, ENO1, and PEBP were overexpressed in cancer tissues. Higher level of Mn-SOD activity was detected in conditioned medium than in control. Serum Mn-SOD activity was significantly higher in NSCLC patients than in healthy controls (P<0.01).
Multiple secreted proteins of A549 cells were identified in this study and the overexpression of ENO1 and PEBP in NSCLC was revealed for the first time. Mn-SOD is secreted serologic marker of NSCLC. The results presented here would provide clues to identify new serologic biomarkers of NSCLC.
The case history of a woman with intrahepatic cholestasis is described. She had taken phenylbutazone during 1 month for painful swollen knees. A liver biopsy obtained at surgical exploration revealed pericentral cholestasis and infiltration of the portal spaces with lymphocytes and eosinophilic leucocytes, suggesting a drug reaction. Clinical and biochemical parameters returned to normal within 2 months. A provocation test with a single dose of phenylbutazone was performed 6 months after her recovery. On the 2nd day, a marked increase of serum transaminases and alkaline phosphatase was observed. Transaminases became normal within several days, whereas alkaline phosphatase remained elevated during a month. From these data we conclude that phenylbutazone can cause cholestatic jaundice probably as a result of a hypersensitivity reaction.
To carry out prenatal diagnosis for a glycogen storage disease type II (GSD II ) affected family.
The acid-α -glucosidase (GAA) activity was measured in whole leukocytes and cultured amniocytes with 4-methylumbelliferyl-α -D-glucopyranoside as substrate and with acarbose as inhibitor. The coding regions of GAA gene were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and analyzed by direct DNA sequencing.
The proband and the fetus had low GAA activity (12.3% and 1.1% of the average normal range, respectively). Mutation analysis of the GAA gene revealed a novel nonsense mutation p.W738X and a reported nonsense mutation p.E888X in both the proband and the fetus; the reported pseudodeficiency allele c.[1726G to A: 2065G to A] was found in the proband, the mother and the fetus.
The proband and the fetus were both GSD II affected. A combination of GAA activity analysis and mutation analysis is efficient for the prenatal diagnosis of GSD II. Mutation analysis should be a routine method in the prenatal diagnosis of GSD II in Asian population, where pseudodeficiency allele can cause low GAA activity in normal individuals which is relatively common in Asian.
Case report.
To describe the rare case of a patient presenting with rhabdomyolysis accompanied by spontaneous spinal subdural hematoma (SDH) and subarachnoid hematoma (SAH), presumably caused by amphetamine abuse.
Spontaneous SDH accompanied by SAH is an extremely rare condition. To date, only one case describing spinal SAH related to amphetamine abuse has been reported.
A 41-year-old man who had a history of amphetamine abuse presented with severe frank pain and lower limb numbness with incomplete paraplegia. Urinary incontinence was subsequently noted. Thoracic-spine magnetic resonance imaging revealed SDHs in the dorsal aspect of the middle thoracic level and along the anterior part of the thecal sac, as well as SAH in the T11-T12 level. Diffuse paraspinal hyperintensity was detected, indicating rhabdomyolysis (creatine phosphokinase levels were also abnormally elevated).
The patient responded well to decompression surgical treatment and has since then exhibited no neurologic deficits.
We have described a novel case of spinal SDH with SAH. The possible underlying cause of amphetamine abuse is discussed.
To evaluate the effects of phenobarbital (PB) and thiourea (TU), alone or in combination, on proliferative lesions of the liver, thyroid and lung, male F344 rats initiated with 2000 mg/kg body weight N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl) nitrosamine (DHPN) were given diet and/or drinking water containing 0% PB/TU (group 1), 1000 ppm PB (group 2), 0.1% TU (group 3) and 500 ppm PB and 0.05% TU (group 4), from weeks 2 to 20 for 19 weeks. Group 4 showed remarkable increases in the number of hepatocellular altered foci per animal, the values being superior to the averages of groups 2 and 3. The number of thyroid proliferative lesions per animal was highest in group 3 and lowest in group 2. Lung proliferative lesions were induced in all groups, but no modifying influence on their development was evident in the combined group. The present results indicate that combined administration of PB and TU exerts synergistic enhancing effects on hepatocarcinogenesis.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignancies in Asia. HCC is often resistant to chemotherapy and the mechanism remains unclear. Mitochondrion-mediated pathway is critical in hepatocyte apoptosis, which suggests Bcl-2 family genes may play a role in the regulation of chemotherapy in HCC. In the present study, we investigated the role of BH3 domain-only protein Bid in HCC tissues, HCC-derived cell lines and how the expression of Bid was related to chemotherapeutic agent-induced apoptosis. Bid was differently expressed in HCC tissues and hepatoma cell lines. Hep3B, a Bid-abundant HCC cell line, was more sensitive to drug-induced cytotoxicity than PLC/PRF/5, a Bid-insufficient HCC cell line. The level of caspase activity induced by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was higher in Hep3B than in PLC/PRF/5 and a significant increase in the activity occurred at a rather late stage, after 48 h of the treatment. Similar to the activation of caspase, Bid cleavage and activation was only significant at 72 h after the treatment. Overexpression of Bid or tBid sensitized HCC cells to 5-FU and doxorubicin (Dox) treatments. We further demonstrated that such a sensitive effect could be offset by Bcl-xL, as Bid- or tBid-induced apoptosis was completely blocked by the over-expression of Bcl-xL. These results indicate the level of Bid expression is closely associated with the sensitivity of HCC cells to chemotherapeutic drugs, suggesting that Bid plays an important role in HCC management.
Recent advances in the pharmacotherapy of obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) have led to a significant reduction in suffering and a return to productive living for many patients previously considered refractory to treatment. However, OCD can be a chronic disorder that significantly detracts from an individual's well-being. Potent inhibitors of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) reuptake have emerged as the first-line choice in the pharmacotherapy of OCD. These members of the therapeutic armamentarium for OCD, while associated with acute symptomatic improvement, have not been extensively studied during continuation therapy. In this study, 274 primary OCD subjects completed a 13-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of three fixed doses of fluoxetine. Treatment responders (n = 76) continued their blinded treatment, whereas acute fixed-dose nonresponders began an open-label trial on their maximally tolerated dose (up to 80 mg daily) for 24 weeks. Responders maintained their acute treatment gains; in addition, all three doses of fluoxetine (20, 40, and 60 mg) were associated with further Y-BOCS improvement over the 24-week extension. Fluoxetine 60 mg achieved a statistically significantly greater reduction in Y-BOCS than placebo during the continuation. Open-label study subjects (n = 198) benefited from dose titration, with two thirds achieving a clinical response during the subsequent 24 weeks. Fluoxetine was well tolerated during both 24-week continuation periods. Only 4 (5.7%) of 70 subjects treated with fluoxetine in the responder extension terminated early due to an adverse event. The open-label extension, fluoxetine (to 80 mg), also demonstrated a low rate of adverse events; the profile of events was consistent with the extensive fluoxetine experience in other clinical populations. In conclusion, fluoxetine continuation treatment in OCD was associated with a maintained/improved symptomatic profile in most cases. Further dose titration improved the outcome of many acute, fixed-dose nonresponders. Continuation treatment with fluoxetine appeared to be well tolerated with few late-emergent adverse events.
The effects of estrogens on pain perception remain controversial. In animal models, both beneficial and detrimental effects of non-selective estrogens have been reported. ERb-131 a non-steroidal estrogen receptor beta ligand was evaluated in several pain animal models involving nerve injury or sensitization. Using functional and binding assays, ERb-131 was characterized as a potent and selective estrogen receptor beta agonist. In vivo, ERb-131 was devoid of estrogen receptor alpha activity as assessed in a rat uterotrophic assay. ERb-131 alleviated tactile hyperalgesia induced by capsaicin, and reversed tactile allodynia caused by spinal nerve ligation and various chemical insults. Moreover, ERb-131 did not influence the pain threshold of normal healthy animals. Thus, estrogen receptor beta agonism is a critical effector in attenuating a broad range of anti-nociceptive states.
After the report of the Cardiac Arrhythmia Suppression Trial, a tabular framework of the Sicilian Gambit has been proposed to display actions of antiarrhythmic drugs on ion channels and receptors and to provide more rational pharmacotherapy of arrhythmias. However, because effects of antiarrhythmic drugs on If have not been thoroughly examined, we used patch clamp techniques to determine the effects of various antiarrhythmic drugs on the HCN (hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated) channel currents. HCN4 channels, a dominant isoform of HCN channels in the heart, were expressed in HEK293 cells. Amiodarone and bepridil potently inhibited the HCN4 channel current with IC50 values of 4.5 and 4.9 microM, respectively, which were close to their therapeutic concentrations. The inhibitory effects of quinidine, disopyramide, cibenzoline, lidocaine, mexiletine, aprindine, propafenone, flecainide, propranolol, and verapamil on the HCN4 channel current were weak in their therapeutic concentrations, with IC50 values of 78.3, 249, 46.8, 276, 309, 43.7, 14.3, 1700, 50.5, and 44.9 microM, respectively, suggesting that the inhibitory effects on If would be clinically small. D,L-Sotalol hardly affected the HCN4 channel current. Information about the HCN4-channel effects of many antiarrhythmic drugs may be useful for determining the appropriate drug for treatment of various arrhythmias while minimizing adverse effects.
Sequential feeding of various dose levels of phenobarbital (PB) after diethylnitrosamine (DENA) administration revealed that the enhancing effect of PB on hepatocarcinogenesis was dose-dependent. The highest dose level of PB, 0.2% in the diet, greatly enhanced the formation of tumors larger than 5mm in diameter. Tumors obtained in the 0.2% PB feeding group were more numerous and larger in size than those in th 0.01, 0.05, and 0.1% PB feeding groups. although it took longer, the enhancing effect of 0.01% PB feeding was evident when DENA had been administered for 3 weeks, while the same dose level of PB clearly enhanced hepatocarcinogenesis when the carcinogen had been given for 5 weeks.
Incorporation of [3H]arachidonic acid (AA) into resting platelets was studied in samples from schizophrenic patients before and after haloperidol withdrawal, and from normal subjects. Eicosanoid biosynthesis was subsequently evaluated in prelabeled platelets by sequential events of thrombin activation. The total incorporation of [3H]AA in drug-free patients was significantly lower than in the same individuals during haloperidol treatment as well as in normal volunteers. No significant difference of [3H]AA incorporation was demonstrated between relapsed and nonrelapsed drug-free patients. The majority of 3H-labeled lipids were found in platelet phospholipids, and < 10% of incorporated lipids were found in free AA, diacylglycerol (DAG), triacylglycerol, and hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (HETE) of normal resting platelets. After thrombin activation, however, there was an increased 3H-labeling in 12-HETE, 12-hydroxyheptadecatrienoic acid, and thromboxane B2. The thrombin-induced formation of eicosanoids was found to be significantly higher in haloperidol-treated patients than in normal volunteers. This increased formation of eicosanoids appeared to be normalized after haloperidol withdrawal. In addition, both haloperidol-treated and drug-free patients showed increased 3H-labeling in thrombin-induced DAG compared with normal volunteers. Such an increase in the second messenger formation may be due, at least in part, to an increased turnover of membrane phosphoinositides via phospholipase C reaction. The present data support our previous findings demonstrating altered membrane dynamics in schizophrenia.
To report on pediatric patients with absence epilepsy who experienced absence seizure aggravation while receiving valproic acid (VPA).
The charts of all children from four pediatric epilepsy clinics receiving VPA for absence epilepsy were reviewed. Patients were evaluated and followed up between 1994 and 2000.
Eight cases (six boys) of absence seizure aggravation were detected. Mean age at seizure onset was 5.8 years (range, 3-12 years). Six patients had simple absence seizures, one had myoclonic absences, and one had absences with automatisms. The electroencephalogram in all cases depicted generalized 3-Hz spike-and-wave activities. All eight patients experienced an increase in the frequency of absence seizures within days of VPA introduction. Dose increments resulted in further seizure aggravation. Serum levels of VPA were within therapeutic range in all patients. No case was attributed to VPA-induced encephalopathy. All patients improved on VPA discontinuation. In five children, VPA was reintroduced, resulting in further seizure aggravation.
VPA can occasionally provoke absence seizure aggravation in patients with absence epilepsy.
Ibuprofen and tolmetin are popular non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Previous animal studies taken with single daily doses showed their good prenatal tolerability. However, since both cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors have a short half-life, the current report presents drug developmental effects after triple daily doses administration, as they are used in human.
Drugs were separately, orally dosed to pregnant rats triple daily 8 hr apart from day 8 to 21 (GD=1-plug day). The total daily doses were set at 25.5, 255.0, and 600.0 mg/kg for ibuprofen and 25.5, 255.0, and 2550.0 mg/kg for tolmetin. Fetuses were delivered on GD 21 and routinely examined. Comprehensive clinical and developmental measurements were done.
Maternal toxicity and intrauterine growth retardation were found in groups exposed to the highest doses of both drugs. An increase of external variations was reported in groups exposed to the middle and highest dose of ibuprofen and to the highest dose of tolmetin. Skeletal variations were significantly different only in litters treated with the highest doses of the drugs. Pooled statistical analysis showed a higher incidence of midline and ventricular septal (VSD) defect in rat fetuses exposed to COX inhibitors when compared with historical control data. For ibuprofen, the influence on VSD was similar to aspirin.
Both COX inhibitors were toxic to dams in the highest doses evaluated, which caused a significantly greater incidence of intrauterine growth retardation and developmental variations.
Clarithromycin is a relatively new antibiotic with many applications. Its frequent use explains why side-effects previously reported seldom now become clear. Two patients, a man aged 74 and a woman aged 56 years, developed delirium after treatment with clarithromycin as part of eradication treatment of Helicobacter pylori, presumably as a result of an ideosyncratic reaction to the clarithromycin. Preclinical and clinical investigations did not reveal side effects on the central nervous system. By now the appearance of a delirium presumably related to the use of clarithromycin has been described in several patients. Furthermore some patients had a positive rechallenge. Finally, 17 reports on psychiatric side effects, of which 7 were delirium, after the use of clarithromycin reached the Netherlands Pharmacovigilance Foundation (Lareb). This combination of facts makes a causal relationship probable.
Gestational exposure to the estrogenic endocrine disruptor methoxychlor (MXC) disrupts the female reproductive system at the molecular, physiological, and behavioral levels in adulthood. The current study addressed whether perinatal exposure to endocrine disruptors re-programs expression of a suite of genes expressed in the hypothalamus that control reproductive function and related these molecular changes to premature reproductive aging. Fischer rats were exposed daily for 12 consecutive days to vehicle (dimethylsulfoxide), estradiol benzoate (EB) (1 mg/kg), and MXC (low dose, 20 μg/kg or high dose, 100 mg/kg), beginning on embryonic d 19 through postnatal d 7. The perinatally exposed females were aged to 16-17 months and monitored for reproductive senescence. After euthanasia, hypothalamic regions [preoptic area (POA) and medial basal hypothalamus] were dissected for real-time PCR of gene expression or pyrosequencing to assess DNA methylation of the Esr1 gene. Using a 48-gene PCR platform, two genes (Kiss1 and Esr1) were significantly different in the POA of endocrine-disrupting chemical-exposed rats compared with vehicle-exposed rats after Bonferroni correction. Fifteen POA genes were up-regulated by at least 50% in EB or high-dose MXC compared with vehicle. To understand the epigenetic basis of the increased Esr1 gene expression, we performed bisulfite conversion and pyrosequencing of the Esr1 promoter. EB-treated rats had significantly higher percentage of methylation at three CpG sites in the Esr1 promoter compared with control rats. Together with these molecular effects, perinatal MXC and EB altered estrous cyclicity and advanced reproductive senescence. Thus, early life exposure to endocrine disruptors has lifelong effects on neuroendocrine gene expression and DNA methylation, together with causing the advancement of reproductive senescence.
