In patients treated with EMB, disturbances in colour vision may be the first and only symptoms of the onset of toxic damage to the optic nerves. Owing to its sensitivity, the Farnsworth 100-Hue test is of great value in the ophthalmic control examinations. Moreover, it permits observation of the dynamics of the toxic process. The three reported cases of damage to the optic nerves confirm the great importance of colour vision examinations, as regards the detection of the complications of EMB treatment.
This case report describes fulminant hepatic failure in a 53-year-old female caused by inadvertent rechallenging with diclofenac, treated by orthotopic liver transplantation. The case also illustrates the hazards of using both generic and non-generic drug prescribing, with drugs that are known to be toxic. The literature on non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and hepatoxicity is reviewed.
The thiocarbamate drug disulfiram has been used for decades in the treatment of alcohol abuse. Disulfiram induces apoptosis in a number of tumor cell lines and was recently by us proposed to act as a 26S proteasome inhibitor. In this work we characterized disulfiram in vitro with regard to tumor-type specificity, possible mechanisms of action and drug resistance and cell death in human tumor cell lines and in 78 samples of tumor cells from patients using the fluorometric microculture cytotoxicity assay and the automated fluorescence-imaging microscope ArrayScan((R)). Disulfiram induced cytotoxicity in a biphasic pattern in both cell lines and patient tumor cells. Disulfiram induced apoptosis as measured by cell membrane permeability, nuclear fragmentation/condensation and caspase-3/7 activation using high content screening assays. For many of the cell lines tested disulfiram was active in sub-micromolar concentrations. When comparing the logIC(50) patterns with other cytotoxic agents, disulfiram showed low correlation (R<0.5) with all drugs except lactacystin (R=0.69), a known proteasome inhibitor, indicating that the two substances may share mechanistic pathways. Disulfiram was more active in hematological than in solid tumor samples, but substantial activity was observed in carcinomas of the ovary and the breast and in non-small cell lung cancer. Disulfiram also displayed higher cytotoxic effect in cells from chronic lymphocytic leukemia than in normal lymphocytes (p<0.05), which may indicate some tumor selectivity. These results together with large clinical experience and relatively mild side effects encourage clinical studies of disulfiram as an anti-cancer agent.
The aim of this study was to test our hypothesis that priming with rocuronium would prevent muscle rigidity and difficult ventilation due to remifentanil administration.
One hundred patients, American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) status I or II, were recruited into the study, and randomly allocated to one of four protocols (n = 25 each). Remifentanil was administered at 0.2 microg.kg(-1).min(-1) in group A and at 0.7 microg.kg(-1).min(-1) in groups B, C, and D. Priming with vecuronium (0.02 mg.kg(-1)) or rocuronium (0.06 mg.kg(-1)) was performed at the same time as the infusion of remifentanil in groups C and D, respectively. Anesthesia was induced with 1 mg.kg(-1)propofol 2 min after the start of remifentanil infusion. After the patient had lost consciousness, the anesthesiologist performed mask ventilation, and watched for the presence of muscle rigidity. Ventilation and rigidity were evaluated using a scoring system.
Of the 100 patients, 9 were excluded; the number of patients in group A was 24, while groups B and D had 22 patients each, and group C had 23 patients. A lower dose of remifentanil (group A) or priming with vecuronium or rocuronium (groups C, D) significantly reduced the incidence of some difficulty with ventilation (P = 0.0010, P = 0.0053, and P = 0.021, respectively, vs group B). Of the patients in group B, 10 (45.5%) developed some difficulty with ventilation, and ventilation was impossible in 2 of them. On the other hand, 1 (4.1%) of the patients in group A, 2 (8.7%) in group C, and 3 (13.6%) in group D developed some difficulty with ventilation.
The present study showed that priming with rocuronium or vecuronium reduced the incidence of difficult ventilation by avoiding the muscle rigidity caused by remifentanil.
Risperidone, a widely used atypical and potent neuroleptic drug, is assumed to induce fewer hepatic side-effects than phenothiazine anti-psychotics. Recently, we observed a case of risperidone-induced cholestatic hepatotoxicity. A 37-year-old male developed a rapid increase in liver enzymes and cholestatic parameters after starting treatment with risperidone for paranoid psychosis. Work-up for other potential aetiologies was negative. The results of a percutaneous liver biopsy were consistent with drug-induced liver injury and cholestasis. Over the course of one month after the discontinuance of all anti-psychotic agents, the liver function test results returned to near-normal values. This observation supports the need to monitor cholestatic parameters in addition to liver function enzymes during initiation and the first weeks of risperidone intake.
Over the last few years, cases of movement disorders induced by flunarizine and cinnarizine have been increasingly reported. We describe a series of 101 patients, whose ages ranged from 37 to 84 years (mean 69.1), developing abnormal movements frequently associated with depression, secondary to treatment with either or both drugs. Symptoms closely resembled those induced by neuroleptic drugs and remitted on drug discontinuance in all but five cases after 5-22 months' follow-up. Whether or not such undesirable side effects are attributable to calcium antagonism and/or dopamine receptor blockade, long-term treatment with flunarizine or cinnarizine should be discouraged, particularly in the elderly.
The authors report the clinical course and fatal outcome of a case of acute bone marrow aplasia, after intravenous administration of deferoxamine (desferrioxamine) to a 16-year-old girl with homozygous beta-thalassaemia. The type of aplasia was mainly that of a megakaryocytic thrombocytopenia, but the 2 other haemopoetic series were also involved. The absence of any other toxic factors and the quite rapid onset of the bone marrow failure after this type of treatment strongly suggest that intravenous administration of high doses of deferoxamine was the potential toxic factor.
Tamoxifen has become one of the most widely used drugs in the treatment of breast cancer, and concerns about its long-term safety and efficacy are being raised. Investigations in rats have suggested an association between the administration of tamoxifen and the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. However, no studies to date have demonstrated an increased incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma in women treated with tamoxifen. In the case reported, a 56-year-old woman presented with hepatocellular tumours after 6 years of tamoxifen therapy for breast cancer. The patient had no other risk factors for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. She underwent successful resection of the lesions, and subsequent pathological studies confirmed hepatocellular carcinoma with a trabecular growth pattern similar to the histologic pattern seen in tamoxifen-induced hepatocellular carcinoma occurring in rat models.
Amphotericin B is widely used as antifungal drug. Side effects include anemia. A variety of drugs and diseases associated with anemia has recently been shown to trigger suicidal erythrocyte death or eryptosis, i.e. cell membrane scrambling and cell shrinkage. Eryptosis may be triggered by increased cytosolic Ca2+ activity and by lack of ATP. The present study explored whether amphotericin B stimulates eryptosis. Cell membrane scrambling was estimated from annexin V-binding to phosphatidylserine exposed at the cell surface, cell shrinkage from forward scatter in FACS analysis, cytosolic Ca2+ activity from Fluo3 fluorescence and the cytosolic ATP concentration from a luciferase-based assay. Exposure to amphotericin B (0.1-1 microg/ml) within 48 hours significantly increased annexin V-binding, decreased forward scatter, increased cytosolic Ca2+ activity and decreased cytosolic ATP content. In conclusion, amphotericin B stimulates suicidal cell death of erythrocytes, which may in turn contribute to the clearance of circulating erythrocytes and thus to anemia.
Beta-lactams active against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) must resist penicillinase hydrolysis and bind penicillin-binding protein 2A (PBP 2A). Cefamandole might share these properties. When tested against 2 isogenic pairs of MRSA that produced or did not produce penicillinase, MICs of cefamandole (8-32 mg/L) were not affected by penicillinase, and cefamandole had a > or =40 times greater PBP 2A affinity than did methicillin. In rats, constant serum levels of 100 mg/L cefamandole successfully treated experimental endocarditis due to penicillinase-negative isolates but failed against penicillinase-producing organisms. This suggested that penicillinase produced in infected vegetations might hydrolyze the drug. Indeed, cefamandole was slowly degraded by penicillinase in vitro. Moreover, its efficacy was restored by combination with sulbactam in vivo. Cefamandole also uniformly prevented MRSA endocarditis in prophylaxis experiments, a setting in which bacteria were not yet clustered in the vegetations. Thus, while cefamandole treatment was limited by penicillinase, the drug was still successful for prophylaxis of experimental MRSA endocarditis.
A report is given on a 73-year-old patient in whom a urothelial carcinoma of the urinary bladder developed 11 years after a cyclophosphamide therapy. Taking the international literature into account, possible developmental mechanisms are discussed. Patients who have undergone cyclophosphamide therapy should be subject to constant urological observation as a high-risk group.
We report on two epileptic patients who developed acute psychosis after the use of topiramate (TPM). One patient exhibited severe psychomotor agitation, heteroaggressiveness, auditory and visual hallucinations as well as severe paranoid and mystic delusions. The other patient had psychomotor agitation, depersonalization, derealization, severe anxiety and deluded that he was losing his memory. Both patients had to be taken to the casualty room. After interruption of TPM in one patient and reduction of dose in the other, a full remission of the psychotic symptoms was obtained without the need of antipsychotic drugs. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of development of acute psychotic symptoms in patients undergoing TPM treatment.
Relative frequencies of diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-initiated foci of altered hepatocytes appearing in response to promotion by either dietary phenobarbital or a topically applied coal-derived organic mixture (CDM) were investigated in male and female rats. The focus population was examined for two histochemical markers, elevated gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase [GG(+)] and iron exclusion [FE(-)], giving rise to 3 detectable focus phenotypes, i.e., GG(+) foci, FE(-) foci, and GG(+)/(FE(-) foci. Frequencies of the 3 phenotypes were quantitated through the use of serial frozen sectioning and computer-assisted image analysis. In agreement with our prior observations, cutaneous exposure to CDM or dietary phenobarbital promoted the expression of DEN-initiated foci. However, the current data showed that this promoting effect of CDM occurred only in females and was restricted to foci with the GG(+)/FE(-) phenotype. Dietary phenobarbital, on the other hand, promoted both the GG(+) and GG(+)/FE(-) phenotypes and was effective in both males and females, although a sex-related differential in the promoting efficiency of phenobarbital was also observed. The pronounced heterogeneity in the responses of the 3 focus phenotypes suggests that each phenotype is the consequence of a specific type of genomic alteration with a specific capacity to undergo phenotypic expression in response to a given promoting stimulus.
Octreotide is a potent agonist of somatostatin that lowers the serum level of growth hormone (GH), and reduces the size of somatotropinomas. However, the detailed mechanism of shrinkage of this tumour is not known. We, therefore, evaluated 11 patients with somatotropinomas who were treated with octreotide 300 micrograms/day for 2-5 weeks to observe the morphological changes in the tumour using electron microscopy and the immunocytochemical study of apoptosis using polyclonal anti-single stranded DNA. Findings were compared with those obtained with bromocriptine treatment (10 mg/day, 2 weeks) of 5 patients with somatotropinomas, and 11 patients who received no preoperative treatment (control group). The octreotide group showed neither increase in stromal tissue nor cell death. The size of tumour cells appeared to be slightly reduced. No typical apoptotic bodies were seen on the electron micrographs. The apoptotic index in the octreotide group (0.40 +/- 0.60%; mean +/- SD) resembled that in the control group (0.81 +/- 0.79%). In contrast, the bromocriptine group showed some cell death and an increase in stromal tissue. The bromocriptine group also showed the apoptotic index which (20.1 +/- 14.8%) was significantly higher than that of the control group (0.81 +/- 0.79%). Thus, octreotide did not induce apoptosis in somatotropinomas despite the presence of tumour shrinkage. Because of the lack of fibrosis observed in the octreotide-treated tumours, the preoperative administration of octreotide may help to improve the outcome of the transsphenoidal operation.
Studies on the electrolyte metabolism and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system were made in a 47-year-old female patient with factitious Bartter's syndrome induced by surreptitious use of furosemide. The diagnosis was confirmed later by detection of the diuretic in the urine. In metabolic studies patient exhibited abnormalities similar to those reported in Bartter's syndrome; viz, hypokalemic alkalosis, blunted response to exogenous angiotensin II, which reverted to normal by volume expansion with an albumin solution, and diminished fractional free water clearance per fractional distal sodium delivery. The above data, along with the known pharmacological effects of furosemide, suggest that the abnormality in Na+ or Cl- reabsorption in the ascending limb of Henle's loop is a primary cause of Bartter's syndrome.
The aim of the present analysis was to calculate the cost-effectiveness of metoprolol versus thiazide diuretics in middle-aged men with mild to moderate uncomplicated hypertension. The analysis was based on the Metoprolol Atherosclerosis Prevention in Hypertensives (MAPHY) study, a randomised trial which showed a significantly lower risk for coronary events in patients taking metoprolol than in patients on thiazide diuretics. The main analysis was based on Swedish costs, but the costs were also varied in a special sensitivity analysis. Metoprolol was shown to be cost-saving compared with thiazide diuretics when both direct and indirect costs of morbidity were included. When only direct costs were included, the cost per life-year gained was $US2400. The result of the present analysis suggests that metoprolol is to be preferred to thiazide diuretics from a cost-effectiveness standpoint in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension in middle-aged men. These findings regarding cost-effectiveness should, however, not be extrapolated to patient groups not included in the MAPHY trial.
Celecoxib and rofecoxib are two relatively new nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that selectively inhibit the cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) isoenzyme at therapeutic concentrations. The nephrotoxic potential of selective COX-2 inhibitors has not been clearly established. This study was conducted in order to understand the association between acute renal failure and the two COX-2 inhibitors celecoxib and rofecoxib.
A search was performed in the US Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Adverse Event Reporting System (AERS) to identify cases of renal failure submitted to the FDA. A MEDLINE search of the English language literature was also performed to identify published cases of renal failure associated with celecoxib and rofecoxib.
One hundred twenty-two and 142 domestic US cases of celecoxib and rofecoxib-associated renal failure, respectively, were identified in the AERS database. The literature search identified 19 cases of acute renal impairment in association with celecoxib and rofecoxib. In addition, drug regulatory authorities in the UK, Canada, and Australia have received about 50 reports of renal failure with celecoxib and rofecoxib. Descriptive statistics of the AERS cases have been summarised in this report.
Data from AERS and published case reports suggest that use of both these drugs is associated with renal effects similar to that of conventional nonselective NSAIDs. Physicians should be aware that serious or life-threatening renal failure has been reported in patients with normal or impaired renal function after short-term therapy with celecoxib and rofecoxib. Patients at greatest risk for renal injury are those with pre-existing renal impairment, heart failure, liver dysfunction, those taking diuretics and/or ACE inhibitors, and the elderly. Kidney function should be monitored closely for any signs of potential renal injuries soon after initiating treatment with these agents, especially in high-risk populations. In addition, healthcare practitioners should adequately warn patients of the signs and symptoms of serious renal toxicity, and of the need for them to see their physician promptly if they occur. Celecoxib and rofecoxib are not recommended for use in patients with advanced renal disease.
Eugenol, an essential oil component in plants, has been demonstrated to possess activity against both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria. This study examined the influence that subinhibitory concentrations of eugenol may have on the expression of the major exotoxins produced by Staphylococcus aureus. The results from a tumor necrosis factor (TNF) release assay and a hemolysin assay indicated that S. aureus cultured with graded subinhibitory concentrations of eugenol (16 to 128 microg/ml) dose dependently decreased the TNF-inducing and hemolytic activities of culture supernatants. Western blot analysis showed that eugenol significantly reduced the production of staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA), SEB, and toxic shock syndrome toxin 1 (the key exotoxins to induce TNF release), as well as the expression of alpha-hemolysin (the major hemolysin to cause hemolysis). In addition, this suppression was also evaluated at the transcriptional level via real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR analysis. The transcriptional analysis indicated that 128 microg/ml of eugenol remarkably repressed the transcription of the S. aureus sea, seb, tst, and hla genes. According to these results, eugenol has the potential to be rationally applied on food products as a novel food antimicrobial agent both to inhibit the growth of bacteria and to suppress the production of exotoxins by S. aureus.
A 55-year-old woman was diagnosed with pneumonia and was treated with meropenem; 5 days later she developed epileptic seizures. She had been treated with valproic acid for 16 years to control her epileptic seizures. Her serum valproic acid concentration was low during treatment with meropenem than previously recorded despite an increase of valproic dose. As soon as administration of meropenem was withdrawn, valproic acid concentration increased to previous levels and her seizures stopped. Meropenem decreases valproic acid concentration, and may promote the development of epileptic seizures in previously controlled epileptic patients. The acute lowering of serum valproate produced by meropenem probably precludes their concomitant use.
The authors describe 13 cocaine-exposed infants with optic nerve abnormalities, delayed visual maturation, and prolonged eyelid edema. Prolonged and potentially vision-threatening eyelid edema is a new clinical entity. The pharmacology of cocaine, its easy access to fetal circulation, and its neurotropic characteristics can be used to explain optic nerve abnormalities and delayed visual maturation. In infants with any of these eye abnormalities, a careful investigation for cocaine abuse is advisable.
Gentamicin is an antibiotic effective against Gram-negative infection, whose clinical use is limited by its nephrotoxicity. Oxygen free radicals are considered to be important mediators of gentamicin-mediated nephrotoxicity, but the exact nature of the radical in question is not known with certainty. We have investigated the potential role of superoxide in gentamicin-induced renal toxicity by using M40403, a low molecular weight synthetic manganese containing superoxide dismutase mimetic, which selectively removes superoxide. Administration of gentamicin at 100 mg/kg, s.c. for 5 days to rats induced a marked renal failure, characterised by a significant decrease in creatinine clearance and increased plasma creatinine levels, fractional excretion of sodium, lithium, urine gamma glutamyl transferase (gamma GT) and daily urine volume. A significant increase in kidney myeloperoxidase activity and lipid peroxidation was also observed in gentamicin-treated rats. M40403 (10 mg/kg, i.p. for 5 days) attenuated all these parameters of damage. Immunohistochemical localisation demonstrated nitrotyrosine formation and poly(ADP-ribose) synthetase (PARS) activation in the proximal tubule of gentamicin-treated rats. Renal histology examination confirmed tubular necrosis. M40403 significantly prevented gentamicin-induced nitrotyrosine formation, poly(ADP-ribose) synthetase activation and tubular necrosis. These results confirm our hypothesis that superoxide anions play an important role in gentamicin-mediated nephropathy and support the possible clinical use of low molecular weight synthetic superoxide dismutase mimetics in those conditions that are associated with over production of superoxide.
Endothelial dysfunction ensuing inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was investigated in male Sprague-Dawley rats given N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) in drinking water for 8 weeks. Age-matched rats served as controls. L-NAME-treated rats, as compared to control animals, showed: (1) a clear-cut increase in systolic blood pressure; (2) a consistent decrease of endothelial-cell NOS (eNOS) gene expression in aortic tissue; (3) a reduction of the relaxant activity of acetylcholine (ACh, from 10(-10) to 10(-4) M) on norepinephrine-precontracted aortic rings (reduction by 52+/-5%); (4) a marked decrease (-50%) of the basal release of 6-keto-prostaglandin F(1 alpha) (6-keto-PGF(1 alpha)) from aortic rings. In L-NAME-treated rats, administration in the last 2 weeks of either the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril (1 mg/kg/day) or the cognate drug quinapril (1 mg/kg/day) decreased systolic blood pressure levels, completely restored eNOS mRNA levels in aortic tissue, and allowed a consistent recovery of both the relaxant activity of ACh and the generation of 6-keto-PGF(1 alpha). No difference was present in the ability of the two angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors to reverse NAME-induced endothelial dysfunction. These findings indicate that L-NAME-induced hypertension in the rat relies on the marked impairment of the endothelial vasodilator function, with an ensuing contribution by a decreased production of prostacyclin by the endothelial cells. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition by enalapril or quinapril was equally effective in improving endothelial vasodilator function, prostacyclin endothelial production and restoring aortic eNOS mRNA.
Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressant widely used by pregnant women. Epidemiological data suggest that fluoxetine exposure prenatally increases the prevalence of persistent pulmonary hypertension syndrome of the newborn. The mechanism responsible for this effect is unclear and paradoxical, considering the current evidence of a pulmonary hypertension protective fluoxetine effect in adult rodents.
To evaluate the fluoxetine effect on fetal rat pulmonary vascular smooth muscle mechanical properties and cell proliferation rate.
Pregnant rats were treated with fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) from Day 11 through Day 21 of gestation.
Fetuses were delivered by cesarean section. As compared with controls, fluoxetine exposure resulted in fetal pulmonary hypertension as evidenced by an increase in the weight ratio of the right ventricle to the left ventricle plus septum (P = 0.02) and by an increase in pulmonary arterial medial thickness (P < 0.01). Postnatal mortality was increased among experimental animals, and arterial oxygen saturation was 96 +/- 1% in 1-day-old control animals and significantly lower (P < 0.01) in fluoxetine-exposed pups (79 +/- 2%). In vitro, fluoxetine induced pulmonary arterial muscle contraction in fetal, but not adult, animals (P < 0.01) and reduced serotonin-induced contraction at both ages (P < 0.01). After in utero exposure to a low fluoxetine concentration the pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cell proliferation rate was significantly increased in fetal, but not adult, cells (P < 0.01).
In contrast to the adult, fluoxetine exposure in utero induces pulmonary hypertension in the fetal rat as a result of a developmentally regulated increase in pulmonary vascular smooth muscle proliferation.
Cytotoxic effects of desipramine on human colon carcinoma HT29 and HCT116 cells were examined. Desipramine reduced the viability of HT29 cells in a concentration-dependent manner, but failed to cause any significant change in the viability of HCT116 cells by the concentration up to 50 mumol/l, at which an approximately 60% reduction of the viability of HT29 cells was observed. Despite their different sensitivities, desipramine caused the nonoxidative apoptotic damage to both of them. In contrast to HT29 cells, desipramine might cause the apoptotic death of HCT116 cells through the disturbance of mitochondrial function. These results suggest that desipramine may cause the nonoxidative apoptotic damage to different types of human colon carcinoma cells through either a nonmitochondrial or a mitochondrial pathway, which may confer the different sensitivities to this drug on these tumor cells.
ATP-Binding Cassette (ABC) transporters may cause treatment failure by transporting of anticancer drugs outside of the tumor cells. Multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 coded by the ABCC1 gene has recently been suggested as a potential prognostic marker in breast cancer patients. This study aimed to explore tagged haplotype covering nucleotide binding domain 1 of ABCC1 in relation with corresponding transcript levels in tissues and clinical phenotype of breast cancer patients.
The distribution of twelve ABCC1 polymorphisms was assessed by direct sequencing in peripheral blood DNA (n = 540).
Tumors from carriers of the wild type genotype in rs35623 or rs35628 exhibited significantly lower levels of ABCC1 transcript than those from carriers of the minor allele (p = 0.003 and p = 0.004, respectively). The ABCC1 transcript levels significantly increased in the order CT-GT>CC-GT>CC-GG for the predicted rs35626-rs4148351 diplotype. Chemotherapy-treated patients carrying the T allele in rs4148353 had longer disease-free survival than those with the GG genotype (p = 0.043). On the other hand, hormonal therapy-treated patients with the AA genotype in rs35628 had significantly longer disease-free survival than carriers of the G allele (p = 0.012).
Taken together, our study shows that genetic variability in the nucleotide binding domain 1 has a significant impact on the ABCC1 transcript level in the target tissue and may modify survival of breast cancer patients.
Anemia requiring red blood cell (RBC) transfusion is common in ovarian cancer (OC) patients receiving post-debulking surgery chemotherapy. Erythropoietin use has been shown to decrease transfusion requirements in patients receiving chemotherapy. We sought to identify pretreatment risk factors that could identify patients at increased risk for requiring RBC transfusion during first-line treatment for ovarian cancer.
One hundred seventy-five consecutive patients who received chemotherapy with either carboplatin-paclitaxel or cisplatin-paclitaxel following debulking surgery for epithelial OC from 1993 to 1996 were identified. No patient received erythropoietin. Patient characteristics recorded included: age, stage, prechemotherapy hemoglobin, nadir hemoglobin, number of cycles and doses of chemotherapy received. The outcome was requiring RBC transfusion. Independent predictors of requiring RBC transfusion were identified using multivariate analyses.
Median age of the cohort was 62 years (range, 28-86). Seventy-one and four-tenths percent had FIGO stage III/IV disease. Median prechemotherapy hemoglobin was 11 g/dL (range, 7.1-15.4); median nadir hemoglobin was 9.3 g/dL (range, 6.6-11.1). One hundred nineteen (66%) patients received cisplatin-paclitaxel, and 61 (34%) received carboplatin-paclitaxel. Of 175 patients, 31 (18%, 95% CI = 12-23%) required RBC transfusion. Independent risk factors for RBC transfusion were prechemotherapy hemoglobin <10 g/dL (P < 0.01, odds ratio = 3.78, 95% CI = 1.52-9.44) and carboplatin-paclitaxel versus cisplatin-paclitaxel treatment (P = 0.01, odds ratio = 3.14, 95% CI = 1.27-7.76). Of 175 patients, 40 (22.8%) had a prechemotherapy hemoglobin <10 g/dL. Fifty percent of patients with prechemotherapy hemoglobin <10 g/dL who received carboplatin-paclitaxel required RBC transfusion, compared with 7.7% of patients with hemoglobin >10 g/dL who received cisplatin-paclitaxel.
Ovarian cancer patients frequently require RBC transfusion during postdebulking platinum-paclitaxel chemotherapy. Patients with prechemotherapy hemoglobin <10 g/dL and those receiving carboplatin-paclitaxel are at increased risk of requiring RBC transfusion. Early initiation of erythropoietin use in such patients may reduce transfusion needs.
We report a case of intrathecal methotrexate neurotoxicity manifesting as left arm weakness and aphasia. Diagnostic imaging showed restricted diffusion and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery imaging findings were normal at presentation. Three weeks later, diffusion abnormalities resolved, and T2-weighted studies showed increased signal intensity of prolonged T2 changes in areas of prior restricted diffusion. We attribute the clinical and radiographic findings to cytotoxic edema secondary to intrathecal methotrexate.
