The cytosolic retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) is a pattern recognition receptor that senses HCV double-stranded RNA and triggers type I interferon pathways. The clone Huh7.5 of human hepatoma Huh7 cells contains a mutation in RIG-I that is believed to be responsible for the improved replication of HCV in these cells relative to the parental strain. We hypothesized that, in addition to RIG-I, other determinant(s) outside the RIG-I coding sequence are involved in limiting HCV replication in cell culture. To test our hypothesis, we analyzed Huh7 cell clones that support the efficient replication of HCV and analyzed the RIG-I gene.
One clone, termed Huh7D, was more permissive for HCV replication and more efficient for HCV-neomycin and HCV-hygromycin based replicon colony formation than parental Huh7 cells. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the RIG-I mRNA coding region from Huh7D cells showed no mutations relative to Huh7 parental cells.
We derived a new Huh7 cell line, Huh7D, which is more permissive for HCV replication than parental Huh7 cells. The higher permissiveness of Huh7D cells is not due to mutations in the RIG-I protein, indicating that cellular determinants other than the RIG-I amino-acid sequence are responsible for controlling HCV replication. In addition, we have selected Huh7 cells resistant to hygromycin via newly generated HCV-replicons carrying the hygromycin resistant gene. Further studies on Huh7D cells will allow the identification of cellular factors that increased the susceptibility to HCV infection, which could be targeted for anti-HCV therapies.
The safety and efficacy of amphotericin B lipid complex injection (ABELCET; Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Piscataway, NJ) was assessed in 548 children and adolescents 0-20 years of age who were enrolled in the Collaborative Exchange of Antifungal Research (CLEAR) registry. To our knowledge, this is the largest series of pediatric patients treated for invasive mycoses with a single agent. All patients had cancer or had received a bone marrow, cord blood or solid organ transplant and were treated with amphotericin B lipid complex for documented or suspected fungal infection.
The CLEAR database was queried for all patients 0-20 years of age from 1996 to 2000. Data gathered included demographic variables, underlying disease type, reasons for the use of amphotericin B lipid complex injection, dosing information, clinical response and renal effects.
Most patients were either intolerant of or refractory to conventional antifungal therapy, and almost one-half were neutropenic at treatment onset. Of the 548 patients, 300 (54.7%) were transplant recipients and 393 (71.7%) had received one or more concomitant nephrotoxins. Candida and Aspergillus were the most commonly isolated species in patients with proven or probable infections. Response data were evaluable for 255 of the 285 patients with documented single or multiple pathogens. A complete (cured) or partial (improved) response was achieved in 54.9% of patients, with an additional 16.9% of patients having a stable outcome. Among patients with proven Aspergillus infection, the response rates (cured + improved) were 40.5 and 37.5% in transplant and nontransplant patients, respectively. When stable responses were added, the response rates were 48.6 and 71.9%, respectively. There were few clinically significant deleterious effects on renal function. There was no significant difference between the rates of new hemodialysis versus baseline hemodialysis. Elevations in serum creatinine of >1.5 x baseline and >2.5 x baseline values were seen in 24.8 and 8.8% of all patients, respectively.
The safety and efficacy data from this large pediatric population support the use of amphotericin B lipid complex injection for treatment of invasive fungal infections in immunocompromised children and adolescents, including the high risk subgroup of transplant recipients. The overall response rate and safety profile in pediatric patients who were largely intolerant of or refractory to conventional antifungal therapy were consistent with earlier reported findings of smaller trials.
There is little published information on baseline characteristics and therapeutic outcomes in hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected Aboriginal Canadians. It is unclear what proportion of HCV-infected Aboriginal people receive therapy relative to other populations.
Adults with chronic HCV infection, quantifiable serum HCV-RNA levels and compensated liver disease were assigned, at the physician's discretion, to either 24 or 48 weeks of treatment with peginterferon alpha-2a 180 mug/week plus ribavirin at a dose of 800 mg/day, or 1000 mg/day or 1200 mg/day in an open-label, expanded access program. The primary outcome was sustained virological response, defined as undetectable HCV-RNA by qualitative polymerase chain reaction (less than 50 IU/mL) at the end of 24 weeks of untreated follow-up. Baseline characteristics and outcomes in Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal patients were compared.
A total of 2614 patients were eligible for the analysis; 44 individuals (1.7%) self-identified as being of Aboriginal heritage. The baseline characteristics of these two groups were similar. An overall sustained virological response was achieved in 47.7% and 46.5% of Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal patients, respectively. The overall frequencies of adverse events and laboratory abnormalities were similar between the two groups, although cytopenias occurred less frequently in Aboriginal patients.
Aboriginal patients were greatly under-represented in the present 'community'-based treatment program, yet viral responses were similar to those of a non-Aboriginal cohort. To increase the uptake of HCV therapy in the Aboriginal population, clarification of the obstacles to treatment is warranted.
Human alpha-fetoprotein is a pregnancy-associated protein with an undetermined physiological role. As human alpha-fetoprotein binds retinoids and inhibits estrogen-dependent cancer cell proliferation, and because retinoic acid (a retinol metabolite) and estradiol (an estrogen) can both initiate cellular gene transcription, it is hypothesized here that alpha-fetoprotein functions during critical gestational periods to prevent retinoic acid and maternal estradiol from inappropriately stimulating gene expression in developing brain regions which are sensitive to these chemicals. Prenatal/maternal factors linked to increased autism risk include valproic acid, thalidomide, alcohol, rubella, cytomegalovirus, depression, schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, autoimmune disease, stress, allergic reaction, and hypothyroidism. It will be shown how each of these risk factors may initiate expression of genes which are sensitive to retinoic acid and/or estradiol - whether by direct promotion or by reducing production of alpha-fetoprotein. It is thus hypothesized here that autism is not a genetic disorder, but is rather an epigenetic disruption in brain development caused by gestational exposure to chemicals and/or conditions which either inhibit alpha-fetoprotein production or directly promote retinoic acid-sensitive or estradiol-sensitive gene expression. This causation model leads to potential chemical explanations for autistic brain morphology, the distinct symptomatology of Asperger's syndrome, and the differences between high-functioning and low-functioning autism with regard to mental retardation, physical malformation, and sex ratio. It will be discussed how folic acid may cause autism under the retinoic acid/estradiol model, and the history of prenatal folic acid supplementation will be shown to coincide with the history of what is popularly known as the autism epidemic. It is thus hypothesized here that prenatal folic acid supplementation has contributed to the post-1980 increase in US autism diagnoses. In addition to explaining the epidemic within the wider retinoic acid/estradiol model of causation, this theory leads to potential explanations for certain genetic findings in autism, autistic regression, and changing trends in autism symptomatology with regard to mental retardation, wheat allergy, and gastrointestinal problems.
Systemically administered local anesthetics are known to provide analgesia in a variety of pain states; however, the site of action and the mechanism by which these effects are produced remain in question. In the present study, the effects of low (subblocking for nerve conduction) concentrations of lidocaine on a spinal cord nociceptive potential were studied. Spinal cords were removed from neonatal rats and maintained in vitro. Lumbar dorsal and ipsilateral ventral roots were attached to suction electrodes for stimulation and recording, respectively. Following a stabilization period (60-120 min) with control measurements, each preparation was exposed to a single concentration of lidocaine (30-60 min) then returned to control perfusate for recovery (60-120 min). Data were digitized and integrals computed for both monosynaptic and slow ventral root potentials (VRP). Low concentrations of lidocaine produced a selective reduction in the magnitude of the slow-VRP. At lidocaine concentrations of 1-10 micrograms/ml (3.6-36 microM), the slow-VRP was reduced from 79% to 36% of control. Recovery to pre-exposure control levels was slow and sometimes not complete after 60-120 min in drug-free perfusate. The monosynaptic component of the VRP was unaffected by lidocaine at any concentration, suggesting that the depression of the slow-VRP cannot be attributed to simple conduction block. The addition of naloxone 0.1 microM to the perfusate had minimal effect on lidocaine-induced depression. Although resembling the selective effects of morphine, the antinociceptive effects of lidocaine do not appear to be primarily mediated through opiate receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the ocular hypertensive and anti-inflammatory responses to two different dosage schedules of 0.1% topical dexamethasone in a population of Chinese children undergoing strabismus surgery.
Children undergoing bilateral strabismus surgeries were randomly assigned to receive topical 0.1% dexamethasone eye drops four times daily (group A) or twice daily (group B) for 4 weeks. Intraocular pressure (IOP) and anti-inflammatory responses were monitored for 8 weeks.
A total of 137 children with mean age 6.5 years (SD, 1.9 years; range, 3-10 years) participated in the study. The IOP increased significantly after 4 weeks in both groups compared to the preoperative values (P < 0.001). Peak IOP ranged from 14.0 to 50.3 mmHg in group A and 11.0-41.3 mmHg in group B. Cases in group A (mean, 13.8 mmHg; SD, 8.4 mmHg) had a greater net increase in IOP than cases in group B (mean, 10.2 mmHg; SD, 6.2 mmHg; P = 0.004). Younger-aged children had higher peak IOP (r = -0.244, P = 0.048), and attained the peak IOP earlier (r = 0.252, P = 0.041) in group A. There was no significant difference in ocular inflammatory response between the two groups.
Ocular hypertensive effect to topical 0.1% dexamethasone is dose and age dependent in children. Twice-daily 0.1% topical dexamethasone eye drops control inflammation after strabismus surgery as effectively as four-times-daily dosage, but induces less increase in IOP, and may be a better treatment schedule.
Appendicitis is one of the most common and costly acute abdominal states of illnesses. Previous studies suggest two types of appendicitis which may be different entities, one which may resolve spontaneously and another that progresses to gangrene and perforation. Gangrenous appendicitis has a positive association to states of Th1 mediated immunity whereas Th2 associated immune states are associated with lower risk of appendicitis. This study investigated the inflammatory response pattern in patients previously appendicectomized for gangrenous (n = 7), or phlegmonous appendicitis (n = 8) and those with a non-inflamed appendix (n = 5). Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were analysed with ELISPOT analysis for number of spontaneous or antigen/mitogen stimulated IFN-gamma, IL-4, IL-10 and IL-12 secreting cells or with ELISA for concentration of spontaneous or antigen/mitogen stimulated IFN-gamma, IL-5 and IL-10. Spontaneously IL-10 secreting cells/100,000 lymphocytes were increased in the gangrenous group compared to the phlegmonous group (P = 0.015). The median concentration of IL-10 secreted after Tetanus toxoid (TT)-stimulation were higher in the gangrenous group and the control group, than the phlegmonous group (P = 0.048 and P = 0.027, respectively). The median concentration of TT induced IFN-gamma secretion was higher for the gangrenous group compared to both the phlegmonous group and the control group (P = 0.037 and P = 0.003). Individuals with a history of gangrenous appendicitis demonstrated ability to increased IL-10 and IFN-gamma production. The increased IFN-gamma may support the notion of gangrenous appendicitis as an uncontrolled Th1 mediated inflammatory response and increased IL-10 may speculatively indicate the involvement of cytotoxic cells in the progression to perforation.
Clinical studies have shown that degree of erythropoiesis, the hypoxic response, and iron status each independently influences transferrin receptor concentration, but there is conflicting information regarding the effect of inflammation on transferrin receptor expression.
Levels of hemoglobin, reticulocytes, serum ferritin, transferrin receptors and inflammatory markers (C-reactive protein, interleukin-6 and neutrophils) were determined in 208 Zimbabwean children <or=5 years attending well-child clinics in a non-malaria transmission, non-hookworm area.
In linear regression models among 147 children with ferritin >10 ng/mL that adjusted for erythropoiesis with log(10) reticulocyte count, the hypoxic response with hemoglobin concentration and iron status with log(10) ferritin concentration, positive correlations were found between log(10) transferrin receptor concentration and log(10) C-reactive protein concentration (P=0.012), log(10) interleukin-6 concentration (P=0.011) and log(10) neutrophil count (P=0.013). These models predict that, with a baseline transferrin receptor concentration in the upper normal range of 8.0 mg/L and holding hemoglobin concentration and reticulocyte count constant, an increase from 1 to 10 mg/L in C-reactive protein is associated with a rise of 1.6 mg/L in transferrin receptor (95% C.I. 0.3-3.0 mg/L), an increase from 0.5-to-5.0 pg/mL in interleukin-6 with a rise of 1.9 mg/L (0.4-3.7 mg/L), and an increase from 2000 to 20,000/microL in neutrophil count with a rise of 3.6 mg/L (0.7-7.5 mg/L).
Our results suggest that inflammation leads to an increase in circulating transferrin receptor concentration that is independent of the degree of erythropoiesis, the hypoxic response and iron status.
51 patients with medically refractory Parkinson's disease underwent stereotactic posteromedial pallidotomy between August 1993 and February 1997 for treatment of bradykinesia, rigidity, and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. In 29 patients, the pallidotomies were performed with the Leksell Gamma Knife and in 22 they were performed with the standard radiofrequency (RF) method. Clinical assessment as well as blinded ratings of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores were carried out pre- and postoperatively. Mean follow-up time is 20.6 months (range 6-48) and all except 4 patients have been followed more than one year. 85 percent of patients with dyskinesias were relieved of symptoms, regardless of whether the pallidotomies were performed with the Gamma Knife or radiofrequency methods. About 2/3 of the patients in both Gamma Knife and radiofrequency groups showed improvements in bradykinesia and rigidity, although when considered as a group neither the Gamma Knife nor the radiofrequency group showed statistically significant improvements in UPDRS scores. One patient in the Gamma Knife group (3.4%) developed a homonymous hemianopsia 9 months following treatment and 5 patients (27.7%) in the radiofrequency group became transiently confused postoperatively. No other complications were seen. Gamma Knife pallidotomy is as effective as radiofrequency pallidotomy in controlling certain of the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. It may be the only practical technique available in certain patients, such as those who take anticoagulants, have bleeding diatheses or serious systemic medical illnesses. It is a viable option for other patients as well.
Macro and microscopic findings in developing brain of rat fetuses were observed after intraperitoneal injection with a single dose (30mg/kg) of 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) in late phase of gestation. 5-FU induced more than 60.0% lethality with significant reduction (p<0.001) in weight and various dimensions of the developing brain. Macroscopic findings of the developing brain revealed microcephaly, regression or absence of the olfactory lobe and obliteration of the various fissures on the dorsal surface. Microscopic examination of the olfactory lobe of treated brain showed the obliteration of the olfactory ventricle, distortion of the cellular arrangement of various layers of the olfactory cortex with clumping of degenerated neurons and glial cells. Cerebral cortex of the treated brain revealed the distortion of normal cytoarchitecture of the various cortical layers. The neurons of the treated brain revealed the degeneration, deeply stained eccentric nucleus with loss of mitotic figures and pyknotic changes. Subcortical zone of the treated cerebrum showed the degenerative changes in the fibrous structure along with paucity of the glial cells. The hippocampus of the treated brain revealed the loss of normal cytoarchitecture and shrinkage of all the layers. Neuroembyopathic effect of 5-FU is severe, when given in late phase of pregnancy, so it is advisable that the drug should be avoid during the late period of pregnancy.
To evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of single-agent vinorelbine (VNB), a semisynthetic vinca alkaloid, in patients with breast cancer previously treated with other chemotherapeutic regimens for metastatic disease.
Sixty-seven of 70 patients with assessable disease entered onto the study were assessable. The main characteristics were as follows: median age, 60 years (range, 41 to 77); median performance status (PS; Karnofsky score), 90 (range, 60 to 100); and number of previous chemotherapeutic regimens given--one in 17, two in 27, three in eight, four in two, and five in one patient. The dominant sites of metastasis were viscera in 40, bone in 16, and soft tissues in 11 patients. VNB was administered beginning with the dose of 20 mg/m2 by 60-minute intravenous (iv) infusion weekly, with a dose escalation up to 25 mg/m2 if the first four courses were well tolerated. The treatment was continued until disease progression.
Overall, 845 courses of VNB were given (median, 10; range, eight to 33). Objective responses were as follows: complete response (CR) in three (4.5%), partial response (PR) in 21 (31.2%), stable disease (SD) in 20 (30%), and progressive disease (PD) in 23 patients (34.3%). Twenty-four of 67 assessable patients obtained a major objective response (CR or PR, 36%; 95% confidence interval [Cl], 24% to 47%). Thirty-three percent of patients had a > or = 33% reduction of dose-intensity (DI). The median time to progression was 18 weeks. The drug was active in patients pretreated with either cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF) or anthracyclines. The most relevant toxicity observed was myelosuppression: 17 (25%) and 19 patients (28%) had World Health Organization grade III, and six (9%) and six patients (9%) had grade IV leukopenia and granulocytopenia, respectively; two (3%) and two patients (3%) had grade III and IV anemia, respectively. Nonhematologic toxicities were phlebitis (grade II or III in 15 patients), alopecia (grade I or II in 16), nausea and vomiting (grade II or III in 15), diarrhea (grade II in two), constipation (grade II or III in 16), stomatitis (grade II or III in 13), peripheral neuropathy (grade II in seven), and asthenia (grade II in five).
This study shows that VNB is an effective and well-tolerated agent in pretreated patients with advanced breast cancer. This drug does not seem to present cross-resistance with previous CMF or anthracycline regimens. Future clinical trials should be designed to prove whether the inclusion of VNB in combination chemotherapy regimens, or whether an enhancement of its dose-intensity using bone marrow growth factors, is able to improve further the efficacy of this drug in breast carcinoma.
A 23-year-old black man survived a life-threatening multisystem disturbance resulting from a large single dose of colchicine administered intraurethrally for condyloma acuminata. Gastroenteritis and probable pancreatitis rapidly evolved into severe respiratory failure, marked neuromuscular problems, alopecia, and complete bone marrow aplasia. Within two months he had completely recovered. This patient demonstrates that colchicine should be used with extreme caution, if at all, for the therapy of condyloma acuminata.
In order to substantiate the concept that cocaine behavioral effects may be influenced by serotonin (5-HT)1B receptors, male Wistar rats were trained to self-administer cocaine intravenously (0.5 mg/kg/injection), and were systemically pretreated with the selective 5-HT1B receptor antagonist N-[3-[3-(dimethylamine)ethoxy]-4-methoxyphenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-[1,1'-biphenyl]-4-carboxamide hydrochloride (SB 216641), or with the agonist 5-propoxy-3(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridinyl)-1H-pyrrolo[3,2-b]pyridine hydrochloride (CP 94253) before test session during the maintenance phase. The effects of the 5-HT1B receptor ligands on a control reinforcer (food)-induced self-administration and on basal locomotor activity were also assessed. SB 216641 (2.5-7.5 mg/kg) was inactive in altering the cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/injection)-maintained responding and at the highest dose (7.5 mg/kg) it did not alter the self-administration of a cocaine dose on the descending limb of the cocaine (0.125-0.5 mg/kg/injection) dose-effect function. On the other hand, CP 94253 (2.5-7.5 mg/kg) attenuated the cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/injection)-maintained responding with a significant inhibitory effect seen at 7.5 mg/kg, while its doses of 2.5-5 mg/kg potently reduced the self-administration of cocaine (0.125-0.25 mg/kg/injection), in a manner similar to the effect produced by increasing the unit dose of cocaine. The inhibitory effects of CP 94253 (5 mg/kg) on the cocaine (0.125 or 0.25 mg/kg/injection) self-administration were blocked by SB 216641 (7.5 mg/kg). Food reinforcing potential was not altered when either SB 216641 or CP 94253 was given in a dose range between 2.5-7.5 mg/kg. Moreover, none of the 5-HT1B receptor ligands altered horizontal locomotor activity while CP 9253 significantly reduced vertical activity. Our present findings extend previous observations that tonic activation of 5-HT1B receptors is not required for cocaine reinforcement while pharmacological stimulation of 5-HT1B receptors enhances such a property of the psychostimulant. Furthermore, we demonstrated that 5-HT1B receptor agonist-induced enhancement of cocaine reward was independent of an alteration in natural reinforcement.
Anaphylaxis to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs is thought to depend on cycloxygenase inhibition coupled to upregulation of 5-lipoxygenase-dependent pathways. The introduction of leukotriene-receptor antagonists afforded the opportunity to test this hypothesis. These agents provide at least partial protection against aspirin-induced anaphylaxis during controlled challenges but we did not know whether the level of protection was high enough to block symptoms from ingestion of a full dose of aspirin.
We report a patient with moderately severe asthma who experienced an episode of anaphylaxis following ingestion of 400 mg of ibuprofen while under therapy with 20 mg of zafirlukast given twice a day.
No further episodes of anaphylaxis have been noted following institution of complete avoidance to all nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
Patients who are sensitive to cycloxygenase inhibitors should practice complete avoidance of these drugs even while under therapy with leukotriene modifiers.
Chronic alcohol abuse results in decreased bone mineral density (BMD), which can lead to increased fracture risk. In contrast, low levels of alcohol have been associated with increased BMD in epidemiological studies. Alcohol's toxic skeletal effects have been suggested to involve impaired vitamin D/calcium homeostasis. Therefore, dietary vitamin D supplementation may be beneficial in reducing bone loss associated with chronic alcohol consumption. Six-week-old female C57BL/6J mice were pair-fed ethanol (EtOH)-containing liquid diets (10 or 36% total calories) for 78 days. EtOH exposure at 10% calories had no effects on any measured bone or serum parameter. EtOH consumption at 36% of calories reduced BMD and bone strength (P<0.05), decreased osteoblastogenesis, increased osteoclastogenesis, suppressed 1,25-hydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] serum concentrations (P<0.05), and increased apoptosis in bone cells compared with pair-fed controls. In a second study, female mice were pair-fed 30% EtOH diets with or without dietary supplementation with vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol; VitD) for 40 days. VitD supplementation in the EtOH diet protected against cortical bone loss, normalized alcohol-induced hypocalcaemia, and suppressed EtOH-induced expression of receptor of nuclear factor-κB ligand mRNA in bone. In vitro, pretreatment of 1,25(OH)2D3 in osteoblastic cells inhibited EtOH-induced apoptosis. In EtOH/VitD mice circulating 1,25(OH)2D3 was lower compared with mice receiving EtOH alone (P<0.05), suggesting increased sensitivity to feedback control of VitD metabolism in the kidney. These findings suggest dietary VitD supplementation may prevent skeletal toxicity in chronic drinkers by normalizing calcium homeostasis, preventing apoptosis, and suppressing EtOH-induced increases in bone resorption.
Perfluorooctanoate (PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) persist in the environment and are found in relatively high concentrations in animal livers. Studies in humans have reported inconsistent associations between PFOA and liver enzymes.
We examined the cross-sectional association between serum PFOA and PFOS concentrations with markers of liver function in adults.
The C8 Health Project collected data on 69,030 persons; of these, a total of 47,092 adults were included in the present analysis. Linear regression models were fitted for natural log (ln)-transformed values of alanine transaminase (ALT), γ-glutamyltransferase (GGT), and direct bilirubin on PFOA, PFOS, and potential confounders. Logistic regression models were fitted comparing deciles of PFOA or PFOS in relation to high biomarker levels. A multilevel analysis comparing the evidence for association of PFOA with liver function at the individual level within water districts to that at the population level between water districts was also performed.
ln-PFOA and ln-PFOS were associated with ln-ALT in linear regression models [PFOA: coefficient, 0.022; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.018, 0.025; PFOS: coefficient, 0.020; 95% CI: 0.014, 0.026] and with raised ALT in logistic regression models [with a steady increase in the odds ratio (OR) estimates across deciles of PFOA and PFOS; PFOA: OR = 1.10; 95% CI: 1.07, 1.13; PFOS: OR = 1.13; 95% CI: 1.07, 1.18]. There was less consistent evidence of an association of PFOA and GGT or bilirubin. The relationship with bilirubin appears to rise at low levels of PFOA and to fall again at higher levels.
These results show a positive association between PFOA and PFOS concentrations and serum ALT level, a marker of hepatocellular damage.
Diabetes mellitus is associated to central nervous system damage, which results in impairment of brain functions and cognitive deficits and decline in memory. However, the mechanisms mediating the actions of glucose on the neurons remained elusive. Single-minded 2 (Sim2), a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-PAS transcriptional repressor, is thought to be involved in some symptoms of Down syndrome. We hypothesized that Sim2 mediated hyperglycaemia-induced neuronal injury and impairment of learning and memory. It was found that expression of Sim2 protein in cortical neurons was increased in streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus rat model. Drebrin, down-regulated by Sim2, was subsequently decreased as detected by confocal laser scanning microscopy and Western blot analysis. The expression pattern of Sim2 and Drebrin correspond to 50mmol/L glucose (hyperglycaemia) was also found in primary cultured neurons. Curcumin, one neuroprotective agent, inhibited hyperglycaemia-induced neurotoxicity. Moreover, curcumin alleviated Sim2 expression, and reversely raised Drebrin expression in neurons treated with hyperglycaemia. Finally, we found that silencing Sim2 expression decreased hyperglycaemia-induced neuronal injury. In conclusion, Sim2 may mediate neurotoxicity during hyperglycaemia and thereby play a critical role in the development of hyperglycaemia-induced cognitive deficits.
Doxorubicin hydrochloride (Adriamycin) therapy was associated with renal failure in a 78-year-old man. The pathophysiologic findings in this patient were similar to those seen following administration of structural analogues of doxorubicin. Daunorubicin hydrochloride, particularly, is known to cause renal failure in experimental animals. Renal function should be monitored in patients receiving doxorubicin.
The present study was aimed at investigating the effects of Anwala churna (Emblica officinalis GAERTN.), an Ayurvedic preparation, on memory in rats. Anwala churna was administered orally in three doses (50, 100 and 200 mg/kg) for 15 days to different groups of young and aged rats. The elevated plus-maze and Hebb-Williams maze served as exteroceptive behavioral models for testing memory. Diazepam-, scopolamine-, and ageing induced amnesia served as the interoceptive behavioral models. Anwala churna (50, 100, and 200 mg/kg, p.o.) produced a dose-dependent improvement in memory scores of young and aged rats. Furthermore, it reversed the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) and diazepam (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Based on these results, Anwala churna may prove to be a useful remedy for the management of Alzheimer's disease due to its multifarious beneficial effects such as memory improvement and reversal of memory deficits.
We have shown that the potent phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor sildenafil (Viagra) induces a powerful effect on reduction of infarct size following ischemia/reperfusion injury and improvement of left ventricular dysfunction in the failing heart after myocardial infarction or doxorubicin (DOX) treatment. In the present study, we further investigated the potential effects of sildenafil on improving antitumor efficacy of DOX in prostate cancer. Cotreatment with sildenafil enhanced DOX-induced apoptosis in PC-3 and DU145 prostate cancer cells, which was mediated by enhanced generation of reactive oxygen species, up-regulation of caspase-3 and caspase-9 activities, reduced expression of Bcl-xL, and phosphorylation of Bad. Overexpression of Bcl-xL or dominant negative caspase 9 attenuated the synergistic effect of sildenafil and DOX on prostate cancer cell killing. Furthermore, treatment with sildenafil and DOX in mice bearing prostate tumor xenografts resulted in significant inhibition of tumor growth. The reduced tumor size was associated with amplified apoptotic cell death and increased expression of activated caspase 3. Doppler echocardiography showed that sildenafil treatment ameliorated DOX-induced left ventricular dysfunction. In conclusion, these results provide provocative evidence that sildenafil is both a powerful sensitizer of DOX-induced killing of prostate cancer while providing concurrent cardioprotective benefit.
A 76 year-old woman with a history of coronary artery bypass grafting and prior myocardial infarction was transferred to the emergency room with loss of consciousness due to marked bradycardia caused by hyperkalemia. The concentration of serum potassium was high, and normal sinus rhythm was restored after correction of the serum potassium level. The cause of hyperkalemia was considered to be several doses of spiranolactone, an aldosterone antagonist, in addition to the long-term intake of ramipril, an ACE inhibitor. This case is a good example of electrolyte imbalance causing acute life-threatening cardiac events. Clinicians should be alert to the possibility of hyperkalemia, especially in elderly patients using ACE/ARB in combination with potassium sparing agents and who have mild renal disturbance.
Zinc deficiency has been implicated in impaired cell-mediated immunity of children with sickle cell disease (SCD). However, its influence on the expression of vascular cell-adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) on endothelial cells, a protein involved in vasoocclusion, has not been previously investigated. We therefore measured (soluble) sVCAM-1 and zinc in 76 SCD children and 96 non-SCD children, mean age 7.73 years and 11.24 years, respectively. Although mean zinc levels of both groups were within the normal range (approximately 14.5 micromol/l), 14.5 % of SCD and 11% of non-SCD children (without inflammation) had levels below normal (10.7 micromol/L). Mean sVCAM-1 concentrations of SCD children (837 microg/l) were significantly higher than those of controls (627 microg/l) (p < 0.001). Differences persisted after taking into account age, hemoglobin phenotype, and inflammation (alpha-l acid glycoprotein >l g/l and C-reactive protein >10 mg/I). sVCAM-1 negatively correlated with serum (r = -0.444) and red blood cells zinc (r = -0.242, p < 0.05) but not with acute-phase proteins. Mean sVCAM-1 tended to be higher in SCD children with than in those without a history of a health problem (infection, pain crisis or were transfused; not significant). Data suggest that zinc may modulate the clinical status of SCD children through VCAM-1 expression, and zinc supplementation may be beneficial in these patients.
The atherogenic index of plasma (AIP), defined as logarithm [log] of the ratio of plasma concentration of triglycerides to high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, has recently been proposed as a predictive marker for plasma atherogenicity and is positively correlated with cardiovascular disease risk. The nutrient combination of chromium picolinate and biotin (CPB) has been previously shown to reduce insulin resistance and hyperglycemia in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM).
Thirty-six moderately obese subjects with T2DM and with impaired glycemic control were randomized to receive CPB or placebo in addition to their oral hyperglycemic agents for 4 weeks. Measurements of blood lipids (including ratio of triglycerides to HDL cholesterol), fructosamine, glucose, and insulin were taken at baseline and after 4 weeks.
At the final visit, the active group had a significantly lower AIP compared to the placebo group (P < 0.05). A significant difference in triglyceride level (P < 0.02) and the ratio of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) to HDL cholesterol (P < 0.05) was also observed between the groups at the final visit. In the active group, the changes in urinary chromium levels were inversely correlated with the change in AIP (P < 0.05). Urinary chromium levels were significantly increased in the CPB group. In the CPB group, glucose levels decreased at 1 hour and 2 hours and glucose area under the curve and fructosamine level were significantly decreased. Ratios of total to HDL cholesterol, LDL to HDL cholesterol, and non-HDL to HDL cholesterol were significantly decreased between the treatments at final visit. No significant adverse events were observed in the CPB or placebo groups.
These results suggest that the combination of chromium picolinate and biotin may be a valuable nutritional adjuvant therapy to reduce AIP and correlated CVD risk factors in people with T2DM.
Although antiviral prophylaxis with lamivudine monotherapy appears to reduce post-liver transplantation recurrence of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, breakthrough infections occur in at least 20% of the patients because of the development of drug resistance. Combined lamivudine and intravenous hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) therapy (10,000-IU doses) may reduce this risk, but its use is limited by cost ( approximately US $45,000/yr) and availability. We report the experience at liver transplant centers in Australia and New Zealand in which lamivudine has been used in combination with much lower doses of HBIG than used in conventional HBIG prophylaxis. Lamivudine, 100 mg/d, was administered to hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive candidates on listing for transplantation and was continued posttransplantation. HBIG, 400 or 800 IU, was administered intramuscularly (IM) daily for 1 week from transplantation and monthly thereafter. Thirty-seven HBsAg-positive patients underwent transplantation using this protocol. Thirty-six of these patients were HBV DNA positive by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or hybridization assay. Thirty-four patients had chronic HBV, 2 patients had hepatitis B and C, and 1 patient had hepatitis B, C, and D. Five patients died within 1 month of transplantation and are not included in the analysis. Mean follow-up in the remaining 32 patients was 18.4 months (range, 5 to 45 months). Treatment was well tolerated, with no significant adverse events. Thirty-one of 32 patients were HBsAg negative, and all 32 patients were HBV DNA negative by PCR at latest follow-up. The cost of treatment was US $967 for lamivudine and between $2,290 and $4,480/yr for IM HBIG. Lamivudine and low-dose HBIG treatment prevents posttransplantation recurrence of hepatitis B and is likely to be more cost-effective than high-dose HBIG regimens.
The prevention of recurrent hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) with hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIG) is expensive and requires indefinite parenteral administration. Lamivudine is a nucleoside analogue capable of inhibiting HBV replication. The aim of this study is to determine the efficacy of lamivudine in the prevention of recurrent HBV infection after a course of HBIG in patients who were hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive and hepatitis Be antigen (HBeAg) negative before OLT. Patients at high risk for recurrent HBV infection (HBeAg positive and HBV DNA positive) were excluded. Thirty HBsAg-positive, HBeAg-negative patients underwent OLT from January 1993 to June 1997. All 30 patients were administered HBIG after OLT and, after 2 years, were given the option of continuing with HBIG or switching to lamivudine. Five patients were excluded: 3 patients were lost to follow-up and 2 patients died of technical complications. Three patients terminated HBIG therapy at 8, 24, and 29 months after OLT, and reinfection with HBV occurred in 1 patient. Six patients elected to continue HBIG therapy for life; 1 patient died of melanoma and the remaining 5 patients are HBsAg negative, with an average follow-up of 73 months. Sixteen patients were converted to lamivudine after a course of HBIG, and all 16 patients are HBsAg negative, with an average follow-up of 51 months after OLT. Five patients have been on lamivudine monotherapy for more than 24 months. These results suggest that lamivudine administered after a posttransplantation course of HBIG can effectively prevent the recurrence of HBV infection in patients who are HBsAg positive and HBeAg negative before OLT.
Genetic loci displaying environmentally responsive epigenetic marks, termed metastable epialleles, offer a solution to the paradox presented by genetically identical yet phenotypically distinct individuals. The murine viable yellow agouti (A (vy) ) metastable epiallele exhibits stochastic DNA methylation and histone modifications associated with coat color variation in isogenic individuals. The distribution of A (vy)  variable expressivity shifts following maternal nutritional and environmental exposures. To characterize additional murine metastable epialleles, we utilized genome-wide expression arrays (N = 10 male individuals, 3 tissues per individual) and identified candidates displaying large variability in gene expression among individuals (Vi = inter-individual variance), concomitant with a low variability in gene expression across tissues from the three germ layers (Vt = inter-tissue variance), two features characteristic of the A (vy)  metastable epiallele. The CpG island in the promoter of Dnajb1 and two contraoriented ERV class II repeats in Glcci1 were validated to display underlying stochasticity in methylation patterns common to metastable epialleles. Furthermore, liver DNA methylation in mice exposed in utero to 50 mg bisphenol A (BPA)/kg diet (N = 91) or a control diet (N = 79) confirmed environmental lability at validated candidate genes. Significant effects of exposure on mean CpG methylation were observed at the Glcci1 Repeat 1 locus (p < 0.0001). Significant effects of BPA also were observed at the first and fifth CpG sites studied in Glcci1 Repeat 2 (p < 0.0001 and p = 0.004, respectively). BPA did not affect methylation in the promoter of Dnajb1 (p = 0.59). The characterization of metastable epialleles in humans is crucial for the development of novel screening and therapeutic targets for human disease prevention.
Accumulating evidence now supports the use of recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) to manage anemia in PEG-IFN/RBV treated patients, with the objective of maintaining the RBV dose, but currently no official guidelines exist. Actually, rHuEPO exact utilizable dose in PEG-IFN/RBV treated patients is not known. We describe the case of a patient with severe ribavirin-induced anemia.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) is widely used, alone or in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents, for treatment of neoplastic diseases. Its urotoxicity may cause dose-limiting side-effects, for example hemorrhagic cystitis. The agent most often used to prevent this side-effect is mesna (2-mercaptoethane sulfonate). Overproduction of reactive oxygen species during inflammation is one reason for possible urothelial injury. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether combinations of quercetin and epigallocatechin 3-gallate (EGCG), flavonoid antioxidants and mesna could prevent cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide, better than mesna alone. A total of 38 male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into five groups. Four groups received single dose of CP (100 mg kg(-1)) intraperitoneally at the same time. Group 2 received CP only, group 3 received mesna (3 x 21.5 mg kg(-1)), group 4 received a single dose of mesna+EGCG (2 x 20 mg kg(-1)), and group 5 received a single dose of mesna+quercetin (2 x 20 mg kg(-1)), before and after CP injection. Group 1 (not treated) served as control. CP injection alone resulted in severe cystitis. Mesna resulted in some, but not full, protection against CP toxicity. Quercetin and catechine, together with mesna, resulted in full protection against CP toxicity, on the basis of histopathology of the urinary bladder. It was concluded that oxidants might be important in the pathogenesis of CP-induced cystitis, and that flavonoid antioxidants, used in addition to mesna, may help to ameliorate bladder damage.
