Although the absolute number of congenital structural heart disease has not changed over the years, more and more infants undergo surgical interventions in the neonatal period, increasing the number of children and adults with post surgical status of cardiac disorders. Prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) is the first line drug to maintain or reopen the ductus arteriosus, until surgical intervention can be made. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) is regulated by multiple factors, like pO2, pCO2, pH, cardiac output and systemic blood pressure. The aim of the study was to determine how CBF changes after PGE1 administration in these newborns.
We studied the pO2, pCO2, mean systemic blood pressure, and cerebral blood flow velocities by colored and pulsed Doppler ultrasonography in 36 newborns with ductal dependent cardiac malformation before and after prostaglandin E1 administration, and correlated them to normal values for the age.
We found that cerebral blood flow velocities followed the variations of blood pressure in restricted pulmonary circulation; improvement of oxygenation went parallel with decrease of cerebral diastolic velocities, and in aortic coarctation cerebral velocities decreased after introduction of PGE1.
PGE1 administration improved cerebral blood flow velocities in all forms of cardiac malformations, due to reorganization of cardiac output and changes in oxemia. Key
Preclinical studies have suggested that some volatile anesthetics induce a hyperalgesic state that may be secondary to nicotinic inhibition. A previous trial of treatment with nicotine nasal spray demonstrated postoperative analgesia in women anesthetized with isoflurane. To determine whether the effect of nicotine was reversing hyperalgesia induced by isoflurane, or simply acting as an analgesic, we studied the effect of nicotine on postoperative pain in women anesthetized with isoflurane or propofol, with fentanyl.
In a randomized, prospective, double-blind trial, we assigned 80 women having open uterine surgery to be anesthetized with isoflurane or propofol. Within each anesthetic group, the subjects were further randomly assigned to receive nicotine 3 mg or placebo. Pain reported with a numerical analog scale was the primary outcome variable.
The patient demographics were similar. Women who were anesthetized with propofol reported less pain and used less morphine during the first day after surgery than women who were anesthetized with isoflurane (P < 0.01, P < 0.01). Nicotine treatment did not change pain report or morphine use in either anesthetic group (P > 0.05).
General anesthesia with propofol and is associated with less postoperative pain and morphine use than general anesthesia with isoflurane. Nicotine was not analgesic in this trial. If these results are repeated in other populations, reduced postoperative pain can be added to the previously described improvement in nausea and vomiting as a potential benefit of anesthesia with propofol.
Current markers of exocrine pancreatic toxicity have historically been poor indicators for both early diagnosis of disease and prediction of disease severity. Recently we identified two peptide markers (RA1609 and RT2864) of pancreatic toxicity that are target organ specific. In order to evaluate sensitivity of these markers versus current standard tests for pancreatic damage (i.e., lipase), we measured amylase and lipase, as well as RA1609 and RT2864 marker levels, in serum from rats treated with four doses (50-200 mg/kg) of the model pancreatic toxicant cyanohydroxybutene (CHB). In addition, to determine whether these peptide markers could detect pancreatic injury induced by different toxicants and in different species, we measured RA1609 and RT2864 marker levels in rats treated with the pancreatic toxicant caerulein, and in mice treated with CHB. RA1609 and RT2864 peptide markers proved to be more sensitive than amylase or lipase in detecting pancreatic damage, especially at an early time point (8 h) following CHB administration. The peptide markers also accurately predicted pancreatic injury induced by caerulein in rats. These markers were sensitive in detecting very mild pancreatic damage following CHB administration in mice, which are less susceptible to CHB-induced pancreatic toxicity. In addition, a species comparison of the RA1609 albumin fragment sequence indicated that cleavage of albumin from pancreatic proteases produces a similar fragment marker in several species, including humans. To determine whether the comparable human albumin fragment could be detected in sera from pancreatitis patients, we analyzed sera from normal individuals and from patients with diabetes, vasculitis, pancreatic cancer, and pancreatitis. It was found that markers corresponding to the fragments found in rat serum (RA1609 and RT2864) were present in human serum, and changes in these were indicative of and specific to pancreatitis. In conclusion, the RA1609 and RT2864 peptides are sensitive indicators of exocrine pancreatic damage that may be useful as safety markers for general pancreatic toxicity in multiple species.
Historically, serum amylase and lipase levels have been used to indicate pancreas injury; however, these enzyme levels are often not predictive of pathology. In an effort to discover novel biomarkers of pancreatic acinar cell injury, we analyzed serum and pancreas tissue from cyanohydroxybutene (CHB)-treated male IGS rats using proteomics methods. CHB produces an "edematous pancreatitis," characterized by depletion of zymogen granules, acinar cell apoptosis, and mild to moderate inflammation. Secondary necrosis occurs at higher doses. Rats were treated with 150 mg/kg of CHB and samples were collected at 4, 8, and 24 h. Analyses of serum tryptic digests by surface-enhanced laser desorption-ionization mass spectrometry revealed two novel peptide biomarkers (RA1609 and RT2864) that were predictive of pancreatic damage. Levels of RA1609 decreased, while levels of RT2864 increased by 8 h following CHB treatment. The changes in RA1609 and RT2864 were detected in media from CHB-treated primary rat acini, demonstrating that these peptides are either of pancreatic cell origin or are produced by proteases released from acinar cells. Sequencing revealed that RA1609 is a fragment of rat albumin (accession number P02770, residues 348-360) and RT2864 is a portion of either rat trypsin III (accession number P08426, residues 39-65) or bovine trypsin (accession number P00760, residues 35-61). These two peptides, and possibly other fragments of serum proteins that are digested by pancreatic proteases, may be useful as safety markers for exocrine pancreatic toxicity during drug development or as biomarkers for the diagnosis and/or grading of severity of pancreatic disease.
12 AIDS/ARC patients with or suspected of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia were treated with co-trimoxazole and received supplementary folic or folinic acid to avoid peripheral blood cytopenia. Most patients developed decreased numbers of neutrophils and hemoglobin while receiving co-trimoxazole. Supplementary folate/folinate could not abolish the drug-induced cytopenia. Routine prescription of folinic acid is not recommended. Folic acid is cheap and may be beneficial and should be prescribed.
The antischistosomal and antitrypanosomal drug trans-5-amino-3-[2-(5-nitro-2-furyl)vinyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazole [(SQ18506) CAS: 28754-68-9; (E)-amino-3-(2-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-vinyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazole] was carcinogenic for both male and female CD-1 mice when it was administered either in the diet or by gastric intubation. Dose-dependent increases in tumors of the forestomach and lymphatic tissues were observed in all groups receiving SQ18506 including mice infected with Schistosoma mansoni. The predominant tumor observed was squamous cell carcinoma of the forestomach. The presence or absence of schistosome infection did not appear to alter the incidence or distribution of tumors at comparable doses of SQ18506. The incidence of bladder tumors was positively correlated with the dose in gastric intubation studies and inversely correlated with the dose in dietary studies. The carcinogen N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (CAS: 24554-26-5) was fed to male and female CD-1 mice in the diet as a positive control. The predominant tumor observed in these groups was transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. These data indicate that SQ18506 is unsuitable for use in the treatment of parasitic diseases.
To evaluate the therapeutic risk of doxorubicin therapy in terms of drug-induced cardiomyopathy, 75 female patients with metastasizing breast cancer (mean age: 60 +/- 7 years) were submitted to right heart catheterization at rest and on exercise: 37 of these patients underwent postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy; 38 patients were not pretreated. The hemodynamic profile of these patients was compared to that of eight healthy volunteers. Prior to doxorubicin therapy irradiated patients showed myocardial dysfunction characterized by significantly elevated pulmonary wedge pressures (PCP) on exercise (p less than 0.005). In the course of doxorubicin therapy a significant decrease in myocardial function could be observed at 500 mg/m2 cumulative dose in irradiated patients (p less than 0.05) and at 600 mg/m2 in non-irradiated patients (p less than 0.001). According to the hemodynamic classification of Reindell and Roskamm, after reaching a cumulative doxorubicin dose of less than 300 mg/m2, previously irradiated breast cancer patients showed a risk of developing stage III heart failure equal to that shown by nonirradiated patients after 400-500 mg/m2. It may be concluded that adjuvant radiotherapy can produce myocardial damage. Irradiated patients show a higher risk of developing doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy than nonirradiated patients. The limit of therapeutic risk should be established at stage III heart failure because cardiac failure can still be improved by treatment involving glycosides and a vasodilator.
A nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)--indomethacin (IN), was found to induce apoptosis and inhibit proliferation of K562 cells and primary culture bone marrow cells from six chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) patients. IN induced cells apoptosis and inhibited cells proliferation in a dose-and time-dependent manner, the optimum IN concentration and incubation time for eliciting these effects were 400 micromol/l and 72 h, respectively. A synergic effect on Vp-16 (2.5 microg/ml) induced apoptosis was observed when combined with 100 micromol/l IN in K562 cells. RT-PCR results showed that IN down-regulated Bcl-2 mRNA expression, and did not change Bax mRNA expression; Western blot results confirmed that IN inhibited Bcl-2 protein expression, no influence was found on the translative level of bax protein. Our study indicate that IN induce apoptosis of CML cells by down-regulating Bcl-2 expression partially, and there is a potential significance in the treatment of CML.
The causal relationship between atrazine exposure and the occurrence of breast cancer in women was evaluated using the framework developed by Adami et al. (2011) wherein biological plausibility and epidemiological evidence were combined to conclude that a causal relationship between atrazine exposure and breast cancer is "unlikely". Carcinogenicity studies in female Sprague-Dawley (SD) but not Fischer-344 rats indicate that high doses of atrazine caused a decreased latency and an increased incidence of combined adenocarcinoma and fibroadenoma mammary tumors. There were no effects of atrazine on any other tumor type in male or female SD or Fischer-344 rats or in three strains of mice. Seven key events that precede tumor expression in female SD rats were identified. Atrazine induces mammary tumors in aging female SD rats by suppressing the luteinizing hormone surge, thereby supporting a state of persistent estrus and prolonged exposure to endogenous estrogen and prolactin. This endocrine mode of action has low biological plausibility for women because women who undergo reproductive senescence have low rather than elevated levels of estrogen and prolactin. Four alternative modes of action (genotoxicity, estrogenicity, upregulation of aromatase gene expression or delayed mammary gland development) were considered and none could account for the tumor response in SD rats. Epidemiological studies provide no support for a causal relationship between atrazine exposure and breast cancer. This conclusion is consistent with International Agency for Research on Cancer's classification of atrazine as "unclassifiable as to carcinogenicity" and the United States Environmental Protection Agency's classification of atrazine as "not likely to be carcinogenic."
Hedgehog (HH) pathway Smoothened (Smo) inhibitors are active against Gorlin syndrome-associated basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and medulloblastoma where Patched (Ptch) mutations occur. We interrogated 705 epithelial cancer cell lines for growth response to the Smo inhibitor cyclopamine and for expressed HH pathway-regulated species in a linked genetic database. Ptch and Smo mutations that respectively conferred Smo inhibitor response or resistance were undetected. Previous studies revealed HH pathway activation in lung cancers. Therefore, findings were validated using lung cancer cell lines, transgenic and transplantable murine lung cancer models, and human normal-malignant lung tissue arrays in addition to testing other Smo inhibitors. Cyclopamine sensitivity most significantly correlated with high cyclin E (P=0.000009) and low insulin-like growth factor binding protein 6 (IGFBP6) (P=0.000004) levels. Gli family members were associated with response. Cyclopamine resistance occurred with high GILZ (P=0.002) expression. Newer Smo inhibitors exhibited a pattern of sensitivity similar to cyclopamine. Gain of cyclin E or loss of IGFBP6 in lung cancer cells significantly increased Smo inhibitor response. Cyclin E-driven transgenic lung cancers expressed a gene profile implicating HH pathway activation. Cyclopamine treatment significantly reduced proliferation of murine and human lung cancers. Smo inhibition reduced lung cancer formation in a syngeneic mouse model. In human normal-malignant lung tissue arrays cyclin E, IGFBP6, Gli1 and GILZ were each differentially expressed. Together, these findings indicate that Smo inhibitors should be considered in cancers beyond those with activating HH pathway mutations. This includes tumors that express genes indicating basal HH pathway activation.
Mefloquine-artesunate combination therapy for uncomplicated falciparum malaria is one of the treatments used in African children. Data concerning neurological safety in adults and children treated with mefloquine and artesunate combination therapy is well documented in Asia. Safety data for neurological and neuropsychiatric side effects of mefloquine and artesunate combination therapy in African children are scarce, although WHO recommends this therapy in Africa.
A phase IV, open label, single arm study was conducted among African children between 10 and 20 kg with acute uncomplicated falciparum malaria. They were treated over three consecutive days with a paediatric fixed-dose combination of artesunate (50 mg/d) and mefloquine (125 mg/d). Parasitological, clinical and neurological examinations and standardized questions about neuropsychiatric symptoms were carried out on days 0, 4, 7, 28 and 63. The primary objective was to assess the neurological and neuropsychiatric safety of artesunate-mefloquine combination therapy in young children.
From December 2007 to March 2009, 220 children with uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria were treated with artesunate and mefloquine. 213 children were analysed according to study protocol. 50 neurological and neuropsychiatric adverse events occurred in 28 patients. Eleven drug-related neurological and neuropsychiatric adverse events occurred in eight patients. Sleeping disorders were present in 2.3%, neurological disorders in 1.4%, neuropsychiatric disorders in 1% and eating disorders in 0.5% of the patients. Adverse events were of mild to moderate intensity and resolved spontaneously.
African children showed a low percentage of self-limited neurological and neuropsychiatric adverse events, confirming studies on neurological safety in Asian children treated with artesunate and mefloquine. Sleeping disorders were most frequently observed.
We report the end result of clonazepam (CZP) withdrawal in 13 patients with significant side effects felt to be due to CZP. The present observations supplement the recent report in Seizure by Chataway et al., in proposing a safe CZP withdrawal rate of 0.2 mg/day. Eight of the patients had withdrawal seizures, five had withdrawal symptoms and four patients had no withdrawal problems at all. Ultimately all the patients came off CZP, mainly quite rapidly (3-30 days) with the initial side effects regressing totally in 11 patients.
To further understand the procognitive actions of GSK189254, a histamine H(3) receptor antagonist, we determined its influence on the modulation of hippocampal neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) polysialylation (PSA) state, a necessary neuroplastic mechanism for learning and memory consolidation. A 4-day treatment with GSK189254 significantly increased basal expression of dentate polysialylated cells in rats with the maximal effect being observed at 0.03-0.3 mg/kg. At the optimal dose (0.3 mg/kg), GSK189254 enhanced water maze learning and the associated transient increase in NCAM-polysialylated cells. The increase in dentate polysialylated cell frequency induced by GSK189254 was not attributable to enhanced neurogenesis, although it did induce a small, but significant, increase in the survival of these newborn cells. GSK189254 (0.3 mg/kg) was without effect on polysialylated cell frequency in the entorhinal and perirhinal cortex, but significantly increased the diffuse PSA staining observed in the anterior, ventromedial, and dorsomedial aspects of the hypothalamus. Consistent with its ability to enhance the learning-associated, post-training increases in NCAM PSA state, GSK189254 (0.3 mg/kg) reversed the amnesia induced by scopolamine given in the 6-h post-training period after training in an odor discrimination paradigm. Moreover, GSK189254 significantly improved the performance accuracy of a delayed match-to-position paradigm, a task dependent on the prefrontal cortex and degree of cortical arousal, the latter may be related to enhanced NCAM PSA-associated plasticity in the hypothalamus. The procognitive actions of H3 antagonism combined with increased NCAM PSA expression may exert a disease-modifying action in conditions harboring fundamental deficits in NCAM-mediated neuroplasticity, such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease.
Neuropathy is one of the many complications of diabetes mellitus, along with micro- and macroangiopathy. Chronic sensorimotor distal symmetric polyneuropathy is the most common form between neuropathies; more than 30% of the diabetic patients are affected by this complication. Treatment is based on three cornerstones: (1) multifactorial intervention aimed at normoglycemia; (2) drugs that target pathogenic mechanisms and (3) symptomatic treatment. Among pathogenic treatments, alpha-lipoic acid and benfotiamine are available in several countries. Neuropathic pain, which affects 8-26% of diabetic patients, exerts a substantial impact on the quality of life. Among the centrally acting analgesic drugs, tricyclic antidepressants, carbamazepine, gabapentin and opioids have been mainly used to treat neuropathic pain. More recently, significant pain relief has been reported using agents such as duloxetine, a dual selective serotonin noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, and pregabalin, an anticonvulsant, a specific modulator of the alpha2delta subunit of the voltage-dependent calcium channels. Until now, at least 50 new molecular entities have reached clinical stage of development. Strategies that may show promise over existing treatments include topical therapies, analgesic combinations and, in future, gene-related therapies.
Cinnamaldehyde from the bark of Cinnamomum cassia has been reported to have antitumor activity mediated by the inhibition of farnesyl transferase. We assessed in vivo the chemo-preventive effect of cinnamaldehydes on H-ras12V-induced hepatocellular carcinoma formation. A mouse model of hepatocellular carcinoma was established by using the transgene of mutated H-ras12V under the regulation of albumin enhancer/promoter. When treated with cinnamaldehyde for 10 weeks, hepatic tumor development was delayed with 2'-benzoyloxycinnamaldehyde (BCA) compared with control hepatocellular carcinoma formation. The effect of 2'-hydroxycinnamaldehyde (HCA) was comparable. The number of lesions and the size of each lesion were significantly reduced by BCA. Cell proliferation in the lesion was detected by incorporation of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU). BCA increased the number of splenocytes, concanavalin A-stimulated splenocyte proliferation and the infiltration of lymphocytes into liver. Data suggest that the delayed hepatic tumor development observed with BCA could be mediated by a long-term immunostimulating effect on T cells.
There is a strong association between porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) and chronic viral hepatitis C. Therapy for chronic viral hepatitis C may improve PCT. However, there are only a few reports of the de novo development of PCT during therapy for chronic viral hepatitis C. We describe the development of PCT in a 56-year-old patient with chronic viral hepatitis C after 12 wk of peginterferon/ribavirin therapy. In addition, the patient was homozygous for the H63D hereditary hemochromatosis gene (HFE) mutation. The association of PCT with chronic viral hepatitis C and the possible role of hepatic iron overload and ribavirin-induced hemolytic anemia in the development of PCT during therapy for chronic viral hepatitis C are discussed.
Between 1972 and 1988, 869 adult patients received MOPP (mechlorethamine, vincristine, procarbazine and prednisone; 462 patients) or ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine; 373 patients) and subsequent high-dose irradiation for Hodgkin's disease. Nine patients developed a leukaemia after MOPP and four after ABVD; 11 patients were diagnosed as acute non-lymphoblastic leukaemia (ANLL) and two as acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). Both cases of ALL were observed after ABVD and were associated with a 11q23 translocation. The 15-year actuarial risk of secondary leukaemia was 2.4% for the whole group of patients, 3.4% after MOPP and 1.3% after ABVD. For the MOPP subgroup, the risk of leukaemia was significantly associated with the extent of irradiation: 2.4% for limited irradiation and 13.9% for extended irradiation (P < 0.001). For the ABVD subgroup, this risk remained low (1.3%) whatever the type of irradiation. Concerning ANLL, the MOPP regimen was significantly associated with a higher risk: 3.4% versus 0.7% for ABVD (P<or=0.05). The 15-year risk of ALL was 0.6 after ABVD regimen. This study demonstrated that ABVD induced less ANLL than MOPP. However, a low risk of ALL with a 11q23 translocation related to topoisomerase II inhibitors was observed.
We attempted to relieve the marked overactivity known to occur in the lateral segment of the globus pallidus (GPL) in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) by unilateral stereotaxic ibotenic acid lesioning of the GPL in 4 monkeys with MPTP-induced parkinsonism. Two already dyskinetic animals were pallidotomized to counteract LID once established, while 2 L-DOPA-naive MPTP-treated animals were pallidotomized before L-DOPA was ever administered in an attempt to prevent the development of the process conductive to LID. Acutely after the lesion, more prominent akinesia (particularly in the contralateral limbs) with contraversive body deviation and circling behavior were seen for 48 h. Flexor posturing of the contralateral forelimb persisted to a variable degree. When L-DOPA treatment was resumed or instituted 1 week postoperatively, ipsiversive circling behavior occurred in all animals and contralateral dyskinesia worsened in 3, whether L-DOPA or a selective dopamine D2 agonist was administered. Lesions in these 3 cases were fairly restricted to the GPL histologically. One monkey kept L-DOPA-naive before pallidotomy never developed LID contralaterally to the lesion despite treatment for several months. The lesion this time involved the entire GP. The fact that ablation of the GPL worsened LID suggests that a complex rearrangement of the balance of functional capacity between the GP and the subthalamic nucleus takes place in LID which is not amenable to correction merely by a lateral pallidotomy. Our observations also suggest that functional redundancy exists in striatopallidal circuits and that no single pathway is responsible for LID.
Non-operative management for patients with fistula-in-ano in infancy using a traditional herbal medicine Ginseng and Tang-kuei Ten Combination (GTTC) is described.
A total of 22 patients with peri-anal abscess or fistula-in-ano were treated with GTTC. Eighteen patients showed no improvement using the conventional non-operative management (frequent curettage of abscess cavity), after which administration of GTTC was commenced. The other four patients received GTTC from the beginning of their treatment. A dose of 0.1-0.2 g/kg of GTTC was given orally twice a day. The period between onset of peri-anal abscess and the commencement of GTTC (pre-GTTC period) was compared to the period until remission after administration of GTTC (post-GTTC period). The relationship between the GTTC dose, age at onset of peri-anal abscess, post-GTTC period, and relapse rates were investigated.
Twenty-one patients reached remission, but a 4-year-old boy failed to reach remission and he required fistelectomy. Pre-GTTC periods were from 11 days to 3 years (median 50 days) and statistically longer than post-GTTC periods (4-65 days, median 7 days). There was a reverse correlation between the age at onset of peri-anal abscess and post-GTTC period (r = -044, P < 0.05). There was no statistical correlation between the dose of GTTC and post-GTTC period. Five patients showed relapse after discontinuing GTTC, all of them could be resolved with augmentation of the dose. The onset of peri-anal abscess in patients who relapsed were all < 3 months of age.
Ginseng and Tang-kuei Ten Combination seemed to accelerate the recovery of patients with fistula-in-ano in infancy.
To elucidate the effects of blood ribavirin disposition on ribavirin-induced anemia, the relationship between erythrocyte ribavirin concentration and change in hematologic parameters was examined in interferon and ribavirin combination therapy for HCV eradication.
Nine HCV RNA-positive patients were treated with combination therapy including 11.3 +/- 1.2 mg.kg(-1).day(-1) of ribavirin. Blood concentrations of ribavirin and its phosphorylated metabolites were measured in plasma as well as erythrocyte.
Blood ribavirin concentrations gradually increased to steady-state levels of 8.8 +/- 1.4 micromol/L and 1389 +/- 371 micromol/L in plasma and erythrocytes, respectively, within 3-4 weeks of initiating therapy. Erythrocyte phosphorylated metabolite levels (1215 +/- 302 micromol/L) were found to be exceedingly high, i.e., 87% of the measured erythrocyte ribavirin concentration. In contrast, plasma phosphorylated metabolite levels were undetectable. Positive correlation was found to exist between erythrocyte ribavirin concentrations and a decrease in hemoglobin (r = 0.620, P < 0.001).
We concluded that marked elevation of erythrocyte ribavirin including its phosphorylated metabolites was associated with hemoglobin reduction, leading to interferon and ribavirin-induced anemia.
Minoxidil and other potent vasodilators cause coronary arterial injury, right atrial hemorrhagic lesions, and subendocardial necrosis in dogs. This paper discusses the pathogenesis of coronary arterial and right atrial lesions associated with minoxidil in the dog. Acute coronary vascular injury characterized by segmental medial hemorrhage and necrosis and perivascular inflammation occurred only during the first few days of treatment, after which tolerance to further acute injury developed. At 30 d or more of treatment, coronary vascular injury was characterized by perivascular fibrosis rarely attended by medial distortion or hyperplasia and subintimal thickening, changes consistent with responses to previous injury. Right atrial hemorrhagic lesions, unlike coronary vascular injury, often became progressively more extensive with continued treatment. At 3 d, atrial hemorrhage and inflammation were confined to the subepicardium of the right atrium, evidently around affected subepicardial branches of the right coronary artery. At 30 d, fibrovascular proliferative right atrial lesions (granulation tissue with evidence of continual hemorrhage) extended from the epicardium to the myocardium, with eventual replacement of the atrial wall by mature connective tissue at 1 yr of treatment. Minoxidil-induced cardiovascular lesions were not prevented by treatment with a beta-blocker (propranolol), or an alpha-blocker (dibenzylene), or by sympathetic neural activity suppression (surgical sympathectomy or constant carotid sinus nerve stimulation), suggesting that the sympathetic response to the pharmacologic activity of minoxidil was not responsible for the induction of the cardiovascular lesions. Minoxidil-related vascular lesions were confined to the most pharmacologically responsive segment of the arterial system, the coronary arteries, suggesting that medial injury may have been associated with tensile changes in the arterial wall.
Clozapine causes few extrapyramidal symptoms and is recommended as a treatment drug for severe tardive dyskinesia (TD). However, several case reports have suggested that clozapine could also cause TD. We investigated whether clozapine used as a first-line antipsychotic drug can cause TD.
We identified 101 patients at Yanbian Socio-Mental Hospital and Yanbian Brain Hospital in China who had received clozapine as a primary antipsychotic drug since their first episode of illness and evaluated the prevalence rate, type, and severity of TD using the Extrapyramidal Symptoms Rating Scale (ESRS). The criterion for TD was a score of > or = 3 on one item or 2 on two or more items of the ESRS.
The mean age and duration of illness of the patients were 38.93+/-8.36 and 12.88+/-6.90 years, respectively. The mean duration of clozapine treatment was 12.10+/-6.26 years. The prevalence of TD was 3.96% (4/101). Compared to patients without TD, patients with TD had a long duration of illness and clozapine treatment; all had the orolingual type of TD. TD was relatively mild, with a mean score of 4.75, and tended to accentuate with an activation procedure of rapid pronation and supination of the hands.
These results suggest that clozapine may cause TD; however, the prevalence is low and the severity is relatively mild, with no or mild self-reported discomfort. Therefore, we recommend that regular examination for TD using the activation procedure should be performed in patients who use clozapine on a long-term basis.
Intermittent bolus administration of calcitriol--i.e., 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol or 1,25-(OH)2D3--is highly efficacious in dialysis patients. In experimental studies, intermittent administration of calcitriol is superior to continuous administration in suppressing preproparathyroid hormone (PTH) mRNA and circulating PTH concentrations. In a randomized, prospective, open multicenter trial 45 dialysis patients with elevated 1,84-iPTH (> or = 20 pmol/l, normal 1-6 pmol/l) levels were randomly allocated to daily administration of 0.75 microgram calcitriol (continuous) or twice weekly administration (intermittent); the two protocols provided an identical total weekly doses of 5.25 micrograms calcitriol. Patients were dialyzed with a dialysate Ca concentration of 1.75 mmol/l and had oral CaCO3 or Ca acetate. 1,84-iPTH (immunoradiometric assay) and serum Ca and Pi levels were measured weekly. At the beginning of the study, the median 1,84-iPTH value was 37 pmol/l (range 20-115) in the intermittent versus 36 pmol/l (range 21-72) in the continuous calcitriol group. After 2 weeks, the median 1,84-iPTH level was 18.5 pmol/l (range 1.4-106) versus 18 pmol/l (range 1.2-48). After 12 weeks, 11 of 21 of the patients in the intermittent and 18 of 24 patients in the continuous group had reached the treatment goal, i.e., 1,84-iPTH < or = 10 pmol/l without hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia. There were seven episodes of hypercalcemia (> 2.7 mmol/l) in the intermittent versus two in the continuous group; the mean peak Ca level was 2.8 mmol/l (range 2.76-3.0) versus 2.9 mmol/l (range 2.74-3.06). There were 21 versus 17 episodes, respectively, of hyperphosphatemia (> 2.2 mmol/l).
Oxidative stress and inflammation processes are key components of atherosclerosis, from fatty streak formation to plaque rupture and thrombosis. Evidence has revealed that calcium-channel blockers (CCB) could retard atherogenesis, but the exact mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. The present study was undertaken to investigate the potential effects and molecular mechanisms of the CCB felodipine on the process of atherosclerosis in high-cholesterol-diet (HCD) apolipoprotein E-knockout (ApoE KO) mice. Adult male ApoE KO mice were given a normal diet (ND) or HCD and were randomized to no treatment or felodipine (5 mg / kg per day for 12 weeks). The ApoE KO mice with HCD were associated with a marked increase in plasma lipid levels, atherosclerotic lesion area, and the expressions of NADPH oxidase subunits (p47 and Rac-1), nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in nucleus, phosphor-inhibitors of kappaB (p-IkappaB), tumor necrosis-alpha (TNF-alpha), monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), and vascular cell-adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1). These changes were suppressed in mice that were treated with felodipine (5 mg/kg per day for 12 weeks) concomitant with HCD administration, with no significant change in systolic blood pressure and plasma lipid levels. The results suggest that felodipine can attenuate atherosclerosis, and this effect is partly related to inhibition of oxidative stress and inflammatory signal-transduction pathways, which lead to decreases in the expression of inflammatory cytokines.
We studied the relationship between the efficiency of muscarinic receptor antagonists in preventing haloperidol-induced catatonia and their activity in tests for the interaction of ligands with various subtypes of muscarinic receptors (M1-M4) in rats. Mathematical modeling showed that affinity of the ligand for M4 receptors positively affects its ability to correct extrapyramidal disorders (catatonic syndrome) produced by haloperidol, while affinity for M2 receptors had a negative effect on this characteristic.
Beta-blockers are widely used to prevent the lethal cardiac events associated with the long QT syndrome (LQTS), especially in KCNQ1-related LQTS (LQT1) patients. Some LQT1 patients, however, are refractory to this therapy.
Eighteen symptomatic LQTS patients (12 families) were genetically diagnosed as having heterozygous KCNQ1 variants and received beta-blocker therapy. Cardiac events recurred in 4 members (3 families) despite continued therapy during mean follow-up of 70 months. Three of these patients (2 families) had the same mutation [A341V (KCNQ1)]; and the other had R243H (KCNQ1). The latter patient took aprindine, which seemed to be responsible for the event. By functional assay using a heterologous mammalian expression system, we found that A341V (KCNQ1) is a loss-of-function type mutation (not dominant negative). Further genetic screening revealed that one A341V (KCNQ1) family cosegregated with S706C (KCNH2) and another with G144S (KCNJ2). Functional assay of the S706C (KCNH2) mutation was found to reduce the current density of expressed heterozygous KCNH2 channels with a positive shift (+8 mV) of the activation curve. Action potential simulation study was conducted based on the KYOTO model to estimate the influence of additional gene modifiers. In both models mimicking LQT1 plus 2 and LQT1 plus 7, the incidence of early afterdepolarization was increased compared with the LQT1 model under the setting of beta-adrenergic stimulation.
Multiple mutations in different LQTS-related genes may modify clinical characteristics. Expanded gene survey may be required in LQT1 patients who are resistant to beta-blocker therapy.
The aim of this study was to investigate the potential association between functional polymorphisms of dopaminergic [dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2), dopamine receptor D3 (DRD3) and dopamine transporter (SLC6A3)] and serotonergic [serotonin 2A receptor (HTR2A) and serotonin transporter (SLC6A4)] genes and treatment outcome in alcohol-dependent patients.
A total of 90 Spanish Caucasian alcohol-dependent outpatients (ICD-10 criteria) were enrolled in the study. The association between genotypes and drinking outcomes was measured over 6 months of treatment. Biomarkers of alcohol consumption, as well as alcohol consumption and its consequences, craving, disability and quality of life, were assessed. Based on those measures, we created a composite secondary measure to globally assess treatment outcome in alcoholism.
No association was found between DRD2, DRD3, SLC6A3 or HTR2A gene variants and treatment outcome. However, SLC6A4 STin2 12/12 carriers showed poor 6-month time point treatment outcome [32.8% in the good outcome group versus 64.0% in the poor outcome group, chi(2) (df) = 7.20 (1), corrected P = 0.042, OR (95% CI) = 0.27 (0.10-0.72)]. Nevertheless, independent analysis of each treatment group reveals that the excess of 12/12 carriers in the poor outcome group was only found in the naltrexone-treated group [24.1% versus 64.7% chi(2) (df) = 7.41 (1), corrected P = 0.042, OR (95% CI) = 0.17 (0.05-0.64)]. In the whole sample, the L-10 repeats haplotype (5-HTTLPR-STin2 VNTR) is associated with good outcome (LRT = 3.88, df = 1, P = 0.049).
Our findings suggest that functional polymorphism of the SLC6A4 gene may have an influence on treatment outcome in alcohol-dependent patients.
