Cellular activity of the tumor suppressor protein p53 is primarily regulated by posttranslational modifications. Phosphorylation of the COOH terminus, including Ser389, is thought to result in a conformational change of the p53 protein, enhancing DNA binding and transcriptional activity. In vitro studies presented here show that, in addition to UV radiation, Ser389 is phosphorylated upon exposure to 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF). Both agents induce bulky DNA adducts repaired by nucleotide excision repair (NER). In contrast, ionizing radiation, known to induce DNA damage not repaired by NER, does not result in Ser389 phosphorylation. Previously, we have shown that p53.S389A mutant mice, lacking the Ser389 phosphorylation site, are sensitive to developing UV-induced skin tumors. Here, we show that p53.S389A mice are also prone to developing 2-AAF-induced urinary bladder tumors, whereas no increased tumor response was found upon ionizing irradiation. These results provide evidence for our hypothesis that phosphorylation of Ser389 is important for activation of p53 to exert its function as a tumor suppressor not exclusively upon the presence of UV-induced DNA damage, but also upon exposure to other bulky adduct-inducing agents. Analysis of 2-AAF- and UV-induced tumors from p53.S389A mice revealed the presence of additional p53 mutations, indicating that lack of Ser389 phosphorylation by itself is not sufficient to abrogate p53 function in tumor suppression. In addition, analyses of skin tumors of p53.S389A mice revealed an interesting hotspot mutation previously found exclusively in NER-deficient mice and patients.
We report our experience in 17 pediatric orthotopic liver transplant (OLT) patients converted from cyclosporine (CsA) to FK506 for intractable acute and chronic rejection. FK506 was initiated orally at a dose of 0.3 mg/kg/day in most patients; the dose was then adjusted to achieve serum levels of 0.5-1.5 ng/ml. Azathioprine was discontinued and low-dose prednisone maintained. The median time between liver transplantation and FK506 conversion was 41 months. Patients have been treated for an average of 14.8 +/- 9.6 months. Six patients were converted for acute rejection and 11 for chronic rejection, i.e., vanishing bile duct syndrome (VBDS). After FK506 conversion, the actual patient and graft survival was 88% and 82%, respectively, in the group as a whole. Two patients died, one of chronic active hepatitis C and the other of lymphoma. Three patients, all with VBDS, did not respond to FK506 and therefore required retransplantation. The serum bilirubin is currently normal in 14 patients and the serum transaminases < 100 IU/ml in 12. The mean bilirubin pre-FK506 of patients successfully converted to FK506 was 4.2 mg/dl compared to 11.8 mg/dl in patients who failed conversion. Major complications included nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity, and lymphoma. The mean glomerular filtration rate (GFR) of 97 +/- 29 mls/min/1.73m2 prior to FK506 conversion dropped to 51 +/- 20 mls/min/1.73m2 (p = 0.0001) after a mean of 13.6 months of FK506 therapy. Three patients have developed B-cell lymphomas; two of them responded to decreased immunosuppression and one died. We conclude that intractable liver graft rejection in children is most successfully reversed if FK506 is instituted before cholestasis becomes pronounced.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Inflammatory bowel diseases have been a risk factor of colorectal cancer (CRC). The reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by inflammatory cells create oxidative stress and contribute to neoplastic transformation, proliferation, and even metastasis. Previously, resveratrol (RS) and pterostilbene (PS) had been reported to prevent chemical-induced colon carcinogenesis by anti-inflammatory and pro-apoptotic properties. In this study, we investigated whether RS and PS could prevent the azoxymethane (AOM)-induced colon tumorigenesis via antioxidant action and to explore possible molecular mechanisms. Male BALB/c mice were injected with AOM (5 mg/kg of body weight) with or without RS or PS, and at the end of the protocol, all of the mice were euthanized and colons were analyzed. Administrations of PS can be more effective than RS in reducing AOM-induced formation of aberrant crypt foci (ACF), lymphoid nodules (LNs), and tumors. We also find that PS is functioning more effectively than RS to reduce nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation by inhibiting the phosphorylation of protein kinase C-β2 (PKC-β2) and decreasing downstream target gene expression, including inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and aldose reductase (AR) in mouse colon stimulated by AOM. Moreover, administration of RS and PS for 6 weeks significantly enhanced expression of antioxidant enzymes, such as heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and glutathione reductase (GR), via activation of NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling. When the above findings are taken together, they suggest that both stilbenes block cellular inflammation and oxidative stress through induction of HO-1 and GR, thereby preventing AOM-induced colon carcinogenesis. In comparison, PS was a more potent chemopreventive agent than RS for the prevention of colon cancer. This is also the first study to demonstrate that PS is a Nrf2 inducer and AR inhibitor in the AOM-treated colon carcinogenesis model.
The protective effect of piperacillin against the nephrotoxicity of cephaloridine and gentamicin was examined in experimental animals. In rabbits, piperacillin was infused at a dose of 1 mg/kg (body weight) per min over 225 min and cephaloridine (300 mg/kg) was intravenously administered as a bolus 45 min after the start of a drip infusion. Blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) in urine were measured as the renal toxicological parameters before and 24 h after cephaloridine dosing. Although the single administration of cephaloridine significantly elevated these parameters, the elevation was prevented by the concomitant administration of piperacillin. The protective effect of piperacillin was superior to those of cephalothin and fosfomycin. In rats, piperacillin (1,000 mg/kg) was intravenously administered and immediately followed by the intramuscular administration of gentamicin (100 mg/kg) every 24 h for 5 days. When piperacillin was concomitantly administered with gentamicin, the elevations of blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine, and urinary NAG were significantly lower than when gentamicin was given alone. The concomitant administration of piperacillin resulted in a significant protective effect against the nephrotoxicity of cephaloridine in rabbits and of gentamicin in rats. Histopathological observation also supported the protective effect of piperacillin. The protective mechanism of piperacillin might be the inhibition of transport from the peritubular side to tubular cells for cephaloridine and from both the peritubular and luminal sides for gentamicin.
In a 19-year old man a loculated brain abscess developed in a contusional lesion subsequent to head injury. He remained an inpatient at the hospital during the entire time from trauma to operation. The patient had received dexamethasone because of elevated intracranial pressure, and he was supervised via computerised tomography. Besides pre-operative differential diagnosis, the pathogenesis of this septic complication caused by steroids without antibiotics is discussed in the light of recent literature.
Convenience of medicine-taking and lack of side effects are two major factors that favor compliance. Using a simple and convenient once-a-day regimen of minoxidil, nadolol, and chlorthalidone, we treated successfully 30 patients with moderate to severe hypertension. All patients were previously taking at least three medications, usually three to four times a day. Treatment was started with nadolol (160 mg) and chlorthalidone (50 mg) once daily. If diastolic blood pressure remained above 90 mmHg, minoxidil was added at a starting dose of 2.5 mg/day and increased weekly until blood pressure was controlled or the maximum dose of 100 mg/day was reached. The average blood pressure decreased from 170.9/107.0 mmHg (sitting) and 174.1/110.8 mmHg (standing), before the addition of minoxidil, to 138.8/86.7 mmHg (sitting) and 140.0/89.5 mmHg (standing), at the third month of minoxidil therapy. At the sixth month of minoxidil therapy, the figures were 140.9/86.3 and 141.9/89.8 mmHg. With this single-dose program, smooth blood pressure control throughout 24 hours was documented by 24-hour ambulatory blood-pressure monitoring. Hypertrichosis was common but was bothersome only to women patients. Pericardial effusions occurred in five patients, but they were all small and asymptomatic. Subjective side effects of the regimen were usually so mild that all patients who completed the study decided to remain on the same regimen.
Vanishing bile duct syndrome (VBDS) is a rare disorder and requires a liver biopsy for a diagnosis. The condition has not been reported in children with toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN). The etiology of VBDS in our patient with TEN is most likely from drug hypersensitivity. A high index of suspicion will prompt clinicians to start more specific investigations and treatments. The use of immunosuppressive agents, intravenous immunoglobulin and ursodeoxycholic acid has not been consistently successful in these patients. A new approach with biologic agents such as anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha may be a promising therapy and reduce severe adverse outcomes.
The protection against bradycardia afforded by atropine given intravenously just prior to a second dose of suxamethonium during halothane inhalation anaesthesia was studied in 100 healthy, adult patients randomly allocated to one of five groups characterized by dosage of atropine. ECG monitoring was continuous, and regular determinations were made of serum potassium, PaCO2, PaO2 and blood pressure. Slowing of the heart rate was seen in more than 50% of patients in each group, but bradycardia (heart rate less than 60 beats/min) was seen only in patients receiving the lowest dose of atropine--0.0075 mg/kg. In the other four groups (atropine 0.01 mg/kg-0.02 mg/kg), bradycardia prophylaxis was effective, but at the cost of serious ventricular arrhythmias in 15% of the patients. The incidence of these arrhythmias seemed to increase with increasing atropine dosage. Marked tachycardia was also seen. Because of the incidence of side effects in this and other studies, no absolute recommendation can be made about suxamethonium bradycardia prophylaxis during halothane inhalation anaesthesia, but our present experience suggests that atropine in a dose not exceeding 0.01 mg/kg, given 30 s prior to a second dose of suxamethonium is best.
We studied the features and frequency of sensory neuropathy among 79 HIV-1-infected individuals participating in a multicenter clinical trial of zalcitabine (2'3'-dideoxycytidine, or ddC) antiretroviral therapy. The trial compared zalcitabine monotherapy (2.25 mg/day) versus combination therapy (2.25 mg/day ddC) with zidovudine (ZDV, formerly AZT) versus monotherapy with ZDV alone. Neuropathy developed in 34% of ddC recipients but in only 4% of comparable patients treated with ZDV alone--a 7.9-fold increase in the attack rate of neuropathy. Using risk factor analysis, we found that diabetes mellitus was significantly associated with the development of toxic neuropathy (p = 0.02), and weight loss may contribute to its appearance. Like HIV-associated sensory neuropathy, ddC-related toxic neuropathy is a predominantly sensory, length-dependent, symmetric, painful neuropathy. Dose reduction lessened the severity of symptoms, although objective signs of neuropathy persisted. Patients with subclinical neuropathies or significant neuropathy risks such as diabetes may be poor candidates for ddC therapy.
Betulinic acid (BA), a pentacyclic triterpene first identified less than a decade ago, has served as a melanoma-specific cytotoxic agent, and yet its specificity is being challenged. Recently, we found that human melanoma cells exhibited less sensitivity to betulinic acid than human skin keratinocytes. This study was designed to investigate the cell signaling pathway leading human melanoma cells to increased resistance to betulinic acid treatment. In vitro experiments using cultured human melanoma cells indicated that betulinic acid transiently induced survivin expression. The expression of survivin started 30 min post-betulinic acid treatment, peaked at 2 h, remained elevated for 8 h and returned to basal level within 24 h. Similarly, epithelial growth factor (EGF) treatment induced expression of survivin in a time-dependent manner. Since epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) activation leads to the activation of cell signaling components that are important to cell survival, we next examined whether BA-induced survivin expression is mediated by the EGFR pathway. The results showed that BA induced EGFR tyrosine phosphorylation in a time-dependent manner. Further, BA strongly induced AKT phosphorylation in a similar pattern. AKT activation started 15 min post-treatment, peaked at approximately 1 h, remained elevated for 4 h and returned to basal level within 8 h. BA also induced ERK activation and, in contrast, weakly induced JNK and p38 activation. Pretreatment of EGFR inhibitor PD153035 blocked BA-induced EGFR phosphorylation, ERK and AKT activation, and survivin expression. Results of the MTT dye assay showed that a combination of PD153035 and BA enhanced melanoma cell death. Collectively, we conclude that betulinic acid transiently activated the EGFR/AKT cell survival pathway and induced survivin expression, contributing to less sensitivity in human melanoma cells. The data suggest that a combination of the EGFR inhibitor and betulinic acid may be a better clinical option to treat human melanoma.
Genome-wide association studies have identified 8q24 region variants as risk factors for prostate cancer. In the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective study of licensed pesticide applicators, we observed increased prostate cancer risk with specific pesticide use among those with a family history of prostate cancer. Thus, we evaluated the interaction among pesticide use, 8q24 variants, and prostate cancer risk. The authors estimated odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) for interactions among 211 8q24 variants, 49 pesticides, and prostate cancer risk in 776 cases and 1,444 controls. The ORs for a previously identified variant, rs4242382, and prostate cancer increased significantly (P<0.05) with exposure to the organophosphate insecticide fonofos, after correction for multiple testing, with per allele ORnonexposed of 1.17 (95% CI, 0.93-1.48), per allele OR(low) of 1.30 (95% CI, 0.75-2.27), and per allele ORhigh of 4.46 (95% CI, 2.17-9.17; P-interaction=0.002, adjusted P-interaction=0.02). A similar effect modification was observed for three other organophosphate insecticides (coumaphos, terbufos, and phorate) and one pyrethroid insecticide (permethrin). Among ever users of fonofos, subjects with three or four risk alleles at rs7837328 and rs4242382 had approximately three times the risk of prostate cancer (OR, 3.14; 95% CI, 1.41-7.00) compared with subjects who had zero risk alleles and never used fonofos. We observed a significant interaction among variants on chromosome 8q24, pesticide use, and risk of prostate cancer. Insecticides, particularly organophosphates, were the strongest modifiers of risk, although the biological mechanism is unclear. This is the first report of effect modification between 8q24 and an environmental exposure on prostate cancer risk.
Our in vivo assay for thrombolysis consisted of recording the weight of platelet-rich thrombi adhering to a collagen strip that was superfused with arterial blood in extracorporal circulation of anaesthetised Wistar rats. Immediate thrombolysis occurred in response to intravenously administrated angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE-I) at non-hypotensive doses of 3-30 microg kg(-1) (captopril<perindopril<quinapril). The thrombolytic response lasted up to 3 h with maximum reduction of the weight of thrombus by 75%. Pretreatment with COX-1 and COX-3 inhibitors (aspirin at a low dose of 1 mg kg(-1), SC 560 and acetaminophen, 0.3-3 mg kg(-1)) slightly augmented thrombolysis by ACE-I, while COX-2 inhibitors (nimesulide and coxibs at doses <1 mg kg(-1) and aspirin at a high dose of 50 mg kg(-1)) or a kinin B2 receptor antagonist (icatibant) abolished it. NOS inhibition by L-NAME blunted and delayed thrombolysis by ACE-I. In parallel to maximum thrombolysis by quinapril (30 microg kg(-1)), plasma levels of 6-keto-PGF1alpha rose significantly from 40 +/- 7 to 554 +/- 91 pg ml(-1) (n=5, mean +/- S.D.), while basal levels of PGE2 (12 +/- 3 pg ml(-1)) and TXB2 (47 +/- 11 pg ml(-1)) remained essentially unchanged. Pretreatment with celecoxib (0.1-1.0 mg kg(-1)) abolished not only thrombolysis by quinapril but also the quinapril-induced rise in plasma 6-keto-PGF1alpha. In cultured bovine aortic endothelial cells, perindoprilate (30 microM) increased cytosolic free calcium [Ca2+]i, but this effect was by three to four orders of magnitude weaker than that of bradykinin (Bk). In aortas of Wistar rats, the transcripts of COX-2 and PGI-S were overexpressed as compared to COX-1. Thus, in blood vessels of Wistar rats, the preferable route of the PGI2 generation might lead through the COX-2 pathway. We conclude that in Wistar rats, ACE-I induces thrombolysis via accumulation of endogenous kinins over the endothelium and a subsequent activation of B2 receptors followed by the release of prostacyclin and nitric oxide. Thrombolysis by ACE-I seems to be mediated mainly through prostacyclin that is made by COX-2. It may well be that an increase in endothelial [Ca2+]i by ACE-I activates phospholipase A2, which supplies COX-2 with the substrate for making thrombolytic prostacyclin.
The objective was to investigate whether peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) Thr394Thr and Gly482Ser polymorphisms influence rosiglitazone response in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Among the 241 patients enrolled in genotyping for PGC-1α Thr394Thr and Gly482Ser polymorphisms by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism assay, 41 patients with different Thr394Thr or Gly482Ser genotypes received oral rosiglitazone (4 mg/d) for 12 consecutive weeks. Carriers of A allele of Thr394Thr had high density lipoprotein-cholesterol that was enhanced to a lesser degree and smaller attenuated postprandial serum insulin compared with G alleles (P < .05), and patients with PGC-1α Gly482Gly had fasting plasma glucose that was attenuated to a greater degree (P < .01) and postprandial serum insulin (P < .05) compared with Gly482Ser+Ser482Ser. After rosiglitazone treatment, carriers of A allele of Thr394Thr and Ser allele of Gly482Ser showed a trend in worsening for GG (P < .05) and a significant therapeutic response to rosiglitazone for Gly/Gly (P < .05). These data suggest that the PGC-1α Thr394Thr and Gly482Ser polymorphisms are associated with therapeutic efficacy of multiple-dose rosiglitazone in Chinese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Castleman's is an uncommon lymphoproliferative disorder secondary to lymphoid follicle hyperplasia and marked capillary proliferation with endothelial hyperplasia. This illness can be associated with glomerulonephritis (GN). Here, we report a case with steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome secondary to proliferative mesangial glomerulonephritis in a patient with Castleman's disease, that was diagnosed several years before. Considering the involvement of IL-6 in Castleman's disease we treated the patient with thalidomide obtaining the remission of the nephrotic syndrome. Our experience suggests a possible role of thalidomide in the treatment of glomerular pathology when a role of IL-6 is hypothesized.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate late cardiac toxicity by comprehensive echocardiographic study, and to determine whether plasma atrial natriuretic peptide and brain natriuretic peptide levels might be indicators of neurohumoral activation. The study included 49 long-term survivors and 21 controls. A wide variety of echocardiographic parameters were measured or calculated. Plasma peptide levels were determined. Patients had significant changes in different echocardiographic parameters that are suggestive of LV systolic and diastolic dysfunction. Plasma peptide levels were not increased. The authors have found significant subclinic cardiotoxicity by echocardiography. Survivors seem to have normal plasma natriuretic peptide levels in long-term period.
A deep-vein thrombosis developed in a 71-year-old patient on the eleventh day of heparin treatment (25,000 U intravenously over 24 hours) given because of a nontransmural anterior-wall infarct. Subsequently there occurred a unilateral and then bilateral thrombotic occlusion of the femoral arteries and thrombosis of the infrarenal artery with occlusion of the right renal artery which necessitated operative thrombectomy. Platelet count, initially 370,000/microliters, fell to 34,000/microliters. No source of emboli was found either echocardiographically or by thoracic and abdominal computed tomography. After heparin administration had been discontinued on the 15th day, platelet count quickly returned to normal. Rapidly progressing demarcation necessitated amputation of both legs. The patient died on the 23rd hospital day. The reported findings indicate a heparin-induced thrombosis-thrombocytopenia syndrome.
Agmatine (decarboxylated arginine) is an endogenous ligand at alpha-2 adrenergic and imidazoline nonadrenergic receptors. In conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), we have studied its central effects on cardiovascular function and its interaction with the second generation centrally acting antihypertensive agent, rilmenidine, and the reference imidazoline, clonidine, which are mixed alpha-2 adrenoceptor/imidazoline receptor agonists. Agmatine, when administered in low doses (30-100 microg/kg) into the fourth ventricle had no effect on blood pressure and caused an increase in heart rate. A higher dose of 1,000 microg/kg produced an adverse reaction in conscious SHRs and a marked and long-lasting increase in blood pressure. The effects of fourth ventricular rilmenidine (300 microg/kg) and clonidine (10 microg/kg) were equihypotensive and equibradycardic. The antihypertensive and bradycardic effects of rilmenidine were not reversed by cumulative intracisternal doses (30-100-300 microg/kg) of agmatine. The bradycardia obtained 20 min after intracisternal administration of clonidine in the fourth ventricle was reversed by 30 microg/kg agmatine. Only the highest dose of agmatine (1,000 microg/kg) did reverse the antihypertensive effects of rilmenidine and clonidine. Agmatine neither did mimic nor block the antihypertensive response to rilmenidine and clonidine at well-tolerated doses. Yet agmatine produced a small tachycardia at relatively low doses and was able to reverse the bradycardia induced by clonidine. Therefore, its affinity for alpha-2 adrenoceptors in vitro might partially explain its cardiovascular effects in vivo.
Treating high fat fed/low dose streptozotocin-diabetic rats; model of type 2 diabetes, with ilepatril (vasopeptidase inhibitor, blocks neutral endopeptidase (NEP) and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE)) improved vascular and neural functions. Next, studies were performed to determine the individual effect of inhibition of NEP and ACE on diabetes-induced vascular and neural dysfunctions. High fat fed rats (8 weeks) were treated with 30 mg/kg streptozotocin (i.p.) and after 4 additional weeks, were treated for 12 weeks with ilepatril, enalapril (ACE inhibitor) or candoxatril (NEP inhibitor) followed by analysis of vascular and neural functions. Glucose clearance was impaired in diabetic rats and was not improved with treatment although treatment with ilepatril or candoxatril partially improved insulin stimulated glucose uptake by isolated soleus muscle. Diabetes caused slowing of motor and sensory nerve conduction, thermal hypoalgesia, reduction in intraepidermal nerve fiber (IENF) profiles and impairment in vascular relaxation to acetylcholine and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in epineurial arterioles of the sciatic nerve. Inhibition of NEP improved nerve conduction velocity and inhibition of NEP or ACE improved thermal sensitivity and protected IENF density. Ilepatril and candoxatril treatments of diabetic rats were efficacious in improving vascular responsiveness to acetylcholine in epineurial arterioles; whereas all three treatments improved vascular response to CGRP. These studies suggest that inhibition of NEP and ACE activity is an effective approach for treatment of type 2 diabetes neural and vascular complications.
The authors report on 12 men with ischemic heart disease who developed secondary depression following myocardial infarction or coronary artery bypass-graft surgery and were treated with imipramine hydrochloride for 4 weeks. Imipramine had an antiarrhythmic effect, manifested by reduction in premature ventricular contractions during treatment. This drug did not produce clinically significant disturbances in cardiac conduction, but orthostatic hypotension led to early termination of the drug treatment in 1 subject. Imipramine treatment was associated with significant improvement in both observer-rated and patient-rated depression scales.
Acromegalic patients present with volume expansion and arterial hypertension, but the renal sites and molecular mechanisms of direct antinatriuretic action of GH remain unclear. Here, we show that acromegalic GC rats, which are chronically exposed to very high levels of GH, exhibited a decrease of furosemide-induced natriuresis and an increase of amiloride-stimulated natriuresis compared with controls. Enhanced Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity and altered proteolytic maturation of epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) subunits in the cortical collecting ducts (CCDs) of GC rats provided additional evidence for an increased sodium reabsorption in the late distal nephron under chronic GH excess. In vitro experiments on KC3AC1 cells, a murine CCD cell model, revealed the expression of functional GH receptors and IGF-I receptors coupled to activation of Janus kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 5, ERK, and AKT signaling pathways. That GH directly controls sodium reabsorption in CCD cells is supported by: 1) stimulation of transepithelial sodium transport inhibited by GH receptor antagonist pegvisomant; 2) induction of alpha-ENaC mRNA expression; and 3) identification of signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 binding to a response element located in the alpha-ENaC promoter, indicative of the transcriptional regulation of alpha-ENaC by GH. Our findings provide the first evidence that GH, in concert with IGF-I, stimulates ENaC-mediated sodium transport in the late distal nephron, accounting for the pathogenesis of sodium retention in acromegaly.
The mammalian-target-of-rapamycin/mTOR-inhibitor sirolimus as a component of the immunosuppressive strategy after solid organ transplantation is effective at preventing allograft rejection. However, recent reports indicate that sirolimus is associated with altered sex hormone levels and impaired sperm quality parameters. Herein, we report on a case of sirolimus-associated infertility in a young male heart-lung transplant recipient and provide a detailed synopsis of potential mechanisms by which sirolimus may negatively influence spermatogenesis. Testicular immunohistochemistry, the course of sex hormone and sperm quality parameters of our patient support the hypothesis that mTOR might act as an important key regulator in the reproductive system. Fortunately, due to withdrawal of sirolimus as part of the maintenance, immunosuppression improved sperm quality and sex hormone parameters could be observed. Recently, these improvements even resulted in a spontaneous pregnancy of the patient's wife more than 1 year after the drug was withdrawn. In our view, oligospermia as a possible and at least partly reversible side-effect of mTOR inhibitors has to be taken into consideration, particularly, when administrated to young male patients.
The study characterizes the use of psychoactive medications among children and youth with autism-spectrum disorders over the course of a calendar year. Eighty-three percent of the sample had at least one drug claim during the year. Prescribed drugs came from 125 different therapeutic classes. The seven most frequently prescribed classes of psychoactive drugs were antidepressants, stimulants, tranquilizers/antipsychotics, anticonvulsants, hypotensive agents, anxiolytic/sedative/hypnotics, and benzodiazepines. The data on other relevant diagnoses indicate that children and youth are frequently treated with medication under an autism-spectrum diagnosis, even though the target symptoms may be commonly associated with other mental disorders. Age data indicate that about 70% of children with autism-spectrum disorders age 8 yr and up receive some form of psychoactive medication in a given year.
