Auranofin (AF) is the first oral gold therapy developed for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Since the drug was introduced in 1982, more than 100,000 patients have been treated with AF. Controlled clinical trials prior to introduction included more than 5,000 patients, some of whom received AF for more than 7 years. At the recommended dose of 6 mg/day, AF therapy results in a lower total body burden of gold than does injectable gold (IG). However, comparative studies indicate that the clinical effect of AF is comparable to that of IG. Adverse events that occur during AF therapy tend to be mild and of short duration, often resolving with continued therapy or temporarily reduced dosage. Most adverse events occur during the first few months of therapy, and the incidence diminishes over time. Data on 134 patients who received AF for more than 5 years demonstrate a sustained therapeutic effect and no cumulative toxicity from long-term therapy. In 18 comparative trials, 1,053 patients with RA received either AF (527 patients) or IG (526 patients) for up to 36 months. At 1 year, similar proportions of patients in the AF and IG groups had 50% or greater improvement in various parameters of disease activity. Safety analysis showed that AF was significantly better tolerated than IG. The rate of withdrawal because of adverse events was about twice as great in the IG group as in the AF group, both at one year (14% vs. 31%, p less than 0.05) and for the duration of the trials (18% vs. 34%, p less than 0.05). This suggests that the benefit-to-risk ratio is more favorable with AF.
The memorial effects of glutamate, LaCl3, ouabain, or anisomycin injection around the time of active avoidance training in mice were assessed in this study. Based on the Gibbs and Ng hypothesis of memory formation in chicks (Biobehav. Rev., 1 [1977] 113-136), it was predicted that these pharmacological agents would not only induce significant amnesia but, more specifically, short duration memory should be selectively impaired by glutamate and LaCl3, intermediate duration memory should be impaired by ouabain, and anisomycin should affect only long-lasting memories. Results of the experiments described below indicate these drugs are potent inhibitors of memory formation in rodents. In addition, LaCl3-induced amnesia was fully prevented by CaCl2. However, the mechanism by which glutamate and ouabain affected memory may not be exactly as described by Gibbs and Ng: gamma-D-glutamylglycine and diphenylhydantoin did not completely prevent glutamate- and ouabain-induced amnesias, respectively. Finally, all amnestic agents induced amnesia that developed within minutes of training, and the time course of development of amnesia for each drug could not be distinguished from one another. These data are discussed in terms of their implications for the Gibbs and Ng model of memory formation.
The aim of this study was to set up an animal model of dry eye showing disturbance in several components of the lacrimal functional unit, and to describe the time course of the appearance of clinical signs and inflammatory markers.
Dry eye was induced in 6-week-old female Lewis rats by a systemic and continuous delivery of scopolamine via osmotic pumps implanted subcutaneously. We first determined the appropriate dose of scopolamine (6, 12.5, or 25 mg/day) for 28 days. In a second set of experiments, we determined markers after 1, 2, 3, 7, 10, 17, or 28 days of a 12.5-mg/day dose. Clinical signs of corneal dryness were evaluated in vivo using fluorescein staining. MHC II expression and mucin Muc5AC production were detected on the conjunctival epithelium using immunostaining. The level of IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma mRNA was evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction in conjunctiva and exorbital lacrimal gland (LG). Lipids were extracted from the exorbital LG for fatty acid analysis.
Daily scopolamine doses of 12.5 mg and 25 mg applied for a 28-day period induced keratitis, a decrease in Muc5AC immunostaining density in the conjunctival epithelium, and modifications in the fatty acid composition of the exorbital LG. Animals treated with a 12.5-mg/day dose of scopolamine exhibited an increase in corneal fluorescein staining after 2, 10, and 28 days. All animals exhibited unilateral or bilateral keratitis after 17 days. In the conjunctival epithelium, a significant decrease in Muc5AC immunostaining density was observed at early and late time points, and MHC II expression tended to be increased after 1, 7, 10, and 28 days, without reaching statistical significance. The levels of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 mRNA were increased with scopolamine treatment in both conjunctiva and exorbital LG. Arachidonic acid and the Delta5 desaturase index were significantly increased in the exorbital LG of dry eye animals at each time point.
This systemic and continuous scopolamine-induced model of dry eye in the rat may represent a helpful tool to investigate moderate dry eye, and makes a contribution in the field of dry eye study.
Inhibition of fetal movement is one mechanism behind the development of multiple congenital contracture-type defects in developing fetuses of humans and animals. We tested the alkaloids anabasine, lobeline, and myosmine for agonist actions, and sensitivity to alpha conotoxins EI and GI blockade at fetal muscle-type nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) expressed by TE-671 cells. We also determined if the alkaloids decreased fetal movement in an IV dosed, day 40 pregnant goat model. In TE-671 cells, all three alkaloids elicited concentration-dependent changes in membrane potential sensing dye fluorescence. 1.0 μM alpha conotoxin GI shifted the concentration-effect curves of anabasine and myosmine to the right, and decreased maximal responses. Neither of the conotoxins blocked the actions of lobeline in TE-671 cells. In the day 40 pregnant goats, 0.8 mg/kg anabasine abolished fetal movement at 30 and 60 min after dosing and fetal movement was reduced by lobeline and myosmine. The blockade of anabasine and myosmine actions in TE-671 cells by alpha conotoxin GI indicates that they are agonists at fetal muscle-type nAChR. All three alkaloids did significantly decrease fetal movement in the day 40 pregnant goat model suggesting a potential for these alkaloids to cause multiple congenital contracture-type defects in developing fetuses.
To seek the effective treatment for peripheral neuropathy induced by chemotherapeutic drugs.
Sixty-four cases of peripheral neuropathy induced by Paclitaxel or Oxaliplatin were randomly divided into an acupuncture group and a medication group, 32 cases in each group. The acupuncture group was treated with therapeutic principle of dredging meridians and collaterals, tonifying qi and eliminating blood stasis, supplementing liver and kidney, nourishing blood and tendon. Hegu (LI 4), Taichong (LR 3), Zusanli (ST 36), Qihai (CV 6) and Quchi (LI 11) etc. were selected. The medication group was treated with intramuscular injection of Cobamamide. The neurotoxicity of two groups was compared with questionnaire of peripheral neuropathy induced by chemotherapeutic drugs before and after treatment.
The total effective rate for sensory nerve disorder of acupuncture group was 66.7% (20/30), which was superior to that of 40.0% (12/30) in medication group (P < 0.05).
Acupuncture is more effective than Cobamamide for treatment of peripheral neuropathy induced by chemotherapeutic drugs, especially for moderate and severe sensory nerve disorder induced by paclitaxel.
Arsenic (As) is a toxic metalloid existing widely in the environment, and chronic exposure to it through contaminated drinking water has become a global problem of public health. The present study focused on the protective effects of selenium on oxidative damage of chronic arsenic poisoning in rat liver. Rats were divided into four groups at random and given designed treatments for 20 weeks. The oxidative damage of liver tissue was evaluated by lipid peroxidation and antioxidant enzymes. Oxidative stress related genes were detected to reflect the liver stress state at the molecular level. Compared to the control and Na2SeO3 groups, the MDA content in liver tissue was decreased and the activities of antioxidant enzymes were increased in the Na2SeO3 intervention group. The mRNA levels of SOD1, CAT, GPx and Txnrd1 were increased significantly (P<0.05) in the combined Na2SeO3+NaAsO2 treatment group. The expressions of HSP70 and HO-1 were significantly (P<0.05) increased in the NaAsO2 group and reduced in the combined treatment group. The results indicate that long-term intake of NaAsO2 causes oxidative damage in the rat liver, and Na2SeO3 protects liver cells by adjusting the expression of oxidative stress related genes to improve the activities of antioxidant enzymes.
In order to characterize the development of orolingual motor effects of chronic haloperidol treatment in rats, this typical neuroleptic was administered for 102 days while daily measurements of tongue movement dynamics (peak force, lick rhythm, number of licks) during water licking were recorded. After chronic haloperidol dosing (vehicle, 0.06. 0.12, 0.24 mg/kg for four separate groups) for 32 days and continuing every second or third day of the chronic dosing period, the effects of cholinergic (scopolamine: 0.05-0.20 mg/kg; trihexyphenidyl: 0.15-1.0 mg/kg) or serotonergic (ritanserin: 0.5-4.0 mg/kg; quipazine: 0.5-4.0 mg/kg) probe drugs were examined for their capacity to antagonize the alterations in licking behavior induced by haloperidol. Haloperidol dose-dependently reduced peak force and number of licks, effects which were apparent within 2 or 3 days of the start of treatment. Significant effects of haloperidol on lick rhythm first emerged on day 13 and gradually increased in magnitude through the remaining treatment period. Scopolamine, trihexyphenidyl, and quipazine reduced haloperidol's effects on at least one measure of licking behavior. During a 7-day haloperidol withdrawal period, the four dosage groups were similar on all measures of tongue dynamics. Overall, the results exhibited features suggesting the co-occurrence of Parkinson-like and tardive dyskinesia-like effects.
Although cocaine dependence remains a significant public health concern, efforts to identify a pharmacotherapy have been unsuccessful. The purpose of this study was to assess the safety, tolerability, and subject-rated effects of intranasal cocaine during maintenance on aripiprazole, a novel antipsychotic with partial agonist activity at monoamine receptors implicated in the effects of cocaine. To this end, eight cocaine dependent subjects were maintained on 10 mg oral aripiprazole and placebo in counterbalanced order prior to assessing the physiological and subject-rated effects of intranasal cocaine (4, 20, 40, and 60 mg). Aripiprazole was generally devoid of effects, but did alter temperature-increasing and subject-rated effects of cocaine as a function of cocaine dose.
The role of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors in the action of anxiolytics was examined. Deletion of CB(1) receptors resulted in increased anxiety-like behaviours in light/dark box, elevated plus maze and social interaction tests. Mutant mice presented basal low corticosterone concentrations and low proopiomelanocortin gene expression in the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland compared to wild-type mice. Ten minutes of restraint stress resulted in a twofold increase in corticosterone concentrations in the plasma of mutant mice, compared to wild-type mice. Bromazepam (50 or 100 microg/kg) markedly increased the time spent in light area in wild-type animals, though both doses were without effect in mutant mice. Administration of buspirone (1 or 2 mg/kg) produced anxiolytic effects in wild-type mice. In contrast, only the highest dose of buspirone had anxiolytic results in mutant mice. Our findings reveal that CB(1) receptors are involved in the regulation of emotional responses, and play a pivotal role in the action mechanism of anxiolytics. They suggest that alterations in the functional activity of the CB(1) receptor may be related to the emergence of anxiety disorders, and may affect treatment with anxiolytics.
In a randomized and double-blind study of 116 patients with chronic heart failure (NYHA classes II or III) the effectiveness of captopril + hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) (group 1) and of digoxin + HCT (group 2) were compared. Treatment was effected for a 12-month period with a combination of 50 mg captopril (twice 25 mg daily, oral) and HCT, or 0.2 mg digoxin (twice 0.1 mg daily, oral) and HCT. In a pretreatment phase over 3-4 weeks the patients of group 1 were given an average HCT dose of 37.7 mg daily, whereas those of group 2 received 34.9 mg per day. At the end of the 12-month treatment period the patients in the captopril/HCT group had improved significantly more--by the criteria of echocardiographic intracardiac diameters, exercise tolerance and NYHA class--than those in the digoxin/HCT group. Change by a mean of one NYHA class had occurred in 61 patients (51.8%) of group 1 and in 47 (40.7%) of group 2 (P les than 0.01). These findings suggest that treatment of patients with mild to moderately severe chronic heart failure in sinus rhythm best be initiated with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor together with a diuretic rather than a digitalis-diuretic combination.
Previous studies from our laboratory have demonstrated that in an animal model of acute cervical spinal cord injury (SCI), respiratory function can be restored by theophylline. We also have shown that respiratory recovery occurs spontaneously after prolonged postinjury survival periods when a hemidiaphragm is paralyzed by an ipsilateral upper cervical (C2) spinal cord hemisection. Theophylline mediates functional recovery by central nervous system adenosine A1 receptor antagonism; however, it is unclear whether adenosine receptors are altered after prolonged postinjury periods and whether theophylline can further enhance restored respiratory function that occurs spontaneously.
To assess putative effects of systemic theophylline administration on further enhancing spontaneous respiratory muscle recovery 4 months after C2 hemisection in rats and to determine whether adenosine A1 receptor mRNA expression is altered in these animals.
Electrophysiologic assessment of respiratory activity in the phrenic nerves was conducted in C2 hemisected rats 4 months after hemisection under standardized conditions. Immediately thereafter, rats were killed and the cervical spinal cords were prepared for adenosine A1 receptor mRNA expression by in situ hybridization.
Spontaneous recovery of respiratory activity in the ipsilateral phrenic nerve was detected in a majority (15/20) of C2 hemisected animals and amounted to 44.06% +/- 2.38% when expressed as a percentage of activity in the homolateral phrenic nerve in noninjured animals. At the optimal dosage used in the acute studies, theophylline (15 mg/kg) did not enhance, but rather unexpectedly blocked, recovered respiratory activity in 4 out of 5 animals tested. At dosages of 5 mg/kg and 2.5 mg/kg, the drug blocked recovered respiratory activity in 3 out of 4 and 3 out of 5 animals tested, respectively. Quantitative analysis of adenosine A1 receptor mRNA expression did not reveal a significant difference between experimental animals and sham-operated animals.
The blockade or attenuation of spontaneously recovered respiratory activity following theophylline administration cannot be attributed to changes in adenosine A1 receptors because there were no significant differences in adenosine A1 mRNA expression with sham-operated animals. Lack of alteration in A1 mRNA expression 4 months after cervical SCI suggests that A1 receptor plasticity is not activated by chronic injury. Obliteration of spontaneous recovery with theophylline most likely involves a separate unknown mechanism. These findings suggest that there may be a limited therapeutic window for the clinical application of theophylline in SCI patients with respiratory deficits. Theophylline may be more effective clinically in the acute phase of injury rather than in the chronic phase.
The 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) is currently the treatment of choice for patients with inflammatory bowel disease. It can be administered as sulfasalazine (5-ASA + sulfapyridine), mesalazine (5-ASA + resins or gels) and olsalazine (two molecules of 5-ASA). The recent trend has been to use formulations without sulfapyridine since they produce less side-effects although some cases of nephrotoxicity have been described. We report the case of a young female with Crohn's disease treated with mesalazine (400 mg every 8 hours) over a period of 12 months who developed acute interstitial nephritis. The characteristic features of renal function impairment were an insidious onset with non-specific laboratory data and progression towards a chronic state which partially improved with steroid treatment. In summary, it is important to bear this possibility in mind when confronted by any renal impairment which cannot be related to a relapse of inflammatory bowel disease. Renal function should be monitored routinely in patients receiving mesalazine at least during the first year of treatment and annually thereafter.
Several nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been withdrawn from the market because of hepatic adverse drug reactions (ADRs). Moreover, some cases of liver diseases have been reported in patients taking NSAIDs (arylcarboxylic NSAIDs, piroxicam, sulindac, nimesulide, etc.). Pharmacoepidemiological studies have shown a risk of hepatic ADRs with NSAIDs used in association with other hepatotoxic drugs. In contrast, other studies performed in hospitalized patients did not found any association. The aim of this study was to assess the hepatic risk associated with the use of NSAID in the setting of primary care. The study design was a case-control study where cases and controls were all recruited among patients seen in the context of medical community care. Eighty-eight cases and 178 controls were included between January 1998 and December 2000. Cases used more drugs than controls in the 15 days before index day (2.9 +/- 2.2 vs. 1.8 +/- 1.8 different consumed drugs; P < 10(-4)). After adjustment, we found a significant association between liver injury and NSAID exposure in women [odds ratio (OR) = 6.49 (1.67-25.16)] but not in men [OR = 1.06 (0.36-3.12)]. A total of 22 cases were exposed to NSAIDs. Of them, seven patients were exposed to salicylates, five to diclofenac, four to ibuprofen, four to ketoprofen, two to niflumic acid, one to flurbiprofen and one to meloxicam (two patients were simultaneously exposed to two different NSAIDs: salicylate + niflumic acid and salicylate + diclofenac). These patients suffered from hepatocellular (53.3%), cholestatic (20%) or mixed (26.7%) injury. In 18 cases, liver enzymes returned to normal values after discontinuation of drug. No case had a fatal outcome. This study shows the existence of a significant association between liver disturbances and NSAID use in women.
Cefuroxime axetil has been associated with few reported adverse effects. We report a case of bilateral renal cortical necrosis in a female after receiving 7 doses over 4 treatment days. The patient presented with worsening symptoms consisting of arthralgias, pruritus, and abdominal pain. Laboratory data obtained was indicative of worsening renal failure and thrombocytopenia. The patient required hemodialysis by the third day. Kidney biopsy revealed cortical necrosis. The possible pathogenesis of cefuroxime axetil causing cortical necrosis in this case and a review of other reported cases of chemical induced renal cortical necrosis is discussed.
As a presumptive side effect, a lowered seizure threshold due to medication with methylphenidate remains controversial. The pilot study at hand addresses the experimental verification of this claim. Furthermore, quantitative effects of methylphenidate treatment on EEG are measured.
The EEGs of 15 patients with ADHD aged 6 to 14 years were acquisitioned. Diagnosis was made according to multi-axial diagnostic procedures and in observance of all ICD-10 criteria. In order to evaluate the electrophysiological effects of methylphenidate, the EEG-data were analysed with regard to the composition of the frequency spectrum and the occurrence of pathological EEG-alterations.
The analysis of EEG data prior to and subsequent to medication with methylphenidate showed an increase of occipital alpha-activity, whereas of delta-theta-activity was reduced. Beta-activity increased in the central region and showed a trend towards a frontal increase. Neither before nor after treatment with methylphenidate could pathological potentials be detected.
The results support the common view in the existing literature that methylphenidate does not lower the seizure threshold. Rather its effect on electrophysiological parameters can be described as a normalisation in terms of an acceleration of the occipital rhythm.
A double-blind, three-period, crossover trial used 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring to compare diltiazem controlled diffusion (CD) 300 mg with placebo. Patients with hypertension (N = 43) were randomly assigned to one of four crossover treatment sequences of three treatment periods each. Ambulatory blood pressure was obtained at the end of each 4-week treatment period. Diltiazem CD significantly decreased diastolic and systolic blood pressure at bihourly ambulatory blood pressure evaluations (p < 0.05, all). However, when all ambulatory blood pressure monitoring data were combined into one statistical model, blood pressure reductions were quantifiably similar to those in the overall bihourly analysis, but with a consistent 24-hour antihypertensive effect for both diastolic and systolic blood pressure relative to that with placebo (i.e., parallel blood pressure profiles) and with increased precision. Mean +/- SE changes in diastolic and systolic blood pressure across the 24-hour dosing interval were -5.6 +/- 0.4 mm Hg and -7.6 +/- 0.5 mm Hg, respectively (p < 0.001, both). Therefore, by using a crossover design with ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, we showed diltiazem CD to reduce blood pressure consistently throughout a 24-hour dosing interval in comparison with placebo in patients with hypertension.
Panic attacks, the hallmark of panic disorder, are often characterized by hyperventilation. Existing animal models of anxiety have not addressed the effects of the hyperventilation on anxiety-related behaviors. Doxapram is a respiratory stimulant that reliably evokes panic attacks in patients with panic disorder. We examined doxapram in four rodent models of anxiety and sought to identify brain regions involved in its behavioral effects.
The effects of doxapram were determined for cue and contextual fear conditioning, the open field test, and the social interaction test. The effect of doxapram on c-Fos-like immunoreactivity was examined in three brain regions.
Doxapram at 4 mg/kg increased anxiety-related behaviors in all four anxiety models. An inverted U-shaped dose-response curve was identified for fear conditioning to cue. Doxapram induced c-Fos-like immunoreactivity in the central nucleus of the amygdala but not the lateral nucleus or the nucleus tractus solitarius.
Doxapram enhanced anxiety-related behaviors in four animal models of anxiety that involve conditioning or spontaneous avoidance. The effect of doxapram may result from activation of neurons in the amygdala. Doxapram, by inducing hyperventilation, may be a useful adjunct to existing animal anxiety models for improving validity for panic anxiety.
Long-term neurotoxicity of carbamazepine was studied in cultured cerebellar granule cells. Treatment of cells with carbamazepine for 3 days induced a dose-dependent neurotoxicity detected by a loss of [3H]ouabain binding to Na+,K(+)-ATPase, and [3H]N-methyl scopolamine binding to muscarinic cholinergic receptors as well as by direct morphologic examination. NMDA protected against carbamazepine-induced toxicity and this protection was blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphono-valerate (APV). The neurotoxicity induced by carbamazepine may be involved in the teratogenic and adverse effects of overdose associated with the treatment of manic-depressive illness and seizures.
The frequency of point mutations in p53 (exons 4-7) and in Ki-ras, Ha-ras, and N-ras (exons 1 and 2) and the expression of p53 protein were evaluated in the liver tumors of Wistar rats of a 104-week carcinogenicity study on 3-chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (MX), a chlorine disinfection by-product in drinking water. Mutations were analyzed in 16 hepatocellular adenomas, 7 hepatocellular carcinomas, 23 cholangiomas, and 2 cholangiocarcinomas of the MX-treated animals and one hepatocellular carcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma in control animals using PCR-SSCP (polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism) or PCR-TGGE (temperature gradient gel electrophoresis) and direct sequencing. The expression of the p53 protein (wild-type and mutated protein) was detected by immunohistochemistry (CM5 antibody). The expression of p53 and that of the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA, 19 A2) were also evaluated in livers of female animals exposed to MX for 1 week, 3 weeks, or 18 weeks. Altogether, four mutations were found in p53 in three tumors, in two hepatocellular adenomas, and one cholangiocarcinoma, all in females receiving the highest MX dose (6. 6 mg/kg/day) of the study. Three of the mutations were G:C --> A:T transitions and one was an A:T --> T:A transversion. The mutations were scattered at different codons and positions of the codon. One hepatocellular adenoma contained two p53 mutations. All cholangiomas and cholangiocarcinomas, but no hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas, overexpressed the p53 protein. MX treatment did not induce p53 expression at any age in the liver or alter the expression of the PCNA in the liver of younger animals. The p53 protein was overexpressed in hyperplastic bile ducts in aged rats but not in bile ducts of younger rats (up to 24 weeks). No mutations were observed in either Ki-ras, Ha-ras, or N-ras of the liver tumors. These data suggest that point mutations in p53, Ki-ras, Ha-ras, and N-ras are not involved in the MX-induced liver carcinogenesis in rats.
The repeated finding of an apparent protective effect of cigarette smoking on the risk of Parkinson's disease is one of the few consistent results in the epidemiology of this disorder. Among the numerous substances that originate from tobacco smoke, nicotine is by far the most widely studied. Nicotine is a natural alkaloid that has considerable stimulatory effects on the CNS. Its effects on the CNS are mediated by the activation of neuronal heteromeric acetylcholine-gated ion channel receptors (nAChRs, also termed nicotinic acetylcholine receptors). In the present study, we describe the neuroprotective effects of (-)-nicotine in two animal models of parkinsonism: diethyldithiocarbamate-induced enhancement of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine toxicity in mice and methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in rats and mice. The neuroprotective effect of (-)-nicotine was very similar to that of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist (+)-MK-801. In parallel experiments, we found that (-)-nicotine induces the basic fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) and the brain-derived neurotrophic factor in rat striatum. The effect of (-)-nicotine on the induction of FGF-2 was prevented by the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine. We also found that (+)-MK-801 was able to induce FGF-2 in the striatum. As trophic factors have been reported to be neuroprotective for dopaminergic cells, our data suggest that the increase in neurotrophic factors is a possible mechanism by which (-)-nicotine protects from experimental parkinsonisms.
Patients with high levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) might not tolerate 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors ("statins") because of adverse effects (AEs) and might not respond well enough to nonstatin lipid-lowering therapies (LLTs) to meet LDL-C goals.
The purpose of this study was to assess the acceptability, effectiveness, and safety profile of rosuvastatin 5 and 10 mg/d in consecutively referred patients with primary high LDL-C who were unable to tolerate other statins because of myalgia and, subsequently in some cases, unable to reach LDL-C goals with nonstatin LLT.
This prospective, open-label pilot study was conducted in consecutively referred male and female patients aged 38 to 80 years with primary high LDL-C (mean, 177 mg/dL) at The Cholesterol Center, Jewish Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio. Patients were instructed in the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III (NCEP ATP III) therapeutic lifestyle changes diet. Rosuvastatin 5 mg/d was administered to patients categorized by NCEP ATP III risk stratification as moderately high risk, and rosuvastatin 10 mg/d was administered to patients categorized as high or very high risk. End points included acceptability (assessed using patient-initiated discontinuation of rosuvastatin), effectiveness (absolute and percentage reductions in LDL-C and triglycerides), and safety profile (aspartate and alanine aminotransferases [AST and ALT, respectively] >3 times the laboratory upper limit of normal [xULN] or elevations in creatine kinase [CK]>10xULN).
A total of 61 patients were enrolled (41 women, 20 men; mean [SD] age, 60 [10] years; 5-mg/d dose, 25 patients; 10-mg/d dose, 36 patients). Myalgia, a predominant AE, had caused 50 patients to previously discontinue treatment with atorvastatin; 30, simvastatin; 19, pravastatin; 5, fluvastatin; 2, ezetimibe/simvastatin; and 1, lovastatin. Eighteen patients subsequently failed to reach LDL-C goals with nonstatin LLT(s) alone (colesevelam, 10 patients; ezetimibe, 8; niacin extended release, 2; and fenofibrate, 1). After a median treatment duration of 16 weeks, rosuvastatin 5 mg/d+diet was associated with a mean (SD) decrease from baseline in LDL-C of 75 (34) mg/dL (mean [SD] %Delta, -42% [18%]) (P<0.001 vs baseline). After a median treatment duration of 44 weeks, rosuvastatin 10 mg/d+diet was associated with a mean (SD) decrease from baseline in LDL-C of 79 (49) mg/dL (mean [SD] %Delta, -42% [24%]) (P<0.001 vs baseline). Of the 61 patients, 1 receiving the 10-mg/d dose discontinued rosuvastatin treatment because of unilateral muscular pain after 4 weeks; no AST or ALT levels were >3xULN, and no CK levels were >10xULN.
In these 61 hypercholesterolemic patients unable to tolerate other statins and, subsequently in some cases, unable to meet LDL-C goals while receiving nonstatin LIT monotherapy, these preliminary observations suggest that rosuvastatin at doses of 5 and 10 mg/d+diet was well tolerated, effective, and had a good safety profile.
The high morbidity of newborn infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is attributed to pulmonary hypoplasia (PH), which is characterized by a failure of alveolar development. The nitrofen-induced CDH model has been widely used to investigate the pathogenesis of PH in CDH. It has previously been shown that the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) pathway, which is essential for a proper lung development, is disrupted during late gestation of nitrofen-induced CDH. Casitas B-lineage lymphoma (c-Cbl) proteins are known regulators of signal transduction through FGFRs, indicating their important role during alveolarization in developing lungs. Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that tyrosine phosphorylation of c-Cbl proteins has a pivotal role for their physiological function and activity during fetal lung development. We designed this study to test the hypothesis that pulmonary c-Cbl expression and tyrosine phosphorylation status are decreased in the nitrofen-induced CDH model.
Timed-pregnant rats received either 100 mg nitrofen or vehicle on gestation day 9 (D9). Fetuses were harvested on D18 and D21, and lungs were divided into two groups: control and hypoplastic lungs with CDH (CDH(+)) (n = 10 at each time-point, respectively). Pulmonary gene expression levels of c-Cbl were analyzed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Western blotting combined with densitometry analysis was used for semi-quantification of protein levels of pulmonary c-Cbl and tyrosine phosphorylation status. Confocal-immunofluorescence staining was performed to evaluate c-Cbl protein expression and distribution.
Relative mRNA expression levels of pulmonary c-Cbl were significantly decreased in CDH(+) on D18 and D21 compared to controls. Western blotting showed markedly decreased protein levels of pulmonary c-Cbl and tyrosine phosphorylation status in CDH(+) on D18 and D21. Confocal-immunofluorescence analysis confirmed decreased c-Cbl expression in CDH(+) on D18 and D21 mainly in the distal alveolar epithelium compared to controls.
Decreased pulmonary c-Cbl gene and protein expression accompanied by a decreased tyrosine phosphorylation status during the late stages of fetal lung development may result in reduced c-Cbl activity, and thus interfere with the FGFR-mediated alveolarization in the nitrofen-induced CDH model.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a hematologic neoplasia characterized by the monoclonal proliferation of bone marrow plasma cells. Renal failure occurs in 20% to 30% of MM patients at diagnosis and in >50% with an advanced form of the disease. For those with advanced MM, often a high-risk group of patients with poor prognosis, salvage treatment for renal failure needs to avoid nephrotoxic drugs.
We report a case of a 78-year-old white male (weight, 90 kg) presented to the Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Istituto Clinico Humanitas, Rozzano, Milan, Italy, with refractory MM immunoglobulin G kappa (IgGkappa), Durie-Salmon Stage IIA, with progressive renal failure after an oral melphalan, prednisone, and thalidomide regimen (4 mg/m2.d, 40 mg/m2.d for 7 days every 6 weeks, and 100 mg/d, respectively). The patient had documented increments of serum monoclonal component (M-protein), anemia, and renal failure with Bence Jones proteinuria (serum creatinine, 2.9 mg/dL; creatinine clearance, 30 mL/min; hemoglobin, 10.9 g/dL; serum IgGkappa M-protein, 3.9 g/dL; proteinuria 3.5 g/d;light-chain level in urine, 1.2 g/L). After 2 cycles with bortezomib at a reduced dose (1.0 mg/m2 twice weekly for 2 weeks followed by a 10-day rest period) to evaluate tolerability and renal toxicity, the patient completed another 3 cycles at the standard dose (1.3 mg/m2) in combination with dexamethasone (20 mg on the day of bortezomib administration and the day after). This led to an improvement of the renal function with a reduction of serum and urinary M-protein (serum creatinine 1.4 mg/dL; serum IgGkappa M-protein, 2.9 g/dL; proteinuria, 2 g/d; kappa light-chain level in urine, 0.7 g/L). The patient developed thrombocytopenia but did not suffer from some of the more severe adverse events associated with bortezomib, such as infection or peripheral neuropathy, even at full dose.
We report an elderly patient with refractory MM and progression with renal failure who responded to bortezomib treatment. Bortezomib was well tolerated in this patient.
Involuntary movements (dyskinesia) are a common symptom of dopamine-replacement therapy in parkinsonian patients, neuroleptic drug treatment of mental patients, and tic disorders. Levodopa-induced dyskinesia has been shown to be associated with substantial reduction of firing rate in the internal part of the globus pallidus. This study characterizes the changes that occur in the activity of the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) of non-parkinsonian (normal) monkeys with apomorphine (APO)-induced orofacial dyskinesia. We conducted extracellular recordings of SNr neurons of two monkeys before and after induction of orofacial dyskinesia by systemic administration of APO. Involuntary orofacial movements appeared a few minutes after the injections and lasted 20-40 min. Almost all recorded neurons changed their firing rate after APO injection (96%), and most declined (70%). The mean amplitude of decreases was also larger than that of increases (40 vs. 21% of the control rate). Changes in firing pattern were not significant on average. Pairs of SNr neurons were uncorrelated before APO injection, similar to the normal pallidum. However, unlike the increased correlations in the pallidum that accompany parkinsonism, orofacilal dyskinesia in non-parkinsonian monkeys was not associated with changes in correlation between SNr neurons. We conclude that normal monkeys treated with APO can model orofacial dyskinesia and tic disorders that are a consequence of dopaminergic over-activity. These symptoms appear to be more related to reduced firing rate of SNr neurons and thus to disinhibition of their targets, than to changes in pattern and synchronization.
We have used the pilocarpine-induced seizure model in mice and i.c.v. injection of subtype-specific receptor antagonists to investigate the muscarinic receptor subtype specificity of cholinergically-activated seizures. The rank order potencies of antagonists for inhibition of pilocarpine-induced seizures are atropine = telenzepine > 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-(2-chloroethyl)-piperidine (4-DAMP) > pirenzepine with ID50's of 8.6, 12.0, 29.9, and 83.0 nmol/mouse, respectively. The M3-specific antagonists hexahydrosila-difenidol and its p-fluoro analog showed no effect on pilocarpine-induced seizures. The M2-specific antagonists gallamine and methoctramine cause seizures in mice in the absence of a pilocarpine injection. These seizures could be inhibited by coinjection of methoctramine with the M1-specific antagonist, pirenzepine. These data suggest a role of muscarinic M1 receptors in mediating pilocarpine-induced seizures and a role of the muscarinic M2 receptors in modulating neuronal activity.
We investigated which of the NaCl transporters are involved in the maintenance of salt-sensitive hypertension. Milan hypertensive (MHS) rats were studied 3 mo after birth. In MHS, compared with normotensive strain (MNS), mRNA abundance, quantified by competitive PCR on isolated tubules, was unchanged, both for Na+/H+ isoform 3 (NHE3) and Na+-K+-2Cl- (NKCC2), but higher (119%, n = 5, P < 0.005) for Na+-Cl- (NCC) in distal convoluted tubules (DCT). These results were confirmed by Western blots, which revealed: 1) unchanged NHE3 in the cortex and NKCC2 in the outer medulla; 2) a significant increase (52%, n = 6, P < 0.001) of NCC in the cortex; 3) alpha- and beta-sodium channels [epithelial Na+ channel (ENaC)] unaffected in renal cortex and slightly reduced in the outer medulla, while gamma-ENaC remained unchanged. Pendrin protein expression was unaffected. The role of NCC was reinforced by immunocytochemical studies showing increased NCC on the apical membrane of DCT cells of MHS animals, and by clearance experiments demonstrating a larger sensitivity (P < 0.001) to bendroflumethiazide in MHS rats. Kidney-specific chloride channels (ClC-K) were studied by Western blot experiments on renal cortex and by patch-clamp studies on primary culture of DCT dissected from MNS and MHS animals. Electrophysiological characteristics of ClC-K channels were unchanged in MHS rats, but the number of active channels in a patch was 0.60 +/- 0.21 (n = 35) in MNS rats and 2.17 +/- 0.59 (n = 23) in MHS rats (P < 0.05). The data indicate that, in salt-sensitive hypertension, there is a strong upregulation, both of NCC and ClC-K along the DCT, which explains the persistence of hypertension.
