Genetic factors are among the most important determinants of susceptibility to induction of allergic contact dermatitis. A limited number of studies of experimental contact hypersensitivity (CHS) in animals has shown differences in the severity of CHS; however, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. In this study comparative analysis of CHS to low and high dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) doses regimen of sensitization/challenge in inbred Dark Agouti (DA) and Albino Oxford (AO) rats was examined. Basic aspects of draining lymph node (dLN) activity (cellularity, proliferation), proinflammatory (IFN-γ, IL-17) and anti-inflammatory (IL-10) cytokine gene expression and production, as well as IL-12 and IL-23 subunits mRNA expression, were examined in challenge and sensitization phase of CHS reaction. Lower (compared to DA) intensity of CHS in AO rats was associated with lack of (or negligible) dLN responses in challenge phase (ex vivo, hapten- or IL-2-stimulated cell proliferation and proinflammatory cytokine mRNA and production levels) but with lack of changes in IL-10 response. Less pronounced dLN activity of sensitized animals of this strain was observed as well. Higher proliferative activity and more pronounced proinflammatory cytokine response during challenge and sensitization phase suggest these activities as underlying mechanisms of higher susceptibility of DA rats to CHS response to DNCB.
Atypical antipsychotics are nowadays the most widely used drugs to treat schizophrenia and other psychosis. Unfortunately, some of them can cause major metabolic adverse effects, such as weight gain, dyslipidemia and type 2 diabetes. The underlying lipogenic mechanisms of the antipsychotic drugs are not known, but several studies have focused on a central effect in the hypothalamic control of appetite regulation and energy expenditure. In a functional convergent genomic approach we recently used a cellular model and demonstrated that orexigenic antipsychotics that induce weight gain activate the expression of lipid biosynthesis genes controlled by the sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP) transcription factors. We therefore hypothesized that the major genes involved in the SREBP activation of fatty acids and cholesterol production (SREBF1, SREBF2, SCAP, INSIG1 and INSIG2) would be strong candidate genes for interindividual variation in drug-induced weight gain. We genotyped a total of 44 HapMap-selected tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms in a sample of 160 German patients with schizophrenia that had been monitored with respect to changes in body mass index during antipsychotic drug treatment. We found a strong association (P=0.0003-0.00007) between three markers localized within or near the INSIG2 gene (rs17587100, rs10490624 and rs17047764) and antipsychotic-related weight gain. Our finding is supported by the recent involvement of the INSIG2 gene in obesity in the general population and implicates SREBP-controlled lipogenesis in drug-induced metabolic adverse effects.
Paracetamol poisoning is manifested by hepatotoxicity, but acute renal failure is very rare, especially when there is no fulminant hepatic damage with encephalopathy or severe haemodynamic alterations. We present here the case of a 22-year-old woman who presented with acute renal failure after the ingestion of 11.5 g of acetaminophen. The clinical course and laboratory data were consistent with tubular necrosis. The patient required hemodialysis, but finally renal function returned to normal. The acetaminophen pharmacology and the differential diagnosis of acute azotemia in paracetamol overdosage are reviewed.
Increasing cardiovascular parasympathetic nervous activity could have antihypertensive effects. Low-dose transdermal scopolamine increases vagal-cardiac modulation of sinus node and baroreflex sensitivity in healthy subjects and in cardiac patients.
To study the short-term effects of transdermal scopolamine on blood pressure and cardiovascular autonomic control in patients with mild essential hypertension.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trial with 12 untreated middle-aged [aged 39+/-5 years (mean+/-SD)] patients with mild essential hypertension.
We recorded the electrocardiogram, auscultatory sphygmomanometric and continuous photoplethysmographic finger arterial pressure, and spirometry signals with patients supine and 70 degrees tilted during controlled (0.25 Hz) breathing. Cardiovascular autonomic regulation was analyzed with power spectrum analysis of R-R interval and arterial pressure variability and a spontaneous sequence method for baroreflex sensitivity. In addition, a deep-breathing test was performed to assess maximal breathing-related sinus arrhythmia.
Transdermal scopolamine treatment significantly decreased blood pressure both when patients lay supine and when they were in the 70 degrees tilted position. Scopolamine also slowed heart rate and increased baroreflex sensitivity and R-R interval high-frequency variability for both body positionings. In addition, scopolamine accentuated respiratory sinus arrhythmia during deep breathing and blunted the tilt-induced increase in heart rate. Scopolamine did not affect blood pressure variability.
Transdermal scopolamine decreases arterial pressure, increases baroreflex sensitivity and accentuates vagal-cardiac modulation of sinus node in patients with mild hypertension. Our study supports the hypothesis that increasing cardiovascular parasympathetic activity could have antihypertensive effects in essential hypertension.
BP-897 is a dopamine D3 receptor agonist which is under development by Bioprojet for the potential treatment of drug craving and vulnerability to relapse that are elicited by drug-associated environmental stimuli; it is undergoing phase I trials [318397,334036,340721]. Preclinical investigations were carried out by Cambridge University and INSERM [295680]. BP-897 functions as a partial agonist in vitro and as either an agonist or an antagonist in vivo. It inhibits cocaine-seeking behavior that depends upon the presentation of drug-associated cues, without having any intrinsic, primary rewarding effects [334036]. In preclinical studies, BP-897 administration before testing reduced cocaine-seeking behavior in rats in a dose-dependent manner [304557,307758,334036]. In D3 receptor knockout mice, BP-897 has no effect [345710]. It does not reduce self-administration of cocaine in monkeys [318397].
The formation of coronary aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms are a rare but previously described complication after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). We present a unique case of the development of a giant coronary aneurysm after placement of a heparin-coated stent. A 79-year-old female who had PCI to the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) using a heparin-coated stent three years previously underwent cardiac catheterization. Coronary angiography revealed a giant aneurysm measuring 19 x 18 mm immediately distal to the previously implanted stent in the LAD. The patient refused any further intervention and was treated with aggressive medical management. Eighteen months have now passed, and the patient has been stable without further cardiac events or complaints.
A number of studies have demonstrated that co-exposure to low levels of melamine and cyanuric acid elicits renal toxicity due to the formation of melamine cyanurate crystals in the kidney nephrons. In this work, we investigated if co-exposure of rats to these compounds leads to alterations in the expression of the genes encoding kidney injury molecule 1 (KIM-1), metallopeptidase inhibitor 1 (TIMP1), clusterin, osteopontin, and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin/lipocalin 2 (NGAL), which have been proposed as urinary biomarkers for nephrotoxicity. Six-week-old male and female F344 rats were fed ad libitum a diet fortified with 0 (control), 7, 23, 69, 229, or 694 ppm melamine and cyanuric acid (co-exposure groups), 1388 ppm melamine, or 1388 ppm cyanuric acid for seven days. Histopathology and clinical chemistry examination indicated marked toxicity only in the animals exposed to the two highest combined doses of melamine and cyanuric acid. Consistent with these observations, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis of kidney tissue indicated increased expression of all genes analyzed relative to the control in both male and female rats fed daily with 229 or 694 ppm melamine and cyanuric acid. Exposure to lower levels of both compounds or to the individual compounds did not induce gene expression changes. These data indicate that quantifying the expression levels of the selected biomarker genes constitutes a useful endpoint to assess the combined toxicity of melamine and cyanuric acid in both male and female rats.
Two treatments, based on either ticlopidine or indobufen at their optimal individual daily dose (median dose: 250 and 200 mg/day, respectively), were compared in an open randomized multicenter trial in patients at risk of cerebral ischemia (men and women, aged 39 to 80 years, who had experienced in the month before entry into the study transient ischemic attack or amaurosis fugax or minor stroke). The total number of patients screened was 4033; 1632 were enrolled, 821 randomized to ticlopidine, 811 to indobufen. The overall frequency of the composite primary end-point (stroke, myocardial infarction, and death from any cause) was 4.4%. The ticlopidine-based regimen proved significantly better than the indobufen one in preventing the composite of fatal and non fatal events (49.6% relative risk reduction), or death alone (54.4% relative risk reduction). The two groups had similar percentages of adverse events (5.5% and 6.4% for ticlopidine and indobufen group, respectively) with withdrawals because of adverse events in 3.4% and 2.5%; gastrointestinal disorders and bleeding were more frequent in the indobufen group, whereas rash and abnormal liver function were more frequent in the ticlopidine one.
Sarcoidosis is a granulomatous disease of unknown etiology characterized by a helper T-cell type 1-mediated process. Previously we demonstrated a role for interleukin-18 in sarcoidosis. Here we examine the regulation of interleukin-18 in this condition.
Cytokine levels in sarcoid epithelial lining fluid were measured by ELISA. We examined interleukin-18 promoter activity and mRNA and protein levels in the epithelial lining fluid of individuals with active sarcoidosis, and of individuals recovered from sarcoidosis, in response to purified protein derivative of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, beryllium sulfate, zirconium sulfate, aluminum sulfate, and lipopolysaccharide. Endotoxin levels in the epithelial lining fluid of individuals with sarcoidosis, individuals recovered from sarcoidosis, and control subjects were assessed by Limulus amebocyte lysate analysis. Allele-specific polymerase chain reaction was used to genotype 94 patients with sarcoidosis and 97 control subjects for the interleukin-18 -607(A/C) polymorphism. Species-specific polymerase chain reaction identified bacterial DNA in fluid samples.
Epithelial lining fluid from active sarcoids contained elevated levels of interleukin-18, interferon-gamma, and interleukin-12 compared with recovered patients and also contained significantly higher levels of endotoxin. Depletion of endotoxin from this epithelial lining fluid reduced its effect on the human interleukin-18 promoter in vitro. There was a higher frequency of the -607C allele and -607(C/C) genotype in the sarcoidosis population compared with control subjects; however, this was not associated with a functional response to endotoxin treatment. Finally, bacterial 16S rRNA from Haemophilus influenzae and Moraxella catarrhalis was detected in sarcoid fluid samples.
The pathogenesis of sarcoidosis is propagated through the actions of a helper T-cell type 1-driven response. This study shows that gram-negative bacteria may contribute to this effect by upregulating interleukin-18 expression.
Scopolamine-treated rats are commonly used as a psychopharmacological model of memory dysfunction and have been extensively studied to establish the effectiveness of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Scopolamine is a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist that induces memory deficits in young subjects similar to those occurring during aging. The amnesic effect of scopolamine is well established but the molecular and cellular mechanisms that sustain its neuropharmacological action are still unclear. The present genome wide study investigates hippocampal gene expression profiling in scopolamine-treated adult rats following stimulation in a spatial memory task. Using microarray and quantitative real-time RT-PCR approaches, we identified several genes previously known to be associated with memory processes (Homer1, GABA(B) receptor, early growth response 1, prodynorphin, VGF nerve growth factor inducible) and multiple novel candidate genes possibly involved in cognition (including calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase 2, dual specificity phosphatase 5 and 6, glycophorin C) that were altered following scopolamine treatment. Moreover, we found that stable over-expression of glutamatergic components Homer1a and 1c in the hippocampus of adult rats induced by recombinant adeno-associated virus vector abolished memory improvement produced by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist SGS742 in scopolamine-treated rats. Taken together, these results reveal novel genes and mechanisms involved in scopolamine-induced amnesia, and demonstrate the involvement of both GABA and glutamate neurotransmission in this animal model of cognitive dysfunctions.
Many drugs prolong the QT interval and increase the risk of torsade de pointes. Concurrent use of two or more of these drugs can further increase the risk, but the prevalence of concurrent prescription of QT-prolonging drugs is not known. Using the administrative claims database of a national pharmaceutical benefit manager, we conducted a retrospective cohort study in 4,825,345 subjects aged 18 years or older. After identifying 50 drugs with QT-prolonging potential, and an additional 26 drugs that inhibit the metabolic clearance of QT-prolonging drugs, we measured the frequency of overlapping prescriptions for two or more of these drugs in the outpatient setting in 1999. Nearly 1.1 million subjects (22.8%) filled 4.4 million prescriptions for QT-prolonging drugs. Of these, 103,119 subjects (9.4%) filled overlapping prescriptions for two or more of the drugs or for a QT-prolonging drug and another drug that inhibits its clearance; 7249 subjects (0.7%) filled overlapping prescriptions for three or more of these drugs. Twenty-two percent of subjects who filled overlapping prescriptions were aged 65 or older; 74% were women. Antidepressants were involved in nearly 50% of the cases. Concurrent prescription of QT-prolonging drugs is common in the outpatient setting, and antidepressants are involved in half of these cases. Large pharmaceutical claims databases are useful for detecting potentially harmful prescribing behaviors, but better clinical evidence on medication safety is needed before such a system can be implemented fully.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the neuroprotective action of nimodipine. Furthermore, the influence of nimodipine on postischemic local CBF (LCBF) was examined. Forebrain ischemia of the rat was performed for 10 min by bilateral carotid clamping, administration of trimethaphan, and blood withdrawal to obtain an MABP of 40 mm Hg. LCBF was measured after 10 min of postischemic recirculation by injecting [14C]iodoantipyrine in saline solution. Nimodipine (0.1, 0.3, and 1.0 mg/kg) was suspended in miglyol oil and applied orally 60 min prior to ischemia. Histological evaluation was performed 7 days after ischemia. Hippocampal neuronal damage was determined as the percentage of necrotic neurons. After preischemic application of nimodipine, neuronal damage was significantly reduced in the hippocampal CA1 subfield. Postischemic LCBF was not affected by treatment with nimodipine. These findings show that nimodipine is able to protect neurons against ischemic damage. The neuroprotective effect of nimodipine was not mediated by a postischemic cerebral vasodilation, but by a direct action on the neurons.
A 45-year-old woman sustained two ischemic cerebral infarctions 16 years after ileal resection for Crohn's disease. Her evaluation showed an elevated random serum homocystine level, a low serum vitamin B12 level, and an increased mean corpuscular volume (MCV) without anemia. A methionine-loading test resulted in a marked increase in the homocystine levels 2, 4, and 6 hours after the load. A Schilling test demonstrated a malabsorption of vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 injections normalized her fasting homocystine level and her MCV. She has had no recurrent strokes during a year follow-up.
This case describes a 29-year-old woman who presented with an acute severe anaphylactic reaction to penicillin. In addition to other medications administered in the emergency department, she received 0.1 mg intravenously of 1:10 000 epinephrine, after which she immediately developed severe chest pain. Her ECG showed ST elevations consistent with an anterior myocardial infarction, and her serum troponin level was elevated. A CT angiogram showed no signs of coronary artery disease or abnormal anatomy. This case is an example of vasospasm-induced myocardial injury and illustrates a potential danger of intravenous epinephrine use. The authors were able to identify only 2 other case reports where therapeutic doses of epinephrine have been reported to cause this phenomenon.
A 62 year old woman developed dystonic movements following induction of anesthesia with thalamonal and alfentanil. The patient remained awake during the episode. A small dose of thiopental sodium followed by succinylcholine aborted the unpleasant state. The case is being presented to emphasize the point that even small doses of opioid narcotic can cause tonic movements and frank seizures in some patients.
Hyaluronic acid (HA) plays prominent role in the pathogenesis of liver fibrosis. The mechanism of increased serum and liver HA during hepatic fibrosis was studied in rats. Liver injury was induced by intraperitoneal injections of N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) for 7 consecutive days. A group of animals were sacrificed on everyday during injection and also on days 14 and 21 after the start of NDMA administration. The alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) was stained as a marker for activated stellate cells. Liver HA was studied by histochemical methods and serum HA was monitored by HA binding protein assay. CD44 was stained immunohistochemically. After the start of NDMA administration, necrosis was initiated on day 3 and massive necrosis was observed on days 5 and 7. Fibrosis was developed on day 14 and early cirrhosis was present on day 21. Staining of alpha-SMA demonstrated activated stellate cells from day 3 onwards. Serum HA peaked on day 7 and reduced afterwards. Serial liver sections stained for HA revealed excessive accumulation of HA during NDMA administration. On days 14 and 21, alpha-SMA and HA staining was remarkable in fibrotic and cirrhotic areas. CD44 staining was negative except during necrosis. It is concluded that the early elevation of serum HA is due to the increased synthesis and simultaneous release from the necrotic liver. In latter stages the increase of both serum and liver HA is contributed by the increased synthesis by the activated stellate cells and reduced clearance by the impaired sinusoidal endothelial cells.
Folate metabolism pathway genes have been examined for association with neural tube defects (NTDs) because folic acid supplementation reduces the risk of this debilitating birth defect. Most studies addressed these genes individually, often with different populations providing conflicting results.
Our study evaluates several folate pathway genes for association with human NTDs, incorporating an environmental cofactor: maternal folate supplementation.
In 304 Caucasian American NTD families with myelomeningocele or anencephaly, we examined 28 polymorphisms in 11 genes: folate receptor 1, folate receptor 2, solute carrier family 19 member 1, transcobalamin II, methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase 1, serine hydroxymethyl-transferase 1, 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), 5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homo-cysteine methyltransferase, 5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase reductase, betaine-homocysteine methyltransferase (BHMT), and cystathionine-beta-synthase.
Only single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in BHMT were significantly associated in the overall data set; this significance was strongest when mothers took folate-containing nutritional supplements before conception. The BHMT SNP rs3733890 was more significant when the data were stratified by preferential transmission of the MTHFR rs1801133 thermolabile T allele from parent to offspring. Other SNPs in folate pathway genes were marginally significant in some analyses when stratified by maternal supplementation, MTHFR, or BHMT allele transmission.
BHMT rs3733890 is significantly associated in our data set, whereas MTHFR rs1801133 is not a major risk factor. Further investigation of folate and methionine cycle genes will require extensive SNP genotyping and/or resequencing to identify novel variants, inclusion of environmental factors, and investigation of gene-gene interactions in large data sets.
Halothane lessens the dose of epinephrine necessary to induce ventricular arrhythmias. However, results of a previous study in dogs anesthetized at two halothane concentrations suggested, but did not confirm, that at the higher concentration (1.7%) myocardial sensitization to epinephrine was less pronounced. This study was designed to determine the myocardial sensitizing effect of halothane at four concentrations: 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, and 2%. To define the appropriate time interval between repeated epinephrine infusions, plasma epinephrine decay curves were assessed. These data indicated that at 7 min the contribution of the residual epinephrine level to the peak level was negligible. Therefore, 7 min was selected as the interval between epinephrine infusions. The arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine (ADE) was measured at four concentrations of halothane, 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, and 2.0%. To determine the ADE at the subanesthetic concentration of halothane (0.5%), anesthesia was supplemented with etomidate. In a preliminary study, the authors confirmed that this intravenous hypnotic agent did not affect the halothane-epinephrine arrhythmogenic interaction. By analysis of variance, halothane concentration was shown to have no significant influence on the ADE (P greater than 0.05). The authors' data indicate that, over a clinically appropriate range, halothane concentration does not alter the threshold for the development of epinephrine-induced ventricular arrhythmias.
Increases in basal ganglia iron are well documented for neurodegenerative diseases but have not been associated with methamphetamine (METH). In this study, vervet monkeys that received two doses of METH (2 mg/kg, intramuscularly, 6 h apart) showed at 1 month, iron increases in substantia nigra pars reticulata and globus pallidus, with concurrent increases of ferritin-immunoreactivity and decreases of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity in substantia nigra. At 1.5 years, substantia nigra tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactivity had recovered while iron and ferritin-immunoreactivity increases persisted. Globus pallidus and substantia nigra iron levels of the adult METH-exposed animals (age 5-9 years) were now comparable with those of drug-naive, aged animals (19-22 years), suggesting an aging-related condition that might render those regions more vulnerable to oxidative stress.
The neurodegenerative disorder spinocerebellar ataxia 12 (SCA12) is caused by CAG repeat expansion in the non-coding region of the PPP2R2B gene. PPP2R2B encodes Bbeta1 and Bbeta2, alternatively spliced and neuron-specific regulatory subunits of the protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) holoenzyme. We show here that in PC12 cells and hippocampal neurons, cell stressors induced a rapid translocation of PP2A/Bbeta2 to mitochondria to promote apoptosis. Conversely, silencing of PP2A/Bbeta2 protected hippocampal neurons against free radical-mediated, excitotoxic, and ischemic insults. Evidence is accumulating that the mitochondrial fission/fusion equilibrium is an important determinant of cell survival. Accordingly, we found that Bbeta2 expression induces mitochondrial fragmentation, whereas Bbeta2 silencing or inhibition resulted in mitochondrial elongation. Based on epistasis experiments involving Bcl2 and core components of the mitochondrial fission machinery (Fis1 and dynamin-related protein 1), mitochondrial fragmentation occurs upstream of apoptosis and is both necessary and sufficient for hippocampal neuron death. Our data provide the first example of a proapoptotic phosphatase that predisposes to neuronal death by promoting mitochondrial division and point to a possible imbalance of the mitochondrial morphogenetic equilibrium in the pathogenesis of SCA12.
Nitric acid (HNO(3)) is a solution of nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)) in water commonly used as an industrial chemical and cleaner. Oxides of nitrogen liberated as nitric acid interact with the environment to cause inhalation injuries. The coexistence of HNO(3) with varying oxides of nitrogen likely results in the large continuum of symptoms related to HNO(3) exposure and varying times of onset--acute, subacute, and delayed. Furthermore, dyspnea and evidence of acute lung injury may not occur for several hours after exposure and can lead to rapidly progressive acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
This case illustrates to physicians and occupational health personnel that HNO(3) inhalation may initially appear benign and that onset of severe effects may be delayed.
A 66-year-old man developed delayed-onset pulmonary edema, ARDS, and fatal circulatory collapse 53 h after occupational exposure to HNO(3).
This case serves to increase awareness among emergency physicians, as well as occupational health personnel, that patients exposed to HNO(3) may initially be asymptomatic. Patients should be evaluated and observed regardless of the severity or benign nature of symptoms, which occur immediately after exposure, as the most severe symptoms are often delayed in onset and rapidly progressive.
Angiogenesis in glioma is associated with the poor prognosis of the disease and closely correlates with the highly invasive phenotype of glioma cells, which represents the most challenging impediment against the currently glioma treatments. Bmi-1, an onco-protein, has been implicated in the progression of various human cancers, including gliomas, whereas its role in glioma angiogenesis remains unclear. Our current study examined the effects of Bmi-1 on glioma angiogenesis in vitro as well as in vivo. We found that overexpression of Bmi-1 enhanced, whereas knockdown of Bmi-1 diminished, the capability of glioma cells to induce tubule formation and migration of endothelial cells and neovascularization in chicken chorioallantoic membrane. In vivo, Bmi-1 overexpression and knockdown, respectively, promoted and inhibited angiogenesis in orthotopically transplanted human gliomas. Furthermore, NF-κB activity and VEGF-C expression was induced by Bmi-1 overexpression, whereas Bmi-1 knockdown attenuated NF-κB signaling and decreased VEGF-C expression. Additionally suppression of NF-κB activity using a specific chemical inhibitor abrogated the NF-κB activation and the pro-angiogenic activities of glioma cells. Together, our data suggest that Bmi-1 plays an important role in glioma angiogenesis and therefore could represent a potential target for anti-angiogenic therapy against the disease.
Acute lung injury can occur from multiple causes, resulting in high mortality. The pathophysiology of nickel-induced acute lung injury in mice is remarkably complex, and the molecular mechanisms are uncertain.
To integrate molecular pathways and investigate the role of transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) in acute lung injury in mice.
cDNA microarray analyses were used to identify lung gene expression changes after nickel exposure. MAPPFinder analysis of the microarray data was used to determine significantly altered molecular pathways. TGF-beta1 protein in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, as well as the effect of inhibition of TGF-beta, was assessed in nickel-exposed mice. The effect of TGF-beta on surfactant-associated protein B (Sftpb) promoter activity was measured in mouse lung epithelial cells.
Genes that decreased the most after nickel exposure play important roles in lung fluid absorption or surfactant and phospholipid synthesis, and genes that increased the most were involved in TGF-beta signaling. MAPPFinder analysis further established TGF-beta signaling to be significantly altered. TGF-beta-inducible genes involved in the regulation of extracellular matrix function and fibrinolysis were significantly increased after nickel exposure, and TGF-beta1 protein was also increased in the lavage fluid. Pharmacologic inhibition of TGF-beta attenuated nickel-induced protein in bronchoalveolar lavage. In addition, treatment with TGF-beta1 dose-dependently repressed Sftpb promoter activity in vitro, and a novel TGF-beta-responsive region in the Sftpb promoter was identified.
These data suggest that TGF-beta acts as a central mediator of acute lung injury through the alteration of several different molecular pathways.
We assessed the relationship between hypospadias and proximity to agricultural pesticide applications using a GIS-based exposure method.
We obtained information for 354 cases of hypospadias born between 1998 and 2002 in eastern Arkansas; 727 controls were selected from birth certificates. We classified exposure on pounds of pesticides (estimated by crop type) applied or persisting within 500 m of each subject's home during gestational weeks 6 to 16. We restricted our analyses to 38 pesticides with some evidence of reproductive, developmental, estrogenic, and/or antiandrogenic effects. We estimated timing of pesticide applications using crop phenology and published records.
Gestational age at birth [odds ratio (OR) = 0.91; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.83-0.99], parity (OR = 0.79; 95% CI, 0.65-0.95), and delaying prenatal care until the third trimester (OR = 4.04; 95% CI, 1.46-11.23) were significantly associated with hypospadias. Risk of hypospadias increased by 8% for every 0.05-pound increase in estimated exposure to diclofop-methyl use (OR = 1.08; 95% CI, 1.01-1.15). Pesticide applications in aggregate (OR = 0.82; 95% CI, 0.70-0.96) and applications of alachlor (OR = 0.56; 95% CI, 0.35-0.89) and permethrin (OR = 0.37; 95% CI, 0.16-0.86) were negatively associated with hypospadias.
Except for diclofop-methyl, we did not find evidence that estimated exposure to pesticides known to have reproductive, developmental, or endocrine-disrupting effects increases risk of hypospadias. Further research on the potential effects of exposure to diclofop-methyl is recommended.
A 49-year-old woman treated with increasing dosage of propylthiouracil (PTU) in order to control hyperthyroidism, developed progressive necrotic ulcers in the oral cavity, oropharynx and rhinopharynx and vasculitic ulcers on both auricular pinnae after a few days. The PTU treatment was immediately discontinued and the mucosal and skin manifestations resolved promptly. Laboratory findings, including anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA), suggested allergic vasculitis. This is to our knowledge the first reported case of oral manifestations of PTU-induced allergic vasculitis.
There have only been a few reports about adverse events of methotrexate, vinblastine, adriamycin and cisplatin (MVAC) chemotherapy under supportive care with granulocyte stimulating factor (G-CSF) and 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 receptor (5-HT3R) antagonists. The purpose of this study was to retrospectively review the adverse events of the chemotherapy. We analyzed 59 patients with advanced bladder cancer who received MVAC chemotherapy at Sapporo Medical University hospital from January 1992 to September 2004. The adverse events were evaluated according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 (Japanese edition). Thirty-one of the 59 patients (52.6%) received MVAC in the neoadjuvant setting. Two courses of chemotherapy were most frequently used in the neoadjuvant and adjuvant settings, and treatment of metastatic or recurrent lesions. More than 90% of patients experienced hematological adverse events such as some grade of leukocytopenia and neutropenia in each course of the chemotherapy. Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia was seen in 60-75% of patients. Grade 3 or 4 leukopenia and/or neutropenia in the first course of the chemotherapy was associated with patients with impaired renal function (60 mL/min< or = creatinine clearance <80 mL/min). Febrile neutropenia was found in 6 patients (5.0%), including one who died of subsequent septic shock and adult respiratory distress syndrome. Nausea was seen in 70-80% of patients. MVAC chemotherapy for advanced bladder cancer was performed with tolerable adverse events. The current results provide relevant information mainly for those who need 2 courses of chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant or adjuvant setting.
More must be learned about metabolic and biochemical alterations that contribute to the development and expression of drug dependence. Experimental opioid administration influences mechanisms and indices of oxidative stress, such as antioxidant compounds and purine metabolism. We examined perturbations of neurotransmitter-related pathways in opioid dependence (OD).
In this preliminary study, we used a targeted metabolomics platform to explore whether biochemical changes were associated with OD by comparing OD individuals (n = 14) and non-drug users (n = 10).
OD patients undergoing short-term methadone detoxification showed altered oxidation-reduction activity, as confirmed by higher plasma levels of alpha- and gamma-tocopherol and increased GSH/GSSG ratio. OD individuals had also altered purine metabolism, showing increased concentration of guanine and xanthosine, with decreased guanosine, hypoxanthine and hypoxanthine/xanthine and xanthine/xanthosine ratios. Other drug use in addition to opioids was associated with partly different biochemical changes.
This is a preliminary investigation using metabolomics and showing multiple peripheral alterations of metabolic pathways in OD. Further studies should explore the metabolic profile of conditions of opioid abuse, withdrawal and long-term abstinence in relation to agonist and antagonist treatment and investigate biochemical signatures of opioid substances and medications.
Occasionally, heterotopic splenic tissue can occur in the renal fossa secondary to splenosis following splenic trauma or splenectomy. More rarely, it can represent a developmental anomaly secondary to the fusion of splenic and renal tissues. Splenorenal fusion can present as a renal mass, mimicking primary or secondary renal neoplasms on imaging studies, and patients can also present with symptoms of hypersplenism (anemia). We report a case of splenorenal fusion in a 51-year-old woman who initially presented with lithium toxicity, anemia, thrombocytosis, and a large renal mass that mimicked a primary renal neoplasm. The possible embryologic origin of splenorenal fusion, effects of lithium toxicity, and utility of various imaging modalities are discussed. The literature on renal heterotopic splenic tissue is also briefly reviewed.
