We conducted a genome-wide association study of gastric cancer and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) in ethnic Chinese subjects in which we genotyped 551,152 SNPs. We report a combined analysis of 2,240 gastric cancer cases, 2,115 ESCC cases and 3,302 controls drawn from five studies. In logistic regression models adjusted for age, sex and study, multiple variants at 10q23 had genome-wide significance for gastric cancer and ESCC independently. A notable signal was rs2274223, a nonsynonymous SNP located in PLCE1, for gastric cancer (P = 8.40 x 10(-9); per-allele odds ratio (OR) = 1.31) and ESCC (P = 3.85 x 10(-9); OR = 1.34). The association with gastric cancer differed by anatomic subsite. For tumors in the cardia the association was stronger (P = 4.19 x 10(-15); OR = 1.57), and for those in the noncardia stomach it was absent (P = 0.44; OR = 1.05). Our findings at 10q23 could provide insight into the high incidence of both cancers in China.
To identify risk factors predisposing to the development of flucloxacillin associated jaundice.
Case-control study. Medical records of cases and controls were reviewed and information recorded on standard data collection forms.
Alfred Hospital recruiting subjects from Melbourne, Sydney, and Brisbane.
Cases were defined as patients who had developed jaundice within eight weeks of stopping flucloxacillin, biochemical test results suggesting cholestasis, normal calibre bile ducts, and not been taking recognised hepatotoxic drugs. 51 of the 53 patients referred were included in the study. Four controls for each case were randomly selected from the patient register of the prescribing doctor. These were defined as patients who had been prescribed flucloxacillin without developing jaundice.
Demographic characteristics, medical history, indication for flucloxacillin, dose, route and duration of treatment, other drugs, smoking, and previous drug allergies or use of flucloxacillin.
Increasing age and a prolonged duration of flucloxacillin treatment were found to be risk factors for the development of jaundice. Patients aged over 55 years had an odds ratio of 18.61 (95% confidence interval 5.16-67.17) compared with patients under 30. The odds ratio for patients prescribed flucloxacillin for over 14 days was 7.13 (2.90 to 17.58) compared with patients treated for 14 days or less. Dose and route of administration were not related to the risk of jaundice.
Older patients and those receiving flucloxacillin for longer than two weeks are at a substantially greater risk of jaundice. Careful consideration of the risk-benefit ratio is required when flucloxacillin is used in these settings.
The aberrant function of transcription factors and/or kinase-based signaling pathways that regulate the ability of hematopoietic cells to proliferate, differentiate, and escape apoptosis accounts for the leukemic transformation of myeloid progenitors. Here, we demonstrate that simultaneous retinoid receptor ligation and blockade of the MEK/ERK signaling module, using the small-molecule inhibitor CI-1040, result in a strikingly synergistic induction of apoptosis in both acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cells with constitutive ERK activation. This proapoptotic synergism requires functional RAR and RXR retinoid receptors, as demonstrated using RAR- and RXR-selective ligands and RAR-defective cells. In the presence of MEK inhibitors, however, retinoid-induced chromatin remodeling, target-gene transcription, and granulocytic differentiation are strikingly inhibited and apoptosis induction becomes independent of death-inducing ligand/receptor pairs; this suggests that apoptosis induction by combined retinoids and MEK inhibitors is entirely distinct from the classical "postmaturation" apoptosis induced by retinoids alone. Finally, we identify disruption of Bcl-2-dependent mitochondrial homeostasis as a possible point of convergence for the proapoptotic synergism observed with retinoids and MEK inhibitors. Taken together, these results indicate that combined retinoid treatment and MEK blockade exert powerful antileukemic effects and could be developed into a novel therapeutic strategy for both AML and APL.
Drug-induced hematological disorders appear as a rare but serious side effect of the drugs use. According to studies, their frequency is estimated between one and two cases per year for 100,000 subjects, and their mortality is fluctuating between 8 and 17%. Granulocytopenic disorders seem to be responsible for the largest part of that death rate. Antidepressant drugs whose hematotoxicity seems the most frequent are indalpin, mianserin and nomifensin. Nomifensin can induce immunohemolytic anemia, whereas indalpin and mianserin have been at the origin of granulocytopenic disorders. The hematotoxicity of indalpin and mianserin is observed preferentially on elderly female subjects, as observed with most of the compounds responsible for drug-induced hematological disorders.
In a 47-year-old patient with asymmetrical proximal paraparesis a long cervical and thoracic spinal epidural lipomatosis was found, by computed tomography and (the first such case) magnetic resonance imaging, to be the cause of the signs of a transverse cord lesion. Such a space-occupying mass is a rare complication of long-term corticosteroid medication--in this case administered for over seven years for bronchial asthma. Contrary to the majority of similar reported cases, no decompression operation was performed, because the neurological signs had not progressed and the clinical findings in fact quickly regressed once the steroid dosage had been reduced and they showed a clear dependence on the amount of steroid administered.
Epidemiological studies indicate that adequate dietary folate is protective against colon cancer, although mechanisms remain largely elusive. We investigated the effects of genetic disruptions of folate transport and metabolism and of dietary folate deficiency in a mouse model of colon cancer, the Apc(min/+) mouse. Apc(min/+) mice with heterozygous knockout of the gene for reduced folate carrier 1 (Rfc1(+/-)) developed significantly fewer adenomas compared to Rfc1(+/+)Apc(min/+) mice [30.3+/-4.6 vs. 60.4+/-9.4 on a control diet (CD) and 42.6+/-4.4 vs. 55.8+/-7.6 on a folate-deficient diet, respectively]. Rfc1(+/-)Apc(min/+) mice also carried a lower tumor load, an indicator of tumor size as well as of tumor number. In contrast, there were no differences in adenoma formation between Apc(min/+) mice carrying a knockout allele for methionine synthase (Mtr(+/-)), an enzyme that catalyzes folate-dependent homocysteine remethylation, and Mtr(+/+)Apc(min/+) mice. However, in both Mtr groups of mice, dietary folate deficiency significantly increased adenoma number (from 32.3+/-3.8 on a CD to 48.1+/-4.2 on a folate-deficient diet), increased plasma homocysteine, decreased global DNA methylation in preneoplastic intestines and increased apoptosis in tissues. There were no genotype-associated differences in these parameters in the Rfc1 group, suggesting that the protection conferred by Rfc1 deficiency is carried out through a different mechanism. In conclusion, genetic and nutritional disturbances in folate metabolism can have distinct influences on tumorigenesis in Apc(min/+) mice; altered levels of homocysteine, global DNA methylation and apoptosis may contribute mechanistically to dietary influence.
A patient with nephrotic syndrome developed pseudotumor cerebri following glucocorticoid therapy. Diagnosis of pseudotumor cerebri was based on satisfaction of four criteria proposed by Ahlskog and O'Neill. The symptoms of pseudotumor cerebri disappeared within 10 days. After a three-week interval of remission, relapse occurred. Glycerol and urokinase produced rapid resolution of the symptoms and warfarin prevented further recurrence of pseudotumor cerebri for one year. These results suggest that the pathogenesis of pseudotumor cerebri might be associated with the hypercoagulable state which was induced by glucocorticoid therapy and nephrotic syndrome.
To report a case of presymptomatic Wilson's disease in a patient who became severely neurologically disabled after treatment with penicillamine and to discuss alternative initial therapy for such patients.
Case report. The patient described is briefly compared with a previously studied group of 13 similar presymptomatic patients who received zinc therapy without any clinical worsening and who have had 3 to 9 years of follow-up.
Referral hospital.
The patient was referred to us.
The patient had initially been treated with penicillamine.
The main outcome of interest is permanent neurologic disability, depending on type of initial treatment.
The result of initial penicillamine therapy in the patient described is permanent neurologic disability. This is believed to be due to mobilization and redistribution of hepatic copper causing higher levels of copper in key areas of the brain.
We conclude that penicillamine used as initial therapy, even in patients with neurologically asymptomatic Wilson's disease, increases the risk of inducing permanent neurologic damage.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) present a major problem for the long-term management of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Due to the interdependence of risk factors in clinical populations, it is difficult to independently examine factors that may influence the development of LIDs. Using macaque monkeys with different types of MPTP-induced parkinsonism, the current study evaluated the degree to which rate of symptom progression, symptom severity, and response to and duration of levodopa therapy may be involved in the development of LIDs. Monkeys with acute (short-term) MPTP exposure, rapid symptom onset and short symptom duration prior to initiation of levodopa therapy developed dyskinesia between 11 and 24 days of daily levodopa administration. In contrast, monkeys with long-term MPTP exposure, slow symptom progression and/or long symptom duration prior to initiation of levodopa therapy were more resistant to developing LIDs (e.g., dyskinesia developed no sooner than 146 days of chronic levodopa administration). All animals were similarly symptomatic at the start of levodopa treatment and had similar therapeutic responses to the drug. These data suggest distinct differences in the propensity to develop LIDs in monkeys with different rates of symptom progression or symptom durations prior to levodopa and demonstrate the value of these models for further studying the pathophysiology of LIDs.
A series of 5-deoxy-5-(4-substituted piperazin-1-yl)-1,4: 3,6-dianhydro-L-iditol 2-nitrates was prepared and evaluated for oral anti-ischemic activities. Inhibition of lysine-vasopressin-induced T-wave elevation in the electrocardiogram (ECG) of rats (angina pectoris model) served as a primary assay. Optimum activity was observed for the compounds with the aryl-heteroatom (O,S, or N)-propyl group. Among them, the phenylthiopropyl-substituted compound 13 exhibited the most potent activity. Furthermore, intraduodenal administration (i.d.) of 13 tended to decrease left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) in a propranolol-induced heart failure model (dogs) and showed a potent protective effect against reperfusion arrhythmia in rats. Thus, 13 (KF 14124) is under further study as an orally active nitrate.
There is no effective treatment for cocaine addiction despite extensive knowledge of the neurobiology of drug addiction. Here we show that a selective aldehyde dehydrogenase-2 (ALDH-2) inhibitor, ALDH2i, suppresses cocaine self-administration in rats and prevents cocaine- or cue-induced reinstatement in a rat model of cocaine relapse-like behavior. We also identify a molecular mechanism by which ALDH-2 inhibition reduces cocaine-seeking behavior: increases in tetrahydropapaveroline (THP) formation due to inhibition of ALDH-2 decrease cocaine-stimulated dopamine production and release in vitro and in vivo. Cocaine increases extracellular dopamine concentration, which activates dopamine D2 autoreceptors to stimulate cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC) in primary ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons. PKA and PKC phosphorylate and activate tyrosine hydroxylase, further increasing dopamine synthesis in a positive-feedback loop. Monoamine oxidase converts dopamine to 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetaldehyde (DOPAL), a substrate for ALDH-2. Inhibition of ALDH-2 enables DOPAL to condense with dopamine to form THP in VTA neurons. THP selectively inhibits phosphorylated (activated) tyrosine hydroxylase to reduce dopamine production via negative-feedback signaling. Reducing cocaine- and craving-associated increases in dopamine release seems to account for the effectiveness of ALDH2i in suppressing cocaine-seeking behavior. Selective inhibition of ALDH-2 may have therapeutic potential for treating human cocaine addiction and preventing relapse.
Our aim here was to determine whether or not the addition of cisplatin into vinorelbine (V) treatment is an appropriate regimen for physically fit chemo-naïve non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients aged 70 or older.
Patients were randomized into vinorelbine (V) or vinorelbine plus cisplatin (VP) treatment arms. Treatment consisted of vinorelbine 25 mg/m(2) intravenous infusion (i.v.) on days 1 and 8 every 3 weeks (V arm), or vinorelbine 22.5 mg/m(2) i.v. on days 1 and 8 plus cisplatin 50 mg/m(2) i.v. on day 1 every 3 weeks (VP arm).
Sixty-five patients were enrolled from May 2005 to December 2006, including 31 who received V treatment and 34 who received VP treatment. Objective response rates were 16.1% in V and 32.4% in VP (p=0.009). Control rates were 51.6% in V and 82.4% in VP (p=0.008). Myelosuppression was more common and severe in the VP arm. Any grade of anemia and neutropenia was significantly higher in the VP arm (p=0.001 and 0.009, respectively). Fatigue sensation was more common and severe in the VP arm (p=0.032). Median time to disease progression was 3.1 months in the V arm and 5.2 months in the VP arm (p=0.0303). The 1-year survival rate was 50.9% in the V arm and 47.2% in the VP arm.
Adding cisplatin to vinorelbine treatment is feasible in elderly patients, and has a better response rate and longer median time to disease progression. However, both statistically significantly higher toxicity and no survival advantage for the combination treatment was observed.
1. In autonomic failure, supine exercise lowers blood pressure and worsens postural hypotension. The somatostatin analogue, octreotide, reduces post-prandial and postural hypotension, but its effects on exercise-induced hypotension and on postural hypotension post-exercise are unknown. 2. Eighteen subjects with chronic sympathetic denervation were studied; 12 had pure autonomic failure and six had additional neurological features of the Shy-Drager syndrome. Haemodynamic, hormonal and biochemical changes were measured before, during and after incremental supine leg exercise on two occasions: on no treatment and after subcutaneous octreotide. Exercise was performed 120 min after octreotide in eight subjects and 60 min after octreotide in ten subjects. 3. Octreotide did not improve exercise-induced hypotension; the blood pressure fall was greater during exercise, but the blood pressure level was no different than without treatment. Heart rate, stroke distance, cardiac index and systemic vascular resistance were similar at rest and changed to the same degree with exercise on and off octreotide. After octreotide, resting levels of serum growth hormone, plasma noradrenaline, adrenaline and renin were unchanged, but glucose was higher and insulin was lower. There was no change in biochemical and hormone levels during exercise either off or on octreotide. 4. After octreotide, although the rate of blood pressure recovery was similar post-exercise, the levels of blood pressure were higher than in the non-treatment phase and postural hypotension was improved before and after exercise. 5. In conclusion, in primary autonomic failure, octreotide did not improve exercise-induced hypotension in the supine position, suggesting that octreotide-sensitive vasodilatory peptides do not contribute to the blood pressure fall.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the in vitro effects of baicalin on induction of apoptosis in human prostate cancer cell line DU145.
Human prostate cancer cell line DU145 was treated with different concentration of baicalin in vitro. The apoptosis rate was determined by FACS analysis, cell cycle distribution was detected by flow cytometry, morphological changes and protein analysis were determined by means of electron microscope techniqueand immunohistochemical techniquerespectively.
50micromol x L(-1) and 125 micromol x L(-1) of baicalin dose-dependently induced apoptosis and inhibited the proliferation of prostate cancer cell DU145 in a dose and time-dependent manner. DNA flow cytometric analysis indicated that baicalin induced a arrest in G1 phase, showing a typical apoptosis peak. Electron microscopy detected a characteristic appearance of the apoptotic cells morphology. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that induction of apoptosis by ways of inhibition of the bcl-2, loss of the Bax, and upregulation of Fas.
The results indicate that baicalin may induce apoptosis and inhibit proliferation of prostate cancer cells, and has direct anti-tumor effects on human prostate cancer cells.
Hemodynamic effects of nicardipine-induced hypotension during enflurane/nitrous oxide were evaluated in 10 surgical patients. An infusion of nicardipine was titrated to maintain mean arterial pressure at 60 to 70 mmHg under enflurane 1.5 to 2.0 vol% and nitrous oxide 60 vol%. Mean arterial pressure was well controlled with the nicardipine infusion, whereas cardiac index increased with decreased systemic vascular resistance. Heart rate increased concomitantly with decreased blood pressure, which indicated that enflurane 1.5 to 2.0 vol% did not suppress baroreceptor reflex during nicardipine administration. However, rate-pressure-product was not increased by the nicardipine. Right and left ventricular systolic work indices were not increased by the nicardipine. Right ventricular ejection fraction was not also changed by the nicardipine. Although serum norepinephrine level increased during the nicardipine infusion, the values remained within physiological ranges. Our results suggest that nicardipine-induced hypotension may be safely performed during enflurane/nitrous oxide anesthesia because neither ventricular work nor myocardial oxygen demand was increased by nicardipine.
We present the case of a 42-year-old male with a history of schizophrenia who developed signs and symptoms consistent with Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS) after 3 weeks of treatment with Olanzapine. The patient presented with hyperpyrexia, tremors, labile blood pressure, and mental status changes that had progressed over the preceding 24 h. Laboratory data revealed a metabolic acidosis and an escalating creatinine phosphokinase. Olanzapine is a relatively new atypical anti-psychotic agent first introduced in November of 1996 under the trade name of zyprexa. Olanzapine differs from typical anti-psychotic agents in that it has a lower affinity for dopaminergic receptors and binds antagonistically to serotonin receptors in the nigrostriatal pathway. These unique properties result in relatively fewer extra-pyramidal symptoms when compared to traditional anti-psychotics. Because of olanzapine's favorable side-effect profile, it has quickly gained popularity in the psychiatric community. Although NMS is a recognized complication of anti-psychotic use, there has been only one case of olanzapine induced NMS reported in the literature. The POISON-INDEX system, used by toxicologists throughout the United States, does not list NMS as a potential reaction to olanzapine. The pharmacists at our institution were also unaware that NMS was a possible complication of olanzapine. We present this case to make clinicians aware of the potential for Olanzapine induced NMS.
Adult T-cell leukemia (ATL) is an aggressive lymphoproliferative disease of poor clinical prognosis associated with infection by the human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I). The use of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) has been shown to effectively treat acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) with greater than 80% of patients achieving complete remission. The combination of arsenic and interferon has also shown promising results in the treatment of ATL. The requirement for slow dosage increases of arsenic and the time required to achieve a pharmacologic active dose in patients is a major obstacle because median survival of patients with ATL is about 6 months. In this study we report a potent synergistic effect of the combination of arsenic trioxide and interferon alpha (As/IFN-alpha) with emodin and DHA on cell-cycle arrest and cell death of HTLV-I-infected cells. Importantly, we found that clinically achievable doses of DHA and emodin allowed for reduced arsenic concentrations by 100-fold while still remaining highly toxic to tumor cells. Our data provide a rationale for combined use of As/IFN-alpha with emodin and DHA in patients with ATL refractory to conventional therapy.
We genotyped six folate metabolic pathway genes for 11 polymorphisms in 460 cases of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and 552 ethnically matched controls. None of the polymorphisms except the 66A>G (I22M) in the 5-methyltetrahydrofolate-homocysteine methyltransferase reductase (MTRR) gene showed any effect on disease risk. The carriers of the G-allele were associated with a marginal decreased risk of ALL (gender-adjusted global P=0.03; multiple-testing corrected P=0.25). Analysis of four polymorphisms in the MTRR gene showed statistically significant differences in haplotype distribution between cases and controls (global P<0.0001). The haplotypes GCAC (odds ratio (OR) 0.5, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.4-0.6) and ATAC (OR 0.5, 95% CI 0.3-0.6) were associated with a reduced risk and the haplotypes ACAC (OR 2.3, 95% CI 1.8-2.9) and GTAC (OR 1.8, 95% CI 1.4-2.3) with an increased risk. The genotype-combination analyses indicated that the best model stratifies cases and controls based on the 66A>G and the 524C>T polymorphisms in the MTRR gene (global P=0.03). Our results suggest that, besides a weak association of childhood ALL with the 66A>G polymorphism, haplotypes within the MTRR gene may, in part, account for population-based differences in risk.
The importance of maintaining effective glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is well known. It is increasingly recognized that postprandial hyperglycemia is an important component of the overall glycemic burden, though there is as yet a paucity of data showing that lowering of postprandial plasma glucose (PPG) reduces risk of T2DM complications. The contribution of PPG to overall glycemic control is greatest when glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) is approximately 7% to 8%. Clinical studies show that targeting PPG can improve glycemic control and long-term prognosis in patients with T2DM. Guidelines for T2DM management now include target levels for PPG as treatment goals. One effective approach to PPG control is achieved using mealtime administration of insulin with a rapid onset of effect and a short duration of action, so that PPG excursions are limited without increased risk of hypoglycemia. Basal-bolus and biphasic insulin regimens achieve good PPG control, even in patients unable to reach glycemic targets with other treatments. Although clinical studies are increasingly including PPG as an endpoint, more interventional studies are needed to investigate the effect of different treatment regimens on PPG and the effect of PPG on clinical outcome. This will facilitate future recommendations for the most effective treatment of T2DM. Postprandial glucose is an important glycemic burden in many patients; routine targeting and regular monitoring has potential to ameliorate the cardiovascular complications of T2DM.
Administration of isaxonine (6 mg/kg powdered diet) had no effect on regeneration following sciatic nerve crush in the rat. In 10 patients undergoing treatment with vincristine (1.4 mg/m2 twice monthly) development of peripheral neuropathy was quantitated by neurological symptoms, signs and electrophysiological tests. Five also received isaxonine (1.5 g daily). All patients developed evidence of neuropathy, but in none was it severe. The three lowest disability scores were obtained in isaxonine treated patients, but the highest score was also in an isaxonine treated patient. The equivocal findings in this small study could not be amplified because the drug was withdrawn from clinical use on account of its hepatotoxicity.
DNA spanning a t(7;19) chromosomal translocation breakpoint was isolated from the human T cell line SUP-T7 established from an acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Nucleotide sequence analysis showed that the point of crossover on chromosome 7 occurred immediately adjacent to joining segment J beta 1.1 within the TCR-beta gene, suggesting that this translocation resulted from an error in TCR gene rearrangement. On chromosome 19, the translocation occurred within a previously uncharacterized transcriptional unit for which we propose the name lyl-1. An approximately 1.5-kb RNA is transcribed from this gene in a wide variety of hematolymphoid cell lines. The t(7;19) results in truncation of the lyl-1 gene and production of abnormal-sized RNAs, suggesting a role for lyl-1 in the pathogenesis of this leukemia.
Lysyl oxidase-like 2 (LOXL2), a member of the lysyl oxidase (LOX) family, is a copper-dependent enzyme that catalyzes oxidative deamination of lysine residues on protein substrates. LOXL2 was found to be overexpressed in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) in our previous research. We later identified a LOXL2 splicing variant LOXL2-delta72 and we overexpressed LOXL2-delta72 and its wild type counterpart in ESCC cells following microarray analyses. First, the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) of LOXL2 and LOXL2-delta72 compared to empty plasmid were applied to generate protein-protein interaction (PPI) sub-networks. Comparison of these two sub-networks showed hundreds of different proteins. To reveal the potential specific roles of LOXL2- delta72 compared to its wild type, the DEGs of LOXL2-delta72 vs LOXL2 were also applied to construct a PPI sub-network which was annotated by Gene Ontology. The functional annotation map indicated the third PPI sub-network involved hundreds of GO terms, such as "cell cycle arrest", "G1/S transition of mitotic cell cycle", "interphase", "cell-matrix adhesion" and "cell-substrate adhesion", as well as significant "immunity" related terms, such as "innate immune response", "regulation of defense response" and "Toll signaling pathway". These results provide important clues for experimental identification of the specific biological roles and molecular mechanisms of LOXL2-delta72. This study also provided a work flow to test the different roles of a splicing variant with high-throughput data.
The purpose of this study was to determine the arteriolar changes that occur in the microcirculation during deliberate hypotension and general anaesthesia and whether the changes depended on the drugs used to induce vasodilatation or on the degree of systemic blood pressure decrease. Changes in the vessel diameter and the velocity of red blood cells in the mesenteric arterioles of pentobarbitone-anaesthetized rats were observed using continuous biomicroscopy. Observations were made during deliberate moderate (BP 70 mmHg) or deep (BP 50 mmHg) hypotension by titration with nicardipine, prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) or trimethaphan. Then, the responses of arterioles to locally applied noradrenaline (1 microgram) were assessed. During moderate hypotension PGE1 decreased the arteriole diameter slightly (16.7 +/- 1.6 to 14.7 +/- 1.3 microns, P < 0.05), reduced the velocity of red blood cells considerably (1.98 +/- 0.2 to 1.03 +/- 0.4 mm.sec-1, P < 0.05) and increased the contractile response of arterioles to locally-applied noradrenaline. Nicardipine and trimethaphan had no effect on the microcirculation. During deep hypotension, all drugs decreased the diameter of the arterioles slightly but reduced the velocity of red blood cells considerably (P < 0.05). We conclude that the major change in the mesenteric arterioles during deliberate hypotension during general anaesthesia is a decrease in red blood cell velocity that is dependent on the drug used and the degree of blood pressure decrease.
Glomerulonephritis is a very rare form of cocaine-induced renal pathology. We report a 26-year-old woman having inhaled cocaine, who presented with antiglomerular basement membrane glomerulonephritis and pulmonary hemorrhage. She was treated with immunosuppressive therapy and plasmapheresis. Maintenance hemodialysis was required on discharge. We stress the importance of early detection and treatment of this renal association for the potential fatal consequences implicated.
This is the first research study to compare among female, non-smoker workers: (a) the exposure to benzene, toluene and xylenes (BTXs) in urban air during work in the street (traffic policewomen, TP) vs. work in vehicles (police drivers, PD); (b) the exposure to BTXs in urban environments (in street and in car) vs. rural environments (roadwomen, RW); (c) the values of blood benzene, urinary trans, trans muconic acid (t,t-MA) and urinary S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA) in urban areas (in street and in car) vs. rural areas.
Passive personal samplings and data acquired using fixed monitoring stations located in different areas of the city were used to measure environmental and occupational exposure to BTXs during the work shift in 48 TP, 21 PD and 22 RW. In the same study subjects, blood benzene, t,t-MA and S-PMA were measured at the end of each work shift.
Personal exposure of urban workers to benzene seemed to be higher than the exposure measured by the fixed monitoring stations. Personal exposure to benzene and toluene was (a) similar among TP and PD and (b) higher among urban workers compared to rural workers. Personal exposure to xylenes was (a) higher in TP than in PD and (b) higher among urban workers compared to rural workers. Blood benzene, t,t-MA and S-PMA levels were similar among TP and PD, although the blood benzene level was significantly higher in urban workers compared to rural workers. In urban workers, airborne benzene and blood benzene levels were significantly correlated.
Benzene is a human carcinogen, and BTXs are potential reproductive toxins at low dose exposures. Biological and environmental monitoring to assess exposure to BTXs represents a preliminary and necessary tool for the implementation of preventive measures for female subjects working in outdoor environments.
There is a strong association between ability of leukemia blasts to accumulate ara-CTP, the active metabolite of ara-C, and response to ara-C in patients with relapsed or refractory AML. Ara-C dose rates in excess of 0.5 g/m2/h do not produce further ara-CTP formation. In contrast, when given 4 h prior to ara-C at this dose rate, fludarabine, at doses that are free of neurotoxicity in CLL, enhances ara-CTP accumulation. This led us to administer fludarabine and ara-C to 59 patients with AML in relapse or unresponsive to initial therapy. Fludarabine was given at 30 mg/m2 once daily for 5 doses and ara-C at 0.5 g/m2/h for 2-6 h daily for 6 doses. Doses of fludarabine preceded those of ara-C by 4 h. Results with fludarabine and ara-C (FA) were compared with those of patients treated at M.D. Anderson with high-dose ara-C (HDAC) or intermediate-dose ara-C (IDAC). The complete remission rate with FA was 21/59 (36%) and the actuarial median CR duration 39 weeks. FA produced significantly higher remission rates than HDAC or IDAC in patients with initial remissions > 1 yr (14/20 vs 9/23 vs 6/18, p < 0.05). Response rates were similar for all three treatments in patients with initial remissions < 1 yr or with primary refractory disease. The regimen was well tolerated; one patient developed peripheral neuropathy. This low level of toxicity encourages combination with other antileukemia agents.
Recent reports have shown that thiazolidinediones have preventive effects on urinary albumin excretion in diabetes. However, the mechanism leading to these effects has not yet been elucidated. We studied here the effects of thiazolidinediones on albuminuria and hemodynamic and morphological changes in the kidneys of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHRs). Diabetes was induced in SHRs by intravenous injection of STZ (50 mg/kg). The diabetic SHRs were divided into the following 3 groups: (1) STZ-SHRs given normal chow (STZ), (2) STZ-SHRs given chow mixed with 0.1% troglitazone (STZ + tro), and (3) STZ-SHRs given chow mixed with 0.001% pioglitazone (STZ + pio). Three groups of nondiabetic SHRs were also investigated: (4) SHR, (5) tro, and (6) pio. We evaluated the urinary albumin excretion rate (AER) every 4 weeks. After 12 weeks of treatment, the animals were killed and renal morphological examinations were performed. Thiazolidinediones did not affect blood pressure or blood glucose levels. Urinary AER were markedly increased in STZ-SHRs. After 12 weeks of treatment with thiazolidinediones, the urinary AER was significantly decreased while creatinine (Cr) clearance was left unchanged. Histologically, the loss of anionic sites of glomerular basement membranes (GBM) evaluated with polyetyleneimine was suppressed significantly in the diabetic SHRs treated with thiazolidinediones. In conclusion, administration of thiazolidinediones in diabetic SHRs decreased the urinary AER and suppressed the loss of anionic sites of GBM without affecting blood pressure, blood glucose levels, or Cr clearance. These results clarify the novel therapeutic action of thiazolidinediones on diabetic nephropathy.
Ten brains from leukaemic patients given intrathecal methotrexate and 10 from leukaemic patients without intrathecal therapy have been examined. Three of the methodtrexate treated patients appear to have died from their therapy. The histological changes consisted of destruction of oligodendrocytes, sometimes complete over large areas, and sometimes relatively slight. All the patients who survived long enough after treatment showed severe astrocytosis.
