Two cases of enalapril(Reniten)-induced angioedema are described. In both patients the time lag between the first manifestation of angio-edema and diagnosis was more than one year, during which several bouts of edema occurred. One patient developed life-threatening swelling of the tongue and the larynx followed by asystole and apnea. The second patient had recurrent edema of the tongue and dyspnea. In general, enalapril-induced edema is not thought to be based on immunological mechanisms. However, in both patients we found elevated titres of antinuclear antibodies, which were reversible upon cessation of enalapril medication. The possible pathomechanisms are discussed.
A rat in vitro model has been developed which permits direct study of the biochemical mechanisms involved in delayed neurotoxicity induced by any chemical compound, not only organophosphates. Using rat brain homogenate, a parallel study on the activity of neurotoxic esterase (NTE) and total esterases (TE) compared the action of metamidophos, which is known to induce delayed neurotoxicity, and the synthetic fatty acid anilides, oleylanilide and linoleylanilide. Inhibition in the activity of NTE and TE, unrelated to the concentration and the incubation time assayed, was caused by metamidophos, while the anilides showed a 2-phase concentration-time dependent behaviour. This confirmed the results we previously obtained in vivo. In both cases the appearance of delayed neuropathy was related to modification of NTE activity. We concluded that phosphorylation of the enzyme may not be the only biochemical requirement for the development of delayed neurotoxicity syndromes in which modification of NTE is produced.
An apparent case of psychosis induced by cimetidine is reported. A 61-year-old Caucasian woman was hospitalized with chief complaints of left-sided paresthesias, headache, and vertigo. She had a history of hyperparathyroidism, thyroid insufficiency, and chronic but stable renal insufficiency. Admitting laboratory data indicated possible hepatic compromise. On day 16 of hospitalization, cimetidine (300 mg q 6 hr p.o.) was begun because of a falling hematocrit and guaiac-positive stools. Within 24 hours after cimetidine therapy was begun, the patient was confused, tearful, and disoriented. This confusional state continued during treatment with cimetidine, and was refractory to antipsychotic therapy. On day 5 of cimetidine therapy, the patient experienced visual and auditory hallucinations, and both cimetidine and antipsychotic drugs were discontinued. The patient was noted to be alert and oriented 24 hours later. A review of the literature revealed 30 cases of apparent cimetidine-induced CNS changes. Patients experiencing such reactions were typically elderly with compromised renal or hepatic failure, or both. Future studies on this topic should focus on predisposing patient factors and serum or cerebrospinal fluid concentrations of cimetidine associated with the symptomology.
Primary thrombocythemia is a rare acquired chronic disorder of the bone marrow which can occur at any age. Diagnosis is based upon elevated platelet counts, morphologically and functionally altered platelets and characteristic bone marrow alterations as well as the exclusion of related myeloproliferative disorders which can also be accompanied by increased platelet counts. Possible disease complications are thromboembolic and hemorrhagic events as well as a transformation into myelofibrosis or acute leukemia. Inhibition of platelet aggregation with aspirin for the prevention of thromboembolic complications is first-line therapy; cytoreductive therapy with drugs such as hydroxyurea or interferon-alpha or thromboreductive therapy with the platelet-reducing agent anagrelide is required when thromboembolic complications are already present at diagnosis (secondary prevention) or when platelet counts are steadily increasing or various additional risk factors are present (primary prevention). Because of the potential adverse effects of the various therapies upon long-term application a strict risk-benefit analysis is mandatory before initiation of therapy. In up to 50% of the patients the recently discovered V617F mutation in the JAK2 gene can be identified which is supposed to be involved in the pathogenesis of this disease.
Because of the rarity of primary thrombocythemia thus far only two prospectively randomized studies have been carried out to compare cyto- and thromboreductive therapies. In the British PT1 study the mandatory combination of anagrelide with aspirin was compared with the combination of hydroxyurea and aspirin, in the European ANAHYDRET study monotherapy with hydroxyurea was compared with that of anagrelide. This different study design has caused an intense controversy about the results of these studies obtained thus far.
Due to the existence of randomized clinical studies expert opinion will, in the future, be increasingly replaced by evidence-based therapy guidelines. The improved knowledge of the molecular basis of the disease because of the discovery of the V617F mutation in the JAK2 gene has improved the molecular diagnosis and opened new avenues to molecular-targeted therapies.
Sural nerve biopsies of four patients, aged 54--76 years, with a predominantly sensory type of neuropathy following high dosages of thalidomide were examined by light and electron microscopy. The present study includes a qualitative and quantitative evaluation of unmyelinated nerve fibers. Despite severe neuropathy, increased numbers of small unmyelinated axons per endoneurial area were noted in all patients. This numerical increase appeared to be independent of aging, since it was not seen in two senile controls, studied at the age of 83 and 88 years. The increase in the endoneurial density of unmyelinated axons, especially of small sized fibers, is likely to be related to regeneration following degeneration of unmyelinated axons although endoneurial shrinkage secondary to loss of large myelinated fibers could have caused an additional increase in the number of axons per endoneurial area. Axonal sprouting, despite degeneration of large numbers of myelinated and unmyelinated fibers, appears to be consistent with some of the characteristic clinical features of thalidomide neuropathy such as paresthesias, hyperesthesia for pain and temperature, and disturbances of autonomic functions. On the other hand, a variable number of empty Schwann cells (bands of Büngner) and pockets at the surface of many Schwann cells noted in the four patients with neuropathy were also seen in both senile controls with no signs of neuropathy. Thus, it is obvious that pockets and empty Schwann cells may be related to aging or other causes of slow axonal wasting with Schwann cell proliferation and are not necessarily associated with clinically manifest neuropathy.
A case of cancer of the bladder is reported in a patient treated 5 years previously with cyclophosphamide for membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. The responsibility of cyclophosphamide for this type of tumour is well documented in the literature and should lead to a limitation of its use in disease with a favourable prognosis and to close surveillance via regular cystoscopy and blind biopsy in patients who receive more than 50 g of the drug.
Boswellic acids have invariably been reported for their antiproliferative potential in various cell systems. In the present study the growth inhibitory effect of propionyloxy derivative of 11-keto-β-boswellic acid (PKBA; a semisynthetic analogue of 11-keto-β-boswellic acid) on HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cells is being reported for the first time. In the preliminary studies, in vitro cytotoxicity of PKBA was investigated against eight human cancer cell lines viz., IMR-32, SF-295 (both neuroblastoma), PC-3 (prostate), Colo-205 (colon), MCF-7 (breast), OVCAR-5 (ovary), HL-60, Molt-4 (both leukemia) and their respective IC(50) values were found to be 5.95, 7.11, 15.2, 14.5, 15, 15.9, 8.7 & 9.5μg/ml, respectively. For determining the mechanism of cell death in HL-60 cells, PKBA was subjected to different mechanistic studies. DNA relaxation assay of PKBA revealed inhibition of both topoisomerases I & II. The fragmentation analysis of DNA revealed typical ladders indicating the cytotoxic effect to be mediated by induction of apoptosis. The morphologic studies of PKBA showed the presence of true apoptotic bodies. Apoptosis was confirmed further by flow-cytometric detection of sub-G(1) peaks and enhanced annexin-V-FITC binding of the cells. The activation of apoptotic cascade by PKBA in HL-60 cells was found to be associated with the loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, release of cytochrome c, activation of initiator and executioner caspases and cleavage of poly ADP ribose polymerase (PARP). In vivo studies of PKBA revealed anti-tumoral activity against both ascitic and solid murine tumor models. These studies thus demonstrate PKBA to induce apoptosis in HL-60 cells due to the inhibition of topoisomerases I and II.
Isoproterenol, administered intraperitoneally in rats in a dose of 2 mg/kg of body mass for a period of 20 days, induced myocardial hypertrophy. After its stoppage a period of regression occurred, during which the myocardium recovered practically to its initial state. Complex studies of connective-tissue components (collagen, glycosaminoglycans, total nonfibrillary protein, total protein, structural, glycoproteins), metrometric data-the coefficient R (1 g of myocardium/199 g of body mass) and histomorphological investigations were performed. The same studies were done on rats of a control nontreated group and of experimental groups-on the 0 day. 7th, 14th and 42 day. It was established there was a gradual recovery to normal values of collagen, total nonfibrillary protein and the coefficient R, which were highest on the day 0. Progressive diminution, e.g., normalization of both the connective tissue components and of the volume of myocardial cells was found histomorphologically, in which the changes were mostly manifested on the day 0, as well. The complex studies of the connective tissue with isoproterenol MH proved that the changes of MH in this tissue correlated with the stages of MH respectively its regression.
Exposure to fluoride can induce low sperm quality; however, little is known about the molecular mechanisms by which fluoride exerts its toxic effects. This study was conducted to evaluate ultrastructure, oxidative stress, and apoptosis in sperm of mice treated with 150 mg/l NaF for 49 days. Furthermore, microarray analysis was also utilized to characterize the effects of fluoride in gene expression profiling on mice sperm. An increased ROS and a decreased TAC accompanied with distinct morphological changes and significant apoptosis were observed in mice sperm from the fluoride group. Fluoride exposure also significantly elevated the protein expressions of cytochrome c and active caspase-3. In global gene expression profiling, 34 up-regulated and 63 down-regulated genes, which are involved in several sperm biological processes including signal transduction, oxidative stress, apoptosis, electron transport, glycolysis, chemotaxis, spermatogenesis, and sperm capacitation, were significantly differentially expressed. Based on these findings, it was proposed that oxidative stress induced by excessive ROS may trigger sperm apoptosis through mitochondrial impairment, resulting in decreased fertility in mice exposed to fluoride. Microarray analysis also provided several important biological clues for further investigating fluoride-induced damage in sperm morphology and functions.
Chromium is an essential nutrient required for glucose and lipid metabolism. Laboratory and clinical evidences indicate that chromium supplementation may improve insulin sensitivity by enhancing intracellular signalling. Considerable evidence suggests that serine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1) at 307 residue (IRS1-Ser307) inhibits insulin signalling and results in peripheral insulin resistance. Therefore, we investigated whether chromium-associated insulin action was mediated by modulation of IRS1-Ser307 phosphorylation.
Male KK/HlJ mice (genetically obese and insulin resistant) were supplemented daily with chromium-containing milk powder or placebo for 7 weeks. In analysing functionally characterized insulin resistance, the changes of blood biochemicals, inflammatory factors and insulin signalling molecules in skeletal muscle were analysed.
Using KK mice model, we demonstrated that daily supplementation of trivalent chromium-containing milk powder reduced serum levels of glucose, insulin and triglycerides, and improved glucose and insulin tolerance. Mechanistic study showed that chromium supplementation activated postreceptor insulin signalling such as increasing IRS1, IRS1 tyrosine phosphorylation, p85alpha regulatory subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and glucose transporter 4 expression, stimulating Akt activity, downregulating c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activity and decreasing IRS1 ubiquitinization and insulin resistance-associated IRS1 phosphorylation (IRS1-Ser307) in skeletal muscle. In addition, chromium supplementation attenuated pro-inflammatory cytokine expression in both blood circulation and skeletal muscle.
Our data suggest that chromium-containing milk powder supplementation can provide a beneficial effect in diabetic subjects by enhancing insulin signalling in skeletal muscle. The improvement in insulin signalling by chromium was associated with the decreased IRS1-Ser307 phosphorylation, JNK activity and pro-inflammatory cytokine production.
Endothelial activation, which is characterized by upregulation of cellular adhesion molecules and pro-inflammatory chemokines and cytokines, and consequent monocyte recruitment to the arterial intima are etiologic factors in atherosclerosis. Redox-active transition metal ions, such as copper and iron, may play an important role in endothelial activation by stimulating redox-sensitive cell signaling pathways. We have shown previously that copper chelation by tetrathiomolybdate (TTM) inhibits LPS-induced acute inflammatory responses in vivo. Here, we investigated whether TTM can inhibit atherosclerotic lesion development in apolipoprotein E-deficient (apoE-/-) mice. We found that 10-week treatment of apoE-/- mice with TTM (33-66 ppm in the diet) reduced serum levels of the copper-containing protein, ceruloplasmin, by 47%, and serum iron by 26%. Tissue levels of "bioavailable" copper, assessed by the copper-to-molybdenum ratio, decreased by 80% in aorta and heart, whereas iron levels of these tissues were not affected by TTM treatment. Furthermore, TTM significantly attenuated atherosclerotic lesion development in whole aorta by 25% and descending aorta by 45% compared to non-TTM treated apoE-/- mice. This anti-atherogenic effect of TTM was accompanied by several anti-inflammatory effects, i.e., significantly decreased serum levels of soluble vascular cell and intercellular adhesion molecules (VCAM-1 and ICAM-1); reduced aortic gene expression of VCAM-1, ICAM-1, monocyte chemotactic protein-1, and pro-inflammatory cytokines; and significantly less aortic accumulation of M1 type macrophages. In contrast, serum levels of oxidized LDL were not reduced by TTM. These data indicate that TTM inhibits atherosclerosis in apoE-/- mice by reducing bioavailable copper and vascular inflammation, not by altering iron homeostasis or reducing oxidative stress.
Administration of methamphetamine (METH) to rats and nonhuman primates causes loss of terminals in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. The mechanism by which METH causes its neurotoxicity is not known. To evaluate further the role of oxyradicals in METH-induced neurotoxicity, we have tested its effects in CuZn superoxide dismutase (SOD) transgenic (Tg) mice, which express the human CuZnSOD gene. In non-Tg mice, acute METH administration causes significant decreases in levels of dopamine (DA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the striata and cortices of non-Tg mice. In contrast, there were no significant decreases in cortical or striatal DA in the SOD-Tg mice. The effects of METH on DOPAC were also attenuated in both structures of these SOD-Tg mice. Chronic METH administration caused decreases in levels of striatal DA and DOPAC in the non-Tg mice, whereas the SOD-Tg mice were not affected. These results suggest that METH-induced dopaminergic toxicity in mice may be secondary to increased production of reactive oxygen species such as the superoxide radical.
It has been reported that torasemide but not furosemide, may block the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system and therefore it might attenuate myocardial remodeling accompanied by left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. We therefore compared the therapeutic effects of torasemide, a long-acting loop diuretic, and furosemide, a short-acting one, on the progression of LV remodeling in a rat model of chronic heart failure (CHF) after experimental autoimmune myocarditis (EAM). CHF was elicited in Lewis rats by immunization with porcine cardiac myosin. Twenty-eight days after immunization, rats were treated for 28 days with torasemide, furosemide, or vehicle. We investigated the effects on metabolic and neurohumoral parameters, cardiac fibrosis and remodeling in EAM rats. Diuresis was increased dose dependently by both torasemide and furosemide, showed an equipotent natriuretic effect. The urinary potassium excretion was significantly increased with furosemide in comparison to torasemide. Myocardial functional parameters were significantly improved by torasemide. Conversely, these parameters did not change in rats receiving furosemide. Torasemide suppressed LV fibrosis, myocardial protein levels of transforming growth factor-beta1, collagen III, and aldosterone synthase and improved survival rate to the control level, but furosemide did not. Moreover, both pharmacological interventions significantly elevated plasma angiotensin II and decreased atrial natriuretic peptide in a dose-dependent manner. Our results demonstrate that compared with furosemide, torasemide treatment significantly improved survival rate, LV function and ameliorated the progression of cardiac remodeling in rats with CHF after EAM.
We investigated the change of antipsychotic treatment of elderly persons with dementia after several publications indicated an association between use of antipsychotics and cerebrovascular events in this population.
Twice a year, the complete medication, age, diagnosis and gender of all inpatients in 30 German psychiatric sites is collected anonymously in a data base for statistical analysis.
The treatment changed for the benefit of Quetiapine and Haloperidol. The use of both Risperidone and Olanzapine decreased markedly.
The antipsychotic treatment changed due to critical publication. But, the evidence for the risk profile is still a matter of debate.
Cadmium (Cd) a highly toxic metal is considered to be a multitarget toxicant, and it accumulates principally in the liver and kidney after absorption. In vivo studies of mouse and rat liver have shown that apoptosis plays a primary role in Cd-induced hepatotoxicity. However, the detailed mechanisms by which toxic metals such as Cd produce their effects are still largely unknown. The present study aimed at investigating the consequences of exposure to Cd, alpha-tocopherol and their combination on stress biochemical parameters (lipoperoxidation and protein carbonyls levels). Male albino Wistar rats (1 month old) were treated intravenously with cadmium (2 mg CdCl(2)/kg body weight/day), and alpha-tocopherol (100 mg/kg body weight/day), or with alpha-tocopherol+Cd (100 mg Vit E/kg body weight, 2 mg CdCl(2)/kg). The lipoperoxidation was measured by the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) method and oxidatively generated damage to proteins by determining carbonyl (DNPH) levels. Among the hematological parameters measured the haematocrit value and haemoglobin concentration were significantly decreased in the blood of Cd-treated rats. A significant increase was observed in the level of malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyls in the cadmium exposed group compared to control group (p<0.001), and these values were decreased after administration of alpha-tocopherol (group 4). The activity of lactate dehydrogenase in rat liver and brain showed a significant increase as compared to that found in the control group and significant decrease of catalase and superoxide dismutase activities. In the liver of the Cd-treated group the contents of reduced glutathione were decreased. Our results suggest that cadmium induces an oxidation of cellular lipids and proteins and that administration of alpha-tocopherol can reduce Cd-induced oxidative stress and improve the glutathione level together with other biochemical parameters.
Ambient air pollution has been consistently associated with exacerbation of respiratory diseases in schoolchildren, but the role of early exposure to traffic-related air pollution in the first occurrence of respiratory symptoms and asthma is not yet clear.
We assessed the association between indexes of exposure to traffic-related air pollution during different periods of life and respiratory outcomes in a birth cohort of 672 newborns (Rome, Italy). Direct interviews of the mother were conducted at birth and at 6, 15 months, 4 and 7 years. Exposure to traffic-related air pollution was assessed for each residential address during the follow-up period using a Land-Use Regression model (LUR) for nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and a Geographic Information System (GIS) variable of proximity to high-traffic roads (HTR) (>10 000vehicles/day). We used age-specific NO2 levels to develop indices of exposure at birth, current, and lifetime time-weighted average. The association of NO2 and traffic proximity with respiratory disorders were evaluated using logistic regression in a longitudinal approach (Generalised Estimating Equation). The exposure indexes were used as continuous and categorical variables (cut-off points based on the 75th percentile for NO2 and the 25th percentile for distance from HTRs).
The average NO2 exposure level at birth was 37.2 μg/m(3) (SD 7.2, 10-90th range 29.2-46.1). There were no statistical significant associations between the exposure indices and the respiratory outcomes in the longitudinal model. The odds ratios for a 10-µg/m(3) increase in time-weighted average NO2 exposure were: asthma incidence OR=1.09; 95 CI% 0.78 to 1.52, wheezing OR=1.07; 95 CI% 0.90 to 1.28, shortness of breath with wheezing OR=1.16; 95 CI% 0.94 to 1.43, cough or phlegm apart from cold OR=1.11; 95 CI% 0.92 to 1.33, and otitis OR=1.08; 95 CI% 0.89 to 1.32. Stronger but not significant associations were found considering the 75th percentile of the NO2 distribution as a cut-off, especially for incidence of asthma and prevalence of wheeze (OR=1.41; 95 CI% 0.88 to 2.28 and OR=1.27; 95 CI% 0.95 to 1.70, respectively); the highest OR was found for wheezing (OR=2.29; 95 CI% 1.15 to 4.56) at the 7-year follow-up. No association was found with distance from HTRs.
Exposure to traffic-related air pollution is only weakly associated with respiratory symptoms in young children in the first 7 years of life.
1 Labetalol has been used as medical treatment in five patients with phaeochromocytoma. 2 In four of the five patients, blood pressure was satisfactorily controlled, and symptoms and signs were relieved. 3 Labetalol also provided satisfactory cover across surgery for the removal of tumours in two cases. 4 In one instance, it was not possible to give sufficient labetalol orally to suppress the attacks of phaeochromocytoma. This patient was not effectively controlled at operation with a combination of propranolol and phenoxybenzamine. 5 Intravenous labetalol rapidly lowered blood pressure and relieved symptoms in a patient experienced hypertensive crisis after clonidine withdrawal. 6 Labetalol is a useful addition to the medical treatment of phaeochromocytoma.
Bipolar disorder is associated with the highest rates of substance abuse of any psychiatric disorder. Cocaine use is particularly common in patients with bipolar disorder. Both cocaine use and bipolar disorder are associated with mood symptoms and cognitive impairment. Therefore, treatments that stabilize mood, improve cognition, and reduce cocaine use would be useful. Citicoline modulates phospholipids metabolism and neurotransmitter levels and appears to improve cognition in some central nervous system disorders. A 12-week, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, add-on, proof-of-concept trial of citicoline was conducted in 44 outpatients with a history of mania or hypomania and cocaine dependence. The primary aim was to examine memory, but mood and cocaine use were also assessed.
Participants were evaluated with a structured diagnostic interview; Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Self-Report, Young Mania Rating Scale, and Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test. Cocaine use was assessed with urine drug screens. Data were analyzed using mixed-model analysis of covariance, generalized estimating equations, and logistic regression analyses that used all of the available data.
A significant group effect (P = 0.006) favoring citicoline was observed on the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test alternative word list. No significant between-group differences were found on the Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Self-Report or Young Mania Rating Scale. The citicoline group had a significantly lower probability of a cocaine-positive urine at exit (P = 0.026). The covariate-adjusted odds ratio estimate was 6.41, suggesting that those who took placebo had 6.41-times higher odds of testing positive for cocaine at exit than those who took citicoline. Citicoline was well tolerated, with no participants to our knowledge discontinuing because of medication side effects.
The use of citicoline was associated with improvement relative to placebo in some aspects of declarative memory and cocaine use, but not mood. The findings are promising and suggest that larger trials of citicoline are warranted.
We report a patient with congenital long QT syndrome in whom early afterdepolarizations (EADs) were demonstrated on monophasic action potential (MAP) recordings in the left ventricular mid-base inferior wall. Epinephrine infusion at 5 micrograms/min increased the amplitude of the EADs and the late component of the T(U) wave. Epinephrine also induced ventricular premature complexes (VPCs) with right bundle branch block morphology and left-axis deviation that occurred from the peak of the EADs. Verapamil injection (5 mg) during continuous epinephrine infusion abolished all VPCs with a slight reduction in the amplitude of the EADs. Propranolol injection (5 mg) in addition to verapamil further reduced the amplitude of the EADs and the late component of the T(U) wave. These findings suggest that the epinephrine-induced VPCs were closely related to triggered rhythm arising from the EADs, and that both verapamil and propranolol were effective for the suppression of VPCs and EADs.
The effect of the 5-HT4 antagonists GR113808A and GR125487D on cocaine-induced cardiac arrhythmia was examined in the rat. Cocaine alone, given i.v. at a rate of 2 mg/kg every 5 min, produced an initial increase in blood pressure followed by a severe drop in pressure and bradycardia. Sustained ventricular fibrillation was noted after 6-12 mg/kg cocaine and quickly progressed to asystole. Pretreatment with both GR113808A and GR125487D antagonized these effects in a dose-dependent manner. When given after the onset of arrhythmia, both drugs reversed the cocaine-induced arrhythmia's. Thus, the 5-HT4 antagonists may be useful in the treatment of cocaine toxicity.
The role of intercellular tight junctions in breast epithelial cells is traditionally thought to be in maintaining polarity and barrier function. However, claudin-4, a tight junction protein, is overexpressed in breast tumour cells compared to normal epithelial cells, which generally corresponds to a loss in polarity. The aim of this study was to investigate the distribution and potential clinical value of claudin-4 in breast cancer, and to evaluate its usefulness as a prognostic and predictive biomarker. Expression of claudin-4 was initially examined by Western blot analysis in a cohort of 88 breast tumours, and was found to correlate positively with tumour grade and negatively with ER. Claudin-4 expression was then evaluated by immunohistochemistry in a larger cohort of 299 tumours represented on a tissue microarray. Claudin-4 expression correlated positively with tumour grade and Her2, and negatively with ER. High claudin-4 expression was also associated with worse breast cancer-specific survival (p = 0.003), recurrence-free survival (p = 0.025) and overall survival (p = 0.034). Multivariate analysis revealed that claudin-4 independently predicted survival in the entire cohort (HR 1.95; 95%CI 1.01-3.79; p = 0.047) and in the ER positive subgroup treated with adjuvant tamoxifen (HR 4.34; 95%CI 1.14-16.53; p = 0.032). This relationship between increased claudin-4 expression and adverse outcome was validated at the mRNA level in a DNA microarray dataset of 295 breast tumours. We conclude that high levels of claudin-4 protein are associated with adverse outcome in breast cancer patients, including the subgroup of patients treated with adjuvant tamoxifen.
The anti-pyretic activity of a standardized methanol/water (50/50) extract of Orthosiphon stamineus Benth. (SEOS) was investigated for its effect on normal body temperature and yeast-induced pyrexia in Sprague Dawley (SD) rats. The SEOS showed no effect on normal body temperature. Doses of 500 and 1000 mg/kg body weight of SEOS significantly reduced the yeast-induced elevation in body temperature. This effect persisted up to 4 h following the administration of the extract. The anti-pyretic effect of SEOS was comparable with that of paracetamol (acetaminophen in U.S) (150 mg/kg p.o.), a standard anti-pyretic agent. HPLC study revealed that rosmarinic acid, sinensetin, eupatorin and tetramethoxyflavone were present in SEOS in the amounts of 7.58%, 0.2%, 0.34% and 0.24% respectively. The LD(50) of the extract in rats was higher than 5000 mg/kg body weight. Therefore, the present study ascertained that SEOS possesses a significant anti-pyretic activity.
1 The acute anti-hypertensive effect of intravenously administered labetalol, a combined alpha- and beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist, has been assessed in a pilot study involving 17 hypertensive patients. 2 In 11 patients with mild to moderately severe hypertension, there was a decrease in mean arterial pressure (24 mmHg) after a single intravenous dose of 50 mg labetalol. The peak response occurred approximately 4 min after administration of the drug. 3 In six patients with severe hypertension, there was a reduction in mean arterial pressure of 19 mmHg, but this was achieved after a further 50-mg dose administered 30 min after the initial injection. 4 In neither group was there any clinically significant decrease in heart rate, and drug-related side-effects were insignificant. 5 Labetalol reduced the blood pressure when administered intravenously and thus merits further investigation as a treatment for acute hypertensive crises.
To investigate the effects of alpha receptor blockers used in the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) on endothelial functions, coagulation parameters, and arterial blood pressure.
One-hundred fifteen patients admitted to the treatment protocol because of symptomatic BPH were included in this prospective study. Patients were given the following treatments: doxazosin 4 mg/d (n = 25), terazosin 5 mg/d (n = 26), alfuzosin 10 mg/d (n = 26), tamsulosin 0.4 mg/d (n = 21), and observation (n = 17). All cases were evaluated before treatment and in the 12th week of treatment, according to biochemical parameters, endothelial functions, and arterial blood pressure. Biochemical parameters were bleeding time, coagulation time, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, total prostate-specific antigen (PSA), and free PSA. Endothelial functions were evaluated with ultrasonography of the brachial artery.
When coagulation tests were evaluated, there were significant increases in bleeding and coagulation times in the groups using doxazosin and terazosin. Doxazosin and terazosin lowered arterial blood pressure significantly compared with other treatments. With regard to effects on endothelial function, there were significant differences in flow-mediated dilation rates of the brachial artery at 60 and 90 seconds before and during treatment in the alfuzosin and terazosin groups.
Alpha receptor blockers can decrease the risk of cardiovascular complications by both reducing platelet aggregation and protecting endothelial functions in patients with prostatic hyperplasia. The only drug with a favorable effect in all 4 areas of interest, including BPH symptoms, blood pressure, platelet aggregation, and endothelial functions, was terazosin.
