The azo-dye p-dimethylaminoazobenzene (p-DAB) is a potential tumor initiator in rodents, but the underlying mechanism is not clear. Following chronic feeding of the carcinogen for 3, 5 and 7 weeks, trace elemental status, free radical generation, oxidative damage, antioxidant profile were measured in male and female swiss albino mice. The feeding resulted in iron accumulation in male mice liver. No increase in iron level was observed in similarly exposed female mice. The results of this study suggest that p-DAB-induced iron accumulation in male mice with concomitant production of oxidative free radicals is an early event in the hepatocarcinogenic initiation. This occurs selectively in male mice and affects either directly or indirectly in development of chemically induced liver neoplasia. Again, that upregulation of metallothionein (MT) expression in association with increased free radical generation was demonstrated in male mice. Alteration of copper (Cu) and zinc (Zn) levels are described in the light of antioxidant profile in liver tissue. The current results thus provide evidence in support of iron accumulations producing oxidative damage, and enhanced metallothionein expression as possible contributors in the mode of action of p-DAB induced hepatocarcinogenesis.
A 52-year-old man with pheochromocytoma had cardiogenic shock and was rescued using a percutaneous cardio pulmonary supporting system. After recovery, diagnostic tests including metaiodobenzylguanidine scintigraphy and computed tomography, revealed the pheochromocytoma which was confirmed by histology. It was postulated that the acute episode was induced by intra-joint dexamethasone, which increased the production of epinephrine and augmented the sensitivity of cardiomyocytes for catecholamine, thereby inducing the cardiomyopathy.
The role of the cardiac beta receptor in the genesis and perpetuation of ouabain-induced ventricular tachyarrhythmias (VT) was investigated in the chloralose (20 mg/kg)-urethane (200 mg/kg) anesthetized dog. This was achieved by determining: 1) the effect of oxprenolol (0.3 mg/kg), a potent beta receptor blocking agent possessing no significant direct membrane effects on the myocardium, on the dose of ouabain necessary to cause VT (i.e., the toxic dose); and 2) whether oxprenolol had antirrhythmic efficacy against preexisting VT. The toxic dose was determined by giving a bolus injection of ouabain (similar to 36 mug/kg) plus a subsequent ouabain infusion (similar to 0.40 mug/kg min-minus 1) until VT occurred. VT was defined as at least one-third of the ventricular beats being of ectopic ventricular origin. The existence of an effective beta receptor blockade was verified by showing that 0.75 mug/kg of isoproterenol (an ED50 dose) injected intravenously had no detectable cardiovascular effects. The results were: 1) oxprenolol (0.3 mg/kg) did not alter the toxic dose significantly (P greater than .5 for both paired and group comparisons) [63.9 plus or minus 2.3 (S.E.) mug/kg vs. 64.4 plus or minus 2.9 (S.E.) mug/kg]; and 2) attempts to convert VT to sinus rhythm with oxprenolol (0.3 mg/kg) failed in 20 of 21 trials. Oxprenolol (1.0 mg/kg) effected only a temporary [10.6 plus or minus 6.4 (S.D.) minutes] reversion to sinus rhythm in 10 of 21 attempts. These results indicate that an activation of the cardiac beta receptor is not prerequisite for either the initiation or the perpetuation of ouabain-induced ventricular tachyarrhythmia in this particular model. The results cannot provide support for the notion that an increase in cardiac sympathetic nerve activity is a principal factor in VT in the dog. However, the results are consistent with the hypothesis that the direct membrane actions of ouabain are a principal cause of ouabain-induced ventricular tachyarrhythmia.
All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), the active metabolite of vitamin A, is involved in the inflammatory reaction and modulates the expression of cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes and nitric oxide (NO) activity. Since COX enzymes are the substrate of action of COX inhibitors, we studied the analgesic activity of paracetamol (PAR) and its NO-derivative nitroparacetamol (NOP) in the presence and absence of oral ATRA. Nociceptive responses were studied using the recording of single motor units technique in alpha-chloralose anesthetized normal and monoarthritic male Wistar rats. Intravenous PAR was not effective in normal rats. However, after pre-treatment with ATRA, PAR reduced dose-dependently the responses to noxious mechanical stimulation (ID50: 60+/-7 micromol/kg; 9.1 mg/kg), but not wind-up. The analgesic activity of NOP was enhanced after pre-treatment with ATRA either on responses to noxious mechanical stimulation (ID50s: 147+/-2 vs. 46+/-2 micromol/kg) or wind-up (maximal effect of 46+/-1% with 480 micromol/kg vs. 33+/-3% of control with 240 micromol/kg). The administration of ATRA did not modify the effect of PAR and NOP in monoarthritic rats. We conclude that pre-treatment with oral ATRA enhances the analgesic activity of PAR and NOP in acute pain, probably due to a positive modulation of their activity on spinal cord COX enzymes.
Simultaneous administration of estrogen and progestogen accelerates Goldblatt-type hypertension in rats. Neither estrogen nor progestogen alone alters arterial blood pressure. In the hormonal combination the hypertensive effect of estrogen can be replaced by epsilon-amino-capronic acid and the hypertensive effect of progestogen by desoxycorticosterone acetate. Estrogen is the only substance increasing plasma renin activity. There exists no correlation between the increase of the blood pressure and the plasma renin activity in the various groups of experimental animals receiving the different hypertensive preparations. Because of this, oral contraceptive hypertension may be supposed not to result from a stimulation of the renin-angiotensin system but may easily be seen in a combination of endothelial lesions and sodium retention, the former being caused by the estrogen's effect on blood coagulation, the latter produced by the synthetic progestogen.
An animal study to determine the effect of oral contraceptives on blood pressure is reported. A clamp was placed on the renal artery of a group of 18 Wistar rats to induce Goldblatt hypertension. This group and another group of 18 rats were given various dosages of ethinyl estradiol, norethisterone acetate, epslon-amino-capronic acid (as a substitute for inducing an estrogenic hypertensive effect), and/or deoxycorticosterone acetate or salt (as a substitute for induction of a gestagenic hypertensive effect). A significant increase in blood pressure was recorded only among the rats with induced Goldblatt hypertension which were administered both an estrogenic and gestagenic agent. All animals that were administered estrogen showed a significant increase in the plasma-renin activity (PRA). Animals that were administered deoxycorticosterone acetate showed a highly significant decrease in PRA.
Leflunomide (LEF) is an immunomodulator derived from isoxazole It is an approved drug in the rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The peripheral neuropathy (PN) is a recognized side effect of some medications.
A 48 years old woman with diabetes type 2 (DM2) and RA; with serum negative rheumatoid factor. She got nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories drugs, corticosteroid, methotrexate, sulfasalazine and chloroquine. Despite this, she was clinically within the functional class III and data of osteopenia. The treatment was switched to LEF, chloroquine and prednisone. After four months, she began with dysesthesia in the left cubital area, paresthesias in her right knee; and then in a progressive pattern others paresthesias, hyporeflexia and a decrease in the muscular strength. She was treated with cholestyramine, but her neuropathy did not improve. Severe segmental demyelination polyneuropathy and retrograde axonal degeneration with predominance of the thoracic members over the pelvic members was reported in the electroneurophysiological and electromyography studies.
It is advisable to perform electrophysiological studies in patients' with DM2 before they get treatment with LEF.
Thromboembolic complications commonly occur in patients with multiple myeloma (MM). The risk of such complications may be elevated by the use of immunomodulatory agents such as thalidomide and lenalidomide as initial therapy for MM. However, arterial thrombosis after treatment with bortezomib is rare. Herein we report a case of a 70-year-old Chinese male patient with extramedullary relapse of MM. After treatment with bortezomib and dexamethasone he developed a nonfatal thrombotic stroke. Administration of bortezomib and dexamethasone was then discontinued and he obtained partial remission.
Cocaine dependence, which affects 2.5 million Americans annually, has no US Food and Drug Administration-approved pharmacotherapy.
To evaluate the immunogenicity, safety, and efficacy of a novel cocaine vaccine to treat cocaine dependence.
A 24-week, phase 2b, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial with efficacy assessed during weeks 8 to 20 and follow-up to week 24.
Cocaine- and opioid-dependent persons recruited from October 2003 to April 2005 from greater New Haven, Connecticut.
One hundred fifteen methadone-maintained subjects (67% male, 87% white, aged 18-46 years) were randomized to vaccine or placebo, and 94 subjects (82%) completed the trial. Most smoked crack cocaine along with using marijuana (18%), alcohol (10%), and nonprescription opioids (44%).
Over 12 weeks, 109 of 115 subjects received 5 vaccinations of placebo or succinylnorcocaine linked to recombinant cholera toxin B-subunit protein. Main Outcome Measure Semiquantitative urinary cocaine metabolite levels measured thrice weekly with a positive cutoff of 300 ng/mL.
The 21 vaccinated subjects (38%) who attained serum IgG anticocaine antibody levels of 43 microg/mL or higher (ie, high IgG level) had significantly more cocaine-free urine samples than those with levels less than 43 microg/mL (ie, low IgG level) and the placebo-receiving subjects during weeks 9 to 16 (45% vs 35% cocaine-free urine samples, respectively). The proportion of subjects having a 50% reduction in cocaine use was significantly greater in the subjects with a high IgG level than in subjects with a low IgG level (53% of subjects vs 23% of subjects, respectively) (P = .048). The most common adverse effects were injection site induration and tenderness. There were no treatment-related serious adverse events, withdrawals, or deaths.
Attaining high (>or=43 microg/mL) IgG anticocaine antibody levels was associated with significantly reduced cocaine use, but only 38% of the vaccinated subjects attained these IgG levels and they had only 2 months of adequate cocaine blockade. Thus, we need improved vaccines and boosters. Trial Registration clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00142857.
The authors present a case of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HITT) that occurred after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), and they review the relevant literature. An immune-mediated syndrome, HITT is characterized by moderate thrombocytopenia and paradoxical vascular thromboses. Although it has been estimated in prospective studies that HITT occurs in between 1 and 3% of patients receiving heparin, it is underrecognized in the neurosurgical literature. In the present case, a 49-year-old woman underwent clipping of a right posterior communicating artery aneurysm after suffering a Hunt and Hess Grade III SAH. She had an uncomplicated postoperative course with good clip positioning and no vasospasm observed on a cerebral angiogram obtained on Day 7. On Day 23, the patient developed a right hemiparesis and experienced a grand mal seizure. A head computerized tomography scan revealed a hemorrhagic infarct in the left middle cerebral artery distribution. Repeated cerebral angiograms did not show vasospasm. She was thrombocytopenic (platelet count as low as 46 x 10(9)/L on Day 28 compared with 213 x 10(9)/L on Day 1) and had been receiving heparin flushes to maintain intravenous catheter patency. An assay for HITT-associated antibodies was positive. The heparin flushes were discontinued and the platelet count recovered (121 x 10(9)/L). She improved neurologically, but was left with a significant right hemiparesis at discharge. This patient had assay-proven heparin-induced thrombocytopenia despite minimal exposure to heparin. Because there was no evidence of vasospasm or other factors to account for her delayed hemorrhagic infarction, an HITT-related disorder seemed most likely. Despite a large body of literature describing HITT in nonneurosurgical patients, only three previous neurosurgical cases have been published. This case report may serve to heighten awareness of this disorder.
It is common for patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease to develop levodopa-induced dyskinesia. This report provides what we believe is the first videotape presentation of levodopa-induced dyskinesia in a patient with progressive supranuclear palsy. To our knowledge, there is only one previous report of an autopsy-proven case of this kind.
Chemoattraction of macrophages into the peritoneal cavity is one of the important characteristics in patients with endometriosis. An inflammatory response is postulated to be responsible for infertility and pelvic pain associated with this syndrome. The present in vivo studies were designed to test if thiazolidinediones (TZDs), activators of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma, could inhibit monocyte chemotaxis in a murine model. TZDs were first used as orally bioavailable insulin-sensitizing agents. They are currently under investigation in the treatment of inflammatory diseases, including arthritis or colitis. Intraperitoneal injection of thioglycollate was used to elicit high numbers of activated peritoneal macrophages in female mice. Concomitant peritoneal injection of ciglitazone, a member of the TZD family, significantly reduced the number of macrophages. When cultured and stimulated by tumor necrosis factor alpha, these peritoneal macrophages also secreted less RANTES and less IL-1beta protein. This animal model suggests that treatment of endometriosis patients with TZDs may diminish symptoms associated with intraperitoneal inflammation.
The toxicity of melamine has attracted much attention since the outbreak of nephrolithiasis among children ingesting melamine-contaminated infant formula in China. However, there is little knowledge about the molecular mechanisms underlying the melamine-induced toxicity. In this paper, a ligand-protein docking method (INVDOCK) was applied to predict the toxicity-related target proteins for melamine and its metabolite, cyanuric acid. As a result, 23 and 35 proteins were finally identified as the potential target proteins for melamine and cyanuric acid, respectively. Through an enrichment analysis, it was found that nephrotoxicity and lung toxicity might be the most significant toxicities induced by melamine and cyanuric acid. Four target proteins (glutathione peroxidase 1, beta-hexosaminidase subunit beta, L-lactate dehydrogenase and lysozyme C) may be related to the molecular basis of the nephrotoxicity induced by melamine except for known kidney crystals formation. After mapping all these toxicity-related target proteins onto cellular pathways, it was indicated that the toxicities of melamine and cyanuric acid might also be caused by breaking down redox balance, perturbing the arginine and proline metabolism and damaging the homeostasis of energy production system. To further explore the mechanisms underlying the toxicities of melamine and cyanuric acid, a biological signal cascades network constructed by some of the toxicity-related target proteins was discussed.
Ventricular tachycardia is a rare complication of dipyridamole stress testing. We present a case in which dipyridamole induced symptomatic ventricular tachycardia. The patient, a 41-year-old man with a history of chest discomfort on exertion for 1 year, underwent dipyridamole thallium imaging. Sustained ventricular tachycardia occurred 1 minute and 40 seconds after completion of the dipyridamole infusion. Intravenous aminophylline (125 mg) was given immediately and the tachycardia was terminated. Two minutes later, thallium-201 was injected and subsequent myocardial imaging showed reversible perfusion defects in the inferior wall, septum, and apex. Coronary angiography revealed three-vessel disease. This case discloses that reversible perfusion defects can still be demonstrated on thallium scan in spite of injection of aminophylline, an antagonist of dipyridamole, before thallium administration.
Cinnamaldehyde is a major and a bioactive compound isolated from the leaves of Cinnamomum osmophloeum kaneh. To explore whether cinnamaldehyde was linked to altered high glucose (HG)-mediated renal tubulointerstitial fibrosis in diabetic nephropathy (DN), the molecular mechanisms of cinnamaldehyde responsible for inhibition of HG-induced hypertrophy in renal interstitial fibroblasts were examined. We found that cinnamaldehyde caused inhibition of HG-induced cellular mitogenesis rather than cell death by either necrosis or apoptosis. There were no changes in caspase 3 activity, cleaved poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) protein expression, and mitochondrial cytochrome c release in HG or cinnamaldehyde treatments in these cells. HG-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) (but not the Janus kinase 2/signal transducers and activators of transcription) activation was markedly blocked by cinnamaldehyde. The ability of cinnamaldehyde to inhibit HG-induced hypertrophy was verified by the observation that it significantly decreased cell size, cellular hypertrophy index, and protein levels of collagen IV, fibronectin, and alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA). The results obtained in this study suggest that cinnamaldehyde treatment of renal interstitial fibroblasts that have been stimulated by HG reduces their ability to proliferate and hypertrophy through mechanisms that may be dependent on inactivation of the ERK/JNK/p38 MAPK pathway.
Activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) is critical in normal B cells to initiate somatic hypermutation and immunoglobulin class switch recombination. Accumulating evidence suggests that AID is also prooncogenic, inducing cancer-promoting mutations or chromosome rearrangements. In this context, we find that AID is expressed in >40% of primary human chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cases, consistent with other reports. Using a combination of human B lymphoid leukemia cells and mouse models, we now show that AID expression can be harnessed for antileukemic effect, after inhibition of the RAD51 homologous recombination (HR) factor with 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2-2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS). As a proof of principle, we show that DIDS treatment inhibits repair of AID-initiated DNA breaks, induces apoptosis, and promotes cytotoxicity preferentially in AID-expressing human CLL. This reveals a novel antineoplastic role of AID that can be triggered by inhibition of HR, suggesting a potential new paradigm to treat AID-expressing tumors. Given the growing list of tumor types with aberrant AID expression, this novel therapeutic approach has potential to impact a significant patient population.
Renal failure after an overdose of chlorprothixene has been attributed to a direct nephrotoxic effect of the drug. We report a carefully investigated case. No evidence of specific nephrotoxicity was revealed and we suggest that the renal failure is due to ischaemia during a transitory syncope, a well known side-effect of chlorprothixene.
We screened a series of 17beta-(N-alkylcarbamoyl)-estra-1,3,5(10)trine-3-O-sulfamate derivatives, and describe here a potent and selective steroid sulfatase (STS) inhibitor with antitumor effects in breast cancer models in vitro and in vivo. In biochemical assays using crude enzymes isolated from recombinant Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing human arylsulfatses (ARSs), one of the best compounds, KW-2581, inhibited STS activity with an IC(50) of 4.0 nM, while > 1000-fold higher concentrations were required to inhibit the other ARSs. The failure to stimulate the growth of MCF-7 human breast cancer cells as well as in uteri in ovariectomized rats indicated the lack of estrogenicity of this compound. In MCF-7 cells transfected with the STS gene, termed MCS-2 cells, KW-2581 inhibited the growth of cells stimulated by estrone sulfate (E1S) but also 5-androstene-3beta, 17beta-diol 3-sulfate (ADIOLS) and dehydroepiandrostenedione 3-sulfate. We found that oral administration of KW-2581 inhibited both E1S- and ADIOLS-stimulated growth of MCS-2 cells in a mouse hollow fiber model. In a nitrosomethylurea-induced rat mammary tumor model, KW-2581 induced regression of E1S-stimulated tumor growth as effectively as tamoxifen or another STS inhibitor, 667 Coumate. Dose-response studies in the same rat model demonstrated that more than 90% inhibition of STS activity in tumors was necessary to induce tumor shrinkage. STS activity in tumors has well correlated with that in leukocytes, suggesting that STS activity in leukocytes could be used as an easily detectable pharmacodynamic marker. These findings demonstrate that KW-2581 is a candidate for development as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of hormone receptors-positive breast cancer.
Antidepressants have been associated with the induction of mania and rapid cycling. This study examined whether antidepressant-associated manic states differ in any way from spontaneous mania.
Forty-nine consecutive inpatients with antidepressant-associated manic states were compared with 49 matched inpatients with spontaneous mania in a blind, retrospective chart review.
Across virtually every clinical measure examined, the patients with antidepressant-associated manic states experienced milder and more time-limited manic episodes than the patients with spontaneous mania. The patients with antidepressant-associated manic states were subject to frequent checking by nurses and hall restriction for a significantly shorter period of time than the patients with spontaneous mania. The patients with antidepressant-associated manic states also had significantly less severe levels of delusions, hallucinations, psychomotor agitation, and bizarre behavior, according to a standard rating instrument, than the patients with spontaneous mania. For further study the patients with antidepressant-associated mania were divided into subgroups taking four individual classes of antidepressant drugs: tricyclics (N = 19), fluoxetine (N = 13), monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) (N = 8), and bupropion (N = 6); three patients taking combinations of drugs were not included in these analyses. The patients with MAOI- and bupropion-associated mania had a slightly lower overall rating of severity of psychopathology at admission than the subgroups with fluoxetine- and tricyclic-associated mania.
Antidepressant-associated mania appears to be a milder and more time-limited syndrome than spontaneous mania and may represent a distinct clinical entity. MAOIs and bupropion may be associated with milder manic states than either tricyclic drugs or fluoxetine.
Commercially available melatonin was found to contain impurities associated with eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome (EMS). From sample analysis, remarkable differences in impurity profiles between the active ingredient from various suppliers could be found. An industrial process was developed which guarantees a high purity melatonin active ingredient. All potential impurities have been characterized and synthetized for analytical conformity with pharmaceutical regulations. To avoid any side effects from impurities, only high-purity melatonin should be utilized from the laboratory through to commercialization.
All-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) can induce a clinical remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia. An adverse condition called "retinoic acid syndrome" limits this therapy. It is characterized by fever and respiratory distress, along with weight gain, pleural or pericardial effusions, peripheral edema, thromboembolic events, and intermittent hypotension. The lung disease has been previously ascribed to an infiltration of leukemic or maturing myeloid cells into lung parenchyma, which is sometimes associated with pleural effusions and diffuse alveolar hemorrhage. We report a case of retinoic acid syndrome in an 18-yr-old woman who developed diffuse alveolar hemorrhage while being treated with ATRA for acute promyelocytic leukemia. An open lung biopsy revealed pulmonary capillaritis.
Urine profiles were followed for 3 or 9 days after intravenous injection of diatrizoate, iohexol or saline in 30 rats, where a tubulo-interstitial nephropathy was induced by gentamicin given over a 14-day period. Another 10 rats who had an injection of saline served as controls. Iohexol increased the excretion of lactate dehydrogenase significantly more than both saline and diatrizoate for the first 3 days, whereas diatrizoate had no effect. Both media caused significantly increased excretion of L-gamma-glutamyltransferase compared with saline, but iohexol significantly more than diatrizoate. Compared with saline S-creatinine was significantly increased following iohexol at 24 h, 3 and 9 days, and following diatrizoate only at 9 days. Among rats having gentamicin light microscopy revealed more severe changes in kidneys exposed to iohexol than to either diatrizoate or saline 3 days after their injection. Six days later no obvious differences were found between the 3 groups. In conclusion, iohexol induced more renal dysfunction than diatrizoate in this animal model of gentamicin induced nephropathy.
In cases of severe malaria chloroquine phosphate is frequently given--diluted or undiluted--by the intravenous route. It is known that cardiac arrhythmias and hypotension may complicate such therapy, but cardiac arrest is not a well recognised hazard. In this report we describe such a tragic complication, and advocate that undiluted chloroquine should not be administered intravenously in severely ill patients since such patients usually have associated electrolyte disturbances which may render the heart vulnerable to toxic drugs. Chloroquine may be given diluted in normal saline infused over several hours with a close watch over the blood pressure.
