At doses of 10-115 microg/kg, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) decreased body and adipose tissue weights of mature female rats. Doses below 10 microg TCDD/kg decreased body and adipose tissue weights of immature, but not mature females. Doses of 2 and 10 microg TCDD/kg decreased adipose tissue epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) binding activity 5 and 7 days later in immature and mature females, respectively. At these times, there was a decrease in the activities of tyrosine kinase (TK), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP2K), and protein kinase A (PKA). In mature females, estradiol (E2, 15 microg/kg) increased TK and PKA activities and decreased MAP2K activity. In immature females, E2 decreased TK and PKA activities but not MAP2K activity. TCDD abolished the stimulatory effect of E2 on TK and PKA in mature females, and in immature females TCDD potentiated the negative effect of E2 on all three kinases. TCDD decreased binding of [3H]E2 to cytosolic and nuclear estrogen receptors (ERs) of mature and immature females, and antagonized the stimulatory effect of E2 on ER binding activity. E2 increased DNA binding activity of the estrogen response element (ERE) and activator protein-1, and TCDD antagonized this effect. Geldanamycin, an inhibitor of Src tyrosine kinase, reduced the effects of TCDD on body and adipose tissue weights. Geldanamycin antagonized the effects of TCDD on EGFR binding activity and TK activity. In cell-free preparations, TCDD antagonized E2 action on TK activity in mature females, as well as E2 action on PKA activity in immature females. We hypothesize that TCDD antagonizes E2 action in female adipose tissues through disruption of common cytosolic signal transduction pathways.
The objectives were: (1) to investigate potential environmental and occupational risk factors of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and (2) to explore the relationships between risk factors and AML subtypes according to the World Health Organization (WHO) classification. The investigation was a hospital-based case-control study consisting of 722 newly diagnosed AML cases (August 2003 through June 2007) and 1444 individually gender-age-matched patient controls at 29 hospitals in Shanghai. A 17-page questionnaire was used to obtain information on demographics, medical history, family history, lifestyle risk factors, employment history, residential history, and occupational and non-occupational exposures. Certain occupations of interest triggered a second questionnaire, which was occupation-specific and asked for more details about jobs, tasks, materials used and work environment. Exposure assessments were based on the questionnaires, on-site workplace investigations, data published in the Chinese literature, historical exposure measurements maintained by government health agencies, and expert opinions of a panel of local scientists who were familiar with workplaces in Shanghai. Risk estimates (odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals) of individual risk factors were calculated using conditional logistic regression models. A number of potential environmental and occupational risk factors were associated with an increased risk of AML (all subtypes combined) and/or individual subtypes; including home or workplace renovation, living on a farm, planting crops, raising livestock or animals, farm workers, metal workers, rubber and plastic workers, wood and furniture workers, printers, loading and unloading workers, automobile manufacturing, general construction, and food and beverage industry (restaurants and other eateries). Exposures associated with an increased risk of AML (all subtypes combined) and/or individual subtypes included benzene, diesel fuel, metals, insecticides, fertilizers, glues and adhesives, paints and other coatings, and inks and pigments. Multivariate models were used to adjust for potential confounding exposures, and several potential risk factors were subsequently eliminated. The results of the investigation indicated that some risk factors applied to all or most subtypes (e.g., living on a farm and overall AML and several subtypes), while others to specific subtypes only (e.g., raising livestock and AML with multilineage dysplasia). Thus, some risk factors were subtype-specific. The difference in risk by subtype underscores the importance of the etiologic commonality and heterogeneity of AML subtypes.
The abundant expression of leukotrienes (LTs) and their receptors in adenotonsillar tissues of children with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) suggest that LT antagonists could be useful in treating OSA.
The effects of LTD4 and of LT receptor antagonists zileuton, montelukast, and BAY u9773 were examined on mixed cell cultures prepared from dissociated tonsils or adenoids harvested intraoperatively from children with polysomnographically diagnosed OSA. Proliferation was assessed by (3)[H]-thymidine incorporation, and inflammatory cytokine production (tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-alpha, interleukin [IL]-6, IL-8, IL-10, and IL-12) was assessed in supernatants using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
LTD4 elicited dose-dependent increases in adenotonsillar cell proliferation (p < 0.001; n = 12). All LT antagonists exhibited dose-dependent reductions in adenotonsillar cellular proliferation rates, with montelukast more than BAY u9773 more than zileuton (n = 14/group; p < 0.001). However, BAY u9773 showed partial agonist effects and increased cellular proliferation at higher concentrations (10(-4) mmol/L; p < 0.01; n = 12). LTD4 effects were partially blocked by montelukast and BAY u9773 but not by zileuton. All three antagonists reduced TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-12 concentrations, with selective changes in IL-8 and no effects on IL-10 levels.
LT pathways mediate intrinsic proliferative and inflammatory signaling pathways in adenotonsillar tissues from children with OSA, and targeted pharmacologic disruption of these pathways may provide nonsurgical alternatives for prevention and treatment of this disease.
Methotrexate (MTX) is an anti-metabolite, widely used in the cancer chemotherapy and rheumatoid arthritis. However, its long-term clinical use is restricted on account of its severe intestinal toxicity. The present study was aimed to investigate the intestinal toxicity of MTX and the possible protective effect of alpha-lipoic acid (LA) on Sprague-Dawley rats. MTX-induced intestinal toxicity was evaluated at the dose of 2.5mg/kg for short-term (5 days treatment) and 1mg/kg for long-term (5 days in a week for four consecutive weeks treatment) study. The possible protective effect of LA was evaluated in both short- as well as long-term study in a dose-dependent manner. MTX treatment induced diarrhoea and mortality in rats, indicating its severe toxicity in the target organ of investigation, i.e., intestine. Further, the intestinal toxicity of MTX was assessed by evaluating different parameters of oxidative stress, DNA damage, cytotoxicity as well as histological changes. Immunostaining for p53 revealed higher genotoxic assault in the intestinal cells due to MTX treatment. Pretreatment of rats with LA led to significant decrease in the oxidative stress, DNA damage, cellular damage, inflammatory changes and apoptosis as determined by malondialdehyde level, glutathione level, comet assay parameters, histological evaluation, immunostaining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay. In the present investigation, we report that LA pretreatment ameliorates MTX-induced intestinal toxicity in rat as evident from the protection against oxidative stress, decrease in DNA damage and protection of cellular morphology as well as improvement in the stool consistency and animal survival rate.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder characterized by the selective degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Both familial and sporadic cases present tremor, rigidity, slowness of movement, and postural instability. Although major insights into the genes responsible for some rare hereditary cases have arisen, the etiology of sporadic cases remains unknown. Epidemiological studies have suggested an association with environmental toxins, mainly mitochondrial complex I inhibitors such as the widely used pesticide rotenone. In recent years, Drosophila melanogaster has been used as a model of several neurodegenerative diseases, including a genetic model of PD. Here, we studied the neurodegenerative and behavioral effects of a sublethal chronic exposure to rotenone in Drosophila. After several days, the treated flies presented characteristic locomotor impairments that increased with the dose of rotenone. Immunocytochemistry analysis demonstrated a dramatic and selective loss of dopaminergic neurons in all of the brain clusters. The addition of l-dopa (3,4-dihydroxy-L-phenylalanine) into the feeding medium rescued the behavioral deficits but not neuronal death, as is the case in human PD patients. In contrast, the antioxidant melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) alleviated both symptomatic impairment and neuronal loss, supporting the idea that this agent may be beneficial in the treatment of PD. Therefore, chronic exposure to pesticides recapitulates key aspects of PD in Drosophila and provides a new in vivo model for studying the mechanisms of dopaminergic neurodegeneration.
Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease that is a result of a deletion or mutation of the SMN1 (Survival Motor Neuron) gene. A duplicated and nearly identical copy, SMN2, serves as a disease modifier as increasing SMN2 copy number decreases the severity of the disease. Currently many therapeutic approaches for SMA are being developed. Therapeutic strategies aim to modulate splicing of SMN2-derived transcripts, increase SMN2 gene expression, increase neuro-protection of motor neurons, stabilize the SMN protein, replace the SMN1 gene and reconstitute the motor neuron population. It is our goal to develop a pig animal model of SMA for the development and testing of therapeutics and evaluation of toxicology. In the development of a SMA pig model, it was important to demonstrate that the human SMN2 gene would splice appropriately as the model would be based on the presence of the human SMN2 transgene. In this manuscript, we show splicing of the human SMN1 and SMN2 mini-genes in porcine cells is consistent with splicing in human cells, and we report the first genetic knockout of a gene responsible for a neurodegenerative disease in a large animal model using gene targeting with single-stranded DNA and somatic cell nuclear transfer.
Genetic factors, alone or in interaction with components of the diet, are thought to be involved in the development of the metabolic syndrome. The objective of our study was first to compare the frequency of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha-L162V polymorphism in a sample of men with and without the metabolic syndrome as defined by the National Cholesterol Education Program-Adult Treatment Panel III (NCEP-ATPIII) guidelines, and secondly, to evaluate gene-diet interaction effects on features of the metabolic syndrome. The PPARalpha-L162V genotype was determined in a sample of 632 men by a polymerase chain reaction-restriction length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP)-based method; fat as well as saturated fat intakes were evaluated by a dietitian-administered food frequency questionnaire. The frequency of the V162 allele was similar in men with ( n=281) and without ( n=351) the metabolic syndrome ( chi(2)=0.03, p=0.84) but was higher in subjects having simultaneously abdominal obesity, hypertriglyceridemia, and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels ( chi(2)=3.73, p=0.05). Carriers of the V162 were characterized by higher plasma apolipoprotein B and triglyceride (TG) levels ( p=0.10, p=0.004). In a model including the PPARalpha-L162V polymorphism, fat or saturated fat, its interaction, and covariates (smoking habits, and energy and alcohol intake), the interaction explained a significant percentage of the variance observed in waist circumference ( p<0.05). In conclusion, the PPARalpha-L162V polymorphism alone or in interaction with dietary fat intake is associated with components of the metabolic syndrome.
Altered membrane integrity has been suggested as a major factor in the development of cellular injury during myocardial necrosis. The present study was designed to investigate the effect of the combination of ferulic acid (FA) and ascorbic acid (AA) on lysosomal hydrolases and membrane-bound phosphatases during isoproterenol (ISO) induced myocardial necrosis in rats. Induction of rats with 1SO (150 mg/kg b.wt, i.p.) for 2 days resulted in a significant increase in the activities of lysosomal hydrolases (beta-D-glucuronidase, beta-D-galactosidase, beta-D-N-acetylglucosaminidase, acid phosphatase and cathepsin-D) in the heart and serum. A significant increase in plasma lactate level, cardiac levels of sodium, calcium and a decrease in cardiac level of potassium was also observed, which was paralleled by abnormal activities of membrane-bound phosphatases (Na(+)-K(+) ATPase, Ca(2+) ATPase and Mg(2+) ATPase) in the heart of ISO-administered rats. Pre-co-treatment with the combination of FA (20 mg/kg b.wt) and AA (80 mg/kg b.wt) orally for 6 days significantly attenuated these abnormalities and restored the levels to near normalcy when compared to individual drug treated groups. The combination of FA and AA preserved the membrane integrity by mitigating the oxidative stress and associated cellular damage more effectively when compared to individual treatment groups. In our study, the protection conferred by FA and AA might be through the nitric oxide pathway and by their ability of quenching free radicals. In conclusion, these findings indicate the synergistic modulation of lysosomal hydrolases and membrane phosphatases by the combination of FA and AA.
The pathophysiology of cerebral aneurysms (CAs) is linked to chronic inflammation and degradation of extracellular matrix in vascular walls. Because statins have protective effects on various vascular diseases independent of their lipid-lowering effects, we investigated the effect of simvastatin on CA progression.
CAs were induced in Sprague-Dawley rats with or without oral administration of simvastatin. The size and media thickness of CAs was evaluated 3 months after aneurysm induction. Expression of macrophage chemoattractant protein-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, endothelial nitric oxide synthase, interleukin-1beta, inducible nitric oxide synthase, matrix metalloproteinase-2, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 in aneurysmal walls was examined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. To examine whether simvastatin has a suppressive effect on preexisting CAs, simvastatin administration started at 1 month after aneurysm induction.
Rats treated with simvastatin exhibited a significant increase in media thickness and a significant reduction in aneurysmal size compared with control rats. Treatment with simvastatin resulted in reduced expression of macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, increased expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase, and reduced the number of macrophage infiltration. In quantitative polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry, simvastatin significantly inhibited upregulated expression of interleukin-1beta, inducible nitric oxide synthase, matrix metalloproteinase-2, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 associated with CA progression. Gelatin zymography revealed decreased activity of matrix metalloproteinase-2 and matrix metalloproteinase-9 in aneurysmal walls by simvastatin treatment. Simvastatin also effectively inhibited aneurysm enlargement and thinning of the media of preexisting CAs.
Treatment with simvastatin suppresses the development of CAs by inhibiting inflammatory reactions in aneurysmal walls. Simvastatin also has a preventive effect on the progression of preexisting CAs. Simvastatin is a promising candidate of a novel medical treatment for the prevention of CA progression.
Cytosolic enzymes AMP deaminase and adenosine deaminase (ADA) catalyze AMP and adenosine deamination, constitute rate-limiting steps of adenine nucleotide catabolism and play important roles in cellular energy metabolism. In this study, AMP deaminase and ADA activities of rat liver, neocortex, cerebellum, striatum and hippocampus were investigated in acute ammonia intoxication and subacute CCl(4)-induced hepatitis. Activities of both AMP deaminase and ADA in the liver were elevated by 2.4-4.2-fold (p<0.0001) in both models of hepatotoxic injury as compared with controls. In acute hyperammonemia activities of AMP, deaminase and ADA increased by 46-59% (p<0.02) in the neocortex and did not change in the striatum. In the hippocampus of hyperammonemic rats, only AMP deaminase activity was increased by 48% (p=0.0004), and in the cerebellum only ADA activity was increased significantly (by 26%, p<0.05). The adenylate pool size and energy charge were greatly reduced in the neocortex of hyperammonemic rats. Results suggested that two parallel pathways of AMP breakdown, including AMP deaminase and ADA, respectively, are up-regulated under pathological conditions, probably in order to overcome compensatory synthesis of adenylates, to ensure prompt adenylate pool depletion and reduce the adenylate energy charge in liver and selected brain regions.
This study was performed to determine whether MR imaging can be used to reliably measure global myocardial blood flow and coronary flow reserve in patients with coronary artery disease as compared with such measurements obtained by positron emission tomography (PET).
We measured myocardial blood flow first at baseline and then after dipyridamole-induced hyperemia in 20 patients with coronary artery disease. Myocardial blood flow as revealed by MR imaging was calculated by dividing coronary sinus flow by the left ventricular mass. Coronary flow reserve was calculated by dividing the rate of hyperemic flow by the rate of baseline flow.
Using MR imaging, myocardial blood flow at baseline was 0.73 +/- 0.23 mL x min(-1) x g(-1), and at hyperemia the blood flow was 1.43 +/- 0.37 mL x min(-1) x g(-1), yielding an average coronary flow reserve of 1.99 +/- 0.47. Using PET, myocardial blood flow was 0.89 +/- 0.21 mL x min(-1) x g(-1) at baseline and 1.56 +/- 0.42 mL x min(-1) x g(-1) at hyperemia, yielding an average coronary flow reserve of 1.77 +/- 0.36. The correlation of myocardial blood flow and coronary flow reserve measurements for these two methods was an r of 0.80 (p < 0.01) and an r of 0.50 (p < 0.05), respectively.
This study shows that myocardial blood flow measurements obtained using MR imaging have a good correlation with corresponding PET measurements. Coronary flow reserve measurements obtained using MR imaging had only moderate correlation with PET-obtained measurements. Our results suggest that MR imaging flow quantification could potentially be used for measuring global myocardial blood flow in patients in whom interventional treatment for coronary artery disease is being evaluated.
We examined the roles of nitric oxide (NO) and NO synthase (NOS) isozymes in the healing of indomethacin-induced small intestinal ulcers in rats. Animals were given indomethacin (10 mg/kg, s.c.) and killed 1, 4 and 7 days after the administration. Indomethacin (2 mg/kg), N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME: a nonselective NOS inhibitor: 10 mg/kg) and aminoguanine (a relatively selective iNOS inhibitor: 20 mg/kg) were given s.c. once daily for 6 days, the first 3 days or the last 3 days during a 7-day experimental period. Both indomethacin and L-NAME significantly impaired healing of these lesions, irrespective of whether they were given for 6 days, first 3 days or last 3 days. The healing was also impaired by aminoguanine given for the first 3 days but not for the last 3 days. Expression of iNOS mRNA in the intestine was up-regulated after ulceration, persisting for 2 days thereafter, and the Ca(2+)-independent iNOS activity also markedly increased with a peak response during 1-2 days after ulceration. Vascular content in the ulcerated mucosa as measured by carmine incorporation was decreased when the healing was impaired by indomethacin and L-NAME given for either the first or last 3 days as well as aminoguanidine given for the first 3 days. These results suggest that endogenous NO plays a role in healing of intestinal lesions, in addition to prostaglandins, yet the NOS isozyme mainly responsible for NO production differs depending on the stage of healing: iNOS in the early stage and cNOS in the late stage.
The objectives were (1) to investigate potential environmental and occupational risk factors of non-Hodgkin lymphoid neoplasms (NHLN), and (2) to explore the relationships between risk factors and NHLN subtypes according to the World Health Organization (WHO) classification. The investigation was a hospital-based case-control study consisting of 649 newly diagnosed NHLN cases (August 2003 through January 2008) and 1298 individually gender-age-matched patient controls at 25 hospitals in Shanghai. A 17-page questionnaire was used to obtain information on demographics, medical history, family history, lifestyle risk factors, employment history, residential history, and occupational and non-occupational exposures. Certain occupations of interest triggered a second questionnaire, which was occupation-specific and asked for more details about jobs, tasks, materials used and work environment. Exposure assessments were based on the questionnaires, on-site workplace investigations, data published in the Chinese literature, historical exposure measurements maintained by government health agencies, and expert opinions of a panel of local scientists who were familiar with workplaces in Shanghai. Risk estimates (odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals) of individual risk factors were calculated using conditional logistic regression models. A number of potential environmental and occupational risk factors were associated with an increased risk of NHLN (all subtypes combined) and/or individual subtypes; including home/workplace renovation, living on a farm, planting crops, raising livestock or animals, farm workers, fabric sewing and cutting workers, welders and sheet metal workers, masonry and plastering workers, product and chemical testing workers, toy manufacturing, agriculture industry, and beauty salon. Exposures associated with an increased risk of NHLN (all subtypes combined) and/or individual subtypes included benzene, solvents, petroleum fuels, metals, insecticides, herbicides, fertilizers, and glues and adhesives. Multivariate models were used to adjust for potential confounding exposures, and several potential risk factors were subsequently eliminated. The results of the investigation indicated that some risk factors applied to all or most subtypes (e.g., insecticides and overall NHLN and subtypes of B-cell lymphoid neoplasms), while others to specific subtypes only (e.g., benzene and follicular lymphoma). Thus, some risk factors were subtype-specific. The difference in risk by subtype underscores the importance of the etiologic commonality and heterogeneity of NHLN subtypes.
Organophosphorus insecticides, as Chlorpyrifos (CPF), are widely used in agriculture and against household pests; these compounds receive an increasing consideration as potential endocrine disrupters. The aim of the present study was to examine the potential short- and long-term effects of CPF on thyroid and adrenal glands in CD1 mice following exposure at dose levels not inducing brain acetyl cholinesterase (AchE) inhibition, during gestational and/or postnatal vulnerable phases. Pregnant dams were treated with 0, 3, 6 mg/kg bw/day of CPF on gestational days 15-18. After delivery, pups were treated subcutaneously on postnatal days (PND) 11-14 with: 0, 1, 3 mg/kg bw/day of CPF. Serum thyroxin (T4), thyroid and adrenals histology and histomorphometry were evaluated in dams and in F1 mice. In dams at 6 mg/kg, decreased T4 levels and increased cell height in thyroid were observed, and adrenal histology showed a slightly increased vacuolization in the X-zone. In the F1, short-term morphological modifications (reduced follicular size at PND 2) and long-term morphological (increased necrotic follicular cells) and biochemical alterations (reduced serum T4 levels) were found at PND 150 with an apparent higher vulnerability of males. For the first time these results indicate that CPF exposure at dose levels not inducing brain AchE inhibition causes thyroid alterations in dams and in F1 CD1 mice. Thyroid may be a sensitive target to CPF developmental exposure possibly leading to long-term effects on thyroid function. Because thyroid plays a pivotal role in mammalian development, these findings can be relevant to humans.
A 1-year-old girl developed a linear atrophy 3 months after a second injection of intralesional steroids for a periorbital hemangioma, followed by spontaneous resolution of the atrophy within 13 months. Reported and potential complications of intralesional steroids for periorbital hemangiomas are reviewed.
Preliminary research has indicated that recreational ketamine use may be associated with marked cognitive impairments and elevated psychopathological symptoms, although no study to date has determined how these are affected by differing frequencies of use or whether they are reversible on cessation of use. In this study we aimed to determine how variations in ketamine use and abstention from prior use affect neurocognitive function and psychological wellbeing.
We assessed a total of 150 individuals: 30 frequent ketamine users, 30 infrequent ketamine users, 30 ex-ketamine users, 30 polydrug users and 30 controls who did not use illicit drugs. Cognitive tasks included spatial working memory, pattern recognition memory, the Stockings of Cambridge (a variant of the Tower of London task), simple vigilance and verbal and category fluency. Standardized questionnaires were used to assess psychological wellbeing. Hair analysis was used to verify group membership.
Frequent ketamine users were impaired on spatial working memory, pattern recognition memory, Stockings of Cambridge and category fluency but exhibited preserved verbal fluency and prose recall. There were no differences in the performance of the infrequent ketamine users or ex-users compared to the other groups. Frequent users showed increased delusional, dissociative and schizotypal symptoms which were also evident to a lesser extent in infrequent and ex-users. Delusional symptoms correlated positively with the amount of ketamine used currently by the frequent users.
Frequent ketamine use is associated with impairments in working memory, episodic memory and aspects of executive function as well as reduced psychological wellbeing. 'Recreational' ketamine use does not appear to be associated with distinct cognitive impairments although increased levels of delusional and dissociative symptoms were observed. As no performance decrements were observed in the ex-ketamine users, it is possible that the cognitive impairments observed in the frequent ketamine group are reversible upon cessation of ketamine use, although delusional symptoms persist.
Leflunomide is an immunosuppressant drug displaying teratogenicity in mice, rats, and rabbits. Its immunosuppressive effect occurs via inhibition of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) and tyrosine kinases. In this study, we coadministered Leflunomide and uridine, a precursor substance of pyrimidine nucleotides, to pregnant CD-1 mice, and examined whether or not a decreased level of intracellular pyrimidine nucleotides with inhibition of DHODH is related to the teratogenicity of Leflunomide. Then we examined the alteration of the nucleotide level in fetal tissue by Leflunomide and the effect of coadministered uridine. We administered Leflunomide with or without uridine to pregnant mice on gestation day 10, and used the vehicle of Leflunomide as a control. Leflunomide caused multiple malformations in all fetuses, but coadministration with uridine inhibited most of its teratogenicity. Leflunomide decreased the concentration of pyrimidine nucleotides, not purine nucleotides, whereas uridine coadministered with Leflunomide partially restored the level of pyrimidine nucleotides. These results indicate that the inhibitory effect of DHODH activity is related to the teratogenicity of Leflunomide.
The aim of this study was to assess whether weekend drug holidays during methylphenidate (MPH) administration would change the efficacy and tolerability to the medication in male children with Attention-Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD).
In a 28-day, double-blind study, children with diagnoses of ADHD were randomized to receive BID MPH for 7 days a week (n = 21) or to receive BID MPH on weekdays and a placebo on weekends (n = 19). Parents completed the Conners' Abbreviated Rating Scale (ABRS) to assess ADHD symptoms and the Barkley's Side Effect Rating Scale (SERS) to assess side effects on weekends. Teachers completed the ABRS on each Monday after weekends.
Both groups showed a significant reduction on the ABRS over time as the dose was increased. However, the group difference in the ABRS scores was not statistically significant, either on weekend parent ratings (at the endpoint, p = 0.41; effect size = 0.26) or on teachers' ratings (at the endpoint, p = 0.99; effect size = 0.002). The omission of MPH on weekends was associated with significantly less severity of insomnia (F = 3.96, d.f. = 1, p = 0.05) and a trend for less interference on appetite (F = 3.18, d. f. = 1, p = 0.08).
Our findings suggest that weekend holidays during MPH administration reduce the side effects of insomnia and appetite suppression without a significant increase in symptoms, either on weekends or in the first school day after them. Possible explanations for these findings (rate-dependent response or impact of demands of the environment) are discussed in this paper.
We conducted a nested, matched case-control study in the General Practice Research Database (GPRD) to assess whether acetaminophen use is associated with renal or bladder cancer. We matched 109 cases of renal cancer and 189 cases of bladder cancer with up to 4 controls each by age, sex, general practice, duration of drug history in the GPRD, and index date. We found that use of acetaminophen from 1 to 5 years before the index date was associated with an increased risk of renal cancer, with a direct relation between risk and number of prescriptions and an adjusted odds ratio of 2.3 (95% CI 1.0-5.3) for subjects with 20 or more prescriptions. There was no evidence for an increase in risk of bladder cancer with acetaminophen use. We found no association between use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and either renal or bladder cancer. These results support previous findings from our group and are consistent with a slight increase in the risk of renal cancer, but not bladder cancer, with heavy acetaminophen use.
Recent advances in pharmacological treatment of severe behavior disorders in persons with developmental disabilities suggest the use of antidepressant medication for therapeutic management. This research evaluated two antidepressant medications for treatment-resistant aggression and self-injury exhibited by two persons with developmental disabilities. Behavioral assessment data documented that sertraline (a serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor) was effective in reducing self-injurious behaviors in a 20-year-old man with severe mental retardation and clomipramine (a tricyclic antidepressant) was associated with the elimination of aggressive behavior in a 14-year-old boy with autism. Clinical effects from the medications were measured in relation to and shown to be a function of dosage level. Extended follow-up assessments revealed maintenance of treatment gains with continued medication administration.
To evaluate the effectiveness of flumazenil in reversing midazolam-induced conscious sedation and general anesthesia, we gave either flumazenil or placebo to 55 patients in a double-blind manner after surgery. Whether surgery was done under conscious sedation (CS group) or general anesthesia (GA group) depended on the procedure. Recovery was assessed by an Observer Assessment of Alertness and Sedation (OAAS) Scale, Finger-Nose (F-N) test, and picture recall and recognition. OAAS and F-N tests were done at baseline, 0 minutes (before the test drug administration), and at 5, 15, 30, 60, 120, and 180 minutes. Picture recall and recognition were tested at 180 minutes and 24 hours, respectively, after test drug administration. Patients who were sedated during surgery (CS group) received a mean of 10.3 +/- 5.3 mg midazolam. The patients receiving general anesthesia (GA group) were given 21.0 +/- 8.2 mg midazolam. In the CS group, improvement in scores on the OAAS scale and F-N test was similar after administration of both flumazenil and placebo. In the GA group, flumazenil produced significantly greater improvement in the OAAS scores at 5 and 15 minutes, and in the F-N test scores at 15 minutes. In both groups, picture recall and recognition improved significantly immediately after flumazenil administration, but this improvement was generally not sustained for pictures shown at later times. These results imply that flumazenil is beneficial for reversing amnesia briefly after midazolam-induced sedation. However, flumazenil hastens recovery only when larger doses of midazolam are used for general anesthesia.
During hepatic fibrogenesis, the hepatic extracellular matrix changes to fibrillar collagens types I and III, and cirrhosis is believed to produce an irreversible scar. In this study, we investigated whether gene delivery of human matrix metalloproteinase-1, which degrades collagens types I and type III, would attenuate established hepatic fibrosis in the rat, induced by either thioacetamide or bile duct ligation.
Hepatic fibrosis induced by thioacetamide for 7 weeks was persistent for at least 2 months, even after discontinuation of the treatment. The rats were infected once with a recombinant adenovirus, Ad5MMP-1, into which human pro-human matrix metalloproteinase-1 complementary DNA was packaged, or with a control adenovirus, Ad5LacZ.
In Ad5MMP-1-infected, but not in Ad5LacZ-infected, rats, the fibrosis was dramatically attenuated at 2 weeks after the infection. It is interesting to note that the number of activated hepatic stellate cells was also decreased in Ad5MMP-1-infected rats. Moreover, disorganization of the hepatic trabecula, heterogeneity in the size of hepatocytes, and increased dried liver weight were observed only in Ad5MMP-1-treated rats, suggesting that human matrix metalloproteinase-1 stimulated hepatocyte proliferation, which was confirmed by bromodeoxyuridine staining. After 4 weeks, the proliferative effect of human matrix metalloproteinase-1 almost disappeared, but the hepatic fibrosis remained attenuated, whereas the fibrosis in Ad5LacZ-treated rats persisted. Furthermore, the administration of Ad5MMP-1, but not Ad5LacZ, decreased type I collagen and generated a small collagen fragment in hepatic fibrosis induced by bile duct ligation.
Our findings show that transient human matrix metalloproteinase-1 overexpression in the liver effectively attenuates established fibrosis and induces hepatocyte proliferation.
The haloperidol-induced increase of Fos-like immunoreactive (Fos-li) neurons in the basal ganglia was compared in the C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2) inbred mouse strains. The D2 strain is 10-fold more sensitive than the B6 strain to haloperidol-induced catalepsy, a putative animal model of the extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) seen after the administration of typical neuroleptics. In contrast, the strains are equally sensitive to the haloperidol facilitation of prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response, a measure of drug efficacy on the mesolimbic dopamine system. The haloperidol effects on Fos-li neurons were examined over the range of 0.1 to 6.0 mg/kg; the ED50s for haloperidol-induced catalepsy are 0.4 and 3.8 mg/kg in the D2 and B6 strains, respectively. In neither the core or shell of the nucleus accumbens nor the caudate-putamen (including the dorsolateral aspect) did the D2 strain show a greater Fos response compared to the B6 strain. In fact, in the dorsolateral caudate-putamen, the B6 strain showed a modest but significantly greater Fos response. However, at the output nuclei of the basal ganglia, the entopeduncular nucleus (EP) and the substantia nigra zona reticulata (SNr), the D2 strain consistently showed a greater Fos response. These data suggest that the EP and SNr may be important to understanding the difference in haloperidol-induced catalepsy between the D2 and B6 strains.
A 45-year-old man underwent renal transplant for end-stage renal disease complicating systemic lupus erythematosis. Within 24 hours of initiating Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) he developed fever and confusion. Cerebrospinal fluid examination revealed a pleocytosis but cultures were negative. The patient improved within three days after cessation of the TMP-SMX but symptoms recurred rapidly upon drug rechallenge. Drug-induced aseptic meningitis is an uncommon but well described clinical entity. This is the first case described in a patient following renal transplantation. The literature is reviewed and the clinical features, diagnostic challenges and possible mechanisms of TMP-SMX-induced aseptic meningitis are discussed. This problem may be more common in the transplant population than is recognized given the difficulty of diagnosis combined with the widespread use of TMP-SMX as PCP prophylaxis.
Nefopam (NEF) is a known analgesic that has recently been shown to be effective in controlling both neuropathic pain and convulsions in rodents. In this study we compared nefopam to carbamazepine (CBZ), a reference antiepileptic drug (AED), for their ability to protect cerebellar neuronal cultures from neurodegeneration induced by veratridine (VTD). Furthermore, we tested nefopam for protection against both, maximal electroshock-induced seizures (MES), and isoniazid-induced seizures in mice. Both NEF and CBZ were effective in preventing both signs of excitotoxicity and neurodegeneration following exposure of cultures to 5 microM veratridine for 30 min and 24 h, respectively. Concentrations providing full neuroprotection were 500 microM CBZ and 50 microM NEF, while the concentration providing 50% neuroprotection was 200 microM for CBZ and 20 microM for NEF. Neither NEF nor CBZ reduced excitotoxicity following direct exposure of cultures to glutamate, but CBZ failed to reduce increases in intracellular calcium following stimulation of L-type voltage sensitive calcium channels. In vivo, NEF (20 mg/kg i.p.) significantly reduced MES and fully prevented MES-induced terminal clonus (TC). In comparison, NEF was significantly more effective than CBZ in preventing MES, although both drugs were equally effective against MES-induced TC. Furthermore, nefopam provided protection against isoniazid-induced seizures at doses similar to those protecting against MES.
We have previously demonstrated the partial protection of the rat liver by 16,16-dmPGE2 (DMPG) against a number of hepatotoxins including carbon tetrachloride (CCl4). However, it has not been determined whether hepatoprotection by DMPG represents a true "cytoprotective" action or if merely accomplished through inhibition of CCl4 metabolism to reactive, toxic trichoromethyl (CCl3.) free radicals. This report details a series of experiments in which the effects of DMPG on CCl4 metabolism was evaluated in the rat. These data indicate that pretreatment with DMPG may reduce the hepatic concentration of the toxic CCl3. free radicals in CCl4 poisoned rats. Evidence is presented which suggests that this reduction in binding may have been due to a decrease in the rate of CCl4 metabolism. However, DMPG did not affect the hepatic concentration of total microsomal cytochrome P450, the necessary enzyme in this metabolic process. On the other hand, free radical spin trapping experiments indicate that the rate of free radical formation from CCl4 was slowed by treatment. Also, indirect evidence suggests that the metabolism of another cytochrome P450 substrate, phenobarbital, was slowed in DMPG treated rats. We conclude that the rate of CCl4 metabolism may be reduced by pretreatment with DMPG. Furthermore, some measure of hepatic protection might be expected to occur as a result of the reduction in the rate of CCl4 metabolism. However, we are unable to determine if this action was solely responsible for the observed hepatic protection.
