A cutaneous necrotising vasculitis developed in a young woman who was receiving levamisole for polysclerosis. Biopsy of a cutaneous lesion showed a leucocytoclastic vasculitis. Immunofluorescence showed Ig G, Ig M and C3 deposition in the vessel wall.
Cardio-facio-cutaneous (CFC) syndrome is a sporadic developmental disorder involving characteristic craniofacial features, cardiac defects, ectodermal abnormalities, and developmental delay. We demonstrate that heterogeneous de novo missense mutations in three genes within the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway cause CFC syndrome. The majority of cases (18 out of 23) are caused by mutations in BRAF, a gene frequently mutated in cancer. Of the 11 mutations identified, two result in amino acid substitutions that occur in tumors, but most are unique and suggest previously unknown mechanisms of B-Raf activation. Furthermore, three of five individuals without BRAF mutations had missense mutations in either MEK1 or MEK2, downstream effectors of B-Raf. Our findings highlight the involvement of the MAPK pathway in human development and will provide a molecular diagnosis of CFC syndrome.
Previous investigations have shown that antibodies in sera from patients with halothane hepatitis recognize neoantigens, expressed in livers of halothane-exposed rabbits and rats, which consist of a halothane metabolite bound covalently to specific microsomal proteins. These studies have suggested that the patients' antibodies may play a role in the pathogenesis of the hepatitis. In the present investigation, human liver biopsy samples were analyzed using an immunoblotting method to seek evidence for expression of halothane-induced neoantigens in humans. Sera from four patients with halothane hepatitis, which recognized halothane-induced rabbit liver neoantigens of 100, 76 and 57 kD, reacted strongly with antigens of very similar molecular weights that were expressed in livers from two patients who had died of cardiac failure following recent anesthesia with halothane. The antigens were not expressed in normal human liver or in livers from three patients who died of cardiac failure following anesthesia with agents other than halothane. The human antigens were not recognized by antibodies present in various control sera. Recognition of the 100- and 76-kD human antigens by the patients' antibodies was greatly reduced by absorption of sera with liver microsomes from halothane-exposed rabbits, but not by absorption of sera with control rabbit microsomes. These results indicate that humans exposed to halothane express liver neoantigens which are analogous to the halothane metabolite-protein neoantigens characterized previously in halothane-exposed animals.
Hyperthermic antiblastic perfusion/HAP) has been proven to be an effective neoadjuvant treatment in the treatment of advanced soft tissue limb sarcoma. As a matter of fact high percentage of limb sparing surgery, local control and functional results have been obtained wide this technique. Many antineoplastic drugs have been associated to hyperthermia by isolation limb perfusion, the aim of this paper was to describe the results obtained with doxorubicin in association to hyperthermia with or without Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) alpha in order to identify the most effective regimen in the multidisciplinary treatment of soft tissue limb sarcoma. A total of 106 patients have been evaluated. Three different study were performed: the first was a phase I study carried out in order to assess the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of doxorubicin during HAP; the second was a phase II study with doxorubicin, and the third was a phase I - II study aimed at evaluating the MTD and tumor response of TNF alpha in association to doxorubicin and hyperthermia. Grade IV limb toxicity was recorded in 11 patients ( 4 in trial A, 3 in trial B, and 4 in trial C). The grade of limb reaction was strictly related to TNF dosage (> 1 mg) and temperature level (> 41.5 degrees C), therefore the best regimen is represented by temperature level not exceeding 41.5 degrees C and 1 mg of TNFalpha. The trimodality association (TNF, doxorubicin and hyperthermia) was proven to be the best regimen able to obtain a 77% of objective response (complete response, 22%) and a 77% of limb sparing in patients candidate to amputation. The results above mentioned showed the HAP with doxorubicin and TNFalpha (1 mg) is a very effective neoadjuvant treatment in the multidisciplinary treatment of advanced soft tissue limb sarcoma.
Previous studies have demonstrated that resistance to infection is decreased in Swiss Webster female mice maintained in the hindlimb-unloading model (Aviles H, Belay T, Fountain K, Vance M, and Sonnenfeld G. J Appl Physiol 95: 73-80, 2003; Belay T, Aviles H, Vance M, Fountain K, and Sonnenfeld G. J Allergy Clin Immunol 110: 262-268, 2002). This is a model of some of the aspects of spaceflight conditions, including lack of load bearing on hindlimbs and a fluid shift to the head. Active hexose correlated compound (AHCC), extracted from Basidiomycete mushrooms, has been shown to induce enhancement of immune responses, including enhanced natural killer activity. In the present study, AHCC was orally administered to mice to determine whether the treatment could decrease immunosuppression and mortality of mice maintained in the hindlimb-unloaded model and infected with Klebsiella pneumoniae. The results of the present study showed that administration of AHCC by gavage for 1 wk (1 g/kg body wt) before suspension and throughout the 10-day suspension period yielded significant beneficial effects for the hindlimb-unloaded group, including 1). decreased mortality, 2). increased time to death, and 3). increased ability to clear bacteria. The results suggest that AHCC can decrease the deleterious effects of the hindlimb-unloading model on immunity and resistance to infection.
Reserpine-induced catalepsy is a widely accepted animal model of Parkinson's disease. In the present study reserpine (2.5 mg/kg, ip) 20 hr and alpha-mehyl-para-tyrosine (AMPT; 200 mg/kg, ip), one hour before the experiment induced significant catalepsy in rats as assessed by bar test. There was a significant increase in the time spent on the bar in bar test as compared to the control untreated rats. L-dopa (100 mg/kg, ip) and carbidopa (10 mg/kg, ip) combination, a conventional therapy was less effective in reversing reserpine-induced catalepsy. Pretreatment with FK506, a neuroprotectant (0.5-2 mg/kg, po) not only dose dependently reduced the catalepsy in reserpine-treated rats but a lower dose (1 mg/kg) potentiated the motor stimulant actions of sub threshold dose of L-dopa (100 mg/kg, ip) and carbidopa (10 mg/kg, ip) combination. Anticataleptic effect of FK506 was blocked dose dependently by specific D2 receptor blocker sulpiride (25-100 mg/kg, ip). In conclusion, the findings of the present study suggest that FK506 has an indirect modulatory action on the dopamine D2 receptors. FK506 being a neuroprotectant, could be used as an effective adjunct to L-dopa for the treatment of neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal side effects.
The cerebellum is a major target of alcohol-induced damage in the developing brain. However, the cerebella of some children are much more seriously affected than others by prenatal alcohol exposure. As a consequence of in utero alcohol exposure, some children have substantial reductions in cerebellar volume and corresponding neurodevelopmental problems, including microencephaly, ataxia, and balance deficits, while other children who were exposed to similar alcohol quantities are spared. One factor that likely plays a key role in determining the impact of alcohol on the fetal cerebellum is genetics. However, no specific gene variant has yet been identified that worsens cerebellar function as a consequence of developmental alcohol exposure. Previous studies have revealed that mice carrying a homozygous mutation of the gene for neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS-/- mice) have more severe acute alcohol-induced neuronal losses from the cerebellum than wild type mice. Therefore, the goals of this study were to determine whether alcohol induces more severe cerebellum-based behavioral deficits in nNOS-/- mice than in wild type mice and to determine whether these worsened behavior deficits are associated with worsened cerebellar neuronal losses. nNOS-/- mice and their wild type controls received alcohol (0.0, 2.2, or 4.4mg/g) daily over postnatal days 4-9. In adulthood, the mice underwent behavioral testing, followed by neuronal quantification. Alcohol caused dose-related deficits in rotarod and balance beam performance in both nNOS-/- and wild type mice. However, the alcohol-induced behavioral deficits were substantially worse in the nNOS-/- mice than in wild type. Likewise, alcohol exposure led to losses of Purkinje cells and cerebellar granule cells in mice of both genotypes, but the cell losses were more severe in the nNOS-/- mice than in wild type. Behavioral performances were correlated with neuronal number in the nNOS-/- mice, but not in wild type. Thus, homozygous mutation of the nNOS gene increases vulnerability to alcohol-induced cerebellar dysfunction and neuronal loss. nNOS is the first gene identified whose mutation worsens alcohol-induced cerebellar behavioral deficits.
Although a growing body of research suggests that atypical neuroleptic medications are efficacious in the treatment of cocaine addiction among individuals with schizophrenia, more rigorously controlled trials are needed. To extend this research, we performed a 6-week double-blind study comparing olanzapine to haloperidol with the primary objective of reducing cue-elicited cocaine craving and the secondary aims of decreasing substance use, improving psychiatric symptoms, and determining an effect size for future studies.
Thirty-one subjects with cocaine dependence and schizophrenia were randomized to olanzapine or haloperidol, underwent a cue-exposure procedure, and completed psychiatric and substance abuse ratings.
Individuals in the olanzapine group who completed the study had a significant reduction on the energy subscale of the Voris Cocaine Craving Scale at study completion compared with individuals in the haloperidol group. The olanzapine-treated group also had lower, but not statistically significant, PANSS General Psychopathology Subscale scores and fewer positive urine toxicology screens compared with those in the haloperidol group.
This small, but rigorously controlled, pilot trial provides additional evidence for the use of atypical antipsychotics for the treatment of individuals with co-occurring schizophrenia and cocaine dependence. Reductions in craving were associated with medium to large effect sizes.
The optimal management of menorrhagia among women with abnormal laboratory haemostasis is uncertain. In a crossover study, 116 women with menorrhagia [pictorial blood assessment chart (PBAC) score >100], negative gynaecological evaluation and abnormal laboratory haemostasis were randomly assigned to either intranasal desmopressin (IN-DDAVP) or tranexamic acid (TA) therapy for two menstrual cycles. The subjects then crossed over to the second study drug for two additional cycles. Menstrual blood loss (MBL) was measured by PBAC scores at baseline and after each menstrual cycle. Quality of life (QOL) was assessed with four validated instruments. There was a statistically significant decrease in PBAC scores for both treatments. On average, the estimated decrease in the PBAC from baseline was -64.1 [95% confidence interval (CI) = -88.0, -40.3] for IN-DDAVP and -105.7 (95% CI = -130.5, -81.0) for TA. The decrease in PBAC score was greater for TA than IN-DDAVP (a difference of 41.6, P-value = 0.0002, 95% CI = 19.6, 63.6). The test for treatment-type effect was significant (P < 0.0001) suggesting a greater reduction in PBAC score with TA. Use of both IN-DDAVP and TA improved QOL by all four instruments. We conclude that both medications reduced MBL and improved QOL among females with menorrhagia and abnormal laboratory haemostasis, but TA proved more effective.
Co-administration of kanamycin (KA) with the loop diuretic ethacrynic acid (EA) rapidly produces a profound hearing loss in the cat while maintaining normal renal function [Xu et al., Hear. Res. 70, 205-215 (1993)]. In the present paper we have applied this deafening procedure to the old world monkey Macaca fascicularis (macaque). Following the co-administration of KA and EA, the hearing loss in the macaque developed far slower than we observed in the cat. Moreover, unlike the cat, there was evidence of a partial recovery in the animal's hearing, resulting in a bilaterally symmetrical high frequency hearing loss. The extent of this hearing loss was dependent on the dose of the EA administered. Finally, the most unexpected result of the present study was the degree of acute nephrotoxicity experienced by these animals following the drug administration. The sensitivity of this species to renal failure restricted the dose of EA that could be safely administered. In conclusion, the co-administration of KA and EA cannot reliably produce a profound hearing loss in the macaque. While it can produce a dose dependent high frequency hearing loss the animal will also experience acute renal failure that requires careful management.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura-hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP-HUS) is an inclusive term describing diverse syndromes of multiple etiologies with the common features of thrombocytopenia and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia. Other organ involvement, including renal failure, neurologic abnormalities, and gastrointestinal symptoms, is common. Adverse reactions to drugs increasingly are reported as a potential cause of TTP-HUS. More than 50 drugs and other substances have been associated with the development of TTP-HUS, but many case reports are difficult to interpret because there is uncertainty regarding the diagnosis of TTP-HUS and because there is uncertainty regarding the relation of drug exposure to the onset of TTP-HUS. A systematic analysis of reports of drug-associated TTP-HUS will be required to better understand the strength of clinical evidence linking drugs to the etiology of TTP-HUS. In this review, five drugs that have been the subject of the most and the most recent reports of drug-associated TTP-HUS are discussed: mitomycin C, cyclosporine, quinine, ticlopidine, and clopidogrel. The clinical features of TTP-HUS associated with these drugs are different, suggesting two principal mechanisms by which drugs may cause TTP-HUS: dose-related toxicity (mitomycin C, cyclosporine), and immune-mediated reaction (quinine, ticlopidine, clopidogrel). The role of plasma exchange is uncertain, but this treatment is appropriate because of the high mortality and morbidity of drug-associated TTP-HUS. Recognition of a drug-associated etiology in a patient with TTP-HUS is critical to avoid re-exposure and recurrent illness.
Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) may play an important role in emphysematous change in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), one of the leading causes of mortality and morbidity worldwide. We previously reported that simvastatin, an inhibitor of HMG-CoA reductase, attenuates emphysematous change and MMP-9 induction in the lungs of rats exposed to cigarette smoke. However, it remained uncertain how cigarette smoke induced MMP-9 and how simvastatin inhibited cigarette smoke-induced MMP-9 expression in alveolar macrophages (AMs), a major source of MMP-9 in the lungs of COPD patients. Presently, we examined the related signaling for MMP-9 induction and the inhibitory mechanism of simvastatin on MMP-9 induction in AMs exposed to cigarette smoke extract (CSE). In isolated rat AMs, CSE induced MMP-9 expression and phosphorylation of ERK and Akt. A chemical inhibitor of MEK1/2 or PI3K reduced phosphorylation of ERK or Akt, respectively, and also inhibited CSE-mediated MMP-9 induction. Simvastatin reduced CSE-mediated MMP-9 induction, and simvastatin-mediated inhibition was reversed by farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) or geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP). Similar to simvastatin, inhibition of FPP transferase or GGPP transferase suppressed CSE-mediated MMP-9 induction. Simvastatin attenuated CSE-mediated activation of RAS and phosphorylation of ERK, Akt, p65, IkappaB, and nuclear AP-1 or NF-kappaB activity. Taken together, these results suggest that simvastatin may inhibit CSE-mediated MMP-9 induction, primarily by blocking prenylation of RAS in the signaling pathways, in which Raf-MEK-ERK, PI3K/Akt, AP-1, and IkappaB-NF-kappaB are involved.
Transgenic animals carrying human c-Ha-ras proto-oncogene, v-Ha-ras transgenic mice, pim-1 transgenic mice and several knockout mice deficient of tumor suppressor genes, such as p53, have been shown to exhibit increased carcinogen susceptibility. As a result, studies into practical application and medium-term screening of environmental carcinogens are under way. Given the advantages of rat models characterized by larger organ size, abundant information regarding preneoplasias and virus-free constitution, we have concentrated on the generation of transgenic rats bearing copies of the human c-Ha-ras proto-oncogene and shown the Hras128 strain to be extremely sensitive to the induction of mammary carcinomas, and to a lesser extent, lesions in the urinary bladder, esophagus and skin. In most, if not all, the mammary cancers mutations of the transgene but not the endogenous H-ras gene are present, appearing to occur early in the process of tumorigenesis, which involves proliferation of cells in TEB and intraductal hyperplasia before carcinomas arise. Preliminary findings suggest that this is independent of endogenous ovarian hormones, although inhibited by soy isoflavones and promoted by atrazine and nonylphenols. Although further studies of the mechanisms are clearly necessary, the model appears to have great potential for screening purposes, not only for modifiers active in the breast, but also other organs where tumors characterized by ras gene mutations develop.
A patient is described in whom a neuromyopathy developed during a long chloroquine treatment for systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The presence of a granular deposition within the muscle fibers was observed and led to discontinuation of the drug and to a gradual recovery of muscle strength. The difficult differential diagnosis with polymyositis, steroid-induced myopathy and SLE myositis is discussed.
Nephrotic syndrome (NS) is characterized by proteinuria, oxidative stress and endogenous hyperlipidemia. Hyperlipidemia and oxidative stress may be involved in coronary heart disease and the progression of renal damage in these patients. Garlic has been suggested to be beneficial in various disease states. Some of the beneficial effects of garlic may be secondary to its hypolipidemic and antioxidant properties. Therefore, the effect of a 2% garlic diet on acute and chronic experimental NS induced by puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) was studied in this work. Acute NS was induced by a single injection of PAN to rats which were sacrificed 10 days later. Chronic NS was induced by repeated injections of PAN to rats which were sacrificed 84 days after the first injection. Garlic treatment was unable to modify proteinuria in either acute or chronic NS, and hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia in acute NS. However, garlic treatment diminished significantly total-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol and triglycerides, but not HDL-cholesterol in chronic NS. Garlic induced no change in the percentage of sclerotic glomeruli in chronic NS and a significative decrease on the percentage of sclerotic area of these glomeruli (33 +/- 3% in NS+Garlic group vs. 47 +/- 4% in NS group, p = 0.0126). The enhanced in vivo renal H2O2 production and the diminished renal Cu, Zn-SOD and catalase activities in acute NS, and the decreased renal catalase activity in chronic NS were not prevented by garlic treatment. These data indicate that garlic treatment ameliorates hyperlipidemia and renal damage in chronic NS which is unrelated to proteinuria or antioxidant enzymes.
Patients who have nephrotic syndrome and normal renal function are hypocalcemic in spite of the elevated levels of serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) caused by a low serum concentration of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D[1,25(OH)2D], presumably because of its loss in urine. However, it has not been established whether the conversion of 25-hydroxyvitamin D[25(OH)D] into 1,25(OH)2D is impaired in the kidney. In this study, we examined the serum levels of vitamin D metabolites, and kinetics of renal 25(OH)D-1-hydroxylase activity in vitro, and nephrogenous cyclic AMP excretion in response to exogenous PTH administration in puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis in rats. Plasma ionized calcium and the serum levels of vitamin D metabolites were lower, and conversely, the serum PTH level was higher, in nephrotic rats than in controls. Serum 1,25(OH)2D levels were higher in 25(OH)D3-treated nephrotic rats than in untreated nephrotic rats, indicating that the low 1,25(OH)2D level in nephrotic rats is partially due to the low concentration of 25(OH)D. Although PTH levels were higher in nephrotic rats than in control rats, the Vmax of renal 25(OH)D-1-hydroxylase and nephrogenous adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cyclic AMP) excretion in response to exogenous PTH were significantly lower in nephrotic animals than in controls. These results suggest that abnormalities in calcium and vitamin D metabolism in nephrotic rats are partially attributable to impaired proximal tubular function.
Lignocaine pretreatment (2 mg/kg) significantly restricted the increase in serum potassium and decrease in serum calcium caused by suxamethonium. Suxamethonium muscle pains occurred in only 8% of patients who received lignocaine just before induction of anaesthesia. The incidence of muscle pains was 45% in those patients who were not given lignocaine.
The hypothesis that methamphetamine-induced neuronal damage is mediated by the production of free radicals was evaluated by pretreating rats with either antioxidants or a superoxide dismutase (SOD) inhibitor. It was found that methamphetamine (dose range 6.25-25.0 mg/kg) caused long-lasting depletions of dopamine and serotonin in the striatum and that pretreatment with the antioxidants, ascorbic acid (10-100 mg/kg), ethanol (1 g/kg), mannitol (2 g/kg), or vitamin E (2 g/kg), attenuated these depletions, whereas pretreatment with the superoxide dismutase inhibitor diethyldithiocarbamate (200-400 mg/kg) exacerbated the depletions. The alteration of this effect by four different antioxidants, as well as an inhibitor of superoxidase dismutase, indicated that oxygen-free radicals may have a role in the methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity.
BM U2 531, the 2-[2-Cyanaziridinyl-(1)-]-2-[-2-carbamoylaziridinyl-(1)-]-propane, the further development of BM 06 002 is able to compensate the immunosuppressive action of Cyclophosphamide and to increase the carcinostatic action of Cyclophosphamide. These properties are demonstrated 1. by a leucocytosis induced after application of BM 12 531 in rats 2. by a quick restauration of leucocyte depression induced by Cyclophosphamide in rats and dogs 3. by an increase of resistance against an infection (candida albicans) in mice 4. by an increase of antitumour effect of Cyclophosphamide against a DS-carcinosarcoma in rats.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is being increasingly shown to be a risk factor for chronic kidney disease (CKD), but little is known about the possible mechanistic links. We hypothesized that analysis of the genomic signature in the repair stage after AKI would reveal pathways that could link AKI and CKD. Unilateral renal pedicle clamping for 45 min was performed in male C57BL/6J mice. Mice were euthanized at 3, 10, and 28 days after ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). Total RNA was isolated from kidney and analyzed using an Illumina mouse array. Among 24,600 tested genes, 242, 146, and 46 genes were upregulated at days 3, 10, and 28 after IRI, and 85, 35, and 0 genes were downregulated, respectively. Gene ontology analysis showed that gene expression changes were primarily related to immune and inflammatory pathways both early and late after AKI. The most highly upregulated genes late after AKI were hepatitis A virus cellular receptor 1 (Havcr1) and lipocalin 2 (Lcn2), which code for kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), respectively. This was unexpected since they are both primarily potential biomarkers of the early stage of AKI. Furthermore, increases observed in gene expression in amiloride binding protein 1, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, and endothelin 1 could explain the salt-sensitive hypertension that can follow AKI. These data suggested that 1) persistent inflammation and immune responses late after AKI could contribute to the pathogenesis of CKD, 2) late upregulation of KIM-1 and NGAL could be a useful marker for sustained renal injury after AKI, and 3) hypertension-related gene changes could underlie mechanisms for persistent renal and vascular injury after AKI.
To compare the efficacy of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) combining chemotherapy and As4S4 with ATRA combining chemotherapy for the maintenance treatment of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL).
Sixty patients with APL induced to complete remission by ATRA and consolidated by chemotherapy were randomly divided into two groups. Thirty patients as As4S4 group received ATRA + As4S4 + chemotherapy, and another thirty patients as non-As4S4 group were treated only with ATRA + chemotherapy as maintenance therapy. The therapeutic effects, side effects and PML-RARalpha gene expression were analyzed.
The three-year continuous complete remission (CCR) rate was 90.0% for As4S4 group and 61.1% for non-As4S4 group, the difference being statistically significant. Significant difference was also found in the positive rate of PML-RARalpha fusion gene between the two groups. The side effects were mild.
APL patients in maintenance therapy with ATRA + 6-MP + MTX + As4S4 can obtain a higher CCR.
Intravenous administration of an ionic radiographic contrast medium was believed to have caused acute oliguric renal failure in a young dog. Intravenous pyelography was done on a healthy 14-month-old female Lhasa Apso prior to reconstructive surgery for pseudohermaphroditism. Within 24 hours of the radiographic procedure, acute oliguric renal failure developed. Cause for the renal failure was not found other than the recent IV administration of radiographic contrast medium. Treatment with fluids, furosemide, and dopamine was successful in returning renal function to normal. Various adverse reactions to IV administration of contrast media in human beings and animals have been reported; however, to our knowledge, acute renal dysfunction induced by IV administration of contrast material has not been reported in dogs.
Oxcarbazepine is an antiepileptic drug widely used to treat partial seizures in children and adults. We report two children who developed mycolonic seizures and had abnormal electroencephalograms when oxcarbazepine was introduced. Although it is possible that the emergence of myoclonic seizures and deterioration of the electroencephalograms were due to the natural course of the disorder, clinicians should be aware of the possible detrimental effects of oxcarbazepine in children with seizures.
The understanding of oxidative damage in different neurodegenerative diseases could enhance therapeutic strategies. Our objective was to quantify lipoperoxidation and other oxidative products as well as the activity of antioxidant enzymes and cofactors in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples. We recorded data from all new patients with a diagnosis of either one of the four most frequent neurodegenerative diseases: Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), Huntington's disease (HD) and lateral amyotrophic sclerosis (ALS). The sum of nitrites and nitrates as end products of nitric oxide (NO) were increased in the four degenerative diseases and fluorescent lipoperoxidation products in three (excepting ALS). A decreased Cu/Zn-dependent superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity characterized the four diseases. A significantly decreased ferroxidase activity was found in PD, HD and AD, agreeing with findings of iron deposition in these entities, while free copper was found to be increased in CSF and appeared to be a good biomarker of PD.
