This study aimed to investigate the differential protective effect of resveratrol (RSV) on oxidative stress and metabolic signaling pathways in fast- and slow-twitch skeletal muscles of rats with diabetes.
Diabetic rats were induced by streptozotocin (STZ) for 2 weeks and then administered with RSV (1, 10 and 100 μg/kg per day) for 1 week. We determined oxidative stress and protein expression by lucigenin-mediated chemiluminescence and Western immunoblot.
The superoxide anion production and copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) protein level were increased in fast-twitch muscle than in slow-twitch muscle of diabetes. The Akt and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) phosphorylations were reduced in both fast- and slow-twitch muscles of diabetes. Oxidative stress and GSK-3 dephosphorylation were corrected by RSV treatment in both fast- and slow-twitch muscles of diabetes. Furthermore, RSV treatment downregulated CuZnSOD protein level in diabetic fast-twitch muscle. In diabetic slow-twitch muscle, RSV treatment elevated manganese SOD (MnSOD) and phosphorylated Akt protein levels and reduced acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC) phosphorylation.
Our results suggested that fast-twitch muscle incurred more oxidative stress, whereas slow-twitch muscle altered metabolic signaling molecules activities under diabetic status. The antidiabetic effect of RSV on fast- and slow-twitch skeletal muscles was mediated by different antioxidative and metabolic signals.
The present study directly compared the antinociceptive and toxic effects of the neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist ABT-594 ((R)-5-(2-azetidinylmethoxy)-2-chloropyridine) with (-)-nicotine and (+)-epibatidine. Like (-)-nicotine (0.8 and 1.6 mg/kg s.c.) and (+)-epibatidine (0.005 and 0.01 mg/kg s.c.), ABT-594 (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg s.c.) increased response latencies in the hot-plate test in rats, indicating that it has antinociceptive activity. In contrast to (-)-nicotine and (+)-epibatidine, ABT-594 did not cause rotarod impairment at antinociceptive doses but did cause hypothermia and life-threatening adverse effects including seizures. ABT-594 (0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg i.v.) also produced a dose-dependent increase in blood pressure resembling that observed with (-)-nicotine (0.03, 0.1 and 0. 03 mg/kg i.v.) and (+)-epibatidine (0.001 and 0.003 mg/kg i.v.). Both the antinociceptive and toxic effects (convulsions and hypertension) were abolished by pretreatment with the brain penetrant neuronal nAChR antagonist mecamylamine (1 mg/kg s.c.; i.v. for cardiovascular studies), demonstrating that these actions of ABT-594 were mediated via activation of neuronal nicotinic receptors. Continuous infusion of ABT-594 (0.2 mg/kg per day s.c.) to rats for 7 days followed by challenge with mecamylamine (1 mg/kg i.p.) induced a nicotine-like abstinence syndrome suggesting that ABT-594 has nicotine-like dependence liability. These findings indicate that the acute safety profile of ABT-594 is not significantly improved over other nicotinic analgesics.
To determine if there is a beneficial effect of amifostine in preventing or reducing the neuropathy induced by high-dose paclitaxel.
Breast cancer patients receiving high-dose infusional paclitaxel (725 mg/m(2)/24 h) in combination with doxorubicin (165 mg/m(2)/96 h) and cyclophosphamide (100 mg/kg/2 h; ACT) were studied on two autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant protocols, one with and one without amifostine (740 mg/m(2) administered over 10 min before and 12 h after initiation of the paclitaxel infusion). Patients were evaluated before ACT and 20-40 days later with neurological examination, a composite peripheral neuropathy score, peroneal and sural nerve conduction studies, and quantitative sensory testing.
There was no significant difference in paclitaxel maximum concentration, systemic clearance, or area under the curve determinations. Narcotic requirement as well as recovery of hematopoietic counts were also similar in subjects with or without amifostine. After ACT was administered, there was a decrease in peroneal nerve compound muscle action potential amplitude and sural nerve sensory action potential amplitude, as well as an increase in vibratory and cold detection thresholds. Clinical composite peripheral neuropathy scores were similar despite amifostine treatment; and logarithm to the base 2 ratios post/pre ACT showed no significant effect of amifostine on peroneal nerve compound muscle action potential, sural nerve sensory action potential, vibratory detection thresholds, or cold detection thresholds. All subjects had acroparesthesias and lost their ankle deep-tendon reflexes after administration of ACT.
Single high-dose paclitaxel produces predictable clinical and neurophysiological changes so that patients receiving high-dose therapy are ideal subjects to test the effectiveness of neuroprotective agents. Amifostine was ineffective in preventing or reducing the neurotoxicity of high-dose paclitaxel.
To study the comparative effects of acute normovolemic hemodilution and nitroglycerin-induced hypotension on tissue oxygenation and blood transfusion requirement.
Prospective, randomized study.
30 ASA physical status I and II patients scheduled for primary total hip arthroplasty.
Patients were randomized to one of three groups of 10 patients each, to receive acute normovolemic hemodilutin (Group 1) or nitroglycerin-based hypotension (Group 2); Group 3 served as the control group. In Group 1, 2 U of blood was collected and replaced with an equal volume of hydroxyethyl starch (200/0.56%) immediately after anesthesia induction. In Group 2, nitroglycerin was infused at a rate sufficient to reduce mean arterial pressures to 60 to 65 mmHg before initiation of surgery. When hematocrit was reduced to 25%, at first autologous blood and then, if necessary, allogeneic blood was transfused to Group 1, and allogeneic blood was transfused to the other two groups, until hematocrit reached 30% for 5 days postoperatively.
Total transfused allogeneic units of blood were determined by the fifth postoperative day. Arterial oxygen content (CaO2), venous oxygen content (CvO2), and oxygen extraction ratios (EO2) were calculated by standard formulas. The mean allogeneic transfusion requirement was significantly lower in Group 1 (1.3 +/- 0.8 U) than in Group 2 (2.3 +/- 0.8 U) or Group 3 (2.7 +/- 1.1 U) (p < 0.05). In Group 1, CaO2 and CvO2 were decreased at all times, but EO2 was significantly increased from 15 +/- 3.9% to 33.3 +/- 5.3% (p < 0.001). As for the other two groups, although CaO2 and CvO2 were decreased, EO2 was not significantly increased.
Acute normovolemic hemodilution is more effective than nitroglycerin-induced hypotension in reducing allogeneic blood transfusion requirement in total hip replacement surgery, without significant metabolic changes.
Hypersensitivity reactions in patients receiving sulfonamide antibiotics have been frequently documented in the literature, but cross-reactivity with sulfonamide non-antibiotics rarely has been reported.
An 82-year-old woman with a history of hypersensitivity reactions to sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim resulting in angioedema and rash presented to the emergency department (ED) with angioedema and severe dysphagia, shortness of breath, and rash after receiving valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) for 4 months. Valsartan was identified as the most likely cause of the symptoms and was discontinued; however, the patient continued to have weekly episodes of angioedema and eventually returned to the ED. HCTZ was discontinued at the second ED visit, and the angioedema disappeared. However, it reappeared after reinitiation of HCTZ, and the patient returned to the ED again; this time with more severe symptoms. After the third ED visit and second hospitalization, HCTZ was permanently discontinued, and the angioedema has not returned. HCTZ was the definite cause of angioedema in this patient based on a score of 9 on the 10-point Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale.
Although the probability of true cross-reactivity is not known, clinicians should be aware that an allergic-like reaction to sulfonamide-containing non-antibiotics may occur in patients with known allergies to sulfonamide-containing antibiotics. These patients should be monitored closely when receiving these drugs. Further evaluation is needed to determine whether angioedema should be added to the list of adverse events associated with HCTZ.
Cardiovascular disease is highly prevalent in chronic kidney disease. Traditional risk factors are insufficient to explain the high cardiovascular disease prevalence. Free p-cresol serum concentrations, mainly circulating as its derivative p-cresyl sulfate, are associated with cardiovascular disease in hemodialysis patients. It is not known if p-cresol is associated with cardiovascular disease in patients with chronic kidney disease not yet on dialysis.
In a prospective observational study in 499 patients with mild-to-moderate kidney disease, we examined the multivariate association between p-cresol free serum concentrations and cardiovascular events.
After a mean follow-up of 33 mo, 62 patients reached the primary end point of fatal or nonfatal cardiovascular events. Higher baseline concentrations of free p-cresol were directly associated with cardiovascular events (univariate hazard ratio [HR] 1.79, P<0.0001). In multivariate analysis, p-cresol remained a predictor of cardiovascular events, independent of GFR and independent of Framingham risk factors (full model, HR 1.39, P=0.04).
These findings suggest that p-cresol measurements may help to predict cardiovascular disease risk in renal patients over a wide range of residual renal function, beyond traditional markers of glomerular filtration. Whether p-cresol is a modifiable cardiovascular risk factor in CKD patients remains to be proven.
We generated a mouse line with a missense mutation (S248F) in the gene (CHRNA4) encoding the alpha4 subunit of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR). Mutant mice demonstrate brief nicotine induced dystonia that resembles the clinical events seen in patients with the same mutation. Drug-induced dystonia is more pronounced in female mice, thus our aim was to determine if the S248F mutation changed the properties of fast- and slow-twitch muscle fibres from female mutant mice. Reverse transcriptase-PCR confirmed CHRNA4 gene expression in the brain but not skeletal muscles in normal and mutant mice. Ca(2+) and Sr(2+) force activation curves were obtained using skinned muscle fibres prepared from slow-twitch (soleus) and fast-twitch (EDL) muscles. Two significant results were found: (1) the (pCa(50) - pSr(50)) value from EDL fibres was smaller in mutant mice than in wild type (1.01 vs. 1.30), (2) the percentage force produced at pSr 5.5 was larger in mutants than in wild type (5.76 vs. 0.24%). Both results indicate a shift to slow-twitch characteristics in the mutant. This conclusion is supported by the identification of the myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoforms. Mutant EDL fibres expressed MHC I (usually only found in slow-twitch fibres) as well as MHC IIa. Despite the lack of spontaneous dystonic events, our findings suggest that mutant mice may be having subclinical events or the mutation results in a chronic alteration to muscle neural input.
Although the superiority of low-osmolar over high-osmolar contrast agents in prevention of contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI) is generally accepted, the relative nephrotoxicity of iso-osmolar over low-osmolar agents has not yet clearly defined. We examined the incidence of CI-AKI according to the type of contrast agent used in a randomized study of ascorbic acid for CI-AKI prevention.
A total of 222 patients with baseline serum creatinine >or=1.2 mg/dL who were undergoing a coronary procedure and who were randomized to receive ascorbic acid or placebo were evaluated. The iso-osmolar agent iodixanol was used in 144 patients, whereas low-osmolar non-ionic agents were used in 78 patients (iomeprol, n = 40; iobitridol, n = 30; iopentol, n = 8). CI-AKI was defined by an absolute serum creatinine increase of >or=0.5 mg/dL or a relative increase of >or=25% measured 2 to 5 days after the procedure.
The groups of patients who received iso-osmolar and low-osmolar non-ionic agents were well balanced in terms of demographic, clinical, and procedural characteristics. The overall CI-AKI incidence was 14.6% for the iso-osmolar iodixanol versus 14.1% for the combined low-osmolar non-ionic agents (iomeprol, 10%; iobitridol, 10%; iopentol, 50%). For iodixanol, the incidence of CI-AKI was 7.4% for patients randomized to receive ascorbic acid and 21.6% for placebo (P = 0.02). The corresponding incidences for the low-osmolar non-ionic agents were 9.1% and 20.6%, respectively (P = 0.19).
No differences in CI-AKI incidence were apparent among patients receiving non-ionic iso-osmolar iodixanol and non-ionic low-osmolar contrast agents. The preventative effect of ascorbic acid was also similar.
Recent behavioral and electrophysiological studies have attributed an important role to dorsal root reflexes (DRRs) in the initiation and development of neurogenic inflammation produced by intradermal capsaicin (CAP). The DRRs can occur in peptidergic fibers, resulting in peripheral release of neuromediators that produce vasodilation, plasma extravasation and subsequently hyperalgesia and allodynia. In this study, we have evaluated the effect of spinal administration of bumetanide (a blocker of the Na+-K+-2Cl- cotransporter, NKCC) on DRR activity, changes in cutaneous blood flow (vasodilation), hindpaw edema, mechanical allodynia, and hyperalgesia induced by intradermal injection of 1% CAP in Sprague-Dawley rats. Vasodilation was monitored using laser Doppler flowmetry, neurogenic edema was evaluated by measurements of hindpaw volume, and secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalesia were tested using von Frey filaments (10 and 200 mN) applied to the plantar surface of the paw. Changes in the blood flow were blocked significantly by intrathecal bumetanide at 10 and 100 microM in both pre- and posttreatment studies. Spinal bumetanide at 10 and 100 microM blocked neurogenic edema when it was administered before CAP injection, but only bumetanide at 100 microM administered after CAP injection reduced the paw edema significantly. Furthermore, the administration of bumetanide onto the spinal cord reduced the increment in DRR activity produced by CAP. Finally, both secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalesia were reduced by bumetanide at 1, 10, and 100 microM. Taken together these results suggest that NKCC is involved in the increases in DRR activity, neurogenic inflammation and hyperalgesia and allodynia induced by intradermal CAP.
Practolol, propranolol, and placebo have been tested on an objective test of lithium induced tremor. Both beta-blocking agents produced significantly more tremor than the placebo. It is argued that lithium induced tremor is closer to essential than to physiological tremor.
Women at increased risk for breast cancer are often also at increased risk for ovarian cancer, reflecting common risk factors and intertwined etiologies for both diseases. Unlike breast cancer prevention, primary ovarian cancer prevention has been impractical due to the low incidence, lack of risk and response biomarkers and difficulties in sampling ovarian tissue. Challenges in the development of ovarian cancer prevention drugs, however, may be circumvented through the development of breast cancer prevention strategies that simultaneously decrease ovarian cancer. In the present study, three commonly used mammary cancer carcinogen models [7,12-dimethylbenz[alpha]anthracene (DMBA), N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) and estradiol (E2)] were combined with local ovarian DMBA administration to induce progression to mammary and ovarian cancer concurrently in the rat. Animals were treated for 3 or 6 months, and tissue histology as well as proliferation, hormonal and inflammation biomarkers were assessed. Mammary and ovarian morphologies (measured as descriptive histology and dysplasia scores) were normal in vehicle controls. Mammary hyperplasia was observed in DMBA/DMBA (mammary carcinogen/ovarian carcinogen) and MNU/DMBA-treated rats; however, ovarian preneoplastic changes were seldom observed after these treatments. All E2/DMBA-treated rats had mammary hyperplasia, atypia, ductal carcinoma in situ and/or invasive adenocarcinoma, while 50% also developed preneoplastic changes in the ovary (ovarian epithelial and stromal hyperplasia and inclusion cyst formation). In both the mammary gland and ovary, decreased estrogen receptor alpha expression was detected, and in the mammary gland elevated Ki-67 and cyclooxygenase-2 expressions were observed. This combined breast and ovarian cancer rat model (systemic E2 treatment and local ovarian DMBA) may be useful for future dual target breast and ovarian cancer prevention studies.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO) is a potent anti-leukemic chemotherapeutic agent for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) that results from a t (15, 17) chromosomal translocation that produces PML-RARalpha, a fusion protein between a tumor suppressor PML and the retinoic acid receptor RARalpha. APL patients are initially treated with retinoic acid, but most develop resistance and relapse. In contrast, ATO induces prolonged remissions even in the relapsed cases. However, the molecular mechanisms by which ATO kills the leukemic cells are not fully understood. We find that ATO induces apoptosis, at least in part, by activating proapoptotic kinase Chk2. ATO does this by stimulating ATR (ataxia telangiectasia mutated and Rad3-related) kinase, a Chk2-activating kinase. In conjunction, ATO degrades PML-RARalpha, resulting in the restoration of PML, which is required for autophosphorylation and full activation of Chk2. As a result, the p53-dependent apoptosis pathway is activated. Based on this, we propose that a pathway composed of ATR, PML, Chk2, and p53 plays a role in ATO-mediated apoptosis, a notion that is consistent with the observation that Chk2 is genetically intact and mutations in the p53 gene are extremely rare in APL.
A retrospective study of penicillamine toxicity in 156 patients yielded a high incidence of toxic reaction (62%), necessitating discontinuation of the drug therapy in 36% of the patients. Of the total group, proteinuria occurred in 14%, hematologic toxic reaction in 11%, mucocutaneous toxic reaction in 28%, and gastrointestinal intolerance in 12%.
Twelve patients who met Research Diagnostic Criteria for a history of bipolar affective disorder gave informed consent for open discontinuation of lithium therapy for 3 weeks. There was no significant change after lithium discontinuation in the number of depressive or manic symptoms, in mood score, in total Zung Depression score, or in any of the 20 items found in the Zung Depression scale. There were significant reductions in total severity of side effects, and improvement in the three side effects reflecting renal function: polydipsia, polyuria, and nocturia. These changes were reflected in the significant increase in urine specific gravity. Significant changes in side effects did not take place until at least 2 weeks after lithium was discontinued. Other significant relationships were found between increases in serum thyroid hormone levels and in urine specific gravity, and decreases in Vmax of platelet serotonin uptake and increases in degree of clonidine-induced hypotension.
A two-year-old female presented with cholelithiasis. Preoperative work-up revealed no etiology. Analysis of the stones revealed the content to be pure calcium carbonate. The mother had taken a calcium carbonate supplement during the last four months of the pregnancy. This represents the first report of such an occurrence.
Microcystin-LR is a cyclic peptide released by several bloom-forming cyanobacteria. Understanding the mechanism of microcystin-LR toxicity is important, because of the both potencies of its acute cytotoxicity and tumor-promoting activity in hepatocytes of animals and humans. Recently, we have reported that the expression of human hepatocyte uptake transporter OATP1B3 was critical for the selective uptake of microcystin-LR into hepatocytes and for induction of its fatal cytotoxicity. In this study, we demonstrated a novel function of microcystin-LR which induced bipotential changes including anoikis resistance and cytoskeleton reorganization to OATP1B3-transfected HEK293 cells (HEK293-OATP1B3). After exposure to microcystin-LR, HEK293-OATP1B3 cells were divided to the floating cells and remaining adherent cells. After collection and reseeding the floating cells into a fresh flask, cells were confluently proliferated (HEK293-OATP1B3-FL) under the microcystin-LR-free condition. Both the proliferated HEK293-OATP1B3-FL and remaining adherent HEK293-OATP1B3-AD cells changed the character with down- and up-regulation of E-cadherin, respectively. Additionally, these cells acquired resistance to microcystin-LR. These results suggest that microcystin-LR could be associated with not only tumor promotion, but also epithelial-mesenchymal transition-mediated cancer metastasis. Furthermore, microcystin-LR might induce the cytoskeleton reorganization be accompanied epithelial-mesenchymal transition.
Antihypertensive drugs such as clonidine, diazoxide, hydralazine and furosemide are used in the hypertensive disorders of pregnancy to control blood pressure, but it is not clear if they modulate the production of placental or circulating cytokines.
To examine the effect of pharmaceutical doses of well known antihypertensive drugs used for blood pressure control on the production of the cytokines interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10 and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha in placental tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in normal pregnancy.
Placental biopsies were taken from the decidual surface of placentas after delivery of normal pregnancies (n = 6) and PBMCs were separated from the whole blood of normal term pregnant women (n = 7). Both villous explants and PBMCs were cultured with increasing concentrations of antihypertensive drugs. The dose effect of drugs on the production of placental and circulating cytokines (IL-6, IL-10 and TNF-alpha) were examined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Placental production of IL-10 was not affected by clonidine, but decreased significantly after incubation of the tissue with diazoxide, hydralazine or furosemide. Production of IL-10 by PBMCs increased significantly: by from 3.4 +/- 2.7% [16.3 pg/ml (range 6.1-21.5 pg/ml)] to 24.5 +/- 3.3% [30.4 pg/ml (range 16.9-34.8 pg/ml)] with increasing concentrations of clonidine (0.08-1.3 microg/ml), and by 8.8 +/- 3.5% [4.1 pg/ml (range 3.0-17.8 pg/ml)] and 17.2 +/- 1.9% [22.6 pg/ml (range 13.2-23.2 pg/ml)] with lower doses of hydralazine (6.3 and 12.5 microg/ml) (all P values < 0.05). There was a stepwise reduction in production of TNF-alpha and IL-6 with increasing doses of diazoxide, hydralazine and furosemide by placentas and PBMCs from these women with normal pregnancies.
Our data suggest that the antihypertensive drugs clonidine and hydralazine can stimulate production of the circulating anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, whereas furosemide and diazoxide inhibit the production of this cytokine and the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-6 by placentas and PBMCs.
This study examines the immunological responses in rats following inhalation to titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TiO2 NPs), in naïve rats and in rats with induced allergic airway disease. The responses of two different inbred rat strains were compared: the Dark Aguoti (DA), susceptible to chronic inflammatory disorders, and the Brown Norwegian (BN), susceptible to atopic allergic inflammation. Naïve rats were exposed to an aerosol of TiO2 NPs once daily for 10 days. Another subset of rats was sensitized to the allergen ovalbumin (OVA) in order to induce airway inflammation. These sensitized rats were exposed to TiO2 NPs before and during the allergen challenge. Naïve rats exposed to TiO2 NPs developed an increase of neutrophils and lymphocytes in both rat strains. Airway hyperreactivity and production of inflammatory mediators typical of a T helper 1 type immune response were significantly increased, only in DA rats. Sensitization of the rats induced a prominent OVA-specific-IgE and IgG response in the BN rat while DA rats only showed an increased IgG response. Sensitized rats of both strains developed airway eosinophilia following allergen challenge, which declined upon exposure to TiO2 NPs. The level of neutrophils and lymphocytes increased upon exposure to TiO2 NPs in the airways of DA rats but remained unchanged in the airways of BN rats. In conclusion, the responses to TiO2 NPs were strain-dependent, indicating that genetics play a role in both immune and airway reactivity. DA rats were found to be higher responder compared to BN rats, both when it comes to responses in naïve and sensitized rats. The impact of genetically determined factors influencing the inflammatory reactions pinpoints the complexity of assessing health risks associated with nanoparticle exposures.
This study examines a consecutive cohort of patients (n = 219) presenting to an urban Emergency Department (ED) for cocaine-related chest pain (June 2002 to February 2005). Patients were interviewed regarding violence, substance use, and psychosocial factors. Significant markers of violence were increases in: past-year medical service use, binge drinking, marijuana use, cocaine diagnosis, but not cocaine use days. Rates and correlates of violence differed by relationship type (intimate partner, nonpartner) and role context (victimization, perpetration). Understanding these correlates has public health implications, both for preventing future violence and its associated ED service utilization, and for future interventions in cocaine users presenting to the ED.
Lipid peroxidation of mitochondrial and cell membrane structures is the final step in the oxygen radical-induced damage observed at reperfusion of kidneys after ischaemia. We compared the ability of an indeno-indol compound (code name H290/51) with that of alpha-tocopherol to inhibit lipid peroxidation in reoxygenated isolated rat renal tissue in vitro measured as production of TBARS (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances). H290/51 was 100 times more efficient than alpha-tocopherol. Treatment of rats in vivo with H290/51 in a dosage giving a plasma concentration of 500 nmol L-1 inhibited TBARS production measured in vitro by 80%. Treatment of rabbits with H290/51 almost completely inhibited radical production at reperfusion after 60 min of ischaemia measured with spin trap technique using OXANOH (2-ethyl-3-hydroxy-2,4,4-trimethyloxazolidine) as a spin trap. Furthermore, such pretreatment significantly improved kidney function and survival of rabbits subjected to 60 min of ischaemia to the left kidney and contralateral nephrectomy. These studies stress the importance of inhibiting lipid peroxidation to prevent the ischaemia-reperfusion damage and furthermore suggest a role for treatment with antioxidants like H290/51 in clinical practice, e.g. at reconstructive renal surgery and transplantation.
We report results of a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subject study (n = 8) to determine the ability of cocaethylene to modulate acute responses to cocaine and identify significant pharmacokinetic interactions between cocaine and cocaethylene. Stable plasma cocaethylene concentrations (0, 50, or 200 ng/ml) were maintained for 840 minutes. Cocaine (0, 0.25, or 0.5 mg/kg) was injected over 1 minute after 240 minutes of cocaethylene. Blood samples, subjective, and physiological measures were collected. No differences over baseline responses were observed following 240 minutes of a steady state cocaethylene infusion for cardiovascular or subjective responses. "Rush" duration following a cocaine challenge (0.5 mg/kg) declined when administered during the course of a 200 ng/mL cocaethylene infusion. (p = 0.01). No pharmacokinetic interaction occurred when cocaine was administered in conjunction with cocaethylene. Findings indicate that continuous 8-hour exposure to cocaethylene is safe, produces acute tolerance to itself, and reduces some behavioral effects of coadministered cocaine. Agonist substitution therapy may have potential as an alternative treatment for cocaine dependence.
Breast cancer, the most common malignancy in women, emerges through a multistep process, encompassing the progressive sequential evolution of morphologically distinct stages from a normal cell to hyperplasia (with and without atypia), carcinoma in situ, invasive carcinoma and metastasis. The success of treatment of breast cancer could be greatly improved by the detection at early stages of cancer. In the present study, we investigated the underlying molecular mechanisms involved in breast carcinogenesis in Augustus and Copenhagen-Irish female rats, a cross between the ACI strains, induced by continuous exposure to 17beta-estradiol. The results of our study demonstrate that early stages of estrogen-induced breast carcinogenesis are characterized by altered global DNA methylation, aberrant expression of proteins responsible for the proper maintenance of DNA methylation pattern and epigenetic silencing of the critical Rassf1a (Ras-association domain family 1, isoform A) tumor suppressor gene. Interestingly, transcriptional repression of the Rassf1a gene in mammary glands during early stages of breast carcinogenesis was associated with an increase in trimethylation of histones H3 lysine 9 and H3 lysine 27 and de novo CpG island methylation and at the Rassf1a promoter and first exon. In conclusion, we demonstrate that epigenetic alterations precede formation of preneoplastic lesions indicating the significance of epigenetic events in induction of oncogenic pathways in early stages of carcinogenesis.
We present a case of prolonged myocardial ischemia in a young healthy male presenting for nasal polypectomy and tonsillectomy. Induction of anesthesia proceeded uneventfully. Immediately after surgical incision, the patient developed a sinus tachycardia with ST-segment depression in leads II and III, and ST elevation in leads aVR, aVL, aVF, and V. Depth of anesthesia was increased, esmolol was administered, which slowed the heart rate, and the procedure was terminated. However, myocardial ischemia only gradually resolved, leaving residual T-wave flattening in lead III by day 3 postoperatively. After extensive investigation to rule out other causes of ischemia, we considered cardiotoxicity due to intranasally administered cocaine with epinephrine to be the most likely precipitant. Nasal packing with gauze soaked in a solution containing cocaine 3 mg/kg and epinephrine 1 mg occurred just 40 minutes prior to induction of anesthesia. Topical intranasal cocaine is rapidly and reliably absorbed systemically, with peak plasma concentrations occurring within 30 to 60 minutes, corresponding to the time course of cocaine administration and surgical stimulation in this patient. Systemic absorption of topical intranasal cocaine has previously been reported to cause adverse cardiac sequelae, including myocardial infarction. This report reinforces the need for caution regarding the use of topical intranasal cocaine, particularly if used in combination with epinephrine.
Seventy-two patients with rheumatoid arthritis had been treated with pulse weekly oral methotrexate with a mean followup of one year. Minor side effects (oral ulcers, transient elevation of liver enzymes, nausea, vomiting) were present in 46 patients (63.8%), whereas major side effects (severe infection, cytopenia, respiratory failure, seizures, gastrointestinal bleeding) were present in 7 (9.7%), 2 of whom died. Patients with major side effects had shorter disease duration and increased frequency of extraarticular manifestations as compared to those with no side effects. No association between a particular clinical or genetic variable and occurrence of side effects to methotrexate was found.
Rodents suppress intake of saccharin when it is paired with a drug of abuse (Goudie, Dickins, & Thornton, 1978; Risinger & Boyce, 2002). By the authors' account, this phenomenon, referred to as reward comparison, is thought to be mediated by anticipation of the rewarding properties of the drug (P. S. Grigson, 1997; P. S. Grigson & C. S. Freet, 2000). Although a great deal has yet to be discovered regarding the neural basis of reward and addiction, it is known that overexpression of DeltaFosB is associated with an increase in drug sensitization and incentive. Given this, the authors reasoned that overexpression of DeltaFosB should also support greater drug-induced devaluation of a natural reward. To test this hypothesis, NSE-tTA x TetOp-DeltaFosB mice (Chen et al., 1998) with normal or overexpressed DeltaFosB in the striatum were given access to a saccharin cue and then injected with saline, 10 mg/kg cocaine, or 20 mg/kg cocaine. Contrary to the original prediction, overexpression of DeltaFosB was associated with attenuated cocaine-induced suppression of saccharin intake. It is hypothesized that elevation of DeltaFosB not only increases the reward value of drug, but the reward value of the saccharin cue as well.
Musculoskeletal side effects are a widely reported consequence of administration of particular matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors (MMPi) in clinical trials. We describe here histopathological findings during dog studies with a fairly selective MMPi AZM551248, that are consistent with these human clinical changes. They were characterized by a dose-and time-dependent formative connective tissue alteration we have termed "fibrodysplasia." The most sensitive site was the subcuticular connective tissue, although musculoskeletal tissues were also extensively involved. In the subcutis, changes occurred initially around pre-existing blood vessels, but then more diffusely. There was proliferation of cells showing myofibroblast differentiation identified by elevated levels of alpha-smooth muscle actin, fibronectin, and transforming growth factor beta, and the deposition of collagen type III with a lesser quantity of collagen type I. On longer-term administration at lower doses, there was evidence of active fibrodysplasia arising and resolving during the dosing period, resulting in the multifocal deposition of mature collagen. Although there was organ specificity, essentially identical changes occurred at multiple connective tissue sites. We conclude that MMPi-induced fibrodysplasia in animals and, by inference, musculoskeletal side effects in humans are potentially diffuse connective tissue disorders.
The serotonin 5-HT2A receptor (5-HT-sub(2A)R) may play a role in reinstatement of drug-seeking. This study investigated the ability of a selective 5-HT-sub(2A)R antagonist to suppress reinstatement evoked by exposure to cues conditioned to cocaine self-administration. Cocaine self-administration (0.75 mg/kg/0.1 mL/6 s infusion; FR 4) was trained in naïve, free-fed rats to allow interpretation of results independent from changes related to food deprivation stress. Pretreatment with the selective 5-HT-sub(2A)R antagonist M100907 (volinanserin) failed to reduce rates of operant responding for cocaine infusions. On the other hand, M100907 (0.001-0.8 mg/kg ip) significantly suppressed the cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior following extinction; effective M100907 doses did not alter operant responding for cues previously associated with sucrose self-administration. Importantly, a greater magnitude of active lever presses on the initial extinction session (high extinction responders) predicted the maximal susceptibility to M100907-induced suppression of cue-evoked reinstatement. The findings indicate that blockade of the 5-HT-sub(2A)R attenuates the incentive-motivational effects of cocaine-paired cues, particularly in high extinction responders, and suggests that M100907 may afford a therapeutic advance in suppression of cue-evoked craving and/or relapse.
We developed a new in vitro preparation of immature rats, in which intact corticohippocampal formations (CHFs) depleted in magnesium ions become progressively epileptic. The better to characterize this model, we examined the effects of 14 antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) currently used in clinical practice.
Recurrent ictal-like seizures (ILEs, four per hour) were generated in intact CHFs of P7-8 rats, and extracellular recordings were performed in the hippocampus and neocortex. AEDs were applied at clinically relevant concentrations (at least two), during 30 min after the third ILE. Their ability to prevent or to delay the next ILE was examined.
Valproic acid and benzodiazepines (clobazam and midazolam) but also phenobarbital and levetiracetam prevent the occurrence of seizures. In contrast, usual concentrations of carbamazepine (CBZ), phenytoin, vigabatrin, tiagabine, gabapentin, lamotrigine (LTG), topiramate, felbamate, and ethosuximide did not suppress ILEs. In addition, LTG and CBZ aggravate seizures in one third of the cases.
This intact in vitro preparation in immature animals appears to be quite resistant to most AEDs. Blockade of seizures was achieved with drugs acting mainly at the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A-receptor site but not with those that increase the amount of GABA. Drugs with a broad spectrum of activity are efficient but not those preferentially used in partial seizures or absences. We suggest that this preparation may correspond to a model of epilepsy with generalized convulsive seizures and could be helpful to develop new AEDs for refractory infantile epilepsies.
