We report 4 patients who had apnea of variable duration after succinylcholine administration to facilitate orotracheal intubation during anesthesia. After ruling out other causes of apnea unrelated to succinylcholine, we genotyped the cholinesterase variants of these patients and their relatives measuring total plasmatic cholinesterase activity and using the inhibitors dibucaine and fluoride. We found the silent gene (Es1) both in homozygosis (2 cases) and heterozygosis, with the atypical gene (Ea11) (2 cases). The relevance of preoperative screening to prevent anesthetic accidents is emphasized.
Melatonin, its agonists/antagonists were administered intrathecally (i.t.) before/after intradermal injection of capsaicin. Capsaicin produced an increase in the paw withdrawal frequency (PWF) in the presumed area of secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia. Melatonin agonists in the absence of a capsaicin injection decreased the PWF significantly, whereas melatonin antagonists given intrathecally alone were ineffective in the absence of a capsaicin injection. Pre-treatment with a melatonin agonist i.t. caused a reduction in the PWF after capsaicin. In contrast, the PWF increased after capsaicin with pre-administration of a melatonin antagonist i.t. Combined pre-treatment with melatonin and a melatonin antagonist i.t. prevented the change in PWF induced by melatonin alone after capsaicin. Intrathecal post-treatment with a melatonin agonist reduced the enhanced PWF that followed an injection of capsaicin, but treatment with a combination of a melatonin agonist and its antagonist did not alter the responses. The PWF was unaffected when melatonin analogs were applied i.t. at the T6 level or were injected intramuscularly adjacent to the L4 vertebra. In spinal rats, the data showed comparable effects of melatonin analogs on capsaicin-induced secondary mechanical hyperalgesia. Animal motor function tested by 'activity box' showed that motion activity was not affected by i.t. melatonin or its antagonist. These results suggest that activation of the endogenous melatonin system in the spinal cord can reduce the generation, development and maintenance of central sensitization, with a resultant inhibition of capsaicin-induced secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia.
Warfarin reduces the risk for ischemic stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) but increases the risk for hemorrhage. Dabigatran is a fixed-dose, oral direct thrombin inhibitor with similar or reduced rates of ischemic stroke and intracranial hemorrhage in patients with AF compared with those of warfarin.
To estimate the quality-adjusted survival, costs, and cost-effectiveness of dabigatran compared with adjusted-dose warfarin for preventing ischemic stroke in patients 65 years or older with nonvalvular AF.
Markov decision model.
The RE-LY (Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulation Therapy) trial and other published studies of anticoagulation. The cost of dabigatran was estimated on the basis of pricing in the United Kingdom.
Patients aged 65 years or older with nonvalvular AF and risk factors for stroke (CHADS₂ score ≥1 or equivalent) and no contraindications to anticoagulation.
Lifetime.
Societal.
Warfarin anticoagulation (target international normalized ratio, 2.0 to 3.0); dabigatran, 110 mg twice daily (low dose); and dabigatran, 150 mg twice daily (high dose).
Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs (in 2008 U.S. dollars), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
The quality-adjusted life expectancy was 10.28 QALYs with warfarin, 10.70 QALYs with low-dose dabigatran, and 10.84 QALYs with high-dose dabigatran. Total costs were $143 193 for warfarin, $164 576 for low-dose dabigatran, and $168 398 for high-dose dabigatran. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios compared with warfarin were $51 229 per QALY for low-dose dabigatran and $45 372 per QALY for high-dose dabigatran.
The model was sensitive to the cost of dabigatran but was relatively insensitive to other model inputs. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio increased to $50 000 per QALY at a cost of $13.70 per day for high-dose dabigatran but remained less than $85 000 per QALY over the full range of model inputs evaluated. The cost-effectiveness of high-dose dabigatran improved with increasing risk for stroke and intracranial hemorrhage.
Event rates were largely derived from a single randomized clinical trial and extrapolated to a 35-year time frame from clinical trials with approximately 2-year follow-up.
In patients aged 65 years or older with nonvalvular AF at increased risk for stroke (CHADS₂ score ≥1 or equivalent), dabigatran may be a cost-effective alternative to warfarin depending on pricing in the United States.
American Heart Association and Veterans Affairs Health Services Research & Development Service.
We compared the phototoxic potential of the quinolone antibacterial agent sitafloxacin with those of lomefloxacin and sparfloxacin. Female BALB/c mice were given a single intravenous administration of sitafloxacin, lomefloxacin, or sparfloxacin at 10 or 40 mg/kg, followed by ultraviolet-A (UVA) irradiation for 4 h (21.6 J/cm(2)). At 10 mg/kg, all quinolones induced either none or minimum inflammation in the auricle. At 40 mg/kg, sitafloxacin induced mild phototoxic inflammation in the dermal skin, while lomefloxacin and sparfloxacin induced very severe inflammation. In particular, 2/5 animals of the lomefloxacin group showed partial necrosis in the dermis and epidermis. We then determined the time course change of sitafloxacin concentrations in serum and auricular tissue by high performance liquid chromatography. Sitafloxacin concentrations in the auricle were markedly decreased under UVA irradiation, whereas those in sera were not affected. Furthermore, we examined the severity of sitafloxacin-induced phototoxicity under varied duration of UVA irradiation. The severity of phototoxicity increased with increasing duration of UVA irradiation, and statistical analysis showed a close correlation between the severity and the decreased area under the drug concentration curve under UVA irradiation (DeltaAUC(auricle)). The severity was decreased with delay in commencement of UVA irradiation, indicating the importance of commencement time of irradiation in the experimental condition of the phototoxicity study. It might be attributed to the decrease in DeltaAUC(auricle) after administration. These results suggest that sitafloxacin possesses milder phototoxic potential than lomefloxacin or sparfloxacin and is degraded in the auricular skin under UVA irradiation, and that the severity of phototoxicity is directly proportional to the DeltaAUC(auricle).
Urine specimens obtained periodically from weanling male F344 rats fed 0.2% N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) for 25 weeks followed by control diet for an additional 35 weeks, were examined by light microscopy (LM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). LM revealed red blood cells and atypical transitional cells in the urine at 25 and 43 weeks, when microinvasive transitional cell carcinoma was present. Malignant transitional cells were seen in the urine by LM at 60 weeks, when muscle invasion was present in histologic sections. However, SEM showed pleomorphic microvilli on exfoliated urothelial cells as early as 10 weeks after the beginning of FANFT administration, and the microvilli became increasingly pleomorphic as the bladder lesions progressed to muscle invasion at 60 weeks. Noninvasive tumors were present in histologic sections of rat bladders examined at the end of 10 weeks of FANFT administration. The numerous microvilli on exfoliated bladder tumor cells were in sharp contrast to the peaked microridges of normal exfoliated superficial cells.
When tacrolimus side effects persist despite dose reduction, conversion to cyclosporine-based immunosuppression (CyA) is necessary. We characterized tacrolimus side effects that warranted discontinuation of the drug, and outcomes after conversion. Of 388 liver recipients who received tacrolimus as primary immunosuppression, 70 required conversion to CyA. We recorded indication for conversion, whether conversion was early or late after transplantation, tacrolimus dose and trough blood level at conversion, and incidence of rejection after conversion. Conversion was early in 29 patients (41.4%) and late in 41 (58.6%). Indications for early conversion were neurotoxicity (20), (insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus (IDDM) (5), nephrotoxicity (3), gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity (6), and cardiomyopathy (1), and for late conversion were neurotoxicity (15), IDDM (12), nephrotoxicity (3), GI toxicity (5), hepatotoxicity (6), post-transplant lmphoproliferate disease (PTLD) (2), cardiomyopathy (1), hemolytic anemia (1), and pruritus (1). All early-conversion patients showed improvement/resolution of symptoms. Among late-conversion patients, 37 (90.2%) had improvement/resolution; in 4 (9.8%), adverse effects persisted. The overall rejection rate was 30%. Sixty-two patients (88.6%) are alive with functioning grafts 686 +/- 362 days (range, 154-1433 days) after conversion. When tacrolimus side effects are unresponsive to dose reduction, conversion to CyA can be accomplished safely, with no increased risk of rejection and excellent long-term outcome.
High-dose fentanyl anesthesia is widely used in cardiac surgery. Its immediate side-effects are well known. However, its late adverse effect manifested by extreme truncal rigidity, decreased chest wall compliance, hypoventilation, respiratory acidosis and hemodynamic instability is not sufficiently appreciated. Of 380 patients who underwent aortocoronary artery bypass under high-dose (100 micrograms/kg) fentanyl anesthesia, 29 (7.6%) developed the sudden onset of extreme thoracic and abdominal rigidity, leading to respiratory depression 2 to 6 h postoperative, after an apparently normal recovery from the anesthesia. In 15 patients, a high plasma level of fentanyl (5.2 to 7.8 ng/ml) correlated with the clinical events. Administration of naloxone or a muscle relaxant rapidly reversed this late complication of fentanyl, thought to be due to re-entry of fentanyl into plasma from deposits in adipose tissue, muscle and the GI tract, leading to a secondary peak in plasma fentanyl. It is more likely to be encountered when hypothermia, rewarming, and acidosis occur in the postoperative period. Awareness of this life-threatening complication is critical in patients undergoing surgery with fentanyl anesthesia.
Clinically, we have observed that a large proportion of patients presenting with low back pain as the chief complaint are smokers. It was therefore postulated that smoking might affect the intervertebral disc. We investigated the histological and functional effects of nicotine on intervertebral discs in rabbits. Rabbits were implanted subcutaneously with minipumps for the delivery of 200 microg/ml nicotine for 4 or 8 weeks. The selected dose produced blood nicotine levels equivalent to those found in heavy smokers (30 cigarettes/day). Nicotine injection caused necrosis and fibrous tissue and vitreous formation in the nucleus pulposus of the intervertebral disc, as well as hypertrophy of the fibrous ring, with partial cracks and detachment. Measurement of collagen and proteoglycan production in intervertebral discs showed reduced synthesis of these proteins in nicotine-treated rabbits compared with the control findings. Our results indicated that the harmful effects of nicotine on the integrity of the intervertebral disc might be mediated by the direct effect of nicotine, or indirectly, by causing vasoconstriction of the vascular network surrounding the intervertebral discs.
Overexpression of human telomere repeat binding factor 2 (TRF2), which may play an important role in the fate of cancer cells, has been observed in adult T-cell leukemia. Previous reports have shown that the inhibition of TRF2 results in the apoptosis of cancer cells. In this study, we demonstrated that arsenic trioxide (As2O3) induced in vitro growth inhibition and/or apoptosis of human T-cell leukemia cell line Molt-4 in a caspase-independent manner. Telomerase activity was not inhibited, although the level of the reverse transcriptase subunit of the human telomerase gene (hTERT) mRNA expression was down regulated during the early times and then recovered to the level found in untreated controls about 48 hours after treatment with As2O3. Furthermore, a remarkable telomere shortening related to exposure of As2O3 was observed in 50 population doubling. Inc ontrast, the alteration of telomere length did not occur after exposure to higher concentration of As2O3 (10 microM) for 24 hours and 48 hours, respectively, suggesting that the shortening of telomeres induced by As2O3 is dependent of a series of cell division cycles. Chromosomal analysis showed that As2O3 exposure caused chromosomal end-to-end fusion in human T-cell leukemia cells while downregulation of TRF2 was observed. Finally, the inhibition of TRF2 protein expression and the sensitivity to As2O3 in a panel of leukemia cell lines were checked. The data revealed that inhibition of TRF2 rendered leukemia cells more susceptible to As2O3. In conclusion, the downregulation of TRF2 by As2O3 contribute to chromosomal end-to-end fusion, and apoptosis in leukemia cells, suggesting that TRF2 could be an attractive target for new therapies of leukemia.
A 19-year-old patient on oral contraceptives for 5 months experienced recurrence of Chorea minor suffered in childhood. In the literature 7 similar cases have been reported. In all but 1 of the cases the disease had occurred in childhood, and in all of the cases the symptoms disappeared a few weeks or months after discontinuation of the ovulation inhibitors. Chorea minor is only rarely observed in adults, and then only in women in (usually early) pregnancy. Apparently ovulation inhibitors produce a pregnancylike situation as a predisposing condition for this rare complication.
A case of a pluriglandular-insufficiency syndrome (Diabetes mellitus and primary hypothyroidism) is described. The history and symptomatology of the patient is presented and prevously published references are briefly discussed. The case reported was complicated by renal insufficiency and by a "muscle-syndrome" after clofibrate therapy for hyperlipidemia--two complications, which were possibly intensified by the hypothyroid state of the patient.
Although renal wasting of phosphate is relatively common, Fanconi's syndrome following ifosfamide chemotherapy is rare. This case illustrates the possibility of developing Fanconi's syndrome despite the apparent lack of toxicity during previous ifosfamide exposure. As the use of high-dose ifosfamide-containing regimens prior to BMT increases, the occurrence of this adverse effect may become more frequent. Morbidity due to Fanconi's syndrome can be decreased by close monitoring and aggressive management of fluid and electrolytes.
Sodium nitroprusside (SNP) is often used as a continuous infusion intravenous vasodilator in pediatric patients. However, cyanide toxicity can occur with SNP therapy. Scant literature is available determining the safety of SNP therapy, the incidence of cyanide toxicity or the risk factors for cyanide toxicity in pediatric patients.
To review the literature concerning the safety of intravenous SNP with regard to cyanide toxicity in the pediatric patient population.
A MedLine search was used to identify articles pertaining to SNP therapy and cyanide toxicity in pediatric patients.
Sodium nitroprusside seems to be safe when used in critically ill pediatric patients. Cyanide toxicity may occur in patients with specific risk factors. Routine monitoring of cyanide levels may not be warranted.
Methyl palmitate (MP) has been shown earlier to inhibit Kupffer cells and rat peritoneal macrophages. To evaluate the potential of MP to inhibit the activation of other macrophages, RAW cells (macrophages of alveolar origin) were treated with varying concentrations of MP (0.25, 0.5, 1mM). Assessment of cytotoxicity using MTT assay revealed that 0.25 and 0.5mM are not toxic to RAW cells. MP was able to inhibit the phagocytic function of RAW cells. Treatment of cells with MP 24hours prior to LPS stimulation significantly decreased nitric oxide release and altered the pattern of cytokines release; there was a significant decrease in TNF-α and a significant increase in IL-10 compared to the controls. However, there is a non-significant change in IL-6 level. Furthermore, phosphorylation of inhibitory kappa B (IκBα) protein was significantly decreased in RAW cells treated with 0.5mM MP after LPS stimulation. Based upon the in-vitro results, it was examined whether MP treatment will be effective in preventing bleomycin-induced lung inflammation and fibrosis in-vivo. Bleomycin given by itself caused destruction of the lung architecture characterized by pulmonary fibrosis with collapse of air alveoli and emphysematous. Bleomycin induced a significant increase in hydroxyproline level and activated NF-κB, p65 expression in the lung. MP co-treatment significantly ameliorated bleomycin effects. These results suggest that MP has a potential of inhibiting macrophages in general. The present study demonstrated for the first time that MP has anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effect that could be through NF-kB inhibition. Thus MP like molecule could be a promising anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic drug.
This study evaluates a major metabolite of misonidazole, desmethylmisonidazole, for its potential to induce peripheral nerve damage using the lysosomal enzyme correlates of neuropathological change, namely beta-glucuronidase and beta-galactosidase. The results showed that desmethylmisonidazole like misonidazole had a similar potential for inducing peripheral nerve damage as measured biochemically, but the dosing regimen had to be maintained for 10 consecutive days as opposed to the 7 days required for misonidazole.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is resistant to chemotherapy. Recently, however, several oxaliplatin-based combinatorial treatments have shown a promising anti-tumor activity in patients with HCC. Presently, we demonstrate that oxaliplatin triggers necrosis more than apoptosis in HepG2, SK-Hep1, SNU-423 and Hep3B HCC cells, while mainly inducing apoptosis in HCT116 and HT29 colon cancer cells. Interestingly, ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), a less hydrophobic bile acid that can suppress carcinogenesis, shifted oxaliplatin-induced necrosis to apoptosis in HepG2 cells. The same effect was produced by hydrophilic bile acids (tauroursodeoxycholic acid and taurohyodeoxycholic acid), but not by highly hydrophobic bile acids (deoxycholic acid and chenodeoxycholic acid). UDCA also triggered the necrosis-to-apoptosis switch when cotreated with other platinum-based chemotherapeutic drugs including cisplatin and carboplatin, suggesting that the cell death mode switching effect of UDCA is a general phenomenon when combined with platinum drugs. Oxaliplatin produced high level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in HepG2 cells and UDCA significantly reduced oxaliplatin-induced ROS generation. In addition, N-acetyl-L-cysteine and the superoxide scavengers butylated hydroxyanisole and dihydroxybenzene-3,5-disulfonic acid attenuated necrosis, indicating a critical role(s) of ROS in occurrence of necrotic death. Apoptosis induced by combined treatment appeared to be mediated by p53-caspase 8-caspase 3 pathway. In conclusion, UDCA switches oxaliplatin-induced necrosis to apoptosis via inhibition of ROS production and activation of the p53-caspase 8 pathway in HepG2 cells. As necrosis and subsequent inflammation are implicated in tumor progression and malignancy, our results imply a potential improved efficacy of UDCA-combined chemotherapy in HCC by reducing inflammatory responses that may be triggered by oxaliplatin.
In a randomized double-blind parallel group study conducted in three centres the hypotensive activity of piretanide 6 mg b.i.d. was compared with that of hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) 25 mg b.i.d. and HCT 50 mg b.i.d. Ninety-three patients entered the study and sixty-one completed a 16-week trial period. All three treatments produced a significant reduction in supine diastolic and systolic blood pressure after only 2 weeks of active treatment and this was maintained for the duration of the study. The mean maximal reduction in supine diastolic blood pressure was 18% in the piretanide group, 18.8% in the HCT 25 mg b.i.d. group, and 20% in the HCT 50 mg b.i.d. group. The corresponding figures for the percentage of patients attaining a supine diastolic pressure below 95 mm Hg were 83%, 62% and 89%. There were no significant differences between the three groups. Side-effects were generally mild and transient, except for polyuria which was noted in all three groups but more commonly in the piretanide group. Two patients were withdrawn because of side-effects: one patient in the high dose HCT group developed severe postural symptoms; and one patient in the low dose HCT group was withdrawn because of restlessness, nausea, weakness, dizziness and somnolence. All three treatments caused a significant increase in serum uric acid concentrations. Four patients in each of the HCT groups developed hypokalaemia, but no patients in the piretanide group did so.
We report a patient who experienced generalized urticaria and facial angioedema following oral administration of ketoconazole. Skin prick tests with ketoconazole and oral challenge were positive. Conjugates of ketoconazole with human serum albumin were used for the in vitro study, obtaining a positive result in the histamine release test. No significant levels of IgE antibodies to ketoconazole were found by RAST. Controls did not react to any of these tests. These results suggest that the patient developed a type I hypersensitivity reaction to ketoconazole. In this case, skin prick tests with ketoconazole and histamine release test with a conjugate of ketoconazole with human serum albumin were useful in ketoconazole hypersensitivity diagnosis. Finally, skin tests with other imidazole agents were carried out, including metronidazole, ornidazole, and fluconazole that were negative.
Poorly controlled supraventricular arrhythmias in a hypokalaemic 74 year old woman were treated with oral amiodarone. This caused torsades de pointes, and was preceded by marked prolongation of the QT interval. The induction of torsades de pointes by amiodarone is thought to be an idiosyncratic reaction to amiodarone itself which is facilitated by electrolytic abnormalities. The present case, however, indicates the possibility of a pro-arrhythmic effect secondary to an interaction between amiodarone and digoxin.
The study was undertaken to assess the hemodynamic effects induced by a single dose of the phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitor, CI-1044, which is known to cause mesenteric vascular alterations in rats. In the present study, an administration of 160 mg/kg of CI-1044 caused perivascular and interstitial inflammation, with infiltrates of admixed neutrophils and macrophages but without evidence of vascular necrosis (ileum, 15/20 rats; duodenum + jejunum, 7/20 rats). Four hours after administration, blood pressure was decreased (- 13%). A fluorescent microsphere technique demonstrated that, in these conditions, cardiac output was doubled (+ 100%) and total peripheral resistance was decreased (- 54%). The largest increases in blood flow were measured in the duodenum (+ 101%), in the jejunum (+ 110%), and in the ileum (+ 192%). Therefore, the mesentery was the most sensitive organ affected by the drug and, within this area, parts with the highest incidence of vascular alteration were those which had shown the highest increase in flow. In addition, isolated precontracted mesenteric resistance arteries dissected from untreated animals were fully relaxed when incubated with increasing concentrations of CI-1044 up to 2.5 x 10(-5)M. At this latter concentration, contractile abilities and sensitivities to the physiological agonist noradrenaline (NA) and to the thromboxane analogue U46619 were significantly attenuated (- 28 and - 27%, respectively). This effect could lead to a decreased response to NA and possibly to other agonists in vivo consistent with the vasodilation observed with the microsphere technique. These data provide evidence that the PDE4 inhibitor CI-1044 induces changes of vascular tone that could lead to histological alterations in the mesenteric area.
A prospective, randomized study compared the effects of equivalent intravenous doses of three slow calcium-channel blockers (verapamil, diltiazem, and amlodipine) on rest and exercise haemodynamics in 30 ischemic heart disease patients. Following a stable control period during which rest and exercise (supine bicycle) hemodynamics were assessed, equivalent hypotensive doses of each compound were administered over 20 minutes and rest/exercise parameters were assessed 10 minutes later. At rest all agents similarly reduced systemic blood pressure; the fall in systemic vascular resistance and the increase in cardiac indices was ranked: amlodipine greater than diltiazem greater than verapamil. The heart rate increase for amlodopine differed from verapamil and diltiazem (+19.4% vs. +1.5% vs. -7%; p less than 0.01). On exercise, similarly greater falls in the systemic vascular resistance index followed amlodipine, compared with verapamil and diltiazem (p less than 0.05). Only amlodipine significantly reduced the exercise pulmonary artery occlusion pressure (PAOP). Exercise cardiac stroke volume improved after diltiazem and amlodipine. In terms of cardiac performance, both amlodipine and diltiazem produced an improvement, whereas verapamil depressed cardiac pumping activity. Thus, hemodynamic differences between slow-calcium-channel blocking drugs may be demonstrated in humans. These differences would be compatible with a predominant peripheral vascular site of action for amlodipine, in contrast with mixed cardiac and peripheral sites for diltiazem and verapamil.
Ethanol (EtOH) is metabolized by a 2-step process in which alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) oxidizes EtOH to acetaldehyde, which is further oxidized to acetate by aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH). Although variation in EtOH metabolism in humans strongly influences the propensity to chronically abuse alcohol, few data exist on the behavioral effects of altered EtOH metabolism. Here, we used the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans to directly examine how changes in EtOH metabolism alter behavioral responses to alcohol during an acute exposure. Additionally, we investigated EtOH solution osmolarity as a potential explanation for contrasting published data on C. elegans EtOH sensitivity.
We developed a gas chromatography assay and validated a spectrophotometric method to measure internal EtOH in EtOH-exposed worms. Further, we tested the effects of mutations in ADH and ALDH genes on EtOH tissue accumulation and behavioral sensitivity to the drug. Finally, we tested the effects of EtOH solution osmolarity on behavioral responses and tissue EtOH accumulation.
Only a small amount of exogenously applied EtOH accumulated in the tissues of C. elegans and consequently their tissue concentrations were similar to those that intoxicate humans. Independent inactivation of an ADH-encoding gene (sodh-1) or an ALDH-encoding gene (alh-6 or alh-13) increased the EtOH concentration in worms and caused hypersensitivity to the acute sedative effects of EtOH on locomotion. We also found that the sensitivity to the depressive effects of EtOH on locomotion is strongly influenced by the osmolarity of the exogenous EtOH solution.
Our results indicate that EtOH metabolism via ADH and ALDH has a statistically discernable but surprisingly minor influence on EtOH sedation and internal EtOH accumulation in worms. In contrast, the osmolarity of the medium in which EtOH is delivered to the animals has a more substantial effect on the observed sensitivity to EtOH.
1. Overproduction of superoxide anions in the vascular wall contributes to endothelial dysfunction in vascular disease. A superoxide-generating reduced beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase has recently been identified as a major source of oxidative radicals in vascular tissues. We studied the effects of a synthetic manganese-containing superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetic, M40403, on NADPH oxidase-dependent superoxide generation and on endothelial dysfunction. 2. In rat aortic smooth muscle cells, NADPH (100 micro M) markedly stimulated superoxide production as detected by lucigenin (5 micro M)-enhanced chemiluminescence. M40403 reduced NADPH oxidase-dependent superoxide production in a concentration-dependent manner, with IC(50) being 31.6 micro M. In contrast, native Cu/Zn SOD (up to 300 U ml(-1)) had no effect. Angiotensin II (100 nM) increased the NADPH oxidase activity by 70%, and treatment with M40403 (10 micro M) reduced this increased superoxide to the control level. 3. In aortae from apolipoprotein(E)-deficient mice (apoE(0)) with hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis, superoxide production is largely derived from NADPH oxidase. The attenuation of endothelial nitric oxide vasodilator function parallels the increase in vascular superoxide production at different stages of the disease. Acute incubation of such aortic rings with M40403 significantly suppressed superoxide production and improved endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation to a level comparable to that in wildtype control mice. 4. In summary, the cell-permeable SOD mimetic M40403 was found to reverse endothelial dysfunction in apoE(0) aorta ex vivo by decreasing NADPH oxidase-dependent superoxide levels. The advantages of synthetic SOD mimetics over the native Cu/Zn SOD enzyme, such as greater cell permeability and stability, confer significant therapeutic potential in vascular disease.
Cellular mechanisms of adenosine include a direct effect on the activation of the adenosine-sensitive potassium current (I(K,Ado)) and an indirect effect on antagonism of catecholamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. However, previous studies evaluating the influence of catecholamine activity on the electrophysiologic effects of adenosine have yielded conflicting results. We tested the hypotheses that if adenosine exerts its atrioventricular (AV) nodal blocking effects directly by activating the I(K,Ado) potassium current, rather than indirectly by reversing the catecholamine effects, then pretreatment with beta-adrenergic blockade would not potentiate the effects of adenosine in terminating AV nodal-dependent supraventricular tachycardia (SVT).
During sustained AV nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) or AV reentrant tachycardia (AVRT) in 28 patients, adenosine was rapidly injected in incremental doses of 1.5, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 18 mg to determine the lowest effective dose required for tachycardia termination before and immediately after the end of esmolol infusion. Esmolol infusion was started with loading doses of 500 /kg/min for 1 min and 150 microg/kg/min for 4 min, followed by a maintenance infusion of 50-100 microg/kg/min. Esmolol infusion was continued until the tachycardia was terminated or the maximal dose of 100 mg was reached. Adenosine was effective in terminating SVT in all 28 patients with a mean lowest effective dose of 96 +/- 54 microg/kg before esmolol. During esmolol infusion, tachycardia was reproducibly terminated in 8 patients (6 with AVNRT, 2 with AVRT) with a mean dose of 67 +/- 23 mg. In the other 20 patients with persistent tachycardia after 100 mg of esmolol infusion, the lowest effective dose of adenosine could be determined in 19 patients. In the remaining patient with AVRT, the maximal dose of adenosine (18 mg) was unable to terminate the tachycardia immediately after the end of esmolol infusion. In these 19 patients, esmolol infusion caused significant lengthening of the tachycardia cycle length from 338 +/- 36 to 372 +/- 51 ms (p < 0.0001) and reduction of the mean arterial blood pressure from 96 +/- 15 to 88 +/- 18 mm Hg (p = 0.034). Compared to the dosage that was determined before esmolol infusion, the lowest effective dose of adenosine remained the same in 13 patients after the end of esmolol infusion, whereas the dose increased in 5 and decreased in 1 patient. The mean lowest effective dose of adenosine was not significantly different before (98 +/- 54 microg/kg) and immediately after (115 +/- 56 microg/kg) the end of esmolol infusion (p = 0.054).
Intravenous esmolol infusion (up to 100 mg total dose) usually fails to terminate AV nodal-dependent SVT. In the esmolol-resistant tachycardia, esmolol pretreatment does not produce a positive synergistic effect on the efficacy of adenosine-induced termination of SVT. Therefore, in this tachycardia adenosine may exert its effects on AV nodal conduction directly by activation of the I(K,Ado) potassium current, rather than by antagonizing the beta-adrenergic system.
