Furosemide is a diuretic drug, but its reactive intermediates lead to acute liver injury in mice. Given the essential role of Nrf2 as a cellular defense regulator, we investigated whether Nrf2 would protect against furosemide-induced liver injury using the Nrf2 "gene-dose response" mouse model (Nrf2-null with Nrf2 knock-out, wild-type with normal expression of Nrf2, Keap1-KD with enhanced Nrf2 activation and Keap1-HKO mice with maximum Nrf2 activation). Twenty-four hours after furosemide administration (250mg/kg, i.p.), serum ALT activities and histopathological analysis indicated severe hepatotoxicity in Nrf2-null and WT mice, but significantly less in the Nrf2-overexpressing Keap1-KD and Keap1-HKO mice. Furosemide increased the mRNA of genes involved in the acute phase response (hemeoxygenase-1 and metallothionein-1), ER stress (C/Ebp-homologous protein and Growth arrest and DNA-damage-inducible protein), inflammatory cytokine (interleukin 1 beta), chemokines (macrophage inflammatory protein 2 and mouse keratinocyte-derived chemokine), as well as apoptosis (early growth response factor and BCL2-associated X protein) in livers of Nrf2-null and wild-type mice, but these genes increased less in mice with more Nrf2. The two genotypes of over-expressed Nrf2 mice had increased expression of the Nrf2 target genes Gclm, Gclc and Nqo1 prior to furosemide administration, and the expressions of these genes were increased further after furosemide administration. Thus, our findings provide strong evidence that over-expression of Nrf2 in Keap1-KD and Keap1-HKO mice and the increases in mRNA of a number of genes involved in anti-oxidative stress, anti-inflammation, anti-ER stress and anti-apoptosis protect against furosemide-induced hepatotoxicity.
To identify hematoma progression in patients with warfarin-associated intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) despite international normalized ratio (INR) normalization with fresh-frozen plasma (FFP), we reviewed 45 patients with warfarin-associated ICH given FFP. The median time for door to INR normalization was 30 hours (14 to 49.5), with 4 patients' hematomas enlarging after INR normalization. FFP is associated with substantial time delay to actual administration and pulmonary edema and may not prevent progression of ICH despite INR normalization.
Beta-amyloid (Aβ) is a major pathogenic peptide in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is generated by the processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP). We have previously reported that the brown algae Ecklonia cava, which has anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory functions, decreased Aβ production and further aggregation in HEK293 cells expressing the APP Swedish mutation. Here, we show the reduction mechanism of Aβ production using the butanol extract of Ecklonia cava through the examination of expression and activity of alpha-, beta-, and gamma-secretase. Treatment with the extract resulted in the activation of alpha-secretase with a contrasting decrease in its mRNA and protein expression. This activation was consistent with the translocation of the extract into the plasma membrane of the secretase. Gamma-secretase activity was lowered by E. cava, and this effect may be due to the decreased expression of PSEN1 mRNA and protein. In addition, the basal nuclear location of PSEN1, which may affect chromosome missegregation in neurodegenerative disease, was reduced by the extract, despite the significance of this finding remains unclear. Taken together, these results led us to conclude that E. cava regulated the expression and activity of gamma-secretase and alpha-secretase, leading to a reduction in Aβ production by the stable cells. Our data indicate that E. cava is a novel natural-product candidate for AD treatment, although further in vivo studies are needed.
The syncytiotrophoblast (SCT), a multinucleated epithelium forming the outer layer of chorionic villi, acts in human placenta as a transporting barrier regulating the transference of nutrients, solutes and water between maternal and fetal blood. Electrolyte homeostasis and extracellular fluid volume are maintained primarily by regulated Na+ transport. The present study was conducted to analyze the presence of the epithelial Na channel (ENaC) in placental tissue from normal and pre-eclamptic women and in BeWo cell, a model of a human SCT. Changes in the expression of these proteins during sodium transport across the placenta may be related to the pathogeny of pre-eclampsia. The role that ENaC and Na+ transport deregulation play on human placental tissues still remains unknown although in aldosterone-responsive epithelial cells (kidney, colon), abnormalities upregulating its activity lead to increased Na+ uptake and hypertension (i.e. Liddle's syndrome) whereas a diminished channel activity can result in the pseudohypoaldosteronisn syndrome with salt loss and hypotension. Our results show that ENaC is expressed in the apical membrane of normal syncytiotrophoblast. The amplified fragment of alpha-ENaC was cloned and sequenced having a 100% identity with the sequence of (alpha-ENaC obtained from GenBank (SCNN1A, accession number Z92981). We found that the transcription of the alpha-ENaC mRNA was not detectable in preeclamptic placentas and the protein was not observed with immunohistochemistry staining, probably indicating a low protein expression level. In BeWo cells ENac was found and its expression is regulated by aldosterone, vasopressin, progesterone and estradiol. With patch clamp techniques we studied the currents trough ENaO channels in Bewo cells. We observed currents that were blocked by 10 microM amiloride in cells incubated in 100 nM aldosterone for 12 hs. The amplitude of this current was 20-fold the basal current, a reversal potential of 3 mV and a conductance of 127 +/- 26 pS/pF with pulses between -60 and -140 mV. These characteristics are similar to those reported in ENaC channels in several tissues. Although their roles in placenta are still poorly understood, the differences in the expression of ENaC in pre-eclamptic placentas may have consequences for ion transport and these data could lead to future studies concerning the mechanism involved in the pathophysiology of pre-eclampsia.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are widely used for the treatment of hypertension, but caution is advised because these drugs may induce reversible acute renal failure. Although this has been ascribed in some cases to nephrotoxicity, hypotension, a hypersensitivity reaction, and interstitial nephritis, most cases have been associated with stenosis of the renal arteries or arterioles occurring in either native or transplanted kidneys. We describe a case of reversible acute renal failure due to the use of captopril in a renal allograft recipient who had no evidence of any of these conditions, but who was also receiving cyclosporin therapy.
The medical records of 330 patients treated with terbutaline infusion for the inhibition of preterm labor were reviewed over a five-year period. In patients with intact membranes the results were uniformly good, particularly when treatment was instituted before the 30th week. Half these patients had a prolonged labor of six weeks or more; in most cases of treatment failure complications already existed on admission. In only nine patients (2.7%) terbutaline treatment was stopped due to side effects: predominantly maternal tachycardia or vomiting. Two patients had chest symptoms, but in no case was pulmonary edema diagnosed. The results suggested that a low incidence of severe side effects can be obtained if the following precautions are taken: glucose is used as the infusion medium, instead of sodium chloride; concentrated solutions are given to avoid fluid overload; the patients are carefully controlled; and the infusion is immediately reduced or stopped if signs of severe side effects appear.
The incidence of dose related chloramphenicol toxicity was determined in 64 neonates from 12 hospitals. Ten of the 64 exhibited symptoms attributed clinically to chloramphenicol toxicity. Nine received the dose prescribed and one an overdose. Symptoms of the grey baby syndrome were observed in five of the 10 babies; four babies suffered reversible haematological reactions; and one baby was described as very grey. Peak serum chloramphenicol concentrations in these 10 babies ranged from 28 to 180 mg/l and trough concentrations from 19 to 47 mg/l. Serum chloramphenicol concentrations above the therapeutic range (15-25 mg/l) were observed in a further 27 neonates (two had received a 10-fold overdose), none of whom showed signs of toxicity. Serious toxicity was associated with either prescription of dosages greater than that recommended or overdosage of chloramphenicol. High concentrations in young neonates may be avoided by prescribing and giving the recommended dose and then careful monitoring; concentrations should be maintained between 15 and 25 mg/l. No babies with concentrations within this range showed clinical signs of toxicity.
In the present study, we have investigated the potential neuroprotective effects of a novel peripheral benzodiazepine binding site (PBR) ligand, 7-chloro-N,N,5-trimethyl-4-oxo-3-phenyl-3,5-dihydro-4H-pyridazino[4,5-b]indole-1-acetamide (SSR180575), in models of central and peripheral neurodegeneration in vivo and its effect on steroid concentrations in plasma and nervous tissue. SSR180575 shows high affinity (IC(50), 2.5-3.5 nM) and selectivity for the rat and human PBR and potently inhibits the in vivo binding of [(3)H]alpidem to PBR in the rat brain and spleen after oral or i.p. administration (ID(50), 0.1-0.3 mg/kg). In an experimental model of motoneuron degeneration induced by facial nerve axotomy in the immature rat, SSR180575 given i.p. or orally for 8 days rescued facial motoneurons, increasing their survival by 40 to 72% at 6 and 10 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d. Moreover, in this model, SSR180575 (10 mg/kg p.o. b.i.d.) increased by 87% the number of motoneurons immunoreactive to peripherin, a type III intermediate filament, whose expression is up-regulated during nerve regeneration. SSR180575 also improved functional recovery in acrylamide-induced neuropathy in the rat when given therapeutically at 2.5 to 10 mg/kg/day p.o. Furthermore, SSR180575 (3 mg/kg i.p. b.i.d.) accelerated functional recovery of the blink reflex after local injury of the facial nerve in the rat. SSR180575 increased pregnenolone accumulation in the brain and sciatic nerve (+100% at 3 mg/kg i.p.), suggesting that its neuroprotective effects are steroid-mediated. These results indicate that PBR ligands (e.g., SSR180575) promote neuronal survival and repair in axotomy and neuropathy models and have potential for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., peripheral neuropathies or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis).
Thyroid receptor alpha-1 (TR-alpha1) and thyroid receptor beta-1 (TR-beta1) are thought to be essential for the fetal and postnatal development of the lung. The authors investigated gene level expression of TR-alpha1 and TR-beta1 in the lung of nitrofen-induced congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
CDH was induced in pregnant rats after administration of 100 mg nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation. Cesarean section was performed on day 21 of gestation. The fetuses were divided into 3 groups: normal controls (n = 16), nitrofen-induced CDH (n = 16), and nitrofen-treated without CDH (n = 16). mRNA was extracted from the left lung in each group. RT-PCR was performed to evaluate mRNA expressions of TR-alpha1 and TR-beta1. Levels of mRNA were expressed as a ratio of the band density divided by that of beta-actin, a house-keeping gene.
TR-alpha1 mRNA expression was decreased significantly in CDH lung (1.618 +/- 0.148) compared with controls (2.658 +/- 0.251; P <.01) and nitrofen-treated without CDH lung (2.232 +/- 0.193; (P <.05). TR-beta1 mRNA expression also was significantly decreased in CDH lung (2.223 +/- 0.270) compared with controls (3.569 +/- 0.262; P <.01) and nitrofen-treated without CDH lung (3.235 +/- 0.299; P <.05).
These data suggest that the downregulation of thyroid hormone signaling pathway through altered expression of TR-alpha1 and TR-beta1 during lung morphogenesis may be a contributory factor in the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypoplasia in nitrofen-induced CDH.
The incidence of cocaine-induced psychosis has increased with the rise in popularity of cocaine as the recreational drug of choice. Neuroleptic agents have been used to control the hallucinations, paranoia, and hyperactivity of the acute psychotic episodes. Lithium has been suggested as an alternative therapeutic agent for cocaine abusers. This study reports the results of successful lithium therapy for three cases of cocaine-induced psychosis. Future directions for clinical use and research are recommended.
Abstract Hypotheses concerning unexpected, psychostimulant-related effects reported in previous studies were examined by separating behavioral/physical complaints highly specific to methylphenidate (MPH) from those that (a) may mimic core/secondary symptoms of the disorder, or (b) are commonly reported by unmedicated children in the general population. Sixty-five children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) participated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subject (crossover) experimental design and received a placebo and four MPH doses in counterbalanced order following baseline assessment. Behavioral and physical complaints were significantly higher under baseline relative to placebo and the four immediate-release MPH conditions (5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, and 20 mg) across three symptom categories: ADHD core/secondary symptoms; symptoms commonly reported in the general population, including unmedicated children with ADHD; and symptoms highly specific to MPH. No significant differences were found among active drug conditions. Past unexpected findings of psychostimulant effects in ADHD may be due to the inclusion of scale items that reflect core/secondary features of ADHD and normally occurring behavioral/physical complaints in children.
The direct and indirect pathways of the basal ganglia have been proposed to oppositely regulate locomotion and differentially contribute to pathological behaviors. Analysis of the distinct contributions of each pathway to behavior has been a challenge, however, due to the difficulty of selectively investigating the neurons comprising the two pathways using conventional techniques. Here we present two mouse models in which the function of striatonigral or striatopallidal neurons is selectively disrupted due to cell type-specific deletion of the striatal signaling protein dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein Mr 32kDa (DARPP-32). Using these mice, we found that the loss of DARPP-32 in striatonigral neurons decreased basal and cocaine-induced locomotion and abolished dyskinetic behaviors in response to the Parkinson's disease drug L-DOPA. Conversely, the loss of DARPP-32 in striatopallidal neurons produced a robust increase in locomotor activity and a strongly reduced cataleptic response to the antipsychotic drug haloperidol. These findings provide insight into the selective contributions of the direct and indirect pathways to striatal motor behaviors.
This study compared the efficacy and safety of extended-release dexmethylphenidate (d-MPH-ER) 20 mg/day and 30 mg/day with extended-release racemic methylphenidate hydrochloride (d,l-MPH-ER) 36 mg/day and 54 mg/day, and placebo in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in a laboratory classroom setting.
This multicenter, double-blind, crossover study included children (N = 84) 6-12 years of age, stabilized on total daily doses of 40 mg to 60 mg d,l-MPH or 20 mg/day or 30 mg/day d-MPH who were randomized to different treatment sequences. Primary efficacy was measured by the change from pre-dose in Swanson, Kotkin, Agler, M-Flynn, and Pelham (SKAMP) Rating Scale-Combined scores at 2 hours post-dose (d-MPH-ER 20 mg/day versus d,l-MPH- ER 36 mg/day). Adverse events were monitored throughout the study period.
Mean change in SKAMP-Combined score at 2 hours post-dose was significantly larger for d-MPH-ER 20 mg/day versus d,l-MPH-ER 36 mg/day (p < 0.001). Both doses of d-MPH-ER had a more rapid onset and greater morning effect relative to d,l-MPH-ER while d,l-MPH-ER had a greater effect at the end of the 12-hour day. All active treatments provided a significant benefit over placebo at most time points to 12 hours post-dosing. Both treatments were well tolerated.
d-MPH-ER and d,l-MPH-ER improved ADHD symptoms and were well tolerated. While d-MPH-ER had a faster onset of action, d,l-MPH-ER retained greater effect at the end of the 12- hour classroom day.
Exogenous GABA administered into the lateral ventricle of the brain in Wistar rats in doses of 75, 200 and 600 microgram per rat, and endogenous GABA whose cerebral level was raised by intraperitoneal administration of hydroxylamine (Hx) in doses of 30, 50 and 75 mg/kg had a significant inhibitory effect on the central nervous system. This effect was abolished by bicuculine (Bc). The central effect of exogenous and endogenous GABA was manifested by reduced spontaneous and exploratory locomotor activity, decreased body temperature, potentiation of hexobarbital and chloral hydrate general anaesthesia and increase of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. On the other hand, no effect of GABA was observed on motor hyperactivity induced with amphetamine and on stereotypy induced with amphetamine and apomorphine.
Cardiac toxicity is the limiting factor in therapy with doxorubicin, an otherwise useful cancer drug. In this article we detail our study of a mouse model of doxorubicin-induced cardiac toxicity in which, after 4 days' treatment, doxorubicin caused marked increases in plasma concentrations of creatine kinase, lactic dehydrogenase, and troponin I, indicators of cardiac injury; marked increases in the plasma concentrations of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1(beta), both inflammatory cytokines; and a marked increase in the plasma concentration of interleukin-2, an indicator of cytotoxic T-cell activation. Therapy with tetrathiomolybdate, designed to limit copper availability, eliminated almost all of the increases of these six parameters in plasma. The marked protection against cardiac injury by doxorubicin in tetrathiomolybdate-treated animals suggests that tetrathiomolybdate would be of use clinically in helping prevent doxorubicin toxicity in patients. In other preclinical work, it has been shown that tetrathiomolybdate potentiates the chemotherapeutic effect of doxorubicin in cancer, so a double benefit might accrue clinically from the combined use of tetrathiomolybdate and doxorubicin. The mechanism by which tetrathiomolybdate protects against doxorubicin toxicity is of considerable interest. Our working hypothesis, based on the inhibition of interleukin-2 by tetrathiomolybdate as shown here, is that tetrathiomolybdate interrupts the inflammatory cascade at the activated-T-lymphocyte stage.
Carmustine (BCNU)-impregnated biodegradable polymer wafers have been shown to prolong survival in patients with recurrent malignant glioma. Interferon alfa-2b (IFNalpha(2b)) has demonstrated antitumor activity against a number of cancers, but its use in glioma has been limited. The use of these agents in combination is appealing because the mode of antitumor activity likely differs. This is a report of a phase I dose-finding study for IFNalpha(2b) in combination with surgery and BCNU wafers in patients with recurrent glioblastoma.
Patients with progressive malignant glioma that was confirmed intraoperatively to be glioblastoma were treated with surgical resection and implantation of 8 BCNU wafers. A week later, IFNalpha(2b) was initiated three times a week at a dose of 3 MU/m(2), which was escalated in increments of 3 MU/m(2). The treatment cycle encompassed 8 weeks. Toxicity was monitored by clinical and laboratory testing. Correlative studies of methylguanine methyltransferase (MGMT) expression and gene expression array analysis were carried out.
Ten patients were enrolled, and 9 patients had evaluable data. Dose-limiting toxicity in the form of fatigue occurred at 9 MU/m(2). Two complete imaging responses were observed at the 3 MU/m(2) dose. MGMT expression and gene expression arrays did not correlate with toxicity or response.
Multimodal therapy with surgery, BCNU wafers, and IFNalpha(2b) appears to be a feasible and safe treatment strategy. The maximum tolerated dose of IFNalpha(2b) was determined to be 6 MU/m(2). Analysis of MGMT expression and gene expression was feasible.
Sodium nitrite alone is shown to ameliorate sublethal cyanide toxicity in mice when given from ∼1 h before until 20 min after the toxic dose as demonstrated by the recovery of righting ability. An optimum dose (12 mg/kg) was determined to significantly relieve cyanide toxicity (5.0 mg/kg) when administered to mice intraperitoneally. Nitrite so administered was shown to rapidly produce NO in the bloodsteam as judged by the dose-dependent appearance of EPR signals attributable to nitrosylhemoglobin and methemoglobin. It is argued that antagonism of cyanide inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase by NO is the crucial antidotal activity rather than the methemoglobin-forming action of nitrite. Concomitant addition of sodium thiosulfate to nitrite-treated blood resulted in the detection of sulfidomethemoblobin by EPR spectroscopy. Sulfide is a product of thiosulfate hydrolysis and, like cyanide, is known to be a potent inhibitor of cytochrome c oxidase, the effects of the two inhibitors being essentially additive under standard assay conditions rather than dominated by either one. The findings afford a plausible explanation for an observed detrimental effect in mice associated with the use of the standard nitrite-thiosulfate combination therapy at sublethal levels of cyanide intoxication.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) acts in cytoprotection against oxidants and aromatic hydrocarbons in cigarette smoke. A (GT)(n) dinucleotide repeat in the 5'-flanking region of the human HO-1 gene (alias HMOX1) reduces HO-1 inducibility and shows length polymorphism, which is grouped into three classes: class S (<27 GT), class M (27-32 GT), and class L (>/=33 GT) alleles. To investigate the correlation between the HO-1 gene polymorphism and the development of lung adenocarcinoma, we screened 151 Japanese patients with lung adenocarcinoma and 153 control subjects. Patients and control subjects were frequency-matched by age, gender, smoking history and proportion of chronic pulmonary emphysema. The proportion of class L allele frequencies, as well as that of genotypic frequencies in L allele carriers (LL, LM, and LS), were significantly higher in patients with lung adenocarcinoma than those of control subjects. The adjusted odds ratio (OR) for lung adenocarcinoma with class L allele vs non-L allele (M+S) was 1.6 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.0-2.5, P=0.03] and that with L allele carriers vs. non-L allele carriers was 1.8 (95% CI 1.1-3.0, P=0.02). Furthermore, the risk of lung adenocaricinoma for L allele carriers versus non-L allele carriers was much increased in the group of male smokers (OR=3.3, 95% CI 1.5-7.4, P=0.004). However, in the female non-smokers, the proportion of L allele carriers did not differ between patients and control subjects (OR=0.93, 95% CI 0.4-2.0, P=0.85). These findings suggest that the large size of a (GT)(n) repeat in the HO-1 gene promoter may be associated with the development of lung adenocarcinoma in Japanese male smokers.
Application of icodextrin-based peritoneal dialysis fluid (PDF) provides a potential benefit in patients with diabetes and end-stage renal failure treated with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) because of better ultrafiltration capacity and avoidance of direct glucose exposure. We examined the effect of glucose and icodextrin-based PDF on histological alterations of peritoneal membranes.
Thirty-two male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: control Wistar rats with non-treated (n = 8), streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats with 5/6 kidney ablation (n = 8), STZ-induced diabetic rats with 5/6 kidney ablation injected with a standard lactate-buffered 4.25% glucose-based PDF (Dianeal; n = 8) and STZ-induced diabetic rats with 5/6 kidney ablation injected with 7.5% icodextrin-based PDF (Extraneal; n = 8). Intraperitoneal injection was performed once daily with an instillation volume of 20 ml per injection during 8 weeks.
Chronic high-glucose-based PDF exposure resulted in increased vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) expression, accumulation of advanced glycation end-products (AGEs), and up-regulation of the receptor for AGE (RAGE), which were ameliorated in the icodextrin-based PDF group. The peritoneal damages, such as neoangiogenesis and submesothelial fibrosis, were significantly reduced in icodextrin-based PDF compared to high-glucose-based PDF.
Long-term in vivo exposure to high glucose-based PDF promotes the fibrosing process of peritoneal membranes. Icodextrin-based PDF may be helpful in slowing the PDF-induced deterioration of peritoneal function and prolonging the use of peritoneal dialysis in patients with diabetes.
During 2007-2008, serious adverse events were reported following iv administration of certain batches of commercially available heparin in humans. Anaphylactoid reactions with acute hypotension were the hallmark of these cases. Subsequently, it was shown that a contaminant, oversulfated chondroitin sulfate (OSCS), was responsible for these adverse events. The present study was undertaken to further elucidate the risks related to OSCS-contaminated heparin preparations. Using an anesthetized rat hemodynamic model, marked diastolic blood pressure drops were induced with a single iv injection of a contaminated heparin (1000 IU/kg; 34% wt/wt OSCS). OSCS alone (0.8 and 20 mg/kg) or in combination (0.8-1.7 mg/kg) with uncontaminated heparin produced a similar hypotensive effect, whereas heparin spiked with 0.2 or 0.4 mg/kg OSCS produced no hemodynamic changes. In conscious rats, acute hypotensive effects were seen following single iv administration of OSCS-spiked heparin (1.7 or 3.0 mg/kg). Conversely, no hemodynamic effects were observed with same doses when administered sc. Pretreatment with a bradykinin-2 receptor antagonist (HOE140) fully abolished the hypotensive response after iv OSCS (1.7 mg/kg) administration, whereas pretreatment with the histamine (H1) receptor antagonist cetirizine did not. In vitro, OSCS (25 and 250 μg/ml) induced a robust, dose-related increase in kallikrein activity in rat and human plasma with a lower amplitude of response in dog and pig. The data suggest that the adverse events associated with OSCS-contaminated heparin are dependent upon the concentration of contaminant and its route of administration. Furthermore, the kallikrein-kinin system plays a pivotal role in the initiation of OSCS-related vascular effects.
A 72-year-old housewife presented with clinical and laboratory signs of acute cholestatic hepatitis. Symptoms had appeared 6 months after she was started on ticlopidine 250 mg/day. Infectious aetiologies were excluded by serology and there was no history of alcohol abuse or use of other drugs. Clinical findings were confirmed by liver biopsy. The drug was discontinued and symptoms gradually subsided. A second biopsy obtained during this phase documented complete resolution of the hepatic damage. A review of the literature shows that the late onset of hepatic toxicity in this case is unique and this is the first report to include histological documentation during the acute phase and after recovery.
The aim of this animal study was to reveal the dose-dependent effects of melatonin on aminoglycoside ototoxicity by utilizing distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs). Forty-four adult (aged 12 months) rats were divided into five groups. Rats of the control group (group C) were injected with vehicle, while the melatonin group (group M) received melatonin (4 mg/kg per day); there were four rats in each of these groups. The study groups consisted of 12 rats per group, and they were treated as follows: 600 mg/kg per day amikacin (group A), amikacin plus a low dose (0.4 mg/kg per day) melatonin (group AML) and amikacin plus high dose (4 mg/kg per day) melatonin (group AMH) for 14 days. During the serial measurements on days 0, 5, 10 and 15, the DPOAE results of groups C,M and AML were not significantly changed. Amikacin ototoxicity findings for input/output (I/O) functions were detected on the 3rd measurement of the study in group A. High-dose melatonin clearly enhanced and accelerated amikacin-induced ototoxicity. The DP-gram amplitudes and I/O amplitudes were reduced, and I/O thresholds were increased in group AMH. Group AMH was the group that was affected the most and earliest by amikacin. Our study results showed that while low-dose melatonin protected the inner ear from ototoxicity, high dose melatonin facilitated amikacin-induced ototoxicity, possibly via the vasodilatory effect, leading to an increased accumulation of amikacin in the inner ear. Probably, the protective effect of the melatonin at a dose of 0.4 mg/kg per day is related to its antioxidant properties. Apparently, the vasodilatory effect of melatonin seems to be more prominent than its antioxidant effect in high doses.
Capecitabine is an oral fluoropyrimidine that was designed to allow selective activation in tumour tissues, thus reducing toxicity. The neurologic toxicity of 5-fluorouracil, the original fluoropyrimidine, including an ataxic cerebellar syndrome is well described. However, only a few case reports exist describing a similar syndrome associated with capecitabine administration.
We report a case of reversible cerebellar toxicity during chemotherapy with a combination of capecitabine and oxaliplatin.
Rare fluoropyrimide-related toxicities are increasingly being reported in association with capecitabine. Clinical vigilance is required to ensure appropriate investigation and treatment.
To describe the successful use of glucarpidase (carboxypeptidase G2) in the treatment of high-dose methotrexate-induced nephrotoxicity in a patient with osteosarcoma.
A 12-year-old female patient who had been diagnosed with low-grade right mandibular osteosarcoma was started on a protocol of cisplatin plus doxorubicin alternating with high-dose methotrexate. Following her first dose of methotrexte, she developed acute renal failure and higher than expected 24h methotrexate level of 478μM/L. High-dose leucovorin rescue was started with vigorous hydra- tion and urine alkalinization together with two sessions of hemodialysis. Because her methotrexate level was persistently high, the investigational drug glucarpidase was administered. Methotrexate level dropped from 65 to 16.3 μM/L after a single dose of glucarpidase measured by fluorescence polarization immunoassay. Leucovorin and urine alkalinization were continued until day 17 when the patient's kidney function normalized and methotrexate level reached 0.05 μM/L. The patient tolerated glucarpidase well without any significant adverse events.
Glucarpidase is a safe and effective agent in the management of high-dose methotrexate-induced nephrotoxicity and delayed methotrexate elimination.
Six patients with Parkinson's disease developed nocturnal myoclonic attacks after prolongued treatment with L-Dopa which were electroencephalographically recorded. These symptoms persisted after treatment with 2 bromo-alpha-ergocryptin (Bromocryptin), a dopamine receptor agonist, which was substituted for L-Dopa. Bromocryptin is known to have no pre- or postsynaptic effect on serotonin metabolism. It is proposed that these myoclonic phenomena are the expression of the hypersensitivity of denervated catecholamine receptors in the brainstem to the stimulation of L-Dopa and Bromocryptin. This thesis differs with previous suggestions that serotonin plays a major role in the genesis of myoclonic seizures in Parkinsonian patients treated with L-Dopa.
Clinical observations have noted variability in amplitude of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD) and chorea in Huntington's disease (HD) during the day. However, no studies have examined whether both the amplitude and body location (motor topography) of whole-body involuntary movement (WBIM) varied over short periods of time (seconds or minutes), which may have a distinct and significant effect on how disruptive these WBIM may be. The present study quantified the variability of WBIM amplitude and motor topography in patients with PD having LID and in patients with HD having chorea.
WBIM was quantified using the MotionMonitor magnetic motion tracker system. Five patients in each group were tested in two conditions: sitting and standing.
WBIM increased from sitting to standing, more so in choreic patients. WBIM varied from 17% to 102% of total WBIM amplitude. Chorea tended to present with greater variability than LID in absolute terms in the standing condition, but not when the mean WBIM amplitude was taken into consideration. Motor topography of WBIM also varied more in the HD group, but mostly in the seated condition where more limbs were free to move. Neither group expressed any laterality of involuntary movement, with amplitude being equally distributed on both sides of the body.
Results show significant short-term variability in amplitude of chorea and LID, as well as, variability in location of these involuntary movements, illustrating the complexity of the adaptations required to live and be active with involuntary movements such as HD chorea or PD dyskinesias.
Hyperhomocysteinemia is associated with an increased risk of venous and arterial thrombosis, probably by inducing endothelial damage. Von Willebrand factor (VWF) is an endothelial marker protein. It is a plasma multimeric molecule that plays a thrombophilic role. Our purpose was to investigate VWF changes in patients with thrombosis following oral methionine load. We evaluated homocysteine levels and VWF parameters (plasma levels, activity, proteolysis fragments, and multimer composition) before and after methionine load in 42 women with venous or arterial thrombosis and in 36 healthy women. Methionine load induced mild hyperhomocysteinemia in 10 patients and two controls. No changes in VWF levels and activity were observed, but an increased amount of VWF proteolysis fragments was found post-load in patients and controls. VWF multimer composition was unaffected in controls, while a decrease of the largest VWF multimers was found in women with thrombosis. Homocysteine levels inversely correlated with the amount of the largest multimers in hyperhomocysteinemic patients. Large VWF molecules were probably released from endothelial cells following load, and rapidly cleaved by the specific VWF-cleaving protease. VWF proteolysis was enhanced in mild hyperhomocysteinemic patients, thus leading to downregulation of VWF size to smaller multimers.
The intradermal (i.d.) injection of NK1 receptor antagonists GR 82334 and FK 888 (1-50 pmol/paw), in association with formalin, produced graded inhibition of the early but not the late phase of the formalin test. The NK2, SR 48968 and NK3 SR 142801 receptor antagonists (1-50 pmol/paw) were effective in inhibiting both phases of the formalin model. Co-injection of NK1, (FK 888, GR 82334), NK2 (SR 48968) or NK3 (SR 142801) receptor antagonists with capsaicin dose-dependently attenuated capsaicin-induced licking. In addition, all antagonists were more efficacious when compared with response in the formalin test. The antinociception caused by i.d. injection of the NK3 receptor antagonist SR 142801 against both phases of the formalin test, but not that of NK1 and NK2 receptor antagonists, was significantly reversed by intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of naloxone (5 mg/kg). Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of NK1, NK2 or NK3 receptor antagonists (15-500 pmol/site), all produced significant and dose-dependent inhibition of both phases of the formalin and capsaicin tests. With the exception of the response of SR 48968, which was equipotent in both models of nociception, FK 888, GR 82334 and SR 142801 were about 2-25-fold less potent at the ID50 level against the capsaicin-induced pain. The antinociception caused by i.c.v. injection of NK1, NK2 or NK3 receptor antagonists was reversed by i.p. injection of naloxone (5 mg/kg). These results indicate that tachykinin receptor antagonists, acting through NK1, NK2 and NK3 receptors, produce powerful antinociception when injected i.d. or by i.c.v. route against both formalin- and capsaicin-induced licking, being more efficacious against the latter model of nociception. The action of NK3 receptor antagonist given i.d. was mediated through an opioid mechanism sensitive to naloxone. However, when injected i.c.v., the antinociception caused by NK1, NK2 or NK3 receptor antagonists was largely reversed by naloxone when assessed in the formalin test, suggesting a distinct mechanism of action.
In this study we sought to determine whether a calcium sensitizer, levosimendan, would have a more favorable effect on postresuscitation myocardial function and, consequently, postresuscitation survival than beta-adrenergic dobutamine. The extreme decrease in survival before hospital discharge of resuscitated victims is attributed, in part, to postresuscitation myocardial failure, and dobutamine has been recommended for the management of postresuscitation myocardial failure. We studied a total of 15 animals. Ventricular fibrillation was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 450 to 550 g. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), including chest compressions and mechanical ventilation, was begun after 8 minutes of untreated cardiac arrest. Electrical defibrillation was attempted after 6 minutes of CPR. Each animal was resuscitated. Animals were randomized to undergo treatment with levosimendan, dobutamine, or saline-solution placebo. These agents were administered 10 minutes after the return of spontaneous circulation. Levosimendan was administered in a loading dose of 12 microg kg(-1) over a 10-minute period, followed by infusion of 0.3 microg kg(-1) min(-1) over the next 230 minutes. Dobutamine was continuously infused at a dosage of 3 microg kg(-1) min(-1). Saline-solution placebo was administered in the same volume and over the same amount of time as levosimendan. Levosimendan and dobutamine produced comparable increases in cardiac output and rate of left-ventricular pressure increase. However, administration of levosimendan resulted in lower heart rates and lesser increases in left ventricular diastolic pressure compared with both dobutamine and placebo. The duration of postresuscitation survival was significantly greater with levosimendan (16 +/- 2 hours), intermediate with dobutamine (11 +/- 2 hours) and least with saline-solution placebo (8 +/- 1 hour). Levosimendan and dobutamine both improved postresuscitation myocardial function. However, levosimendan produced more favorable postresuscitation myocardial function and increased the duration of postresuscitation survival.
Oxytrex is a novel drug that combines oxycodone with ultralow-dose naltrexone, an opioid antagonist. Ultralow-dose opioid antagonists have been demonstrated to enhance and prolong opiate analgesia and alleviate opioid tolerance and withdrawal in rodents. This 3-week, Phase II clinical trial assessed safety and analgesic efficacy of Oxytrex in patients with moderate to severe pain from osteoarthritis. Patients with a pain score > or =5 received placebo, oxycodone 4 times a day (qid), Oxytrex qid, or Oxytrex twice a day (bid). All active treatment groups received the same total daily dose and dose escalation of oxycodone starting at 10 and ending at 40 mg/day. Importantly, the Oxytrex bid group received a lower daily dose of naltrexone than Oxytrex qid (0.002 vs 0.004 mg/day). Oxytrex bid produced a 39% reduction in pain intensity, which was significantly greater than that of placebo (P < .001), oxycodone qid (P = .006), and Oxytrex qid (P = .003). Oxytrex bid was also superior to placebo in quality of analgesia (P = .002), duration of pain control each day (P = .05), patients' global assessments (P = .04), and the Western Ontario and MacMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index total score (P = .03). The incidence of side effects was comparable between active treatments. In this Phase II dose-ranging study, Oxytrex bid demonstrated greater pain relief with a more convenient dosing schedule compared to oxycodone qid.
Preclinical data have shown ultralow-dose opioid antagonists to enhance and prolong opioid analgesia while reducing analgesic tolerance and physical dependence. Recent molecular pharmacology data show a mechanism of action to be the prevention of aberrant G protein coupling by opioid receptors that underlies opioid tolerance and dependence.
