The aim of the study was to evaluate whether topical application of 0.2% glyceryl trinitrate ointment could reduce post-haemorrhoidectomy healing time and pain both at rest and during defecation. Thirty patients with grade III and IV haemorrhoids were included in the study and divided into two groups. All patients underwent Milligan-Morgan haemorrhoidectomy, and anorectal manometry was performed before surgery and after 5 and 30 days. In one group a placebo ointment was applied to the perianal wounds, while in the other group a 0.2% glyceryl trinitrate ointment was used. Maximum resting pressure was reduced in the glyceryl trinitrate group and increased in the placebo group after 5 days. Postoperative pain both at rest and during defecation, and the time to healing and return to normal activity were significantly reduced in the glyceryl trinitrate group, whilst analgesic consumption was similar. An elevated incidence of headache was observed In the glyceryl trinitrate group. Topical application of glyceryl trinitrate was effective in reducing postoperative pain and healing time, but the substantial incidence of side effects may limit its extensive use.
The effect of the atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) on early norepinephrine-induced acute renal failure (ARF) was investigated. In anaesthetized female Sprague-Dawley rats, weighing 247 +/- 36 g, ARF of the left kidneys was induced by 40-min intrarenal arterial infusion of norepinephrine (NE; 0.75 micrograms/kg body weight). In each case the right kidney served as a control organ. Inulin clearance was used as an estimate of glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Urine volume (V), GFR and fractional excretion rates of sodium, potassium and chloride were studies in both kidneys. Immediately after NE-induced ARF one group received ANF (alpha-hANaP) and the other groups 5% glucose or isotonic saline; all infusions were administered intrarenally. In the experimental kidney NE-infusion induced anuria. ANF infusion was able to induce complete reversal of the NE effect, and GFR and diuresis improved markedly in the experimental kidney. In addition, a tremendous rise in fractional excretion rates of sodium and potassium after administration of ANF was observed. In the control kidney an additional increase of GFR and diuresis was seen. Following 5% glucose or isotonic sodium chloride infusion, no profound effects were obtained in both kidneys. The results of the present study demonstrate that ANF provides beneficial effects on the functional damage of NE-induced ARF. We conclude that the NE-antagonistic effect of ANF and the consecutive amelioration of GFR may play an important role in the recovery of impaired renal function.
We present a case report of propiverine-induced Parkinsonism. We previously reported the induction of catalepsy by amiodarone, aprindine and procaine, which possess a diethylaminomethyl moiety and demonstrated selective blockade of dopamine D2 receptors by these drugs in mice. We hypothesized that drugs possessing a diethylaminomethyl structure may generally induce Parkinsonism and/or catalepsy.
Thus, we performed a study to examine whether oxybutynin, pentoxyverine and etafenone, as well as propiverine, induce catalepsy in mice.
The intensity of drug-induced catalepsy was in the order: haloperidol > etafenone > pentoxyverine > propiverine > oxybutynin. In vivo occupancy of dopamine D1, D2 and mACh receptors in the striatum was also examined. The in vitro binding affinities to the D1, D2 and mACh receptors in the striatum synaptic membrane were within the ranges of 2.4-140 microM, 380-4,200 nM, and 1.2-2,800 nM, respectively.
These results support the idea that any drug possessing a diethylaminomethyl moiety may contribute to the induction of catalepsy, possibly by occupying dopamine receptors.
Restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM) is an uncommon heart muscle disorder characterized by impaired filling of the ventricles with reduced volume in the presence of normal or near normal wall thickness and systolic function. The disease may be associated with systemic disease but is most often idiopathic. We recognized a large family in which individuals were affected by either idiopathic RCM or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). Linkage analysis to selected sarcomeric contractile protein genes identified cardiac troponin I (TNNI3) as the likely disease gene. Subsequent mutation analysis revealed a novel missense mutation, which cosegregated with the disease in the family (lod score: 4.8). To determine if idiopathic RCM is part of the clinical expression of TNNI3 mutations, genetic investigations of the gene were performed in an additional nine unrelated RCM patients with restrictive filling patterns, bi-atrial dilatation, normal systolic function, and normal wall thickness. TNNI3 mutations were identified in six of these nine RCM patients. Two of the mutations identified in young individuals were de novo mutations. All mutations appeared in conserved and functionally important domains of the gene. This article was published online in advance of the print edition. The date of publication is available from the JCI website, http://www.jci.org.
Because reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been implicated as mediators of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), the purpose of the present work was to determine the functional role of mucosal GSH in the trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid in 50% ethanol (TNBS+ethanol)-induced colitis in rats. Mucosal samples were taken to evaluate the temporal relationship between the extent of injury, the levels of glutathione (GSH) during acute colitis induced by TNBS+ethanol, and the effect of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) administration. In vitro assays revealed the interaction of TNBS with GSH leading to the almost instantaneous disappearance of GSH, while the reductive metabolism of TNBS by GSSG reductase generated ROS. Mucosal samples from TNBS+ethanol-treated rats indicated a direct correlation between GSH depletion and injury detected as soon as 30 minutes after TNBS+ethanol administration that persisted 24 hours post treatment. Although, short term depletion of mucosal GSH per se by diethylmaleate did not result in mucosal injury, the oral administration of NAC (40 mM) 4 hours after TNBS+ethanol treatment increased GSH stores (2-fold), decreasing the extent of mucosal injury (60-70%) examined at 24 hours post treatment. However, an equimolar dose of dithiothreitol failed to increase GSH levels and protect mucosa from TNBS+ethanol-induced injury. Interestingly, GSH levels in TNBS+ethanol-treated rats recovered by 1-2 weeks, an effect that was accounted for by an increase of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (gamma-GCS) activity due to an induction of gamma-GCS-heavy subunit chain mRNA. Thus, TNBS promotes two independent mechanisms of injury, GSH depletion and ROS generation, both being required for the manifestation of mucosal injury as GSH limitation renders intestine susceptible to the TNBS-induced ROS overgeneration. Accordingly, in vivo administration of NAC attenuates the acute colitis through increased mucosal GSH levels, suggesting that GSH precursors may be of relevance in the acute relapse of IBD.
To study mRNA expression difference of voltage-dependent potassium channels in the brain of scopolamine-induced memory impaired rats.
Memory impairments induced in rats by scopolamine (1 mg.kg-1) were assessed in the Morris water maze test. After rats were injected intraperitoneally with scopolamine for 6 days, the mRNA expression level of five voltage-dependent potassium channels, Kv1.4, Kv1.5, Kv2.1, Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 were detected in the rat cortex and hippocampus by RT-PCR.
Scopolamine (1 mg.kg-1) was shown to significantly induce memory impairment in rats. The mRNA levels of Kv4.2 were decreased by 28.8% and 33.9% in the cortex and hippocampus, respectively. The mRNA levels of Kv1.4 and Kv2.1 were increased in the hippocampus by 111.7% and 64.3%, respectively. There were no differences in the brain mRNA levels of other voltage-dependent potassium channels in scopolamine-induced memory impaired rat.
The mRNA expression levels of voltage-dependent potassium channels changed significantly in the brain of scopolamine-induced memory impaired rats.
The relationship between hippocampal electrical activity and behavioral hyperactivity induced by either phencyclidine (PCP) or methamphetamine (MAP) was examined in freely behaving rats. The EEGs at the hippocampal CA1 region were simultaneously recorded with the animal's behavior for 2 h after administration of either PCP or MAP. PCP (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneal (i.p.)) significantly increased locomotor activity including rearing, walking, head-weaving and circling. Spectral analysis of the EEG showed that hippocampal gamma waves (30-70 Hz), but not other frequency bands, were significantly increased from 5 to 120 min after systemic injection of PCP. Inactivation of the medial septum with muscimol, a gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor A agonist, 15 min prior to injection of PCP, suppressed both hippocampal gamma waves and locomotor activity. MAP (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) also increased locomotor activity for longer than 2 h. During the behavioral hyperactivity induced by MAP, hippocampal EEG showed &theta; and gamma rhythms that were not significantly different from those during walking before MAP. However, MAP-induced behavioral activity was suppressed by pre-injection of muscimol in the medial septum, which also decreased hippocampal gamma activity. It is suggested that the medial septum plays a role in mediating behavioral disturbances induced by both PCP and MAP through control of the hippocampal electrical activity, and that hippocampal gamma waves may play a permissible role in the expression of behaviors.
The investigation deals with antitumor effect of cyclophosphamide, platin and adriamycin on transplantable mouse lymphosarcoma LS. It was found that the effect of the most potent drug cyclophosphamide is mediated mostly by apoptosis, while those of platin and adriamycin--by apoptosis and necrosis of tumor cells. When a combination of two or three drugs was used the necrotic effect increased proportionally, while the apoptotic one decreased. However, the overall antitumor effect did not exceed that of the one drug which induced apoptosis most effectively.
The Dlx5 gene encodes a Distal-less-related DNA-binding homeobox protein first expressed during early embryonic development in anterior regions of the mouse embryo. In later developmental stages, it appears in the branchial arches, the otic and olfactory placodes and their derivatives, in restricted brain regions, in all extending appendages and in all developing bones. We have created a null allele of the mouse Dlx5 gene by replacing exons I and II with the E. coli lacZ gene. Heterozygous mice appear normal. Beta-galactosidase activity in Dlx5+/- embryos and newborn animals reproduces the known pattern of expression of the gene. Homozygous mutants die shortly after birth with a swollen abdomen. They present a complex phenotype characterised by craniofacial abnormalities affecting derivatives of the first four branchial arches, severe malformations of the vestibular organ, a delayed ossification of the roof of the skull and abnormal osteogenesis. No obvious defect was observed in the patterning of limbs and other appendages. The defects observed in Dlx5-/- mutant animals suggest multiple and independent roles of this gene in the patterning of the branchial arches, in the morphogenesis of the vestibular organ and in osteoblast differentiation.
We conducted a genome-wide scan of SNPs to identify variants associated with length of survival in 1,331 individuals with esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma (ESCC), with associations validated in 2 independent sets including 1,962 individuals with this cancer. We identified rs1050631 in SLC39A6 as associated with the survival times of affected individuals, with the hazard ratio for death from ESCC in the combined sample being 1.30 (95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.19-1.43; P = 3.77 × 10(-8)). rs7242481, located in the 5' UTR of SLC39A6, disturbs a transcriptional repressor binding site and results in upregulation of SLC39A6 expression. Immunohistochemical staining of ESCC tissues showed that higher expression of SLC39A6 protein was correlated with shorter length of survival in individuals with advanced ESCC (P = 0.013). Knockdown of SLC39A6 expression suppressed proliferation and invasion in ESCC cells. These results suggest that SLC39A6 has an important role in the prognosis of ESCC and may be a potential therapeutic target.
Edaravone, a newly synthesized radical scavenger, has shown an excellent effect on treating stroke patients. The effect of edaravone on carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced acute liver injury was examined.
Six rats were injected with CCl4 alone and six rats were intravenously injected with edaravone immediately after and 3 h after injection of CCl4. Another six rats were injected with olive oil alone. The animals were killed at 24 h after the CCl4 injection.
Injection of CCl4 was followed by a marked increase in serum alanine aminotranferase (ALT) level (CCl4, 1630.6 +/- 606.8 IU/L; olive oil, 21.0 +/- 2.6 IU/L; P < 0.001), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level (CCl4, 5068.0 +/- 2956.4 IU/L; olive oil, 203.6 +/- 30.5 IU/L; P < 0.005), and total bilirubin (TB) level (CCl4, 0.88 +/- 0.48 mg/dL; olive oil, 0.37 +/- 0.05 mg/dL; P < 0.01), whereas in the edaravone-treated rats, the ALT (119.4 +/- 113.5 IU/L, P < 0.001), LDH (369.7 +/- 288.2 IU/L, P < 0.005), and TB values (0.29 +/- 0.16 mg/dL, P < 0.01) were significantly decreased. Histological examination of the liver by hematoxylin and eosin and oil red O staining showed a marked reduction of steatosis in the CCl4 and edaravone-treated rats compared with the CCl4-injected rats. Significant inhibition of hepatocytic apoptosis was demonstrated by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated UTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) method in the edaravone-treated rats.
These results suggest that edaravone has a marked preventive effect on oxidative stress-induced acute liver injury.
We retrospectively studied the clinical efficacy and safety of oral flecainide in 38 patients with symptomatic arrhythmias. Patients received 100 to 200 mg daily of flecainide for a mean of 25 months (range 8 to 50 months). All patients had normal cardiac function. Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF) was observed in 29 patients (76%). Other forms of arrhythmia included paroxysmal atrial flutter, seen in 3 patients (8%); premature atrial contraction and ventricular premature contraction, each seen in 2 patients (5%); and supraventricular tachycardia and ventricular tachycardia, each seen in 1 patient (3%). A complete response was obtained in 15 (52%) of 29 patients with PAF and a partial response in 8 patients (27%). The remaining 6 patients (21%) showed no response. A complete response was also obtained in 7 of 9 patients with other forms of arrhythmia. There were no differences in cardiac function and ECG parameters before and after treatment. Flecainide was withdrawn in 4 patients due to the development of electrocardiographic abnormalities. Three of these patients showed an atrial proarrhythmic effect. Abnormal ST elevations in the precordial leads were observed in 1 patient who received 200 mg of flecainide daily. In conclusion, flecainide was effective treatment for supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias, but attention must be paid to the drug's potential proarrhythmic adverse effects.
A transdermal scopolamine patch is an effective medication for relieving motion sickness, treating nausea and vomiting from chemotherapy and decreasing withdrawal side-effects from wearing off opioids. A 14-year-old boy with chronic granulomatous disease and severe infection was admitted to the hospital because of left shoulder aspergillus' infection and pain. The patient required high dose opioid to control the shoulder pain. A unilateral fixed and dilated pupil was noted. We assumed this to be related to the advancing central nervous system aspergillosis. After extensive neurological 'work up', we realized that the anisocoria was related to the transdermal scopolamine patch that we had prescribed for weaning off the opioid.
Adenosine A(2A) receptors, abundantly expressed on striatal medium spiny neurons, appear to activate signaling cascades implicated in the regulation of coexpressed ionotropic glutamatergic receptors. To evaluate the contribution of adenosinergic mechanisms to the pathogenesis of the response alterations induced by dopaminergic treatment, we studied the ability of the selective adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist KW-6002 to prevent as well as palliate these syndromes in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's disease. In rats, KW-6002 reversed the shortened motor response produced by chronic levodopa treatment while reducing levodopa-induced hyperphosphorylation at S845 residues on AMPA receptor GluR1 subunits. In primates, KW-6002 evidenced modest antiparkinsonian activity when given alone. Once-daily coadministration of KW-6002 with apomorphine prevented the development of dyskinesias, which appeared in control animals 7-10 days after initiating apomorphine treatment. Animals initially given apomorphine plus KW-6002 for 3 weeks did not begin to manifest apomorphine-induced dyskinesias until 10-12 days after discontinuing the A(2A) antagonist. These results suggest that KW-6002 can attenuate the induction as well as the expression of motor response alterations to chronic dopaminergic stimulation in parkinsonian animals, possibly by blocking A(2A) receptor-stimulated signaling pathways. Our findings strengthen the rationale for developing A(2A) antagonists as an early treatment strategy for Parkinson's disease.
Cisplatin is chemotherapeutic drug used in treatment of malignancies. However, its clinical utility is limited by nephrotoxicity. The purpose of present study is to investigate biochemical and molecular effects of alpha lipoic acid (ALA) to protect against cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in mice. Cisplatin (12 mg/kg/day) was administered i.p. for 4 days. Group of mice were given ALA (20 mg/kg/day) for 18 days. Another set were administered ALA for 4 days before and 14 days after cisplatin intoxication. The results obtained revealed that kidney/body weight ratio of cisplatin-treated mice was increased by +40%. ALA intake declined the ratio by -19%. Serum creatinine and urea levels were increased in cisplatin-treated mice by +375% and +69%, respectively. These changes were moved to normalcy upon ALA intake. Cisplatin treatment elevated malondialdehyde (MDA) by 27 fold and declined reduced glutathione (GSH) by -49%. Cisplatin decreased catalase, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) enzymes by -47%, -49% and -59%, respectively. ALA decreased the MDA by -286% and increased the GSH, catalase, SOD and GPx levels by +60%, +81%, +90% and +38%, respectively. ALA increased mRNA expression of catalase, CuZn SOD and GPx genes near to normalcy compared to cisplatin-treated mice. Cisplatin-treated mice increased caspase-3-activity by +223%, nitric oxide (NO) by +74% and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) by 10 fold. ALA intake declined these changes by -43%, -45% and -73%, respectively. ALA may play renoprotective role on cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity through antioxidant and antiapoptotic mechanisms combined with initiation of mRNA expression of antioxidant genes.
It is generally accepted that spleen plays a complex role in the tumor immunity, which would change in the different periods of cancer. In this study, we investigated the changes in the function of splenic macrophage (Mphi) in different stages of liver cancer induced by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) in rats. The aim was to support the characteristics of "two-way" and "phase" of spleen in tumor immunity.
The model of pulmonary metastasis of liver cancer was established in forty male SD rats by DEN. In the 8th, 13th and 16th week, 10 rats were randomly chosen and sacrificed, and divided into cirrhosis, liver cancer and pulmonary metastasis groups depending on the pathological result, respectively. The other 10 rats were taken as control group. The Mphi was isolated by anchoring cultivation. The changes in ultrastructure, phagocytosis, cytokine secretion, antigen processing and presenting, and viability of splenic Mphi were detected by transmission electron microscopy, Vybrant(TM) Phagocytosis Assay, DQ(TM) Ovalbumin, and rat TNF-alpha ELISpot kits.
Under the electron microscope, the Mphi in the control group had some pseudopodium-like prominences, and mitochondria, ribosome, rough endoplasmic reticulum, lysosome can be found in the cytoplasm, and phagocytized RBC. In the liver cirrhosis and liver cancer group, Mphi had more prominences, meanwhile much more mitochondria, ribosome, rough endoplasmic reticulum, lysosome can be found in the cytoplasm, especially in the liver cancer group. In the pulmonary metastasis group, the Mphi was swelling, with few organelle. As compared to the control group, the function of splenic Mphi increased in cirrhosis and cancer groups, but decreased in metastasis group (phagocytosis rate: (84.7 +/- 1.9)%, (89.5 +/- 3.1)%, and (36.0 +/- 2.6)% vs (75.6 +/- 1.7)%, P < 0.05, P < 0.01; viability: (1.53 +/- 0.15)%, (1. +/- 0.14)%, and (1.12 +/- 0.29)% vs (1.48 +/- 0.17)%, P < 0.05, P < 0.01; TNF-alpha secretion: (741.0 +/- 52.9)%, (1126.2 +/- 174.5)%, and (313.8 +/- 50.8)% vs (626.6 +/- 24.6)%, P < 0.05, P < 0.01; positive cell rate of antigen processing and presenting: (24.03 +/- 1.87)%, (27.95 +/- 2.63)%, and (10.46 +/- 2.16)% vs (16.45 +/- 1.86)%, P < 0.01).
In the stage of cirrhosis and early cancer, the immune functions of splenic Mphi were reinforced. It may promote the non-specificity tumor immunity. On opposite, in the stage of pulmonary metastasis, the immune functions of splenic Mphi were impaired. It may lead to the decrease of tumor immunity.
Studies in mice lacking genes encoding for substance P or its receptor (NK1), or with NK1 antagonists, have shown that this system contributes to nociception, but the data are complex. Here, we have further examined the role of NK1 receptors in pain and hyperalgesia by comparing nociceptive responses to mechanical and chemical stimulation of viscera and the resulting hyperalgesia and inflammation in NK1 knockout (-/-) and wild-type (+/+) mice. We concentrated on visceral nociception because substance P is expressed by a much greater proportion of visceral than cutaneous afferents. NK1 -/- mice showed normal responses to visceral mechanical stimuli, measured as behavioural responses to intraperitoneal acetylcholine or hypertonic saline or reflex responses to colon distension in anaesthetized mice, although -/- mice failed to encode the intensity of noxious colon distensions. In contrast, NK1 -/- mice showed profound deficits in spontaneous behavioural reactions to an acute visceral chemical stimulus (intracolonic capsaicin) and failed to develop referred hyperalgesia or tissue oedema. However, in an identical procedure, intracolonic mustard oil evoked normal spontaneous behaviour, referred hyperalgesia and oedema in -/- mice. The inflammatory effects of capsaicin were abolished by denervation of the extrinsic innervation of the colon in rats, whereas those of mustard oil were unchanged, showing that intracolonic capsaicin evokes neurogenic inflammation, but mustard oil does not. Tests of other neurogenic inflammatory stimuli in NK1 -/- mice revealed impaired behavioural responses to cyclophosphamide cystitis and no acute reflex responses or primary hyperalgesia to intracolonic acetic acid. We conclude that NK1 receptors have an essential role mediating central nociceptive and peripheral inflammatory responses to noxious stimuli that evoke neurogenic inflammation, and modulating responses to noxious mechanical stimuli. We propose that two separate hyperalgesia pathways exist, one of which is NK1 receptor dependent, whereas the other does not require intact substance P/NK1 signalling.
One of the major obstacles for cancer treatment is the toxic side effects of anti-cancer drugs. Doxorubicin (DOX) is one of the most widely used anti-cancer drugs, which produces significant toxic side effects on the heart and such organs as the liver. Because NAD(+) can decrease cellular or tissue damage under multiple conditions, we hypothesized that NAD(+) administration may decrease DOX-induced hepatotoxicity. In this study we tested this hypothesis by using a mouse model, showing that NAD(+) administration can significantly attenuate DOX-induced increase in serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase activity and decrease in liver weight. The NAD(+) administration also attenuated the DOX-induced increases in the levels of double-strand DNA (dsDNA) damage, TUNEL signals, and active caspase-3. Furthermore, our data has suggested that the NAD(+) administration could produce protective effects at least partially by restoring the antioxidation capacity of the liver, because NAD(+) administration can attenuate the decreases in both the GSH levels and the glutathione reductase activity of the DOX-treated liver, which could play a significant role in the DOX-induced hepatotoxicity. This finding has provided the first evidence indicating that NAD(+) is capable of increasing the antioxidation capacity of tissues. Collectively, our study has found that NAD(+) can significantly decrease DOX-induced liver damage at least partially by enhancing antioxidation capacity and decreasing dsDNA damage. Because it can also selectively decrease tumor cell survival, NAD(+) may have significant merits over antioxidants for applying jointly with DOX to decrease the toxic side effects of DOX.
Exposure of rodents to perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) induces pronounced hepatomegaly associated with significant alterations in hepatic histophysiology and immune status. The present investigation was designed to evaluate the effects of this perfluorochemical on immune-mediated liver damage. Accordingly, the influence of both sub-acute (10 days), moderate-dose (0.004%, w/w=6±1.3 mg/kg body weight/day) or short-term (28 days), low-dose (0.0001%, w/w=144±4 μg/kg body weight/day) dietary pretreatment with PFOS on the development of concanavalin A (Con A)-induced liver damage in mice was examined. With either regimen of exposure, PFOS exacerbated the acute liver damage caused by Con A, i.e., elevated serum levels of transaminases and led to more pronounced damage of hepatic tissue. This exacerbation was associated with either reduced (moderate dose) or unaltered (low dose) hepatic levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) and interferon gamma (IFN-γ). Moreover, hepatic DNA fragmentation was enhanced, particularly following short-term exposure to a low-dose. Our findings suggest that exposure to PFOS may sensitize hepatic parenchymal cells to other insults that activate the hepatic immune system and thereby exacerbate liver damage during acute inflammation.
Delusions of parasitosis is a rare psychiatric disorder in which the patient has a fixed, false belief that he or she is infested by parasites. Even though it is a psychiatric disorder, these patients usually present to a dermatologist because they are convinced that they have a dermatological problem. Patients with delusions of parasitosis generally reject psychiatric referral. The diagnosis of delusions of parasitosis can often be made on the basis of the history alone, but it is important to make sure that the patient does not have a organic skin disorder, and the delusion is not secondary to another mental or physical illness. The current treatment of choice is the antipsychotic medication pimozide. The principal difficulty in management is convincing patients to take the drug. This results from the obvious discrepancy between the patients' belief system and the clinician's understanding of the situation. The most common adverse effects of pimozide are extrapyramidal symptoms such as stiffness and, less frequently, a special inner sense of restlessness called akathisia. Effective treatment of such extrapyramidal reactions includes benztropine 1 to 2 mg up to 4 times daily as needed, or diphenhydramine 25 mg 3 times daily as needed. Pimozide can have cardiotoxic effects at high dosages. Traditionally, it has been recommended to check pretreatment and post-treatment electrocardiograms even for patients who have no history or cardiac conduction abnormalities or arrhythmia. However, a more recent publication questions the need for this if the patient takes < 10 mg/day, is not elderly, and has no history of cardiac arrhythmia. Effective dosages of pimozide for delusions of parasitosis have ranged from 1 to 10 mg/day. The lowest effective dosage of pimozide should be used for the shortest possible duration to minimize the risk of tardive dyskinesia developing in these patients. Significant improvements in quality of life have been achieved with successful treatment with pimozide. Atypical antipsychotics such as risperidone with a much safer adverse effect profile may prove to be effective for the treatment of delusions of parasitosis in the future.
The Veterans' Administration Cooperative Urological Research Group has conducted three consecutive randomized clinical trials of various treatments for all stages of prostatic carcinoma. Thus far, a total of 3774 patients have been entered into these three main studies. The first study showed that early endocrine treatment of patients with advanced prostatic cancer did not increase overall survival when compared to initial treatment with placebo alone. Diethylstilbestrol, when given in a dose of 5.0 mg/day, was associated with an increased incidence of cardiovascular deaths. In the second study, diethylstilbestrol given in a dose of 1.0 mg/day has been as effective as the 5.0-mg dose in controlling the prostatic carcinoma but has been associated with a lower incidence of cardiovascular deaths. Patients are still being entered into the third study and it is too early to report the findings in detail.
Fourteen subjects known to be corticosteroid responders participated in a double-masked, randomized study comparing the ocular hypertensive effect of 0.25% fluorometholone suspension with that of 0.1% dexamethasone sodium phosphate. Subjects instilled one drop of fluorometholone in one eye and one drop of dexamethasone in the fellow eye four times daily for up to six weeks. Although both medications increased intraocular pressure, endpoint substitution analysis demonstrated that mean intraocular pressure increases from baseline in the eyes treated with fluorometholone were significantly lower than those in the eyes treated with dexamethasone at weeks 2, 4, and 6 (P less than or equal to .05). Also, mean maximum intraocular pressure was significantly lower in the eyes treated with fluorometholone than in the eyes treated with dexamethasone (P = .001). These results indicated that 0.25% fluorometholone is less likely to increase intraocular pressure in corticosteroid responders than 0.1% dexamethasone.
Sulphasalazine is used for the long-term maintenance therapy of ulcerative colitis to prevent the relapse of symptoms. However, its clinical use is often restricted by its serious adverse effects.
Leucopenia occurred in a patient with severe renal dysfunction after administration of sulphasalazine. The present study was designed to examine whether the adverse event was associated with a disability in the metabolism of sulphasalazine.
A 29-year-old male patient with ulcerative colitis, who underwent haemodialysis thrice a week because of severe renal dysfunction. The chief complaint was diarrhoea.
Serum concentrations of three major metabolites of sulphasalazine, (5-aminosalicylic acid, sulphapyridine and N-acetyl-sulphapyridine), were measured. The polymorphism of N-acetyltransferase 2, an enzyme that metabolizes sulphapyridine, was also determined by polymerase chain reaction.
The trough levels of 5-aminosalicylic acid, sulphapyridine and N-acetyl-sulphapyridine were 0.77-1.45 microg/mL, 31.20-39.25 microg/mL and 14.19-15.03 microg/mL, respectively. The gene diagnosis of N-acetyltransferase 2 suggested that the type was classified as NAT2*6A/*7B, indicating that the patient was a slow acetylator.
The patient was a slow acetylator, which might lead to a rise in the serum sulphapyridine concentration. Moreover, the decrease in protein binding of sulphasalazine as a result of severe renal dysfunction might have potentiated the effect because of the extremely high protein binding of this compound. Thus, it is most likely that these two factors contributed to the sulphasalazine-induced leucopenia.
Aripiprazole (Abilify) is an atypical antipsychotic drug primarily characterized by partial agonist activity at dopamine (DA) D2 receptors and low side effects. Based on pharmacologic properties that include a stabilization of mesocorticolimbic DA activity, a pathway implicated in addiction, aripiprazole was tested for its ability to prevent relapse to cocaine seeking in rats.
We assessed the dose-dependent effects of aripiprazole on conditioned cue-induced and cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior following chronic intravenous cocaine self-administration in an animal model of relapse.
Aripiprazole potently and dose-dependently attenuated responding on the previously cocaine-paired lever during both reinstatement conditions, with slightly greater efficacy at reducing conditioned-cued reinstatement. Aripiprazole was effective at doses that failed to alter cocaine self-administration, food self-administration, reinstatement of food-seeking behavior, or basal locomotor activity, suggesting selective effects of aripiprazole on motivated drug-seeking behavior.
These results in a relapse model show that aripiprazole can block cocaine seeking without affecting other behaviors. The D2 partial agonist properties of aripiprazole likely account for the blockade of reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. Given its established efficacy and tolerability as a treatment for psychosis, aripiprazole may be an excellent therapeutic choice for reducing craving and preventing relapse in people with cocaine dependency.
Lower systemic toxicity reported with ropivacaine and levobupivacaine may produce less reliable recognition of inadvertent intravenous injection during regional anesthesia. This study was undertaken to determine whether ropivacaine and levobupivacaine are suitable for use as intravenous test doses by evaluating central nervous system (CNS) symptoms after intravenous bolus injection.
Institutional approval and informed consent were granted for the study. One hundred twenty patients scheduled to undergo elective surgery were randomly assigned to receive 5 ml intravenous saline, 100 mg lidocaine, 25 mg ropivacaine, or 25 mg levobupivacaine before anesthesia. Patients reported CNS symptoms after injection and were monitored for hemodynamic change.
Intravenous ropivacaine or levobupivacaine produced CNS symptoms in only 52% and 57% of patients, respectively, compared with 87% of patients after lidocaine (P < 0.02). Despite preparatory instruction, many patients receiving ropivacaine or levobupivacaine did not spontaneously volunteer symptoms because they were subtle and admitted symptoms only after in-depth questioning by the investigator.
Plain ropivacaine and levobupivacaine (25 mg) solutions are unsuitable for use as intravenous test doses during regional anesthesia because CNS symptoms are insufficient. When using ropivacaine or levobupivacaine for regional anesthesia, for test dose purposes, the authors recommend the addition of epinephrine to the local anesthetic solution or the use of a separate agent with more predictable CNS characteristics.
In a preliminary study, we found that lancemaside A, which is a main constituent of Codonopsis lanceolata used as an herbal medicine for inflammatory diseases, potently inhibits lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated, TLR-4-linked NF-kappaB activation of NF-kappaB luciferase reporter gene-transfected 293-hTLR4-hemagglutinin (HA) cells. Therefore, we investigated its inhibitory effect in 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in mice.
We measured the ability of lancemaside A to inhibit LPS-stimulated, TLR-4-linked NF-kappaB activation in human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells, as well as to inhibit colitis outcomes in TNBS-induced colitis in mice. We also measured levels of the inflammatory markers, interleukin (IL)-1beta, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and IL-6, and their transcription factor, NF-kappaB, in intestinal mucosa by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and immunoblotting.
Intrarectal treatment of TNBS in mice caused colon shortening and also increased colonic expression of IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha expression. Oral administration of lancemaside A (10 and 20 mg/kg), inhibited colon shortening and myeloperoxidase activity in TNBS-induced colitic mice and also decreased colonic expression of IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha. Lancemaside A inhibited NF-kappaB activation induced by TNBS, as well as the expression of cyclooxygenase 2 and TLR-4. Lancemaside A also reduced the activity of intestinal bacterial beta-glucuronidase that was induced by TNBS.
Lancemaside A ameliorates colitis via inhibition of TLR-4-linked NF-kappaB activation.
A malignant hepatoma occurred in a 12-year-old girl who eight years previously had developed an acute lymphoblastic leukaemia which for eight years had been in complete haematological remission. Fourteen months after the last re-induction treatment period had been discontinued, but while on methotrexate and 6-mercaptopurine maintenance, a hepatocellular liver carcinoma developed of which the patient died after a fulminating course, still in complete haematological remission. As far as is known, no direct carcinogenic effect can be ascribed to the two antimetabolites, but it must be assumed that these two drugs, taken by the patient for over seven years, led to cirrhosis of the liver whose malignant transformation was significantly influenced by the immunosuppressive effects of methotrexate and 6-mercaptopurine, given as maintenance therapy according to protocol 02 LA 64, Paris.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is specifically associated to a t(15; 17) translocation which fuses a gene encoding a nuclear receptor for retinoic acid, RARalpha, to a previously unknown gene PML. The PML protein is localized in the nucleus on a specific domain of unknown function (PML nuclear bodies, NB) previously detected with autoimmune sera from patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). These bodies are nuclear matrix-associated and all of their identified components (PML, Sp100, and NDP52) are sharply upregulated by interferons. We show that autoantibodies against both PML and Sp100 are usually associated in sera with multiple nuclear dot anti-nuclear antibodies and demonstrate that PML is an autoantigen, not only in PBC, but also in other autoimmune diseases. In APL, the PML/RARalpha fusion interferes with both the retinoic acid (RA) response and PML localization on nuclear bodies, but the respective contribution of each defect to leukemogenesis is unclear. RA induces the terminal differentiation of APL blasts, yielding to complete remissions, and corrects the localization of NB antigens. Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) also induces remissions in APL, seemingly through induction of apoptosis. We show that in APL, As2O3 leads to the rapid reformation of PML bodies. Thus, both agents correct the defect in NB antigen localization, stressing the role of nuclear bodies in the pathogenesis of APL.
