Carboplatin is a common chemotherapy agent with potential ototoxic side effects that is used to treat a variety of pediatric cancers, including retinoblastoma. Retinoblastoma is a malignant tumor of the retina that is usually diagnosed in young children. Distortion-product otoacoustic emission tests offer an effective method of monitoring for ototoxicity in young children. This study was designed to compare measurements of distortion-product otoacoustic emissions obtained before and after several courses of carboplatin chemotherapy in order to examine if (a) mean distortion-product otoacoustic emission levels were significantly different; and (b) if criterion reductions in distortion-product otoacoustic emission levels were observed in individual children.
A prospective repeated measures study. Ten children with a median age of 7.6 months (range, 3-72 months) diagnosed with unilateral or bilateral retinoblastoma were examined. Distortion-product otoacoustic emissions were acquired from both ears of the children with 65/55 dB SPL primary tones (f(2)=793-7996 Hz) and a frequency resolution of 3 points/octave. Distortion-product otoacoustic emission levels in dB SPL were measured before chemotherapy treatment (baseline measurement) and after 3-4 courses of chemotherapy (interim measurement). Comparisons were made between baseline and interim distortion-product otoacoustic emission levels (collapsed across ears). Evidence of ototoxicity was based on criterion reductions (≥ 6 dB) in distortion-product otoacoustic emission levels.
Significant differences between baseline and interim mean distortion-product otoacoustic emission levels were only observed at f(2) = 7996 Hz. Four children exhibited criterion reductions in distortion-product otoacoustic emission levels.
Mean distortion-product otoacoustic emission levels at most frequencies were not changed following 3-4 courses of carboplatin chemotherapy in children with retinoblastoma. However, on an individual basis, children receiving higher doses of carboplatin exhibited criterion reductions in distortion-product otoacoustic emission level at several frequencies. These findings suggest that higher doses of carboplatin affect outer hair cell function, and distortion-product otoacoustic emission tests can provide useful information when monitoring children at risk of developing carboplatin ototoxicity.
RWJ-241947 (MCC-555) is a novel peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ligand of the thiazolidinedione class that was recently developed as an antidiabetic drug with unique properties. Some thiazolidinediones have anticancer activity against solid and hematological malignancies; the anticancer potency of RWJ-241947 has not been examined. We, therefore, investigated these effects in vitro and in vivo either alone or in combination with other compounds.
Tumor growth was examined by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay, soft agar colony assay in vitro, and xenografts in nude mice. Its effects on cell cycle, differentiation, and apoptosis were examined.
In vitro studies using various solid and hematological tumor cell lines showed that RWJ-241947 had antiproliferative activity against prostate cancer cells, with the strongest effect against the androgen-independent PC-3 prostate cancer cells. It increased expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21(WAF1), deceased cyclin E, and induced apoptosis in PC-3 cells. It increased E-cadherin and lowered protein expression of prostate-specific antigen without down-regulating the androgen receptor in androgen-dependent LNCaP prostate cancer cells. Reporter gene assays showed that this peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ligand inhibited androgen activation of the androgen receptor response elements of the prostate-specific antigen gene. Remarkably, in vivo treatment of male beige/nude/X-linked immunodeficient (BNX) mice with RWJ-241947 profoundly suppressed growth of PC-3 prostate cancer xenografts with prominent apoptosis, as well as fibrosis, including inflammatory and giant cell reaction in the remaining tumor tissue. Notably, the experimented mice had a significantly decreased cholesterol. In addition, we studied the combination of arsenic trioxide (As2O3), which is used in the treatment of multiple myeloma, and RWJ-241947; these two reagents together prominently inhibited proliferation and caused apoptosis of multiple myeloma cells.
RWJ-241947 has surprisingly potent antiproliferative effects against prostate cancer cells in vivo, and it enhances the antitumor activity of As2O3 against myeloma cells. Small, well-defined clinical studies using RWJ-241947 are in order for these cancers.
Apert syndrome is 1 of the 5 craniosynostosis syndromes that shore clinical features and are caused by allelic mutations in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) gene. The purpose of this paper was to report a case of Apert syndrome, with particular emphasis on craniofacial and genetic features, in a 5-year-old female patient. The patient presented with several craniofacial deformities, including severe brachycephaly, midface hypoplasio, flat forehead, proptosis, hypertelorism, and short nose with a bulbous tip. Syndactylies of the hands and feet were also observed. Intraoral findings included arched palate with pseudocleft in the midline, upper lip with symmetric depression resembling pseudoclefts, severe malocclusion, and several decoyed teeth. DNA sequence and restriction enzyme analysis showed a G to C transversion, resulting in a serine to tryptophan amino acid substitution at position 252 (S252W). Identification of the clinical features associated with mutation analysis is important to correctly diagnose Apert syndrome and distinguish it from other clinically similar craniosynostosis syndromes.
The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effect of a cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor, nimesulide, on the growth inhibition of s.c. human lung A549 adenocarcinoma tumors and to assess the effect of nimesulide on the expression of COX-2 and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma in lung tumors harvested from mice.
Female nu/nu mice were xenografted with s.c. A549 lung tumors, and 1 day after tumor implantation, the mice were fed with a diet containing nimesulide at 250-1500 ppm doses. Tumor dimensions were monitored twice weekly, and tumor samples isolated from mice were used to determine prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) levels by enzyme immunoassay, expression of COX-2 and PPAR-gamma by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, the induction of apoptosis in tumor specimens was determined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end labeling staining.
Nimesulide treatment showed a dose-dependent growth-inhibitory effect of A549 tumors with a maximum of 77.7% inhibition at 1500 ppm of nimesulide. Western blotting experiments showed similar expression of COX-2 in both control and nimesulide (250-1500 ppm)-treated mice tumor tissues. PPAR-gamma was found to be overexpressed as a result of 1500 ppm nimesulide treatment and was not detected in tumors from control or 250-1000 ppm nimesulide-treated mice. Nimesulide (1500 ppm) significantly reduced intratumor PGE(2) levels (P < 0.001) and induced apoptosis in 25% of tumor cells as compared with control tumors.
Nimesulide (1500 ppm) induced growth inhibition of A549 lung tumors is associated with the reduction of intratumor PGE(2) levels but without affecting the expression of COX-2. Nimesulide-induced enhancement of the expression of PPAR-gamma may also contribute to its antitumor effect, which needs to be further investigated.
13-cis-Retinoic acid (cis-RA) has efficacy in the treatment and prevention of certain malignancies. In vitro effects against neuroblastoma include induction of differentiation, inhibition of proliferation, and decreased N-myc expression. We hypothesized that cis-RA may be effective against minimal residual disease in neuroblastoma patients. A phase I trial to determine the maximal tolerated dosage and toxicity of cis-RA in pediatric patients with neuroblastoma after bone marrow transplantation was initiated.
Forty-nine pediatric patients (status post-bone marrow transplant for neuroblastoma) were treated for 14 days with oral cis-RA in escalating doses from 100 to 200 mg/m2/day followed by a 14-day rest period for up to 12 months.
In three of 39 patients (7.7%) evaluable for calcium levels, hypercalcemia (12.6-18.7 mg/dl) was the dose-limiting toxicity. Grade 1-3 hypercalcemia occurred in nine of 39 patients (23%). The overall incidence of hypercalcemia was 31% (12 of 39). Only one patient was symptomatic due to the hypercalcemia, with arthralgias and myalgias. The hypercalcemia resolved with temporary discontinuation of the drug and a 25% dose reduction for subsequent courses.
Hypercalcemia is a novel dose-limiting toxicity for cis-RA. Patients receiving high doses of cis-RA should have monitoring of serum calcium levels.
Recent reports have established that eye changes occur in patients treated with vigabatrin.
To identify the eye changes associated with vigabatrin, based on a prospective study of children treated for seizures.
Twenty nine children on vigabatrin (mainly as add on therapy) were followed up for 6.5 years. Ophthalmic examination was performed before starting treatment and then six monthly in the outpatient clinic.
Twenty one children fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Most had epileptic syndromes with infantile spasms-namely West syndrome, Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, and partial seizures. Vigabatrin dose was 25-114 mg/kg/day (mean 55.8); duration of therapy was 6-85 months (mean 35.7). Four children (19%) developed eye changes (retinal pigmentation, hypopigmented retinal spots, vascular sheathing, and optic atrophy). Visual evoked potentials were abnormal in 16 children. Electroretinography and electro-oculography, which could have picked up eye changes in early stages, were not performed, as this facility was not available.
Vigabatrin causes eye damage. Most children with epileptic syndromes on vigabatrin cannot complain of their eye problems, hence 3-6 monthly ophthalmic follow up is strongly advised, along with regular electroretinography, electro-oculography, and visual evoked potentials if possible.
The efficacy of omeprazole in preventing gastric mucosal injury induced by hemorrhagic shock in rats and the putative mechanisms involved in this effect were investigated in the present study. Omeprazole did not affect mean arterial blood pressure under both basal conditions and induction of hemorrhagic shock, but it evoked a marked increase in Alcian blue recovery from gastric preepithelial mucus. The morphometric analysis of histological sections revealed that omeprazole caused a significant reduction of hemorrhagic shock-induced damage of gastric mucosa. Ranitidine, used as the reference drug, failed to affect mean arterial blood pressure, Alcian blue recovery from gastric mucus, or hemorrhagic shock-induced damage of gastric mucosa. Both omeprazole and ranitidine exerted a significant inhibition of gastric acid output from anesthetized pylorus-ligated rats. Overall, the present results indicate that omeprazole is effective in protecting gastric mucosa from necrotic damage induced by hemorrhagic shock and suggest that an enhancement of gastric mucus secretion contributes to this protective action.
Endometriosis is an estrogen-dependent disease. Steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1), a transcriptional factor essential for activation of multiple steroidogenic genes for estrogen biosynthesis, is undetectable in normal endometrial stromal cells and aberrantly expressed in endometriotic stromal cells.
The objective of the study was to unravel the mechanism for differential SF-1 expression in endometrial and endometriotic stromal cells.
We identified a CpG island flanking the SF-1 promoter and exon I region and determined its methylation patterns in endometrial and endometriotic cells.
The study was conducted at Northwestern University.
Eutopic endometrium from disease-free subjects (n = 8) and the walls of cystic endometriosis lesions of the ovaries (n = 8) were investigated.
Stromal cells were isolated from these two types of tissues.
Measures are mentioned in Results.
SF-1 mRNA and protein levels in endometriotic stromal cells were significantly higher than those in endometrial stromal cells (P < 0.001). Bisulfite sequencing showed strikingly increased methylation in endometrial cells, compared with endometriotic cells (P < 0.001). Demethylation by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine increased SF-1 mRNA levels by up to 55.48-fold in endometrial cell (P < 0.05). Luciferase assays showed that the -85/+239 region bearing the CpG island regulated its activity (P < 0.01). Natural or in vitro methylation of this region strikingly reduced SF-1 promoter activity in both cell types (P < 0.01). Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay showed that methyl-CpG-binding domain protein 2 binds to the SF-1 promoter in endometrial but not endometriotic cells.
This is the first demonstration of methylation-dependent regulation of SF-1 in any mammalian tissue. These findings point to a new mechanism for targeting local estrogen biosynthesis in endometriosis.
Injection of the antiepileptic drug, felbamate (2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate), into mice reduced in a dose-dependent manner (150-300 mg/kg i.p.) the isoniazid (200 mg/kg s.c.)-induced increase in ex vivo binding of t-[35S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate ([35S]TBPS) to cerebral cortical and hippocampal membranes. The same doses of felbamate reduced significantly the number of mice exhibiting isoniazid-induced seizures. A dose of felbamate (50 mg/kg) ineffective in isoniazid-treated mice completely antagonized the increase of [35S]TBPS binding elicited by FG 7142 (N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide), a benzodiazepine receptor inverse agonist. The above effects of felbamate resembled those of diazepam. Accordingly, the combination of ineffective doses of felbamate (50 mg/kg) and diazepam (0.2 mg/kg) elicited a marked decrease of [35S]TBPS binding. The results indicate that facilitation of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor function may play a role in the anticonvulsant action of felbamate.
Single-nucleotide polymorphisms in genes that affect warfarin metabolism (cytochrome P450 2C9 gene, CYP2C9) and response (vitamin K epoxide reductase complex 1 gene, VKORC1) have an important influence on warfarin therapy, particularly during initiation; however, there is a lack of consensus regarding the optimal pharmacogenetics-based initiation strategy. We conducted a prospective cohort study in which patients requiring warfarin therapy for atrial fibrillation or venous thromboembolism were initiated with a novel pharmacogenetics-initiation protocol (WRAPID, Warfarin Regimen using A Pharmacogenetics-guided Initiation Dosing) that incorporated loading and maintenance doses based on genetics, clinical variables, and response (n = 167, followed up for 90 days), to assess the influence of genetic variations on anticoagulation responses. Application of the WRAPID algorithm resulted in a negligible influence of genetic variation in VKORC1 or CYP2C9 on time to achievement of first therapeutic response (P = .52, P = .28) and risk of overanticoagulation (P = .64, P = .96). After adjustment for covariates, time to stable anticoagulation was not influenced by VKORC1 or CYP2C9 genotype. Importantly, time spent within or above the therapeutic range did not differ among VKORC1 and CYP2C9 genotype groups. Moreover, the overall time course of the anticoagulation response among the genotype groups was similar and predictable. We demonstrate the clinical utility of genetics-guided warfarin initiation with the WRAPID protocol to provide safe and optimal anticoagulation therapy for patients with atrial fibrillation or venous thromboembolism.
The antiarrhythmic effects of the quinoline derivative, quinetholate, on ouabain-induced tachycardia were compared with those of lidocaine and procainamide in dogs. In addition, the effects of these three agents on cardiac function were compared. Quabain was injected intravenously until ventricular ectopic beats accounted for at least 60% of the heart rate. Then one of the above antiarrhythmic agents was infused until sinus rhythm was reestablished for a minimum of 3 min or until it became evident that successful reversion would not occur. All three agents effectively reversed ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia in most instances. Quinetholate was especially consistent, causing 16 reversions out of a total of 17 experiments. The relative molar antiarrhythmic potencies of the three agents in responding animals were as follows: lidocaine = 1.0, procainamide = 1.5, and quinetholate = 3.1. Quinetholate caused the longest lasting reversions, i.e. usually lasting at least 30 min after infusion was stopped. The degree of cardiac depression caused by the three agents at their mean effective antiarrhythmic doses was determined using the left ventricular function curve method. Lidocaine produced a significant depression of the ventricular function curve at the antiarrhythmic dose while procainamide and quinetholate did not.
Altered expression and distribution of neurotransmitter receptors, including metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), constitute key aspects in epileptogenesis, impaired hippocampal excitability and neuronal degeneration. mGluR1 mediates predominantly excitatory effects, whereas mGluR4 acts as inhibitory presynaptic receptor. Increased hippocampal expression of mGluR1 and mGluR4 has been observed in human temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). In this study, we address whether genetic mGluR1 upregulation and mGluR4 knock-down influence seizure susceptibility and/or vulnerability of hippocampal neurons by analyzing transgenic animals in the pilocarpine TLE model. Therefore, we generated transgenic mice expressing mGluR1-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) fusion protein under control of the human cytomegalovirus (CMV) immediate early promoter. Status epilepticus (SE) was induced in (a) mice overexpressing mGluR1-EGFP and (b) mice deficient for mGluR4 (mGluR4 KO) as well as littermate controls. In the acute epileptic stage after pilocarpine application, mGluR4 KO mice showed a significant increase of severe seizure activity, in contrast to mGluR1 transgenics. Analysis of both transgenic mouse lines in the chronic epileptic phase, using a telemetric EEG-/video-monitoring system, revealed a significant increase in seizure frequency only in mGluR1-EGFP mice. In contrast, enhanced neuronal cell loss was only present in the hippocampus of epileptic mGluR4 KO mice. Our results suggest a role for mGluR1 in promoting seizure susceptibility as well as for mGluR4 to counteract excitatory activity and seizure-associated vulnerability of hippocampal neurons. Therefore, our data strongly recommend both mGluRs as potential drug targets to interfere with the development of hippocampal damage and seizure activity in TLE.
To report a case of visual hallucinations and psychomotor agitation probably induced by an interaction between venlafaxine and propafenone.
An 85-year-old woman was admitted for evaluation of a mood disorder on March 20, 2006. Her general practitioner had prescribed sertraline for treatment, which had started about 6 months earlier. The patient's medical history included hypertension, supraventricular tachycardia, chronic bronchitis, and arthritis, for which she received ramipril, ticlopidine, torsemide, theophylline, acetaminophen, and triazolam. The patient had also received propafenone 150 mg every 12 hours for 3 years. Results of biochemical tests were normal; however, a computed tomography (CT) scan of the brain showed signs of cortical atrophy. Sertraline was discontinued after a few days because of its reduced effectiveness and was replaced with extended-release venlafaxine 75 mg/day. No other changes to the patient's drug therapy were made. Four weeks later, because of the persistence of psychiatric disturbance, the venlafaxine dosage was increased to 150 mg/day. Ten days later the patient returned to our observation due to the onset of visual hallucinations lasting about 2 hours, especially at night, and psychomotor agitation. Venlafaxine was discontinued, with a complete remission of hallucinations and psychomotor agitation in about 4 days. The Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between venlafaxine and the patient's symptoms. Citalopram was started one month later for the persistence of mood disorders, with no adverse effects.
A CT scan documented signs of cortical atrophy in our patient's brain but excluded vascular brain injury, while clinical evaluation and anamnesis excluded a relationship between hallucinations and cortical atrophy. Genetic and pharmacologic factors may be involved in venlafaxine-induced adverse effects. Venlafaxine is metabolized primarily by CYP2D6 and is a substrate of P-glycoprotein. Propafenone, a known substrate and inhibitor of both CYP2D6 and P-glycoprotein, could therefore be involved in venlafaxine-induced hallucinations through the increase of venlafaxine plasma concentrations.
To prevent the onset of clinical disturbances during venlafaxine treatment, we suggest careful evaluation of concomitant treatment with CYP2D6 or P-glycoprotein inhibitors (eg, propafenone) and, when possible, venlafaxine serum concentration monitoring.
Arterial aneurysms are defined as localized abnormal dilatations in an arterial wall. We report the first case of multiple true aneurysms in the female breast in a patient with a history of chronic amphetamine abuse who presented with a probable subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH).
High-dose intravenous mannitol infusion in various clinical settings may result in acute renal failure (ARF). This form of ARF is characteristically anuric and follows a distinctive clinical course. Most importantly, it occurs only after high doses of mannitol (> 200 g/day or cumulative dose of > 400 g in 48 hours), but not at lower doses. It appears that a low dose of mannitol acts as a renal vasodilator while high-dose mannitol is renal vasoconstrictor. Mannitol-induced ARF responds promptly to hemodialysis with rapid resolution of anuria and recovery of renal failure. This is a report of a case of anuric ARF after high-dose mannitol infusion for treatment of narrow-angle glaucoma that readily responded to acute hemodialysis. The literature is also reviewed for ARF associated with mannitol infusion in patients who received dialysis and those who did not receive dialysis; and the possible mechanism(s) of mannitol nephrotoxicity are discussed. Hemodialysis should be performed for rapid reversal of mannitol-induced ARF. Patients not treated with hemodialysis have increased morbidity and significant prolongation of their hospital course.
Pulmonary endothelial cells have been demonstrated to have a critical role in the pathogenesis of radiation-induced lung injury. Our preliminary experiments indicated that paeoniflorin protected human EA.hy926 endothelial cells from radiation-induced oxidative injury. This study was designed to confirm the protective effect of paeoniflorin against radiation-induced endothelial cellular damage and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms. Preincubation of EA.hy926 cells with paeoniflorin before γ-radiation resulted in significant inhibition of apoptosis, a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and enhanced cell viability. In particular, we showed that paeoniflorin significantly reduced the formation of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), the level of malondialdehyde (MDA) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage, and enhanced production of the endogenous antioxidants, glutathione (GSH) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) in EA.hy926 cells. Treatment of these cells with paeoniflorin significantly induced HO-1 expression. Moreover, paeoniflorin promoted the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor erythroid 2 related factor-2 (Nrf-2). The paeoniflorin-induced HO-1 expression was abrogated by Nrf2 siRNA. Furthermore, inhibition of HO-1 with zinc protoporphyrin IX (ZNPP) significantly reversed the protective effect of paeoniflorin against radiation-induced damage in EA.hy926 cells. Our findings confirmed that paeoniflorin protected EA.hy926 cells against radiation-induced injury through the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway.
The neuroprotective effects of ergothioneine (EGT) against cisplatin toxicity were investigated both in vitro and in vivo. For in vitro study, two types of neuronal cells, primary cortical neuron (PCN) cells and rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells, were incubated with EGT (0.1-10.0 μM) for 2 h followed by incubation with 0.5 μM cisplatin for 72 h. Results show that cisplatin markedly decreased the proliferation of PC12 cells and strongly inhibited the growth of axon and dendrite of PCN cells, but these effects were significantly prevented by EGT. For in vivo study, CBA mice were orally administered with 2 or 8 mg EGT/kg body weight for 58 consecutive days and were injected i.p. with 5mg cisplatin/kg body weight on days 7, 9 and 11. We found that EGT significantly restored the learning and memory deficits in mice treated with cisplatin evaluated by active and passive avoidance tests. EGT also significantly prevented brain lipid peroxidation, restored acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and maintained glutathione/glutathione disulfide ratio in brain tissues of mice treated with cisplatin. These results demonstrate that EGT protects against cisplatin-induced neuronal injury and enhances cognition, possibly through the inhibition of oxidative stress and restoration of AChE activity in neuronal cells.
Rats and mice (8 animals per species per group) were injected subcutaneously or intraperitoneally with paradichlorobenzene (PDCB) at doses of 0, 100, 200 and 400 mg/kg/day, 4-5 days a week, for 8 weeks (for rats) and either 2 or 6 weeks (for mice). Prostate and seminal vesicle weights were significantly increased in PDCB-treated rats but not in mice. Major histopathologic injuries were not found in testis and epididymis of both species. Daily sperm production was depressed in both species in a dose-response manner. Serum testosterone levels were not significantly changed in both species. Sperm morphology was evaluated in rats intraperitoneally administered PDCB at a dose of 800 mg/kg. Abnormal sperms with reduced hook, bent neck, coiled flagellum, bent flagellum and bent flagellum tip were significantly increased in treated rats. In Hershberger assay, PDCB administration increased weights of ventral prostate gland, seminal vesicle, levator ani/bulbocavernosus muscle and glans penis in castrated rats, and also weights of ventral prostate gland and glans penis in castrated mice. PDCB and 2,5-dichlorophenol (the major metabolite) did not bind androgen receptor (AR) up to 10 mM. In conclusion, PDCB affects sperm production and morphology but is somewhat androgenic independently from AR binding in rats and mice.
In pentobarbital-anesthetized rats prepared for hemodynamic measurements with Doppler flow probes, intravenous (i.v.) infusions of fenoldopam (2.5 - 160.0 micrograms/kg/min during 15 min) decreased mean carotid artery blood pressure, total peripheral, hindquarter, renal, and mesenteric vascular resistances and increased renal blood flow strongly. The hypotensive effects attained a maximum within the first 3 min of infusion but waned by greater than 30% at the end of fenoldopam administration. This tolerance was observed for calculated total peripheral and hindquarter vascular resistances and to a lesser extent for mesenteric resistance. However, it was absent on the renal vascular bed. Pretreatment with either enalapril, pepstatine, or bilateral nephrectomy significantly increased the hypotensive response to fenoldopam and attenuated the development of tolerance. In conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), enalapril potentiated strongly the small blood pressure-lowering activity of fenoldopam. The fall in blood pressure produced by fenoldopam was specifically blocked by SCH 23390, an antagonist of DA-1 dopamine receptors. In normotensive vasopressin-supported pithed rats given phenoxybenzamine plus propranolol, fenoldopam, like SCH 23390, blocked the vasodepressor effects of i.v. bolus injection of dopamine and fenoldopam. In pithed rats, fenoldopam evoked a pressor response that was significantly reduced by enalapril, SCH 23390, or bilateral nephrectomy. In conclusion, fenoldopam exerts DA-1 agonist and antagonist effects. The latter property, together with the activation of the renin-angiotensin system, appears to be responsible for the development of tolerance to the fenoldopam evoked-hypotension. The lack of a tolerance at the level of the renal vascular bed is possibly due to the existence of a large population of DA-1 receptors in this region.
A case of subclinical disseminated intravascular coagulopathy due to antituberculosis drugs, probably rifampicin, is described. The patient also developed marked leucocytosis, a 'flu-like illness, intravascular haemolysis, and acute renal failure as part of the drug reaction.
1. Contribution of nitric oxide to the convulsive seizures induced by fluoroquinolones (FQs) coadministered with 4-biphenyl acetic acid (BPAA), the active metabolite of fenbufen, was assessed in mice. 2. Enoxacin + 4-biphenyl acetic acid caused clonic seizures in all treated mice, followed by tonic seizures and death. These events were associated with a significant increase in intracerebellar cyclic GMP. 3. Pretreatment with the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME), but not with D-NAME, significantly reduced the incidence of convulsions and lethality, as well as the increase in cyclic GMP. 4. Pretreatment with N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA)-receptor antagonist, MK-801, inhibited only the transition of clonic seizure to tonic seizure without affecting the incidence of clonic seizure and lethality. 5. These findings suggest that FQs + BPAA exert convulsions by activating NOS partly through the mediation of the NMDA receptor in the brain cells.
To report a case of myoclonus and delirium seen in a patient taking a combination of memantine and trimethoprim.
A 78-year-old woman was admitted to the medical center in October 2007 with rapid deterioration of Alzheimer's dementia and progressive myoclonus. In 2003, donepezil 5 mg/day had been initiated and her disease slowly progressed. In 2006, memantine 10 mg twice daily was added. Myoclonic activity and delirium were noted in 2007 when a urinary tract infection (UTI) was treated with double-strength trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX 160 mg/800 mg). After discontinuation of TMP/SMX, the patient's condition returned to baseline level. Several weeks later, trimethoprim 100 mg daily was added for UTI prophylaxis. Within weeks, spontaneous generalized myoclonic activity resumed to the extent that the patient was unable to walk. She became increasingly delirious. A week before admission, levodopa/carbidopa 250 mg/100 mg was added for presumptive restless legs syndrome and the patient became extremely delirious and combative, requiring hospitalization. Because of the striking similarity of dose-related toxicities reported with amantadine, a slightly different aminoadamantane, memantine was withheld. Trimethoprim was discontinued due to a likely interaction with memantine. Donepezil and famotidine were withheld due to questions of therapeutic necessity. After 3 days, the myoclonus had completely resolved and the patient was no longer agitated or combative during the remainder of her hospitalization. She was cooperative and ambulatory and was discharged.
Memantine is cleared primarily through the kidneys and should be renally dosed. Drugs that interfere with elimination-that is, other drugs utilizing the organic cation transporter-2 in the tubule, such as trimethoprim, metformin, or imipramine-may lead to drug accumulation. Our patient, who had impaired renal function, developed severe myoclonus and delirium after trimethoprim was added to therapy with memantine. As there were no reports of myoclonus and delirium with this drug combination and because of the structural, pharmacologic, and pharmacokinetic similarities between the aminoadamantanes memantine and amantadine, we researched similar dual adverse effects reported with amantadine. Amantadine has led to the same adverse effects noted in our patient, not only in patients with renal impairment, but also in one patient when trimethoprim was added to a stable dose of amantadine.
This is the first reported case of a drug interaction between memantine and trimethoprim, which resulted in clinically significant myoclonus and delirium. Clinicians should be aware of this potential interaction, since there have been reports of this adverse effect with the use of amantadine. Because memantine chemically and pharmacologically resembles amantadine, it is quite possible that their toxicities are similar.
Anemarrhena asphodeloides Bunge (AA, family Liliaceae), which primarily contains xantones, such as mangiferin, and steroidal saponins, such as timosaponin AIII and sarsasapogenin, has been used as an anti-pyretic, anti-inflammatory, anti-diabetic, anti-platelet aggregation, and anti-depressant agent in traditional Chinese medicine. In the present study, the memory-enhancing effects of these saponins were investigated in scopolamine-treated mice. Among saponins, timosaponin AIII (TA3) significantly reversed the scopolamine-induced deficits in a passive avoidance test and in the Morris water maze test. TA3 also increased hippocampal acetylcholine levels in scopolamine-treated mice and dose-dependently inhibited acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity (IC(50) value, 35.4 microM). When TA3 (50 mg/kg) was orally administered to mice and its blood concentration was measured by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry, the C(max) of TA3 occurred 4-6 h after TA3 treatment. The memory-enhancing effect of TA3 was greater when it was administered 5 h before the acquisition trial than 1 h before. Scopolamine treatment in mice increased brain levels of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta expression. However, treatment with TA3 and scopolamine inhibited the increase of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta expression. These results suggest that scopolamine may cause learning and memory deficits that are further complicated by inflammation. TA3 also inhibited the activation of NF-kappaB signaling in BV-2 microglia and in SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells induced with TNF-alpha or scopolamine. Nevertheless, TA3 may ameliorate memory deficits, mainly by inhibiting AChE.
Dideoxycytidine (ddC) and dideoxyinosine (ddI) are nucleoside derivatives that exhibit antiretroviral activity against the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Both of these agents are under active investigation as potential therapies for patients with HIV infection. In addition, both drugs may be obtained for HIV-infected individuals who cannot tolerate zidovudine. A major focus of the research effort involving these agents has been to define their toxicities. Both agents may cause peripheral neuropathy. We wish to report a patient who developed severe neuropathy following the administration of ddI that was given shortly after the patient was removed from a clinical trial of ddI. The rapid development of toxicity indicates that this side effect is additive or synergistic for these agents.
Sequence analysis of mitochondrial and nuclear candidate genes of complex I in children with deficiency of this complex and exhibiting Leigh-like syndrome has revealed, in one of them, a novel mutation in the NDUFS4 gene encoding the 18 kDa subunit. Phosphorylation of this subunit by cAMP-dependent protein kinase has previously been found to activate the complex. The present mutation consists of a homozygous G-->A transition at nucleotide position +44 of the coding sequence of the gene, resulting in the change of a tryptophan codon to a stop codon. Such mutation causes premature termination of the protein after only 14 amino acids of the putative mitochondrial targeting peptide. Fibroblast cultures from the patient exhibited severe reduction of the rotenone-sensitive NADH-->UQ oxidoreductase activity of complex I, which was insensitive to cAMP stimulation. Two-dimensional electrophoresis showed the absence of detectable normally assembled complex I in the inner mitochondrial membrane. These findings show that the expression of the NDUFS4 gene is essential for the assembly of a functional complex I.
