In the present study we show that the endogenous opioid systems play a modulating role in cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior in rats. We investigated the effect of blockade of opioid receptors on reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior by cocaine priming. Drug-naive rats were allowed to initiate self-administration behavior of cocaine (30 and 60 mug per infusion, i.v.) for 5 consecutive daily sessions, and after a 5-day extinction period during which the rats did not receive cocaine, a test for cocaine-induced (1 mg/kg, i.v.) reinstatement followed. The effect of cocaine priming was tested on days 1, 3, and 5 after extinction, while on days 2 and 4 the animals received saline priming. Before each daily reinstatement test, different groups of animals received an injection with the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (3 mg/kg, s.c.) or with placebo. We observed that cocaine readily reinstated extinguished responding in the rats, and that this reinstatement responding did not change over the consecutive reinstatement tests. Pretreatment with naltrexone progressively attenuates the cocaine-induced reinstatement, with a significant reduction on days 3 and 5 of reinstatement testing. Discriminative lever-pressing (active versus inactive lever) during reinstatement phase, however, remains present in animals treated with naltrexone. This implies that repeated opioid receptor blockade progressively attenuates cocaine-induced drug-seeking behavior in abstained animals, but this cannot simply be attributed to extinction of cocaine-seeking behavior.
Sodium o-phenylphenate (OPP-Na), a urinary bladder carcinogen in rats, and another fungicide, thiabendazole (TBZ) were fed separately or simultaneously to F344/DuCrj rats of both sexes. The rats were fed one of six diets, either the basal (control) diet or basal diet containing 0.2% TBZ (group T), 1% OPP-Na (1% SO), 2% OPP-Na (2% SO), 1% OPP-Na plus 0.2% TBZ (1% SO-T) or 2% OPP-Na plus 0.2% TBZ (2% SO-T) for 13 or 65 wk. In the 13-wk study, in which groups of ten rats of each sex were used, urinary bladder tumours appeared in 8/10 males in each of three groups--the 2% SO, 1% SO-T and 2% SO-T groups--but not in the remaining animals. Of these tumours, carcinoma accounted for 3/8 tumours in the 2% SO group, 2/8 in the 1% SO-T group and 8/8 in the 2% SO-T group. In the 65-wk study, in which groups of 15 rats were used, the tumour incidence in males was 1/15 in the T group and 15/15, 12/15 and 14/15 in the 2% SO, 1% SO-T and 2% SO-T groups, respectively, while in the females, tumours were found in 2/15, 1/15 and 12/15 animals in the 2% SO, 1% SO-T and 2% SO-T groups, respectively. Of these tumours, carcinoma accounted for 10/15, 11/12 and 10/14 in the males of the 2% SO, 1% SO-T and 2% SO-T groups, respectively, and for 1/2 and 6/12 in the 2% SO and 2% SO-T females, respectively. The tumour incidences in the 1% SO-T males in the two studies and in the 2% SO-T females in the 65-wk study showed a statistically significant increase over those in the 1% SO males or the 2% SO females. Thus, TBZ apparently enhanced the carcinogenic effects of OPP-Na in the rat urinary bladder.
Almotriptan is a highly specific 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist, which acts selectively on blood vessels of the brain. Short-term studies have demonstrated that almotriptan provides rapid, effective and reliable relief of migraine attacks, while offering excellent tolerability.
To assess the long-term tolerability and efficacy of oral almotriptan 12.5 mg administered for every migraine attack over a 1-year period.
A total of 762 patients treated 13,751 attacks (1-97 per patient); 61.5% of attacks were treated with one 12.5-mg dose, while for 38.5% of attacks, patients took a second dose within 24 h.
Three hundred and ninety-one patients (51.3%) experienced a total of 1,617 adverse events (AEs). The majority (88.6%) of AEs were of mild-to-moderate intensity, and only 28.8% of AEs were considered to be related to the study drug. Only 2 patients experienced serious AEs possibly related to almotriptan, syncope and chest pain; both recovered without any sequelae. Patients reported at least 1 AE in 11% of attacks treated. The incidence of AEs decreased during the study. Only 6 (0.8%) study withdrawals were due to AEs considered to be related to almotriptan. Tolerability was not compromised in patients taking 2 doses of almotriptan or in those using migraine prophylactics. Patient age or sex did not influence the incidence of AEs. There was no evidence of tachyphylaxis in those patients completing the study. Pain relief at 2 h after the initial dose was achieved in 84.2% of moderate/severe attacks. Patients were pain free at 2 h after dose in 58.2% of all attacks. Older patients (> 40 years) tended to respond better than younger ones (< 40 years). Efficacy was not modified by use of migraine prophylactics or hormonal contraceptives. Efficacy measurements were consistent on treating repeated moderate/severe migraine attacks.
This large, open study indicates that the new, specific 5-HT(1B/1D) agonist almotriptan, at a dose of 12.5 mg, is a well tolerated and effective treatment for migraine pain when used over a period of up to 1 year.
Although it is rare, diclofenac, a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug, may cause severe liver damage,sometimes with a fatal outcome. We report the first case of a patient who developed severe reversible liver damage after a percutaneous administration of diclofenac.
Wilson disease (WD) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by defects in the copper-transporting P-type ATPase gene (ATP7B) resulting in the accumulation of copper in the liver and the brain. We identified prevalent mutations in the ATP7B of Indian WD patients and attempted to correlate those with the disease phenotype. Patients from 62 unrelated families and their first-degree relatives comprising 200 individuals were enrolled in this study. Three dinucleotide repeat markers flanking WD locus and a few intragenic SNPs were used to determine the genotypes and construct haplotypes of the patients. Seven recurring haplotypes accounting for 58% of the total mutant chromosomes were identified, and four underlying defects in the ATP7B representing 37% of WD chromosomes were detected. In addition, five other rare mutations were characterized. Thus a total of nine mutations including five novel changes were identified in the ATP7B of WD patients. Interestingly, homozygotes for different mutations that would be expected to produce similar defective proteins showed significant disparity in terms of organ involvement and severity of the disease. We also observed WD patients with neurological symptoms with little or no manifestation of hepatic pathogenesis. In one WD family, the proband and a sib had remarkably different phenotypes despite sharing the same pair of mutant chromosomes. These findings suggest a potential role for yet unidentified modifying loci for the observed phenotypic heterogeneity among the WD patients.
p53 Mutations are very common in human hepatocellular carcinoma, and induction of hepatic p53 expression causes lysis of implanted hepatoblastoma cells in a chimeric mouse. Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated (ATM) kinase senses DNA strand breaks and induces p53. Our aims were to establish whether ATM deficiency alters the carcinogenic response of hepatocytes to diethylnitrosamine (DEN).
Male ATM-deficient (ATM(-/-)), heterozygote (ATM(+/-)), and wild-type (WT) mice were injected with DEN at age 15 days, and animals were killed up to 12 months to assess p53, cell cycle, apoptosis, and liver tumor development.
Whereas >80% of WT and ATM(+/-) mice developed hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), at 9-12 months, ATM(-/-) mice remained refractory to DEN-induced HCC up to 15 months. At 6 and 9 months, and compared with WT mice, p53 and p19(ARF) expression were greatly enhanced in ATM(-/-) liver associated with up-regulation of ATR and Chk1; cleaved caspase-3 immunohistochemistry and caspase-3 activity were also significantly increased. Whereas livers of DEN-treated ATM(-/-) mice showed markers of senescence (beta-galactosidase, Cxcl-1), up-regulation of telomerase occurred concurrently. The possibility that such balanced senescence could result in immortalization was demonstrated in hepatocytes prepared at 9 months from DEN-treated ATM(-/-) liver.
Hepatocarcinogenesis is abrogated in ATM-deficient mice in association with induction of ATR, Chk1, p53, and p19(ARF). Resultant cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of DNA-damaged cells are possible mechanisms that underlie this unique "refractoriness" to malignant transformation in DEN-initiated ATM(-/-) hepatocytes. The findings also show that prolonged up-regulation of p53 associated with some features of senescence does not inevitably cause organ failure.
Clinical and morphological findings recorded in an 81-year-old woman patient with a 45-year history of rheumatoid arthritis treated with long-term chloroquine therapy are reported. The cause of death was low cardiac output syndrome, which upon autopsy and postmortem toxicological analyses was classified as vacuolar chloroquine-induced cardiomyopathy. The pathogenesis and the morphological and clinical characteristics of cardiotoxic effects of chloroquine are reviewed.
Small doses of initiators, such as the nitrosamines, are present in the diet and man is also exposed to promoters, such as phenobarbitone or alcohol. A simple two-stage model of rat hepatocarcinogenesis with a single ip dose of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) as the initiator and sodium phenobarbitone or ethanol given in the drinking-water for 12-18 months as the promoter was used to investigate dose-response relationships for initiation and promotion. Phenobarbitone given alone for 12 months had no carcinogenic effect on rat liver. Low doses of DEN, given prior to phenobarbitone promotion, resulted in the formation of hyperplastic nodules, but only the high dose of DEN (30 mg/kg) resulted in carcinoma formation. Basophilic foci showed a dose-response relationship with DEN and it is suggested that these may be more important than nodules in carcinoma formation and that they represent a heterogeneous group. Only the top concentration of phenobarbitone (1000 micrograms/ml) promoted carcinoma initiated by 30 mg DEN/kg although lower doses of phenobarbitone produce significant enzyme induction. A weak enzyme inducer, 5% ethanol, was as effective a promoter as 1000 micrograms phenobarbitone/ml. Enzyme induction and tumour formation are therefore not directly related. Commencing top-dose phenobarbitone promotion 10 months after the single dose of DEN led to tumour formation, demonstrating the persistence of DEN-initiated cells. The significance to man of the apparent thresholds for tumour initiation and promotion is discussed.
We studied the effects of 6-week treatment with nifedipine (35 mg/kg/day orally, p.o.) on streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Injection of STZ [45 mg/kg intravenously, (i.v.) single dose] produced a significant increase in blood pressure (BP), bradycardia, hyperglycemia, hypoinsulinemia, hyperlipidemia, hypothyroidism, depression in left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP), cardiomyopathy, and nephropathy. Treatment of diabetic rats with nifedipine normalized the BP and prevented bradycardia. Insulin levels were decreased after nifedipine treatment in diabetic as well as nondiabetic rats. However, serum glucose levels were also partially decreased in diabetic animals by nifedipine treatment. In control animals as well, glucose levels were in the normal range despite lower insulin levels observed after nifedipine treatment. Nifedipine treatment significantly prevented STZ-induced increase in cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Nifedipine treatment significantly prevented STZ-induced hypothyroidism and also prevented STZ-induced cardiac depression and cardiomyopathy. Our data indicate that nifedipine increases insulin sensitivity and has some beneficial effects on cardiovascular parameters. It may therefore be considered a preferred drug in the treatment of hypertension associated with diabetes mellitus.
We describe a 47-year-old woman with severe aplastic anemia with genital bleeding who developed acute severe hepatitis after the administration of danazol while she was receiving cyclosporin. She had been diagnosed with severe aplastic anemia 1 year previously and, while hospitalized, had received methyl prednisolone pulse therapy, which was not successful. She was then referred to our hospital. She was treated with antithymocyte globulin, cyclosporin, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and methyl prednisolone; a good response was achieved after 3 months of this therapy. Subsequently, oral administration of cyclosporin was continued, but she was readmitted to our hospital when pancytopenia gradually developed and the genital bleeding recurred. Danazol was administered for pancytopenia and endometriosis. Four days after the first administration of danazol, epigastric pain occurred, and the danazol was stopped. Eighteen days after the first danazol administration, very severe hepatic injury occurred abruptly. The patient died of hepatic failure. Postmortem examination revealed centrilobular massive necrosis of the liver. Danazol was implicated as the agent responsible for causing the hepatic failure. Drug interactions between danazol and cyclosporin may cause adverse effects.
Although cocaine use and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection have been linked with clinical cardiovascular disease, the effects of cocaine use and HIV infection, especially the combination of the 2, on subclinical disease have rarely been reported. The objective of this study was to evaluate whether cocaine use alone, HIV infection alone, or a combination of the 2 is associated with coronary calcification, a marker of subclinical atherosclerosis.
Between May 20, 2000, and March 31, 2003, 224 black study participants from Baltimore were enrolled in an observational study of subclinical atherosclerosis as related to HIV and cocaine use. Interviews about sociodemographic characteristics and drug use behaviors, clinical examinations, echocardiographic examinations, lipid profiles, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein tests, and computed tomographic scans for coronary calcium were performed. Although the overall investigation is a cohort study, the data presented herein are cross sectional only.
The highest proportion (37.6%) of presence of coronary calcification was in the HIV-positive and cocaine-positive group, followed by 29.8% in the HIV-negative and cocaine-positive group, 28.6% in the HIV-positive and cocaine-negative group, and 18.8% in the HIV-negative and cocaine-negative group. Univariate analysis showed that HIV, cocaine use, and both were associated with a higher number of lesions, calcified area, volume, and calcium score. In multiple regression analysis with adjustment for age, body mass index, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level, triglyceride level, mean corpuscular volume, and systolic blood pressure, HIV, cocaine use, and both were independently associated with coronary calcification.
These results suggest that HIV infection alone, cocaine use alone, or the 2 combined may contribute to early subclinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
The current study was designed to determine whether castration with or without testosterone replacement resulted in changes in cardiac sympathetic nerve activity in rats with heart failure induced by isoproterenol. At eight weeks post-castration, dysfunction of the cardiac sympathetic nerve system was aggravated as indicated by elevated plasma norepinephrine, reduced myocardial norepinephrine content and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein. These effects of castration were reversed by testosterone replacement, as indicated by decreased plasma norepinephrine, increased myocardial norepinephrine and density of TH-labeled nerve fibers, as well as by an upregulated expression of myocardial TH protein. We also explored whether the neuroprotective effect of testosterone was influenced by the antiandrogen, flutamide. Interestingly, flutamide failed to block these testosterone-induced neuroprotective effects on the cardiac sympathetic nervous system in castrated rats with heart failure. These results provide the first evidence that endogenous testosterone deprivation in rats significantly worsened cardiac sympathetic function during pathophysiological changes associated with heart failure, and testosterone replacement reversed these adverse effects. These neuroprotective effects of testosterone, may, in part, be mediated through an upregulation in TH protein, but do not appear to involve the androgen receptor. Therefore, androgens may play an important role in modulating pathophysiological changes in the cardiac sympathetic nervous system that result from heart failure and our findings suggest the potential for beneficial effects of testosterone in the treatment of this condition.
Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) is a severe form of polycystic kidney disease characterized by enlarged kidneys and congenital hepatic fibrosis. Given the poor prognosis for the majority of children with the severe perinatal ARPKD phenotype, there is a regular request for prenatal testing. ARPKD is caused by mutations in the polycystic kidney and hepatic disease 1 (PKHD1) gene, which consists of 86 exons that are variably assembled into a number of alternatively spliced transcripts. The longest transcript, comprising 67 exons, encodes the protein fibrocystin/polyductin. We have set up mutation analysis by direct sequencing of these 67 exons. In 39 mainly Dutch families we identified: 11 nonsense mutations, 15 deletions/insertions, 5 splice site mutations, and 39 missense mutations. To classify missense variants we combined evolutionary conservation, using the human, chimpanzee, dog, mouse, chicken and frog Pkhd1 sequences, with the Grantham score for chemical differences. Thirty-three missense mutations were considered pathogenic and seven were classified as rare, probably pathogenic variants. In addition to sequence analysis, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) was used to identify multiple exon deletions. However, no large deletions in the PKHD1 gene were identified. In 31 index patients two mutations were found, in 6 patients one mutation was found, leading to a mutation detection rate of 87%. The analysis of amino acid conservation as well as applying the Grantham score for chemical differences allowed us to determine the pathogeneity for nearly all new missense mutations and thus proved to be useful tools to classify missense variants.
Human lung cancer patients exhibit different KRAS mutations depending on smoking status. In a mouse model of human cancer, A/J and BALB/cBy mice treated with the tobacco carcinogen, 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA), followed by butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT)-elicited chronic inflammation develop a high multiplicity of lung tumors.
DNA was isolated from MCA-induced lung tumors in A/J and BALB/cByJ mice. Kras codon 12 sequences from these tumors were compared to those in human lung tumors from smokers and never-smokers.
The distribution of Kras codon 12 mutations in MCA-induced A/J lung tumors is strikingly similar to those found in adenocarcinomas from human smokers. In contrast, codon 12 mutations in BALB/cBy mice contain predominantly G --> D mutations, which is the most common mutation in never smokers.
A single lung carcinogen induces different tumor initiating mutations in different strains of mice. This may be useful for investigating the role of specific KRAS mutations in adenocarcinoma pathogenesis in smokers versus never smokers, identifying mechanisms that select for certain KRAS mutations and developing new drugs that specifically target cells with different KRAS mutations.
Secretion curves for prolactin, cortisol, TSH, and GH from a 37-year old woman with dysthymia and panic disorder with agoraphobia were determined one day prior to (day I), and during a panic attack (day II) associated with an oral dose of 60 mg dl-fenfluramine, a drug known to increase anticipatory anxiety. The increased cortisol secretion observed is discussed in relation to the hormonal correlates of anxiety and the possible role of depression, dl-fenfluramine, and serotonergic receptor sensitivity.
Changes of cardiac M2-muscarinic receptor (M2-mAChR) gene expression was investigated in type-1 like diabetic rats induced by intravenous injection of streptozotocin (STZ) and type-2 like diabetic rats induced by fed with fructose-rich chow. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) in STZ-diabetic rats was significantly lower than that in age-matched non-diabetic rats, while the SBP in type-2 like diabetic rats was higher than in non-diabetic rats. Also, the mRNA or protein level of cardiac M2-mAChR in STZ-diabetic rats was markedly higher than non-diabetic rats, but it was not observed in type-2 like diabetic rats as compared to age-matched non-diabetic rats. Arecaidine propargyl ester (APE), the agonist of M2-mAChR, produced a marked reduction of heart rate in STZ-diabetic rats but made less influence on heart rate in fructose-fed rats or non-diabetic rats. The results suggest that cardiac M2-mAChR gene expression is raised in type-1 like diabetic rats but not in type-2 like diabetic rats, this difference mainly due to hyperglycemia, for the production of hypotension in diabetic disorders.
We report two sisters who both have had severe attacks of urticaria and angioedema only when taking the contraceptive pill and during the latter half of pregnancy. Although they exhibited many features in common with hereditary angioedema (HAO), the C1 esterase inhibitor levels and other complement components were consistently normal, including levels measured during pregnancy and at the height of the eruption after oestrogen challenge. Aetiological factors in relation to other patterns and causes of urticaria are discussed.
1 Pindolol and propranolol were administered orally in equipotent antihypertensive doses to 14 subjects with mild to moderate hypertension in an open cross-over study. 2 Pindolol caused a smaller decrease in plasma renin activity and heart rate than propranolol. 3 Glomerular filtration rate and effective renal plasma flow remained unchanged during therapy with either agent.
1 In a double-blind study, 36 patients with essential hypertension were randomly allocated to treatment with either metoprolol, 100--300 mg/day, or pindolol, 5--15 mg/day for 6 months. Haemodynamic investigations were made on three separate occasions. Blood flow in the calves and in the forearm was determined by venous occlusion plethysmography after 6 weeks of placebo, after 6 weeks and again after 6 months of active therapy. 2 Both drugs reduced blood pressure significantly, by 17.1/11.8 mm Hg with metoprolol and 21.9/10.9 mm Hg with pindolol after 6 weeks (P less than 0.005). No further changes were seen after 6 months. 3 Heart rate after 6 weeks was significantly reduced by metoprolol (10.7 +/- 2.4 beats/min, P less than 0.001) but not by pindolol (4.4 +/- 2.3 beats/min, NS). After 6 months a significant reduction was seen also in the pindolol group (5.2 +/- 2.1 beats/min, P less than 0.05). 4 The vascular resistance in the calves at rest was reduced by pindolol (P less than 0.05), whereas resistance tended to increase with metoprolol. 5 Resting vascular resistance in the forearm after 6 months was significantly reduced in the metoprolol group (P less than 0.001) as well as in the pindolol group (P less than 0.02). The increase in forearm vascular resistance seen during leg exercise was not influenced by either drug. 6 Vascular resistance at maximal vasodilatation was unchanged in the calves, but a significant reduction (-17.4 +/- 5.7%, P less than 0.01) in the forearm vascular bed was seen after 6 months of pindolol. No change was observed with metoprolol. 7 It is concluded that pindolol reduces elevated blood pressure partly through peripheral vascular mechanism. Metoprolol, on the other hand, probably acts mainly via central cardiac mechanisms.
We studied the long-term efficacy of adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) treatment in 42 HBeAg-negative patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) who had developed genotypical lamivudine (LAM) resistance with virological and clinical breakthroughs under long-term LAM treatment. Patients were allocated in 2 treatment groups. In the first (n = 14), LAM was switched to ADV monotherapy whereas in the second (n = 28) ADV was added to LAM. The two groups did not differ in patients' characteristics, all of them having HBV genotype D infection with the precore stop codon mutation. Within 12 months from start of ADV treatment, serum HBV DNA became nondetectable and ALT normalized in 71% and 90% of patients, respectively, with no difference between the 2 arms. Patients with baseline HBV DNA levels less than 10(7) copies/ml experienced a significantly earlier and more frequent decline in serum HBV DNA to nondetectable levels as compared with patients with greater than 10(7) HBV DNA copies/ml at baseline (P = 0.0013) This response has hitherto been maintained (median treatment duration 40 months) in all patients with ADV added to LAM, whereas virological and biochemical breakthroughs due to development of ADV signature resistance mutations occurred in 3 of 14 patients (21%) on ADV monotherapy 15 to 18 months from start of treatment (P = 0.0174).
Adding ADV to LAM in HBeAg-negative CHB patients with LAM resistance effectively suppresses HBV replication inmost of them and induces biochemical remission that can be maintained in all of them at least for 3 years without any evidence of development of resistance to ADV.
In an 8-week, double-blind, randomized, active-controlled, multicenter study with three parallel treatment groups, we compared the efficacy and safety of once-daily 20 mg quinapril plus 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) with each drug as monotherapy in patients with moderate to severe hypertension. Hypertensive out-patients with supine diastolic blood pressure (DBP) > or = 105 and < or = 120 mm Hg at the end of a 2- to 4-week placebo-baseline period were randomly assigned to one of the treatment groups. Of the 323 patients who were randomized to double-blind medication, 297 completed the study, but 6 patients were excluded for violations of protocol; therefore, statistical analysis was performed in 291 patients. Only 7 patients withdrew owing to lack of efficacy (2 receiving combination therapy). In all three treatment groups, clinically significant reductions in DBP were achieved. Combination therapy was statistically more effective than each component in both evaluable data and intent-to-treat analyses. The incidence of adverse events (AE) was 24% in the quinapril monotherapy group, 14% in the combination therapy group, and 11% in the HCTZ monotherapy group. Orthostatic hypotension with related symptoms was observed in 4 patients (2 receiving quinapril monotherapy, 1 receiving HCTZ monotherapy, and 1 receiving combination therapy). Once-daily quinapril plus HCTZ provided increased reduction of DBP as compared with the monotherapies and was well tolerated in patients with moderate to severe hypertension.
To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, clinical trials, and safety of icatibant, a recently approved bradykinin B(2) receptor antagonist for treatment of acute attacks of hereditary angioedema (HAE).
Articles indexed in MEDLINE (1948-June 2012), International Pharmaceutical Abstracts (1970-May 2012), and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (1981-June 2012) were identified using the search terms icatibant, bradykinin B(2) receptor antagonist, and hereditary angioedema. Additional references were identified from the reference lists of the articles identified.
English-language articles were reviewed.
Icatibant was evaluated in 3 Phase 3 clinical trials and found to be a safe and effective option for treatment of acute HAE. Icatibant was compared to placebo in 2 clinical trials (FAST-1 and FAST-3) and to tranexamic acid in the FAST-2 trial. Patients receiving icatibant in FAST-1 did not experience a significant improvement in median time to clinically significant relief of the index symptom (p = 0.14), whereas patients receiving icatibant in FAST-3 experienced a significant improvement in median time to at least 50% reduction in symptom severity (p < 0.001). When icatibant was compared to tranexamic acid in FAST-2, the median time to clinically significant relief of the index symptom was shorter for patients receiving icatibant (p < 0.001). The most common adverse events associated with the administration of icatibant were injection-site reactions, which were mild to moderate and transient. These data suggest that icatibant is a safe and effective treatment for acute attacks of HAE. Although direct comparisons of recently approved alternatives for treatment of acute attacks are lacking, there are administration advantages of icatibant over other agents. Additionally, the cost of icatibant is comparable to that of the C1 esterase inhibitor Berinert and less expensive than ecallantide.
Available efficacy data support that icatibant should be considered a safe and effective treatment for acute attacks of HAE. Additionally, limited treatment options for this rare condition, ease of administration, and comparable cost profile support its consideration for formulary inclusion.
Orthostatic intolerance (OI) or postural tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is a syndrome primarily affecting young females, and is characterized by lightheadedness, palpitations, fatigue, altered mentation, and syncope primarily occurring with upright posture and being relieved by lying down. There is typically tachycardia and raised plasma norepinephrine levels on upright posture, but little or no orthostatic hypotension. The pathophysiology of OI is believed to be very heterogeneous. Most studies of the syndrome have focused on abnormalities in norepinephrine release. Here the hypothesis that abnormal norepinephrine transporter (NET) function might contribute to the pathophysiology in some patients with OI was tested. In a proband with significant orthostatic symptoms and tachycardia, disproportionately elevated plasma norepinephrine with standing, impaired systemic, and local clearance of infused tritiated norepinephrine, impaired tyramine responsiveness, and a dissociation between stimulated plasma norepinephrine and DHPG elevation were found. Studies of NET gene structure in the proband revealed a coding mutation that converts a highly conserved transmembrane domain Ala residue to Pro. Analysis of the protein produced by the mutant cDNA in transfected cells demonstrated greater than 98% reduction in activity relative to normal. NE, DHPG/NE, and heart rate correlated with the mutant allele in this family.
These results represent the first identification of a specific genetic defect in OI and the first disease linked to a coding alteration in a Na+/Cl(-)-dependent neurotransmitter transporter. Identification of this mechanism may facilitate our understanding of genetic causes of OI and lead to the development of more effective therapeutic modalities.
Heparin used in the treatment of thromboembolic disease may produce an immune response in the patient, leading to thrombocytopenia and even thrombosis. These complications may arise at any time after the institution of heparin therapy. The authors report a case of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis in a 70-year-old woman. The complication was treated successfully with thrombectomy and the administration of warfarin and ancrod, which is a natural fibrinolytic agent. The nature of heparin-induced thrombosis and the mechanism of action of ancrod are discussed. The authors emphasize that all patients receiving heparin therapy should be closely monitored to detect hematologic disorders and to prevent their sequelae. Ancrod provides a reasonable therapeutic option if thrombosis does occur.
A double blind randomised comparison of two angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors was made in a study in which ambulatory blood pressure was monitored over a steady-state dosage interval and the subsequent 24-h period, the latter being designed to mimic a missed dose of drug. The blood pressure responses on active therapy were compared to an identical recording made at the end of a 3-week placebo run in period. Eighty-eight essential hypertensives were treated with a morning dose of either trandolapril 2 mg or enalapril 20 mg. Mean systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) were calculated on each of the following periods: daytime (8:31 a.m.-10:30 p.m.), nighttime (10:31 p.m.-6:30 a.m.), and early morning (6:31 a.m.-8:30 a.m.). Trough/peak was calculated for each group both on active treatment and after a missed dose. Twelve patients were excluded from analysis before opening the randomisation code because of inadequate ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) recordings. Demographic data, placebo-period office blood pressure, and ABPM recordings were not significantly different between the two groups. Both trandolapril and enalapril effectively reduced blood pressure over the 24-h period. Twenty four-hour ambulatory SBP and DBP decreased from 148 +/- 14/92 +/- 10 mm Hg to 135 +/- 14/83 +/- 10 mm Hg in the trandolapril group (p < 0.001). The same parameters decreased to a quite similar extent after enalapril, from 143 +/- 13/91 +/- 5 mm Hg to 133 +/- 15/83 +/- 8 mm Hg (p < 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A total of 40 patients (average age 55.9 years, range 23 to 78 years) with erectile failure was enrolled in a study to compare 1 mg. of the nitric oxide donor linsidomine to 20 micrograms prostaglandin E1 administered for diagnostic purposes. Prostaglandin E1 was considered comparable to linsidomine by 10% of the patients, slightly superior by 15%, moderately superior by 20% and much superior by 55%. No patient rated linsidomine superior to prostaglandin E1. Objective evaluation of erectile response to linsidomine versus prostaglandin E1 by the investigator revealed no response in 7.5% versus 0% of the cases, tumescence in 57.5% versus 17.5%, semirigid erection in 22.5% versus 17.5% and full erection in 12.5% versus 65%, respectively. Duplex sonography after linsidomine and prostaglandin E1 with evaluation of peak flow velocities (centimeters per second) showed that the increase in peak flow velocity after linsidomine was at least a third less than the increase after prostaglandin E1. The appearance after linsidomine often resembled arterial insufficiency, whereas after prostaglandin E1 there was no evidence of arterial insufficiency. The erectile and hemodynamic response to the nitric oxide donor linsidomine was modest compared to that of prostaglandin E1. Therefore, linsidomine is not a genuine alternative to prostaglandin E1 for the diagnosis and treatment of male impotence.
We report two cases of drug-induced hepatitis refractory to therapy of ursodeoxycholic acid and prednisolone, who were relieved of icterus and pruritus immediately by the oral administration of colestimide. Their liver dysfunction was not improved, by withdrawal of causative drugs or by treatment with prednisolone and ursodeoxycholic acid. Colestimide (3.0 g/day), a strong basic anion-exchange resin, was orally taken before breakfast and evening meal, leading to rapid and complete relief of icterus and pruritus. These cases suggested that colestimide would be useful for patients with cholestasis in drug-induced hepatitis, because this agent has few side effects and it is easy to take.
An innovative approach for cancer therapy implies the use of drugs covalently conjugated to macromolecular carriers that specifically target molecules over-expressed on tumor cells. This drug delivery strategy may allow a controlled release of the drug and a high targeting selectivity on tumor cells, increasing drug cytotoxicity and decreasing its undesirable side effects. We provide in vitro and in vivo preclinical data on the antitumor efficacy of ONCOFID™-S, a new bioconjugate of hyaluronic acid (HA) with SN-38 (the CPT11 active metabolite), that support the validity of the drug delivery strategy implying the use of HA as macromolecular carrier of antineoplastic drugs, an approach based on the over-expression of its target CD44 (the receptor for HA-mediated motility) in a wide variety of cancers. We show that ONCOFID™-S exerts a strong in vitro anti-proliferative activity on CD44 over-expressing rat DHD/K12/trb colon adenocarcinoma cells, as well as on gastric, breast, oesophageal, ovarian and lung human cancer cells, higher than that exerted by unconjugated SN-38. We also demonstrated the in vivo anti-tumor efficacy of locoregional treatment with ONCOFID™-S on two pre-clinical models of colorectal cancer (CRC) in BDIX rats: a) syngeneic model of subcutaneous tumor; b) syngeneic model of metastatic tumor induced by injection of cells into the peritoneal cavity, mimicking the clinical situation of peritoneal carcinomatosis. Specifically, in the latter model ONCOFID™-S is able to dramatically reduce all parameters indicative of a poor prognosis in peritoneal metastatization of CRC without any myelotoxicity or mesothelial inflammation. We propose this CD44-targeted therapeutic strategy for locoregional treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis from CRC, against which systemic chemotherapy results almost inefficient.
