Addiction to cocaine is associated with persistent changes in synaptic function. The cycling of actin between polymerized [F (for filamentous)] and depolymerized forms contributes to synaptic plasticity, and acute and withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration produced reversible and enduring elevations, respectively, in F-actin in the nucleus accumbens. Increased F-actin after 3 weeks withdrawal from repeated cocaine resulted from changes in the content or phosphorylation state of actin binding proteins (ABPs) that cosediment with F-actin. The profile of altered APBs was consistent with filopodia formation, including increased mammalian Enabled, phosphorylated (p)-cortactin, and p-vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein, and increased actin depolymerization [e.g., reduced LIM (Lin11/Isl-1/Mec3)-kinase and p-cofilin]. In contrast to repeated cocaine, the increase in F-actin after acute cocaine administration resulted from reduced depolymerization and actin cycling. The potential involvement of chronic cocaine-induced increases in actin cycling in cocaine addiction was examined using the reinstatement of cocaine seeking in rats previously trained to self-administer cocaine by inhibiting actin polymerization with intra-accumbens latrunculin A or by accelerating actin depolymerization with a LIM-kinase inhibitor. Disrupting actin cycling via either mechanism augmented cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug seeking but did not affect the locomotor response to acute cocaine administration. Thus, withdrawal from repeated cocaine induces a restructuring of actin-ABP complexes, which increases actin cycling and may modulate cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug seeking.
Studies were made in rats on the tumor-enhancing effect of phenobarbital, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB), singly and in combination, after exposure to diethylnitrosamine (DEN). In sequential exposure to one of these three chemicals after DEN, liver tumor production was markedly enhanced by PCB, and moderately by phenobarbital sodium, but minimal by DDT. In combined administration of two to three of them, PCB took a dominant role in tumor enhancement, but their overall tumor enhancement did not exceed that of PCB alone.
Reserpine, a natural product extracted from Rauwolfia serpintina or Rauwolfia vomitoria, is a known dopamine depleter that inhibits several neurotransmitters. Reserpine has been used clinically to control hypertension, schizophrenia, insomnia and insanity. The use of this drug, however, has been limited because of its side effects which include oxidative damage to organs, including the liver. Green tea catechins are potent antioxidants that have the potential to counteract reserpine induced oxidative stress. This study investigated the merits of administering green tea concurrently with reserpine to prevent oxidative hepatic damage in Sprague-Dawely (SD) rats. Reserpine was found to cause hepatic damage, with elevated levels of oxidative stress markers, such as Thiobarbituric Acid Reactive Substances (TBARS), transaminases and cholesterol. Reserpine also induced hepatic ultra-structural damage in the cytoplasmic membrane, nuclear envelope, endoplasmic reticulum (rER), ribosomal stripping and mitochondria. Electron microscopy examination showed revival of liver cells as a result of green tea extract administration to experimental rats.
Fifty-six young and 29 middle-aged adults who were scheduled for lower abdominal, anorectal or extremity surgery under epidural, sacral or brachial plexus blockades received intravenous analgesic or anaesthetic doses of ketamine, combined with diazepam, immediately before the start of the operation. Forty-one patients received no supplementary drugs for the conduction anaesthesia and were divided into two groups of controls. On the day following the operation, all the patients were asked about their postanaesthetic reactions and their acceptance of the anaesthetic technique, and the nursing staff expressed their opinion on the amount of work and supervision needed during the post-operative care of the patients. Administration of ketamine 0.5 mg/kg with diazepam 0.15 mg/kg to young or middle-aged patients was not associated with more side-effects or a greater need for post-operative care and supervision than in the control groups. Administration of anaesthetic doses of ketamine 1.5 mg/kg and 3.0 mg/kg with 0.15 mg/kg and 0.3 mg/kg of diazepam, respectively, caused significantly (P less than 0.05) more post-operative anxiety and confusion, as well as a significantly greater need for post-operative care and supervision than in the control patients. It is concluded that, in young or middle-aged patients, supplementing conduction anaesthesia with ketamine 0.5 mg/kg plus diazepam 0.15 mg/kg is not associated with the untoward effects which can be expected after anaesthetic doses of 1.5 mg/kg (or more) of ketamine.
Numerous studies show associations between fine particulate air pollutants [particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter ≤ 10 μm (PM₁₀)] and mortality in adults.
We investigated short-term effects of elevated PM₁₀ levels on infant mortality in Flanders, Belgium, and studied whether the European Union (EU) limit value protects infants from the air pollution trigger.
In a case-crossover analysis, we estimated the risk of dying from nontraumatic causes before 1 year of age in relation to outdoor PM₁₀ concentrations on the day of death. We matched control days on temperature to exclude confounding by variations in daily temperature.
During the study period (1998-2006), PM₁₀ concentration averaged 31.9 ± 13.8 μg/m³. In the entire study population (n = 2,382), the risk of death increased by 4% [95% confidence interval (CI), 0-8%; p = 0.045] for a 10-μg/m³ increase in daily mean PM₁₀. However, this association was significant only for late neonates (2-4 weeks of age; n = 372), in whom the risk of death increased by 11% (95% CI, 1-22%; p = 0.028) per 10-μg/m³ increase in PM₁₀. In this age class, infants were 1.74 (95% CI, 1.18-2.58; p = 0.006) times more likely to die on days with a mean PM₁₀ above the EU limit value of 50 μg/m3 than on days below this cutoff.
Even in an affluent region in Western Europe, where infant mortality is low, days with higher PM air pollution are associated with an increased risk of infant mortality. Assuming causality, the current EU limit value for PM₁₀, which may be exceeded on 35 days/year, does not prevent PM₁₀ from triggering mortality in late neonates.
Estimation of liver damage is important in the pathophysiological and toxicological study of liver disease. As a novel, non-invasive marker of liver damage, we studied the efficacy of urine bile acids (UBA) in a rat model of liver disease. Thioacetamide (TAA)-treated rats were used in this study. Single intraperitoneal administration of high-dose TAA induces severe damage to the liver, and thus is used as a model of acute hepatitis. Continuous administration of low-dose TAA yields mild damage to the liver, and induces cirrhosis and hepatic tumors. In this study, it was found that both acute and chronic administration of TAA was associated with a dose-dependent elevation of UBA. The elevation of UBA content correlated with the alteration of blood biochemical indicators, and UBA screening showed a remarkable ability to distinguish liver-damaged rats from healthy rats. In particular, UBA analysis was found to have high sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value for the screening of rats with abnormal serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity due to chronic liver damage, which was confirmed to include cholestasis and subsequent cirrhosis by liver histological analysis. In conclusion, we demonstrated that measurement of UBA is a simple, non-invasive and effective method for the screening of cholestasis in TAA-treated rats. We suggest that UBA analysis may have potent applicability for monitoring the progress of liver damage in animal models of chronic liver disease, such as cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are pathophysiologic mechanisms implicated in experimental models and genetic forms of Parkinson's disease (PD). Certain pesticides may affect these mechanisms, but no pesticide has been definitively associated with PD in humans.
Our goal was to determine whether pesticides that cause mitochondrial dysfunction or oxidative stress are associated with PD or clinical features of parkinsonism in humans.
We assessed lifetime use of pesticides selected by mechanism in a case-control study nested in the Agricultural Health Study (AHS). PD was diagnosed by movement disorders specialists. Controls were a stratified random sample of all AHS participants frequency-matched to cases by age, sex, and state at approximately three controls:one case.
In 110 PD cases and 358 controls, PD was associated with use of a group of pesticides that inhibit mitochondrial complex I [odds ratio (OR)=1.7; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.0-2.8] including rotenone (OR=2.5; 95% CI, 1.3-4.7) and with use of a group of pesticides that cause oxidative stress (OR = 2.0; 95% CI, 1.2-3.6), including paraquat (OR=2.5; 95% CI, 1.4-4.7).
PD was positively associated with two groups of pesticides defined by mechanisms implicated experimentally-those that impair mitochondrial function and those that increase oxidative stress-supporting a role for these mechanisms in PD pathophysiology.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a potent neurotoxin, and human beings are mainly exposed to this pollutant through fish consumption. Only a few contradictory epidemiological studies are currently available examining the impact of fish consumption on human populations. In the present study, we wanted to address whether a diet mimicking the fish consumption of Western populations could result in observable adverse effects in mice, and whether beneficial nutriments from fish were able to counterbalance the deleterious effects of MeHg, if any. In Europe and the United States, fish consumption varies widely between countries, from 11 to 100 g fish/day. A mid-range value of 25 g fish/day corresponds to a fish contribution to the total diet of 1.25% on a dry weight basis. We decided to supplement a vegetarian-based mouse diet with 1.25% of lyophilized salmon flesh (SAL diet), or 1.25% of a blend of lyophilized cod, tuna, and swordfish (CTS diet). Total mercury contents were 1.15±0.15, 2.3±0.1 and 35.75±0.15 ng Hg/g of food pellets for the control, SAL and CTS diets, respectively. After two months feeding, the CTS diet resulted in significant observable effects as compared to the control and SAL diets, encompassing decreased body growth, altered behavioral performance and increased anxiety level, modification of mitochondrial respiratory protein subunit concentrations in kidney and brain structures, modified gene expression patterns in kidneys, liver and muscles, and a decrease of dopamine concentrations in the hypothalamus and striatum. Our findings have health implications, firstly because 1.25% of CTS flesh in the diet corresponds to an average exposure to MeHg below the WHO provisory tolerable weekly intake (PTWI) (1.6 μg MeHg/kg of body weight/week), and secondly because many people in Western populations, among them women of child-bearing age, are exceeding the PTWI value (for instance, 35% of the French population inhabiting the Atlantic and Mediterranean coasts).
The Agricultural Health Study (AHS) is a prospective cohort study of licensed pesticide applicators from Iowa and North Carolina enrolled between 1993 and 1997. EPTC (S-ethyl-N,N-dipropylthiocarbamate) is a thiocarbamate herbicide used in every region of the United States. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency reports that EPTC is most likely not a human carcinogen; however, the previous epidemiologic data on EPTC exposure and cancer risk were limited.
The purpose of this study was to examine cancer incidence and EPTC use in 48,378 male pesticide applicators enrolled in the AHS.
We estimated the rate ratio (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for all cancers and selected cancer sites using Poisson regression. We assessed EPTC exposure using two quantitative metrics: lifetime exposure days and intensity-weighted lifetime exposure days, a measure that accounts for application factors that modify personal exposure likelihood.
Among the 9,878 applicators exposed to EPTC, 470 incident cancer cases were diagnosed during the follow-up period ending December 2004 compared with the 1,824 cases among individuals reporting no use. Although EPTC was associated with colon cancer in the highest tertile of both lifetime exposure days and intensity-weighted lifetime days (RR = 2.09; 95% CI, 1.26-3.47 and RR = 2.05; 95% CI, 1.34-3.14, respectively) and the trend test was < 0.01 for both, the pattern of RR was not monotonic with increasing use. There was a suggestion of an association with leukemia. No other associations were observed.
In this analysis, EPTC use appeared to be associated with colon cancer and leukemia. However, given the relatively small number of cases in the highest exposure tertile, results should be interpreted with caution, and further investigations are needed.
To report three cases of phototoxic reactions to intravenous fluorescein for retinal angiography and to describe provocative testing in a volunteer.
Three patients with phototoxic reactions were interviewed, and one volunteer underwent a controlled challenge test by applying a potent sunscreen and exposing skin areas to direct sunlight before and after fluorescein administration.
All patients experienced marked cutaneous erythema, edema, and pain to sun-exposed areas within 1 hour of exposure. The reaction faded during a variable period of time, and one case resulted in mild epidermal desquamation and prolonged discomfort. We noted minimal skin changes in the volunteer who was exposed to the sun before fluorescein administration; however, marked blanching erythema and pain were noted after fluorescein administration and sunlight.
Consistent with its in vitro properties as a photodynamic dye, fluorescein may rarely act as a phototoxic agent in humans at doses employed for fluorescein angiography.
The effect of once-daily atenolol, sustained-release oxprenolol (a new formulation of oxprenolol presented as a compressed tablet in a waxed matrix), and long-acting propranolol (a new formulation presented as spheriods in a capsule) was studied in a double-blind crossover trial in 23 carefully selected hypertensive outpatients. After a run-in period with matching placebo each patient received atenolol (100 mg/day), sustained-release oxprenolol (160 mg/day), long-acting propranolol (160 mg/day), and placebo according to a randomised sequence. After four weeks' treatment with sustained-release oxprenolol blood pressure in the two to four hours before the next dose was not significantly lower than after placebo. The effectiveness of atenolol and of the new formulation of propranolol in reducing blood pressure was confirmed. These results suggest that the present formulation of sustained-release oxprenolol should be reconsidered.
Frequent unwanted side effects and development of tolerance are the main disadvantages of clonazepam (CZP) in long-term treatment of epileptic patients. A review of the literature shows that CZP tolerance more often appears in severe forms of childhood epilepsy (West and Lennox-Gastaut syndromes) than in other epileptic syndromes. We prospectively studied the consequences of CZP discontinuation in 40 consecutive children with difficult-to-treat epilepsies and multiple-drug therapy. The CZP was reduced stepwise in a variable daily reduction rate (0.003-0.16 mg/kg), while serum levels of the comedication were kept unchanged. In only three children (7.5%), CZP was believed to have had some antiepileptic effect; in 30 (75%) it had been ineffective, whereas in six (15%), a decrease in seizure frequency after CZP discontinuation even suggested a negative therapeutic effect. Discontinuation symptoms, mostly in the form of a transitory exacerbation of seizure frequency, occurred in 19 children (47.5%). These children had a significantly higher CZP dose and longer duration of treatment than did children without discontinuation symptoms, but there was no difference between the two groups related to the rate of CZP discontinuance.
ACE inhibitors are used world-wide for treatment of hypertension and cardiac failure; liver damage is a rare but potentially severe side-effect of these drugs. In this case report we describe a patient with chronic liver damage due to lisinopril.
Reactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV), especially after withdrawal of corticosteroids is a well-known complication during chemotherapy for lymphoma. The high mortality makes this complication one of the major obstacles to completing the standard treatment for lymphoma in HBV carriers. We report a 58-year-old Japanese male HBV carrier who developed fulminant hepatitis after chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and doxorubicin. Lamivudine was introduced since his hepatitis was progressive under supportive treatment and showed an elevated level of HBV DNA. After initiation of lamivudine, HBV DNA decreased to be below the limit of detection within 3 weeks, and all chemical tests for liver function recovered to the normal level within 4 weeks, except for a slight elevation of total-bilirubin. There were no remarkable adverse effects observed. To the best of our knowledge, six cases of post-chemotherapeutic fulminant hepatitis including ours have been treated with lamivudine. A review of these cases indicated that lamivudine induced a prompt antiviral, biochemical, and clinical response. Lamivudine is highly recommended for post-chemotherapeutic fulminant hepatitis caused by reactivation of HBV.
Administration of long-term, oral prostaglandin E2 in two babies with pulmonary atresia did not appear to influence pulmonary arterial smooth muscle development, nor was there evidence of damage to the vessel walls, as has previously been reported after treatment of the same condition with prostaglandin E1.
Long-term treatment with H(+)-K(+)-adenotriphosphatase (ATPase) inhibitors, such as omeprazole or lansoprazole, for severe gastroesophageal reflux disease is now widely used. Whether such treatment will result in vitamin B12 deficiency is controversial. We studied whether long-term treatment with omeprazole alters serum vitamin B12 levels in patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
In 131 consecutive patients treated with either omeprazole (n = 111) or histamine H2-receptor antagonists (n = 20), serum vitamin B12 and folate levels and complete blood counts were determined after acid secretion had been controlled for at least 6 months. These studies were repeated yearly. Serum vitamin B12 and folate levels were correlated with the type of antisecretory drug and the extent of inhibition of acid secretion.
The mean duration of omeprazole treatment was 4.5 years, and for H2-receptor antagonists 10 years. Vitamin B12 levels, but not serum folate levels or any hematological parameter, were significantly (P = 0.03) lower in patients treated with omeprazole, especially those with omeprazole-induced sustained hyposecretion (P = 0.0014) or complete achlorhydria (P < 0.0001). In 68 patients with two determinations at least 5 years apart, vitamin B12 levels decreased significantly (30%; P = 0.001) only in patients rendered achlorhydric. The duration of omeprazole treatment was inversely correlated with vitamin B12 levels (P = 0.013), but not folate levels. Eight patients (6%) developed subnormal B12 levels during follow-up.
Long-term omeprazole treatment leads to significant decreases in serum vitamin B12 but not folate levels. These results suggest patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome treated with H(+)-K(+)-ATPase inhibitors should have serum vitamin B12 levels monitored. Furthermore, these results raise the possibility that other patients treated chronically with H(+)-K(+)-ATPase inhibitors may develop B12 deficiency.
Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) are involved in diabetic nephropathy. The AGE inhibitor pyridoxamine (PM) is renoprotective in experimental chronic allograft nephropathy supporting its potential in non-diabetic renal damage.
We studied the effects of PM in adriamycin nephropathy (AN; 1.5 mg/kg i.v.). Six weeks after disease induction, treatment started with vehicle (VEH), lisinopril (ACEi; 75 mg/l drinking water), PM (2 g/l) and PM + lisinopril (PM/ACEi) (n = 12 per group) for 18 weeks. Age-matched healthy rats (n = 6) served as controls (CON).
ACEi reduced proteinuria, blood pressure, and renal damage. PM gradually increased blood pressure and not affected proteinuria. In PM/ACEi the antiproteinuric and blood pressure-lowering effects of ACEi were abrogated during long-term treatment. Remarkably, creatinine, focal glomerulosclerosis and interstitial fibrosis were considerably increased under PM/ACEi. Pronounced hypercholesterolemia, which occurred in both PM-treated groups, was accompanied by marked glomerular lipid deposition.
PM was not renoprotective in AN. By contrast, renal damage was aggravated when PM was combined with ACEi. Despite the fact that there is no current evidence that these findings apply to the drug as used in human diabetic nephropathy, we emphasize the importance of close monitoring of blood pressure, lipids and possible direct toxic effects in future studies with PM in renal patients, especially when combining PM with ACEi.
We searched for a drug capable of sensitization of sarcoma cells to doxorubicin (DOX). We report that the dual PI3K/mTOR inhibitor PI103 enhances the efficacy of DOX in several sarcoma cell lines and interacts with DOX in the induction of apoptosis. PI103 decreased the expression of MDR1 and MRP1, which resulted in DOX accumulation. However, the enhancement of DOX-induced apoptosis was unrelated to DOX accumulation. Neither did it involve inhibition of mTOR. Instead, the combination treatment of DOX plus PI103 activated Bax, the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway, and caspase 3. Caspase 3 activation was also observed in xenografts of sarcoma cells in nude mice upon combination of DOX with the specific PI3K inhibitor GDC-0941. Although the increase in apoptosis did not further impact on tumor growth when compared to the efficient growth inhibition by GDC-0941 alone, these findings suggest that inhibition of PI3K may improve DOX-induced proapoptotic effects in sarcoma. Taken together with similar recent studies of neuroblastoma- and glioblastoma-derived cells, PI3K inhibition seems to be a more general option to sensitize tumor cells to anthracyclines.
There are very few autopsy studies available on systemic distribution of clofazimine, a drug with anti-mycobacterial activity, used in multidrug therapy (MDT) regimen of leprosy and in erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL). An autopsy study was done on a 45 year old female of lepromatous leprosy (LL) on MDT and long term high dosage of clofazimine. Patient succumbed to intractable abdominal pain, diarrhoea, hypokalemia following clofazimine treatment. Autopsy study revealed yellowish brown discoloration of skin, viscera and body fluids. Chemical extraction of the drug revealed the highest concentration of the drug in jejunum (1.5mg/gm),followed by spleen (1.2mg/gm), pancreas (0.4mg/gm), adrenal (0.25mg/gm), liver (0.21mg/gm), and less than 0.2mg/gm in lung, fat, large intestine and stomach. It can be inferred from the present study that the drug is absorbed from the jejunum and gets deposited in fat, reticulo-endothelial cells (R-E cells) and hepatocytes. The drug is best demonstrated in cryostat sections and is lost partly during tissue processing and staining. The drug toxicity can be fatal as seen in the present case.
Previous studies in rats have shown that a single oral dose of alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT), but not the regioisomer beta-naphthylisothiocyanate (BNIT), results in intrahepatic cholestasis. The present studies were designed to evaluate the intrinsic cholestatic potential of ANIT and BNIT in the isolated perfused rat liver. Livers from male Sprague-Dawley rats (300-450 g) were isolated and perfused with Krebs-Henseleit buffer supplemented with 50 microM taurocholate and ANIT or BNIT (0, 5, 15 or 50 microM). Rates of bile flow, bile acid uptake and bile acid excretion were monitored for up to 70 min. Permeability of tight junctions also was evaluated. At concentrations of 5 microM, neither ANIT nor BNIT altered hepatobiliary function or tight junction permeability. In contrast, perfusion with 50 microM ANIT or BNIT for 35 min resulted in decreases in bile flow rates of 19 +/- 8 and 13 +/- 4%, respectively. After 70 min of perfusion with ANIT or BNIT, rates of bile flow were decreased by 78 +/- 5 and 71 +/- 4%, respectively. Bile acid excretion also was decreased following perfusion with 50 microM ANIT or BNIT. Perfusion with 50 microM ANIT or BNIT decreased bile acid uptake by 51 +/- 13 and 46 +/- 6%, respectively, at 60 min. Bile/plasma (B/P) ratios of [3H]sucrose were not affected by ANIT or BNIT at any time during perfusion, indicating that changes in bile flow and bile acid excretion in the isolated perfused liver were not associated with increased hepatocyte tight junction permeability. These data demonstrate that the direct portal infusion of a 50 microM concentration of either ANIT or BNIT produced marked decreases in bile flow, indicating that these isomers have a comparable intrinsic cholestatic potential in the isolated perfused liver.
Copper ions have been proposed to intervene in deleterious processes linked to the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). As a direct consequence, delineating how Cu(II) can be bound to amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide, the amyloidogenic peptide encountered in AD, is of paramount importance. Two different forms of [Cu(II)(Aβ)] complexes are present near physiological pH, usually noted components I and II, the nature of which is still widely debated in the literature, especially for II. In the present report, the phenomenological pH-dependent study of Cu(II) coordination to Aβ and to ten mutants by EPR, CD, and NMR techniques is described. Although only indirect insights can be obtained from the study of Cu(II) binding to mutated peptides, they reveal very useful for better defining Cu(II) coordination sites in the native Aβ peptide. Four components were identified between pH 6 and 12, namely, components I, II, III and IV, in which the predominant Cu(II) equatorial sites are {-NH(2), CO (Asp1-Ala2), N(im) (His6), N(im) (His13 or His14)}, {-NH(2), N(-) (Asp1-Ala2), CO (Ala2-Glu3), N(im)}, {-NH(2), N(-) (Asp1-Ala2), N(-) (Ala2-Glu3), N(im)} and {-NH(2), N(-) (Asp1-Ala2), N(-) (Ala2-Glu3), N(-) (Glu3-Phe4)}, respectively, in line with classical pH-induced deprotonation of the peptide backbone encountered in Cu(II) peptidic complexes formation. The structure proposed for component II is discussed with respect to another coordination model reported in the literature, that is, {CO (Ala2-Glu3), 3 N(im)}. Cu(II) binding to the H6R-Aβ and D7N-Aβ peptides, where the familial H6R and D7N mutations have been linked to early onset of AD, has also been investigated. In case of the H6R mutation, some different structural features (compared to those encountered in the native [Cu(II)(Aβ)] species) have been evidenced and are anticipated to be important for the aggregating properties of the H6R-Aβ peptide in presence of Cu(II).
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a major problem in drug development and clinical drug therapy. In most cases, the mechanisms are still unknown. It is difficult to predict DILI in humans due to the lack of experimental animal models. Dicloxacillin, penicillinase-sensitive penicillin, rarely causes cholestatic or mixed liver injury, and there is some evidence for immunoallergic idiosyncratic reaction in human. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms of dicloxacillin-induced liver injury. Plasma ALT and total-bilirubin (T-Bil) levels were significantly increased in dicloxacillin-administered (600 mg/kg, i.p.) mice. Dicloxacillin administration induced Th2 (helper T cells)-mediated factors and increased the plasma interleukin (IL)-4 level. Neutralization of IL-4 suppressed the hepatotoxicity of dicloxacillin, and recombinant mouse IL-4 administration (0.5 or 2.0 μg/mouse, i.p.) exacerbated it. Chemoattractant receptor-homologous molecule expressed on Th2 cells (CRTh2) is a cognate receptor for prostaglandin (PG) D(2), and is suggested to be involved in Th2-dependent allergic inflammation. We investigated the effect of 13,14-Dihydro-15-keto-PGD(2) (DK-PGD(2); 10 μg/mouse, i.p.) administration on dicloxacillin-induced liver injury. DK-PGD(2)/dicloxacillin coadministration resulted in a significant increase of alanine aminotransferases and a remarkable increase of macrophage inflammatory protein 2 expression. In conclusion, to the best of our knowledge, this is the first report to demonstrate that dicloxacillin-induced liver injury is mediated by a Th2-type immune reaction and exacerbated by DK-PGD(2).
Perceived pain intensity is modulated by attention. However, it is not known that how pain intensity ratings are affected by attention in capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia. Here we show that perceived pain intensity in secondary hyperalgesia is decreased when attention is distracted away from the painful pinprick stimulus with a visual task. Furthermore, it was found that the magnitude of attentional modulation in secondary hyperalgesia is very similar to that of capsaicin-untreated, control condition. Our findings, showing no interaction between capsaicin treatment and attentional modulation suggest that capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia and attention might affect mechanical pain through independent mechanisms.
It is generally accepted that corticosteroid therapy may increase weight. Because corticosteroids may induce several psychiatric symptoms, psychotropic drugs are required to treat these symptoms in some cases. The present study describes a patient who had unusual weight fluctuation under corticosteroid and psychotropic treatment such as mianserin and aripiprazole.
