Eighty-one patients treated for a least 3 months with lithium were examined for the presence of parkinsonian symptoms. Twenty-four patients were receiving treatment with lithium alone, 30 with lithium and 1 or more neuroleptics, and 27 with lithium and antidepressant. Twenty-four of the patients were found to be free from parkinsonian symptoms. Severe rigidity was not found. Two patients receiving neuroleptic with lithium and 6 on lithium-antidepressant combinations exhibited severe tremor. Neuroleptics administered concomitantly with lithium did not aggravate parkinsonian symptoms. The combination of lithium and an antidepressant significantly increased tremor in comparison to lithium alone.
The possibility that organophosphorus (OP) compounds contribute to motor neuron disease (MND) is supported by association of paraoxonase 1 polymorphisms with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and the occurrence of MND in OP compound-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN), in which neuropathy target esterase (NTE) is inhibited by organophosphorylation. We evaluated a consanguineous kindred and a genetically unrelated nonconsanguineous kindred in which affected subjects exhibited progressive spastic paraplegia and distal muscle wasting. Affected subjects resembled those with OPIDN and those with Troyer Syndrome due to SPG20/spartin gene mutation (excluded by genetic linkage and SPG20/spartin sequence analysis). Genome-wide analysis suggested linkage to a 22 cM homozygous locus (D19S565 to D19S884, maximum multipoint LOD score 3.28) on chromosome 19p13 to which NTE had been mapped (GenBank AJ004832). NTE was a candidate because of its role in OPIDN and the similarity of our patients to those with OPIDN. Affected subjects in the consanguineous kindred were homozygous for disease-specific NTE mutation c.3034A-->G that disrupted an interspecies conserved residue (M1012V) in NTE's catalytic domain. Affected subjects in the nonconsanguineous family were compound heterozygotes: one allele had c.2669G-->A mutation, which disrupts an interspecies conserved residue in NTE's catalytic domain (R890H), and the other allele had an insertion (c.2946_2947insCAGC) causing frameshift and protein truncation (p.S982fs1019). Disease-specific, nonconserved NTE mutations in unrelated MND patients indicates NTE's importance in maintaining axonal integrity, raises the possibility that NTE pathway disturbances contribute to other MNDs including ALS, and supports the role of NTE abnormalities in axonopathy produced by neuropathic OP compounds.
The psychiatric examination was performed with diagnostic instruments for autism (DSM-IV and Childhood Autism Rating Scale-CARS) in 23 children with Möbius sequence. From the 23 patients studied with Möbius sequence, five (26.1%) met the diagnostic criteria for infantile autism according DSM-IV and two (8.6%), under two years old, showed autistic-like behavior. The scores for six children were compatible to severe autism symptoms according CARS and one child met the criteria for moderate autism symptoms. Among five children with autism, three (60%) had positive history of misoprostol exposure during the first trimester of pregnancy and from two cases autistic-like, one (50%) had positive history of misoprostol exposure during pregnancy. According to our data, this is the first report of Möbius sequence with autism and positive history of misoprostol use during pregnancy.
To elucidate the role of ouabain in the pathophysiology of benign prostatic hyperplasia we examined the effects of ouabain on the proliferation and apoptosis of human prostatic smooth muscle cells.
Primary cultures of human prostatic smooth muscle cells were obtained from 7 patients with bladder outlet obstruction caused by benign prostatic enlargement. A cell proliferation study was performed using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay method to examine the effects of different concentrations of ouabain and various inhibitors. Western blot analysis was done to determine mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation. The terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end-labeling reaction method and caspase-3 activity assay were also performed to examine the apoptotic mechanism.
Ouabain exhibited a modest but significant proliferative effect in nanomolar concentrations; whereas it induced cell apoptosis at higher concentrations. Ouabain caused rapid activation of p42/44 MAPKs. The proliferative effect of ouabain was completely flattened by W-7 and MAPK kinase (MEK) inhibitor, suggesting the requirement of Ca(2+) mobilization and the involvement of the MEK-p42/44 MAPK cascade. The cytotoxic effect by ouabain was defined as apoptosis and necrosis using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end-labeling reaction technique and lactate dehydrogenase release assay, respectively. In addition, ouabain induced profound caspase-3 activity in the cytotoxic concentrations and DEVD-CHO reversed the cytotoxic action to ouabain, demonstrating the involvement of caspase-3 activation in the cytotoxic action.
Ouabain at different concentrations caused dual effects on proliferation and apoptosis in human prostatic smooth muscle cells. At low concentrations ouabain promoted cell proliferation via a Ca(2+) dependent mechanism and activation of the MEK-p42/44 MAPK pathway; whereas it induced cell apoptosis via the activation of caspase-3 activity at higher concentrations.
The prevalence of obesity in the United States is a major health problem associated with significant morbidity, mortality, and economic burden. Although obesity and drug addiction are typically considered distinct clinical entities, both diseases involve dysregulation of biogenic amine neuron systems in the brain. Thus, research efforts to develop medications for treating drug addiction can contribute insights into the pharmacotherapy for obesity. Here, we review the neurochemical mechanisms of selected stimulant medications used in the treatment of obesity and issues related to fenfluramine-associated cardiac valvulopathy. In particular, we discuss the evidence that cardiac valve disease involves activation of mitogenic serotonin 2B (5-HT2B) receptors by norfenfluramine, the major metabolite of fenfluramine. Advances in medication discovery suggest that novel molecular entities that target 2 different neurochemical mechanisms, that is, "combination pharmacotherapy," will yield efficacious antiobesity medications with reduced adverse side effects.
Hydralazine has been widely used for treating hypertension, particularly in patients with renal failure. We report a case on a patient in whom we believe the drug was implicated in an otherwise unexplained disturbance of liver function. A 63-year-old African-American female with medical history of hypertension and end-stage renal disease (on hemodialysis) was admitted to the hospital with epigastric pain and jaundice. The symptoms started about 1 week ago. Initial laboratory tests showed abnormal liver enzymes with elevated conjugated bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase suggestive of cholestatic jaundice. Amylase and lipase were normal. Abdominal ultrasound showed normal caliber common bile duct without evidence of obstruction. Abdominal CT scan does not show any evidence of intra- or extrahepatic biliary ductal dilatation, and no mass lesions were seen in the pancreas. Further blood chemistry showed worsening of liver enzymes and increased bilirubin over the next 2-3 days. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography failed to show any evidence of intra- or extrahepatic biliary ductal dilatation. No other laboratory evidence of cholestatic jaundice was found. Before proceeding for invasive diagnostic procedure, that is, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, the patient's drug history was reviewed. She was on hydralazine 75 mg 3 times per day, started 5 months ago. At that time, her liver function tests were normal. As we could not find any other cause of cholestatic jaundice, we attributed this as a side effect of hydralazine. A trial was given by stopping the hydralazine. It was seen that there was significant improvement in the liver function enzymes over the next week. Complete clinical and biochemical recovery occurred over the next 4 weeks. Liver injury after long-term therapy with hydralazine and after short-term therapy with hydralazine (2-10 days) has been described. Hydralazine-induced hepatotoxicity may manifest as hypersensitivity-type injury, mixed hepatocellular injury, acute hepatitis, cholestatic jaundice, or centrilobular necrosis. The Hydralazine-induced cholestatic liver injury seems to be fully reversible. Complete clinical and biochemical recovery occurs after discontinuation of the drug. Also, the differential diagnosis of any patient with hepatocellular injury should include medications. This will prevent unnecessary diagnostic tests.
Basement membrane thickness was measured in two groups of spiny mice (Acomys cahirinus): one with spontaneous diabetes, the other with streptozotocin-induced diabetes. A statistical analysis of the morphometric results of the two groups showed a significant basement membrane thickening in the group with induced diabetes when compared to the spontaneously diabetic group.
In a randomized single-blind international multicentre trial, two antiemetic regimens were compared in 115 oncology patients undergoing chemotherapy for the first time (cisplatin greater than 15 mg/m2, or ifosfamide greater than 1200 mg/m2 or etoposide greater than 120 mg/m2). One group received granisetron, a 5-hydroxytryptamine type-3-receptor antagonist, 40 micrograms/kg alone intravenously before chemotherapy, with, if necessary, up to two further doses daily of 40 micrograms/kg. The second group received a combination of alizapride plus dexamethasone (4 mg/kg alizapride and 8 mg/kg dexamethasone before chemotherapy, repeated, if necessary, after 4 and 8 hours up to two additional doses). There was good antiemetic efficacy (a maximum of one episode of vomiting in 24 hours = "major efficacy") in 50 of 62 patients (80.7%) in the granisetron group, and in 37 out of 53 (69.8%) of those treated with alizapride and dexamethasone; failure of antiemetic therapy occurred in 4.8% (granisetron) and 15.1% (combination) of patients. For the first day of each 5-day chemotherapy cycle, there was a higher rate of excellent antiemetic efficacy (no or only mild nausea, and no vomiting) with granisetron (90.3% vs 69.8%, P less than 0.006). The frequency (29% vs 32%) and nature of side effects (obstipation, diarrhoea, headaches, anxiety, vertigo), the causes of which were not differentiated, were similar. No extrapyramidal reactions occurred with granisetron. Of the 62 patients treated with granisetron, 47 did not require any further granisetron after the single daily prophylactic dose.
The impact of intensive lipid management, omega-3 fatty acid, and vitamin D3 supplementation on atherosclerotic plaque was assessed through serial computed tomography coronary calcium scoring (CCS). Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol reduction with statin therapy has not been shown to reduce or slow progression of serial CCS in several recent studies, casting doubt on the usefulness of this approach for tracking atherosclerotic progression. In an open-label study, 45 male and female subjects with CCS of > or = 50 without symptoms of heart disease were treated with statin therapy, niacin, and omega-3 fatty acid supplementation to achieve low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides < or = 60 mg/dL; high-density lipoprotein > or = 60 mg/dL; and vitamin D3 supplementation to achieve serum levels of > or = 50 ng/mL 25(OH) vitamin D, in addition to diet advice. Lipid profiles of subjects were significantly changed as follows: total cholesterol -24%, low-density lipoprotein -41%; triglycerides -42%, high-density lipoprotein +19%, and mean serum 25(OH) vitamin D levels +83%. After a mean of 18 months, 20 subjects experienced decrease in CCS with mean change of -14.5% (range 0% to -64%); 22 subjects experienced no change or slow annual rate of CCS increase of +12% (range 1%-29%). Only 3 subjects experienced annual CCS progression exceeding 29% (44%-71%). Despite wide variation in response, substantial reduction of CCS was achieved in 44% of subjects and slowed plaque growth in 49% of the subjects applying a broad treatment program.
Induction of apoptosis by the death ligand TRAIL might be a promising therapeutic approach in cancer therapy. However, since not all tumor cells are sensitive to TRAIL, there is a need for the development of strategies to overcome TRAIL-resistance. The results of the present study show that the anti-diabetic drug troglitazone sensitizes human glioma and neuroblastoma cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis. This process is accompanied by a substantial increase of active caspase 8 and active caspase 3, but it is independent of troglitazone's effects on the nuclear receptor PPAR-gamma. Troglitazone induces a pronounced reduction in protein expression levels of the anti-apoptotic FLICE-inhibitory protein (FLIP) without affecting FLIP mRNA levels. Further, protein and mRNA expression levels of the anti-apoptotic protein Survivin significantly decrease upon treatment with troglitazone. Moreover, sensitization to TRAIL is partly accompanied by an up-regulation of the TRAIL receptor, TRAIL-R2. A combined treatment with troglitazone and TRAIL might be a promising experimental therapy because troglitazone sensitizes tumor cells to TRAIL-induced apoptosis via various mechanisms, thereby minimizing the risk of acquired tumor cell resistance.
Nitroglycerin plasters were applied to the penis in 10 impotent men and the erectile effect assessed. During laboratory testing all patients achieved an erectile response. Self-administration of nitroglycerin patches restored potency in 4 patients and was preferred to papaverine auto-injection by 3. Headache was a common side effect during initial administration. An attempt to treat impotence with nitroglycerin plaster seems worthwhile before starting extensive investigations or invasive treatment.
A 76-year-old man developed akinetic mutism after 3 days of receiving low-dosage baclofen. Electroencephalography showed a diffusely slow background with intermittent generalized sharp wave discharges. The condition resolved after discontinuing baclofen. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of baclofen-induced akinetic mutism in a patient with normal renal function. The pathophysiology of this condition is unknown, but it may result from selective binding of the drug to the gamma-aminobutyric acid-B receptors located in the frontal lobes or thalamic nuclei, interrupting the thalamocortical limbic pathways.
There are numerous sedatives and analgesics used in critical care medicine today; these medications are used on critically ill patients, many of whom have heart disease, including coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure. The purpose of this review is to recognize the effects of these medications on the heart. Studies that evaluated the effects of sedatives and analgesics on normal individuals or on those with heart disease were reviewed. Current choices for sustained sedation in the critically ill include the benzodiazepines, morphine, propofol, and etomidate. Each of these medications has their particular advantages and disadvantages. Benzodiazepines provide the greatest amnesia and cardiovascular safety but they can cause significant hypotension in the hemodynamically unstable patient. Morphine provides analgesia and cardioprotective activity after ischemia, although the large observational study CRUSADE showed increased mortality rate in those patients with non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction who received morphine. Propofol is the most easily titratable drug with cardioprotective features, but its use must be accompanied with great attention to possible development of propofol infusion syndrome, which is a deadly disease, especially in patients with head injury and those with septic shock receiving vasopressors. Etomidate has a rapid onset effect and short period of action with great hemodynamic stability even in patients with shock and hypovolemia, but the incidence of adrenal insufficiency during infusion, not bolus doses, may cause deterioration in the circulatory stability. In conclusion, the sedatives and analgesics mentioned here have characteristics that give them a cardiovascular safety profile useful in critically ill patients. However, use of these drugs on an individual basis is dependent on each agent's safety and efficacy.
Reduced functional bladder capacity and concomitant increased micturition frequency (pollakisuria) are common lower urinary tract symptoms associated with conditions such as cystitis, prostatic hyperplasia, neurological disease, and overactive bladder syndrome. These symptoms can profoundly affect the quality of life of afflicted individuals, but available pharmacological treatments are often unsatisfactory. Recent work has demonstrated that the cation channel TRPV4 is highly expressed in urothelial cells and plays a role in sensing the normal filling state of the bladder. In this article, we show that the development of cystitis-induced bladder dysfunction is strongly impaired in Trpv4(-/-) mice. Moreover, we describe HC-067047, a previously uncharacterized, potent, and selective TRPV4 antagonist that increases functional bladder capacity and reduces micturition frequency in WT mice and rats with cystitis. HC-067047 did not affect bladder function in Trpv4(-/-) mice, demonstrating that its in vivo effects are on target. These results indicate that TRPV4 antagonists may provide a promising means of treating bladder dysfunction.
1. This study served to investigate whether endogenous opioid peptides play a role in the putative antinociceptive and the sedative actions of alpha-methyldopa. 2. In conscious normotensive rats, alpha-methyldopa induced hypotension, starting around 1 h and reaching a maximum 3-4 h after administration. Pretreatment with naltrexone resulted in an inhibition of alpha-methyldopa-induced hypotension. 3. alpha-Methyldopa dose-dependently increased hot plate latency which became evident after a 4 h lag period and reaching a maximum effect at 6 h. The antinociceptive effect of alpha-methyldopa was not affected by naltrexone. 4. In a small open field, alpha-methyldopa dose-dependently suppressed locomotion and sniffing behaviour. These effects of alpha-methyldopa were apparent 1 h after administration and were naltrexone-insensitive. 5. No changes in the level of beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid were observed after administration of alpha-methyldopa. 6. The results indicate that endogenous opioid peptides are involved in the hypotensive action of alpha-methyldopa but not in alpha-methyldopa-induced hypomotility and antinociception.
Dyskinesia is an important complication of treatment in Parkinson's disease (PD). Sarizotan, a 5-HT(1A) agonist with high affinity for D3 and D4 receptors was investigated on L-Dopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) animal model of PD. Five MPTP female cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) with a moderate to severe parkinsonian syndrome and LID were used. Sarizotan 0.2, 1, and 2 mg/kg administered alone did not worsen parkinsonian symptoms; there were no effect on locomotor counts or on normal behavior of the monkeys. Sarizotan 0.2, 1, and 2 mg/kg administered 30 min before a fixed dose of L-Dopa (25-30 mg/kg s.c.) + benserazide (50 mg) did not affect the antiparkinsonian response to L-Dopa. However, mean dyskinetic scores were significantly reduced with sarizotan 1 and 2 mg/kg but not at 0.2 mg/kg. Higher doses of sarizotan (4 and 8 mg/kg, administered immediately before L-Dopa) reduced L-Dopa-induced locomotor response in all monkeys. A pharmacokinetic investigation in these monkeys showed a dose-dependent increase in mean plasma sarizotan concentrations with similar mean plasma concentrations for sarizotan 1 mg/kg alone or with L-Dopa, indicating a lack of sarizotan/L-Dopa interaction. The time course of plasma sarizotan concentrations was associated with time of maximal reduction of dyskinesias. When administered daily for two weeks in combination with L-Dopa in the same MPTP monkeys, sarizotan 1 mg/kg had a sustained antidyskinetic effect while maintaining the antiparkinsonian and locomotor effect of L-Dopa. This detailed sarizotan investigation in MPTP monkeys supports the antidyskinetic activity of this drug and for 5-HT(1A) agonists.
Aniline exposure is associated with toxicity to the spleen leading to splenomegaly, hyperplasia, fibrosis and a variety of sarcomas of the spleen on chronic exposure. In earlier studies, we have shown that aniline exposure leads to iron overload, oxidative stress and activation of redox-sensitive transcription factors, which could regulate various genes leading to a tumorigenic response in the spleen. However, molecular mechanisms leading to aniline-induced cellular proliferation in the spleen remain largely unknown. This study was, therefore, undertaken on the regulation of G1 phase cell cycle proteins (cyclins), expression of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein (pRB) and cell proliferation in the spleen, in an experimental condition preceding a tumorigenic response. Male SD rats were treated with aniline (0.5 mmol/kg/day via drinking water) for 30 days (controls received drinking water only), and splenocyte proliferation, protein expression of G1 phase cyclins, CDKs and pRB were measured. Aniline treatment resulted in significant increases in splenocyte proliferation, based on cell counts, cell proliferation markers including proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), nuclear Ki67 protein (Ki67) and minichromosome maintenance (MCM), MTT assay and flow cytometric analysis. Western blot analysis of splenocyte proteins from aniline-treated rats showed significantly increased expression of cyclins D1, D2, D3 and E, as compared to the controls. Similarly, real-time PCR analysis showed significantly increased mRNA expression for cyclins D1, D2, D3 and E in the spleens of aniline-treated rats. The overexpression of these cyclins was associated with increases in the expression of CDK4, CDK6, CDK2 as well as phosphorylation of pRB protein. Our data suggest that increased expression of cyclins, CDKs and phosphorylation of pRB protein could be critical in cell proliferation, and may contribute to aniline-induced tumorigenic response in the spleen.
Cholestatic liver injury induced by alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) is provoked by injury to intrahepatic bile ducts and the progression of hepatic necrosis requires the procoagulant protein tissue factor (TF) and extrahepatic cells including neutrophils. Recent studies have shown that myeloid cell TF contributes to neutrophil activation. We tested the hypothesis that myeloid cell TF contributes to neutrophil activation in ANIT-treated mice. TF activity in liver homogenates increased significantly in TF(flox/flox) mice treated with ANIT, but not in TF(flox/flox)/LysMCre mice (TF(ΔMyeloid) mice), which have reduced TF expression in monocytes/macrophages and neutrophils. Myeloid cell-specific TF deficiency did not alter expression of the chemokines KC or MIP-2 but reduced hepatic neutrophil accumulation in ANIT-treated mice at 48 h as indicated by tissue myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. Myeloid cell TF deficiency significantly reduced CD11b expression by blood neutrophils in ANIT-treated mice, and this was associated with reduced plasma MPO protein levels, an index of neutrophil degranulation. However, myeloid cell-specific TF deficiency had no effect on ANIT-induced coagulation cascade activation. The increase in serum ALT and ALP activities in ANIT-treated mice was reduced by myeloid cell TF deficiency (p<0.05), but the myeloid cell TF deficiency did not reduce hepatic necrosis at 48 h, as determined by histopathology and morphometry. The results suggest that myeloid cell TF contributes to neutrophil CD11b expression during cholestasis by a coagulation-independent pathway. However, the resultant reduction in neutrophil accumulation/activation is insufficient to substantially reduce ANIT hepatotoxicity, suggesting that myeloid cell TF is only one of many factors modulating hepatic necrosis during cholestasis.
We have reported long-term clinical follow-up for two siblings with Lafora disease, a brother and sister, one of whom autopsied. Both siblings had repeated attacks of severe myoclonus, tonic and tonic-clonic convulsions, and intractable status epilepticus. The addition of orally administered zonisamide brought about striking effective seizure control for about 12-14 years in both patients, relieving not only myoclonus and generalized tonic-clonic seizures but also intractable status epilepticus.
Heparin therapy is currently a vital component in the medical management of thromboembolic events. Despite its widespread use, it is associated with relatively few complications, and these are usually minor and quickly reversible. Recently a much more dramatic and serious complication of heparin therapy has been identified. In heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with associated thrombosis or "white clot syndrome," patients have paradoxic thromboembolic events while receiving heparin. These events are of acute onset and of major consequence, often resulting in limb loss or death. This paper describes our own experience with ten patients in whom the white clot syndrome occurred during heparin therapy for thrombotic or embolic events. Both porcine and bovine heparin preparations were being given through various routes. In the three cases in which platelet aggregation testing was completed, results were positive. Our ten patients ultimately had a 20% major limb amputation rate and an overall 50% mortality.
Targeted disruption of the klotho gene induces multiple phenotypes characteristic of human aging, including arteriosclerosis, pulmonary emphysema and osteoporosis. Moreover, we previously observed that insufficient klotho expression in mice leads to endothelial dysfunction. In the present study, we used Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rats, which exhibit hypertension, obesity, severe hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia, and are thus considered an animal model of atherogenic disease, to test the effects of oral administration of troglitazone (200 mg/kg) on renal klotho mRNA expression and endothelial function. Systolic blood pressure, body weight, plasma glucose and triglyceride levels were all significantly higher in 30-week-old OLETF rats than in controls (LETO; Long-Evans Tokushima Otsuka) (p<0.05, n=7). In addition, endothelium-dependent relaxation of the aorta in response to 10(-5) M acetylcholine was significantly attenuated in OLETF rats (p<0.05, n=7), as was renal expression of klotho mRNA. Administration of troglitazone for 10 weeks significantly reduced systolic blood pressure, plasma glucose and triglyceride levels in OLETF rats, while augmenting endothelium-dependent aortic relaxation and renal klotho mRNA expression. These findings suggest that troglitazone protects the vascular endothelium against damage caused by the presence of multiple atherogenic factors.
It has been suggested that capsaicin-induced hyperemia and mucosal protection occurs via calcitonin-gene-related peptide (CGRP) release from gastric afferent sensory neurons and nitric oxide (NO)-mediated vasodilation. The purpose of this study was to determine whether capsaicin and/or bile acid induced hyperemia is mediated by CGRP and/or NO. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (280-350 g) were anesthetized, and the glandular stomach (blood supply intact) was chambered between two plastic rings. Animals were divided into six groups. Normal saline (groups 1 and 4), the NO inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 3.75 mg/ml, groups 2 and 5), or the CGRP antagonist hCGRP8-37 (0.047 mg/ml, groups 3 and 6) was continuously infused intraarterially (ia) close to the stomach at a rate of 0.034 ml/min for 1 hr via a catheter inserted retrogradely into the splenic artery. Fifteen minutes after the onset of this infusion, the gastric mucosa was topically exposed to neutral saline solution for 15 min, followed by 160 microM capsaicin for 15 min. The mucosa was then injured by a 15-min exposure to either 5 mM acidified taurocholate (ATC, pH 1.2) in groups 1-3 or 10 mM ATC in groups 4-6. Gastric mucosal blood flow (ml/min/100 g) was continuously measured (laser doppler), and injury was assessed by measuring net transmucosal H+ flux, luminal accumulation of DNA, and histologic grading (0 = no injury to 3 = severe) by an independent observer. Intraarterial infusion of L-NAME significantly blocked the hyperemic response of topical capsaicin while having minimal effect on bile acid-induced hyperemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lymphoproliferative disorders are known to complicate immunosuppressive therapy and two cases of primary lymphoma of CNS (PCNSL) have previously been described in association with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) treatment. We report the third case of PCNSL in a patient with lupus nephropathy while on MMF treatment. PCNSL may be seen more frequently considering the increased use of MMF in immunosuppressant responsive conditions.
Micropuncture and morphologic studies were performed in six groups of male Munich-Wistar rats after removal of the right kidney and segmental infarction of two-thirds of the left kidney. Groups 1 and 4 received no specific therapy. Groups 2 and 5 were treated with the angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril, 50 mg/liter, in the drinking water. Groups 3 and 6 were treated with reserpine (5 mg/liter), hydralazine (80 mg/liter), and hydrochlorothiazide (25 mg/liter). All rats were fed standard chow. Groups 1-3 underwent micropuncture study 4 wk after renal ablation. Untreated group 1 rats exhibited systemic hypertension and elevation of the single nephron glomerular filtration rate (SNGFR) due to high average values for the mean glomerular transcapillary hydraulic pressure gradient (delta P) and glomerular plasma flow rate (QA). In group 2 rats, treatment with enalapril prevented systemic hypertension and maintained delta P at near-normal levels without significant reduction in SNGFR and QA. In contrast, triple drug therapy normalized systemic hypertension, but failed to lower delta P in group 3 rats. Groups 4-6 were followed for 12 wk after renal ablation. Untreated group 4 rats demonstrated continuous systemic hypertension, progressive proteinuria, and glomerular structural lesions, including mesangial expansion and frequent areas of segmental sclerosis. In group 5 rats, treatment with enalapril maintained systemic blood pressure at normal levels over the 12-wk period and dramatically limited the development of proteinuria and glomerular lesions. Despite equivalent systemic blood pressure control in group 6 rats, failure of triple drug therapy to control glomerular hypertension was associated with progressive proteinuria and glomerular lesions comparable to those seen in untreated group 4 rats. Thus, unless glomerular capillary hypertension is corrected, control of systemic blood pressure is insufficient to prevent progressive renal injury in rats with reduced renal mass.
Resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) strains develop in 30% of liver transplant recipients treated with lamivudine within 2 years from the time of transplantation.
To assess safety and outcomes of tenofovir salvage therapy for patients with lamivudine resistance in a retrospective cohort of liver-transplanted patients.
Medical records were retrospectively evaluated for patients who received tenofovir. Data collected included demographics, HBV serologic information prior to and during tenofovir therapy, drug-related complications, and creatinine clearance. Criteria for lamivudine resistance included elevation of liver chemistries along with reappearance of hepatitis B surface antigen, hepatitis Be antigen, and/or HBV DNA.
Sixteen patients showed resistance to lamivudine at 10-85 months (median 26) following liver transplantation. Tenofovir 300 mg/day orally was added in 8 patients 1-66 months after the development of viral lamivudine resistance and continued for 14-26 months (median 19.3). All 8 patients experienced HBV DNA viral suppression, with 7 currently nondetectable. No adverse events were reported, and creatinine clearance was not impaired.
Our results suggest that tenofovir safely and markedly decreases replication of lamivudine-resistant HBV variants after liver transplantation and is another potential option for the treatment of HBV lamivudine resistance.
Some antiepileptic drugs are used clinically to relieve neuropathic pain. We have evaluated the effects and investigated the possible mechanisms of action of zonisamide, an antiepileptic drug, on thermal hyperalgesia and tactile allodynia in a murine chronic pain model that was prepared by partial ligation of the sciatic nerve. Subcutaneously administered zonisamide (10 and 30 mg/kg) produced antihyperalgesic and antiallodynic effects in a dose-dependent manner; these effects were manifested by elevation of the withdrawal threshold in response to a thermal (plantar test) or mechanical (von Frey) stimulus, respectively. Similar analgesic effects were obtained in both the plantar and von Frey tests when zonisamide was injected either intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v., 10 and 30 microg) or intrathecally (i.t., 10 and 30 microg). It is thought that this elevation of the thermal and mechanical withdrawal thresholds after local injection of zonisamide is not generated secondarily via impaired motor activity, since zonisamide (30 microg, i.c.v. or i.t.) did not affect locomotor activity, as assessed in sciatic-nerve-ligated mice. Moreover, the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME, when injected either i.c.v. or i.t., potentiated the analgesic effects of zonisamide. In contrast, neither i.c.v. nor i.t. zonisamide produced antinociceptive effects against acute thermal and mechanical nociception in non-ligated mice. Together, following peripheral nerve injury, it appears that zonisamide produces centrally mediated antihyperalgesic and antiallodynic effects partly via the blockade of nitric oxide synthesis.
