In fit unpremedicated patients undergoing minor operations and who were ambulant on the afternoon of the operations, pretreatment with magnesium sulphate given intravenously did not reduce the incidence of suxamethonium induced myalgia below that in a similar series who received no prophylactic therapy. The injection of magnesium in conscious patients is followed by unpleasant side effects.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) is an endemic disease in Egypt. Systematic treatment with pentostam has its disadvantages and contraindications. In this study, six out of eight parasitologically proved CL patients recovered with intralesion infiltration with a dose of pentostam ranged between 0.8 to 1.6 gm. The other 2 patients did not show response with a dose up to 2 gm. The results were discussed.
Inhibition of BCR-ABL by imatinib induces durable responses in many patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), but resistance attributable to kinase domain mutations can lead to relapse and a switch to second-line therapy with nilotinib or dasatinib. Despite three approved therapeutic options, the cross-resistant BCR-ABL(T315I) mutation and compound mutants selected on sequential inhibitor therapy remain major clinical challenges. We report design and preclinical evaluation of AP24534, a potent, orally available multitargeted kinase inhibitor active against T315I and other BCR-ABL mutants. AP24534 inhibited all tested BCR-ABL mutants in cellular and biochemical assays, suppressed BCR-ABL(T315I)-driven tumor growth in mice, and completely abrogated resistance in cell-based mutagenesis screens. Our work supports clinical evaluation of AP24534 as a pan-BCR-ABL inhibitor for treatment of CML.
While hypersexuality and paraphilia are known side effects of anti-Parkinson medications, it is seldom reported. Furthermore, selegiline is rarely implicated in such behaviors. We report two cases of early onset PD who experienced paraphilia and hypersexuality when selegiline was initiated, and later developing obsessive-compulsive and punding behavior with the addition of dopamine agonists. Social repercussions may prohibit patients and/or their families from volunteering such information.
Caffeine, which has a DNA-repair inhibiting effect, enhances the cytocidal effects of anticancer drugs and radiation. We present a preliminary report on the results of a new treatment, "radiochemotherapy combined with caffeine" (K3 protocol), for high-grade soft tissue sarcomas. Seventeen patients with various high-grade soft tissue sarcomas were included in this study. Preoperatively, three to five courses of intra-arterial chemotherapy using cisplatin, caffeine and doxorubicin after radiation therapy were administered. Following the preoperative therapy, function-saving surgery was performed for all cases. Complete response was observed in six patients, partial response in six and no change in five. The effectiveness rate of caffeine-potentiated radiochemotherapy was therefore 71%. The histological response for radiochemotherapy was better than that for chemotherapy alone, that is, total tumor necrosis was identified in six patients and over 90% necrosis in another six. Complications resulting from the preoperative radiation comprised of serious inflammation in three patients and skin necrosis in another three. Twelve patients have remained free of disease, two patients are alive with disease and three have died of metastatic disease with a mean follow-up period of 36 months. There was no local tumor recurrence. These preliminary findings suggest that caffeine-potentiated radiochemotherapy contributed to a satisfactory local response and the success of function-saving surgery for high-grade soft tissue sarcomas.
Diazepam (10 mg/kg, ip) treatment was given from day 13 to 20 of gestation to pregnant rats, this being the critical period for neural development in this species. The pups born were subjected to open-field exploratory behaviour, tunnel-board exploratory behaviour, elevated zero maze behaviour and social interaction tests at 8-9 weeks of age. The results indicate that prenatal diazepam treatment induces a significant increase in open-field ambulation, grooming, scratching and licking/washing, whereas rearing and faecal dropping remain unchanged. Significant reduction in tunnel-board exploratory activity, activity on zero-maze and social interaction were also observed in the prenatally diazepam treated offsprings. The results suggests that prenatal interference in the form of diazepam leaves a lasting imprint on offsprings resulting in hyper-emotional responsiveness and anxiety state.
Vasoconstriction was observed in the fetal middle cerebral and umbilical arteries by Doppler assessment at 27 weeks gestation in a patient requiring continuous morphine infusion for pain control. Fetal heart tracings were also concerning. Fetal status improved after a change to fentanyl infusion, a shorter acting opioid. Caution is recommended when long-term chronic narcotic infusion is used in pregnancy.
The mechanism of acute nephrotoxicity following the administration of amphotericin B (AmpB) remains unclear despite a number of studies describing hypermagnesuria, hyperkaluria, and hemodynamic changes. The present experiments attempted to elucidate the mechanism by using a novel hemorheologic probe, pentoxifylline (PTX). Acute studies were performed with rats given single intravenous doses of AmpB (1 mg/kg of body weight) with or without intraperitoneal PTX (45 mg/kg). Renal function, assessed by inulin clearance (CLIN) and electrolyte handling, and morphology were compared with those of controls given sterile water and PTX. A significant decrease in CLIN not observed in rats given AmpB and PTX or in the controls was found in rats given AmpB. Electrolyte handling was not different among groups. Whereas pronounced (3 and 4+ on a scale of mild to significant [1+ to 4+]) vascular congestion was found in rats given AmpB, rats coadministered PTX had mild (1 and 2+) medullary and glomerular vascular congestion. In chronic studies, intravenous AmpB (1 mg/kg per day) or sterile water was coadministered with intraperitoneal PTX (45 mg/kg every 12 h) or saline for 10 days. Mean CLIN of rats coadministered AmpB and PTX was not significantly different from that of PTX control rats (1.61 +/- 0.19 versus 1.31 +/- 0.29 ml/min per g of kidney weight). A 46% decline in CLIN was found in rats treated with AmpB and saline (P less than 0.05). Renal sodium and potassium excretions were increased in both AmpB-treated groups compared with controls. Coupled with histologic evidence of the acute studies, these data suggest that the benefit of PTX in the prevention of AmpB-induced nephrotoxicity is, in part, due to vascular decongestion.
The non-selective opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone reduces cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behaviour in abstinent rats. The current study sought to determine whether the opioid system is also involved in cocaine-seeking behaviour induced by cocaine-associated stimuli in abstinent rats. Adult male rats were trained to press a lever either to self-administer cocaine or to obtain sucrose pellets in the presence of distinctive discriminative and conditioned stimuli. After a period of extinction, re-exposure to cocaine-associated cues selectively elicited robust and enduring responding at the active lever; sucrose pellet-associated cues revived seeking behaviour less pronouncedly. Pretreatment with naltrexone (0.25, 1, 2.5 mg/kg s.c., 20 min before reinstatement tests) dose dependently prevented cue-induced cocaine-seeking behaviour, whereas (2.5 mg/kg s.c.) did not affect the degree of cue-induced sucrose-seeking behaviour. These results provide the first evidence that naltrexone influences cocaine seeking induced by conditioned stimuli in abstinent rats; this effect appears selective for cocaine reinstatement as opposed to a non-drug reinforcer.
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a prominent feature in HIV-positive patients. We present two patients with long-lasting HIV-infection who suffered from this disease, as induced by highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART). The patients developed acute-on-chronic (AOC) liver failure after either (case 1) acute infection with hepatitis A virus (HAV) or (case 2) methamphetamine abuse ('Ecstasy'). Approximately 1 week after visiting an area endemic for HAV, case 1, a male patient, presented with icterus, elevated liver transaminases and HAV IgM. Previous examinations had demonstrated normal liver transaminase activities while hepatic steatosis had been suspected. He developed complications associated with liver failure including renal failure as well as pleural and pericardial effusions. Case 2, a second male patient, developed both liver failure and lactic acidosis 24 h after methamphetamine abuse. Both patients suffered from fatty liver in the pre-acute stage as indicated by ultrasound examination. After developing symptoms of liver failure, HAART was discontinued in both patients. Follow-up visits demonstrated that the patients recovered clinically with almost normalized laboratory parameters. In HIV infection, HAART-induced hepatopathological alterations may exist despite the absence of relevant laboratory parameters. These patients are likely to develop AOC liver failure when subjected to acute risk factors such as hepatitis viruses and narcotics or other drugs. In patients treated with HAART, we thus highly recommend hepatitis A and B virus vaccinations, and close monitoring of liver parameters.
Reported side-effects of tacrolimus, a potent immunosuppressive agent, have not included cardiotoxicity. We describe 5 consecutive paediatric transplant recipients (3 small bowel with or without liver and 2 liver) who received tacrolimus. 2 developed congestive heart failure and hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy which resolved after changing to cyclosporin. In the other 3 patients the cardiomyopathy regressed or improved with a lower dose of tacrolimus or after stopping the drug.
Clinical trials were carried out of the protective action of dicarbamin in 33 patients with Hodgkin's disease (13 males and 20 females, average age--31 years). They received standard chemotherapy ABVD (doxorubicin--25 mg/m2, bleomycin--10 mg/m2, vinblastine--6 mg/m2, dacarbazine--375 mg/m2, intravenously, on days 1 and 15 of each cycle, every 4 weeks. Patients suffering neutropenia after the first injection of the cytostatic drugs were given dicarbamin 100 mg/day on day 5 before a second administration. Treatment with dicarbamin continued for 15 days. Its protective effect was reported in 27 patients (81.8%). Leukocyte and granulocyte count before dicarbamin was 3.74 +/- 0.25 x 10(9)/l and 1.42 +/- 0.17 x 10(9)/l, respectively. On completion of the polychemotherapeutic cycle, the indices rose to 5.0 +/- 0.28 x 10(9)/13 and 2.49 +/- 0.25 x 10(9)/l, respectively. The beneficial effect of dicarbamin was also demonstrated by a quick recovery of leukocyte levels than in controls (p > 0.5). After the next cycle of polychemotherapy (ABVD) plus dicarbamin was given for Hodgkin's disease and grade III-IV leuko- and granulocytopenia, leukocyte and granulocyte concentrations returned back to normal which indicated the protective action of dicarbamin.
In the mouse embryo, the splanchnic mesodermal cells of the anterior heart field (AHF) migrate from the pharynx to contribute to the early myocardium of the outflow tract (OT) and right ventricle (RV). Recent studies have attempted to distinguish the AHF from other precardiac populations, and to determine the genetic and molecular mechanisms that regulate its development. Here, we have used an Fgf8lacZ allele to demonstrate that Fgf8 is expressed within the developing AHF. In addition, we use both a hypomorphic Fgf8 allele (Fgf8neo) and Cre-mediated gene ablation to show that Fgf8 is essential for the survival and proliferation of the AHF. Nkx2.5Cre is expressed in the AHF, primary heart tube and pharyngeal endoderm, while TnT-Cre is expressed only within the specified heart tube myocardium. Deletion of Fgf8 by Nkx2.5Cre results in a significant loss of the Nkx2.5Cre lineage and severe OT and RV truncations by E9.5, while the remaining heart chambers (left ventricle and atria) are grossly normal. These defects result from significant decreases in cell proliferation and aberrant cell death in both the pharyngeal endoderm and splanchnic mesoderm. By contrast, ablation of Fgf8 in the TnT-Cre domain does not result in OT or RV defects, providing strong evidence that Fgf8 expression is crucial in the pharyngeal endoderm and/or overlying splanchnic mesoderm of the AHF at a stage prior to heart tube elongation. Analysis of downstream signaling components, such as phosphorylated-Erk and Pea3, identifies the AHF splanchnic mesoderm itself as a target for Fgf8 signaling.
Brain abnormalities, preceded by a systemic inflammation, develop in spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rats (SHRSP). In this model, we investigated whether the hydrophilic statin, rosuvastatin, influences the development of inflammation associated with brain abnormalities. Because differences in hydrophilicity/hydrophobicity contribute to the differences in statin pharmacology, we also evaluated the effects of simvastatin, a lipophilic molecule
SHRSP, fed a high-salt diet, were treated long-term with vehicle or rosuvastatin (1 and 10 mg/kg per day). Brain abnormalities developed after 40+/-5 days and after 60+/-5 days of salt loading, in vehicle-treated and in rosuvastatin-treated (1 mg/kg per day) SHRSP, respectively. After 100 days of treatment, no damage was detectable in 30% of the rats treated with the highest dose of the drug. In comparison with vehicle-treated SHRSP, rosuvastatin treatment attenuated the transcription of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, transforming growth factor-beta1, IL-1beta, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in the kidney, and of P-selectin in brain vessels and increased the transcription of endothelial nitric oxide synthase mRNA in the aorta. Urinary excretion of acute-phase proteins increased with time in vehicle-treated animals but remained negligible in drug-treated animals. These effects are independent of changes in physiological parameters. Treatment of SHRSP with simvastatin (2 to 20 mg/kg per day) did not exert any protective effect.
Rosuvastatin attenuates inflammatory processes associated with cerebrovascular disease.
Wilson disease (WD) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by defects in the ATPase, Cu(2+) transporting, beta-polypeptide gene (ATP7B) resulting in accumulation of copper in liver and brain. WD can be thwarted if detected at a presymptomatic stage, but occasional recombination during carrier detection with dinucleotide repeat markers flanking the WD locus may lead to faulty diagnosis. We examined the use of intragenic single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers to avoid this limitation.
We prepared genomic DNA from the peripheral blood of Indian WD patients. By use of PCR, we amplified the exons and flanking regions of the WD gene and then performed sequencing to identify the nucleotide variants. We genotyped the SNPs in 1871 individuals by use of the Sequenom mass array system. We made linkage disequilibrium plots using Haploview software.
We identified 1 mutation accounting for 11% (19 of 174) of WD chromosomes among patients in addition to 4 prevalent mutations characterized previously. Among 24 innocuous allelic variants identified, we selected 3 SNPs found to have high heterozygosity (>0.40) for the detection of mutant WD chromosomes. On analyzing these SNPs in 28 test individuals, who were sibs to 17 unrelated WD patients, we obtained unequivocal genotyping in 25 cases (approximately 89%). The remaining 3 cases were genotyped by dinucleotide repeat marker (D13S133).
Sets of SNP markers are highly heterozygous across most world populations and could be used in combination with analysis of prevalent mutations as a comprehensive strategy for determining presymptomatic and carrier sibs of WD patients.
We examined long-term risk of cancer in women exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES) in utero.
A total of 12,091 DES-exposed women in the Netherlands were followed prospectively from December 1992 till June 2008. Cancer incidence was assessed through linkage with the Dutch pathology database (PALGA) and the Netherlands Cancer Registry and compared with the Dutch female population.
A total of 348 medically verified cancers occurred; median age at end of follow-up was 44.0 years. No overall increased risk of cancer was found (standardized incidence ratio [SIR] = 1.01; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.91, 1.13). The risk of clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina and cervix (CCA) was statistically significantly increased (SIR = 24.23; 95% CI = 8.89, 52.74); the elevated risk persisted above 40 years of age. The risk of melanoma diagnosed before age 40 was increased (SIR = 1.59; 95% CI = 1.08, 2.26). No excess risks were found for other sites, including breast cancer.
Except for an elevated risk of CCA, persisting at older ages, and an increased risk of melanoma at young ages, we found no increased risk of cancer. Longer follow-up is warranted to examine cancer risk at ages when cancer occurs more frequently.
The aim of this study was to evaluate whether cyclosporin A (CsA) influences the radiological disease progression in early rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients in comparison with other disease-modifying drugs (DMARDs). A total of 103 early RA patients, without prior use of DMARDs, were randomized to receive CsA (3 mg/kg per day) or methotrexate (MTX) (0.15 mg/kg per week). In addition, all patients received prednisone (7.5 mg/day). After 42 months of treatment, pairs of hand and wrist radiographs of 41 patients treated with CsA and 42 treated with MTX were evaluated blindly and separately by two investigators, using reference radiographs for scoring. A scale scoring similar to Larsen's standard radiographs with minor modifications was used. The studied radiographs were obtained at the beginning and 42 months after therapy in both groups. Patients in both groups responded beneficially to the above treatment regimens. In the CsA group, 37 patients (71 %) remained radiographically stable and 4 worsened, while in the MTX group 39 patients (76%) remained stable and 3 deteriorated. No significant radiological worsening was found in the CsA-treated patients as compared to those treated with MTX. Early immuno-intervention in RA patients appears to be crucial for the future development of joint damage: CsA can delay radiological disease progression and may inhibit joint damage deterioration in early RA patients.
A 54-year-old male with a history of multiple admissions for alcohol intoxication was admitted to hospital with right flank pain. He received a high-dose lorazepam infusion for alcohol withdrawal during hospitalization and developed severe hyperosmolality, high anion gap metabolic acidosis, and acute kidney injury on his eighth day of hospitalization.
Serum chemistries, arterial blood gas analysis, and measurement of serum propylene glycol, ethylene glycol and methanol levels.
Propylene glycol toxicity.
Discontinuation of lorazepam infusion, administration of fomepizole, hemodialysis for five consecutive days, hemodynamic support, and follow-up of serum osmolality as a measure of propylene glycol decay.
Live birth rates are increased by treatment with heparin and aspirin in cases of poor pregnancy outcome such as antiphospholipid syndrome. Both drugs may attenuate miscarriage by inhibiting aberrant coagulation or by modulating trophoblast apoptosis. Here we assessed their roles in trophoblast apoptosis in vitro.
BeWo cells and placental villi were cultured in sera from women with successful or failing in vitro fertilization, with and without heparin or aspirin. Apoptosis was assessed by using DNA laddering, cytokeratin 18 neoepitope formation, Bcl-2, and caspase 7 expression.
In BeWo cells, sera from in vitro fertilization failure increased trophoblast apoptosis, whereas heparin and aspirin reversed these effects. In villous trophoblast, heparin increased Bcl-2 and cytokeratin 18 protein expression. Heparin and aspirin inhibited DNA laddering.
Heparin and aspirin modulate trophoblast apoptosis suggesting a direct impact on trophoblast biology, thus providing an additional mechanism to explain the clinical benefits of heparin and aspirin on recurrent pregnancy loss.
Sulfasalazine (SASP) is a drug commonly used in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). In this study, the changes in endogenous antioxidant capacity and oxidative damage in liver and kidney of SASP-treated rats were investigated. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were orally given 0, 300, or 600 mg SASP/kg body weight for 14 days. One half of the animals in each group remained 14 additional days without SASP treatment. At the end of the experimental period, rats were euthanized and liver and kidney were removed. In both organs, the following stress markers were determined: reduced glutathione (GSH), oxidized glutathione (GSSG), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS). Moreover, histological examination of kidneys showed phagolysosomes after 14 days of SASP withdrawal. A dropsical degeneration was also observed in renal tissue. Oral SASP administration induced a significant increase in TBARS levels in both liver and kidney. After 2 weeks without SASP administration, a recovery of these levels was noted. SOD activity was significantly reduced, while CAT activity significantly increased at 600 mg SASP/(kg day). In kidney, GPx activity significantly increased, while GST activity and GSH levels were significantly reduced at 600 mg SASP/(kg day). These results suggest that in male rats, oxidative damage can be a mechanism for nephro- and hepatotoxicity related with SASP treatment.
Angiotensin receptor blockers (ARB) and angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are known to reduce proteinuria. Their combination might be more effective than either treatment alone, but long-term data for comparative changes in renal function are not available. We investigated the renal effects of ramipril (an ACE inhibitor), telmisartan (an ARB), and their combination in patients aged 55 years or older with established atherosclerotic vascular disease or with diabetes with end-organ damage.
The trial ran from 2001 to 2007. After a 3-week run-in period, 25 620 participants were randomly assigned to ramipril 10 mg a day (n=8576), telmisartan 80 mg a day (n=8542), or to a combination of both drugs (n=8502; median follow-up was 56 months), and renal function and proteinuria were measured. The primary renal outcome was a composite of dialysis, doubling of serum creatinine, and death. Analysis was by intention to treat. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00153101.
784 patients permanently discontinued randomised therapy during the trial because of hypotensive symptoms (406 on combination therapy, 149 on ramipril, and 229 on telmisartan). The number of events for the composite primary outcome was similar for telmisartan (n=1147 [13.4%]) and ramipril (1150 [13.5%]; hazard ratio [HR] 1.00, 95% CI 0.92-1.09), but was increased with combination therapy (1233 [14.5%]; HR 1.09, 1.01-1.18, p=0.037). The secondary renal outcome, dialysis or doubling of serum creatinine, was similar with telmisartan (189 [2.21%]) and ramipril (174 [2.03%]; HR 1.09, 0.89-1.34) and more frequent with combination therapy (212 [2.49%]: HR 1.24, 1.01-1.51, p=0.038). Estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) declined least with ramipril compared with telmisartan (-2.82 [SD 17.2] mL/min/1.73 m(2)vs -4.12 [17.4], p<0.0001) or combination therapy (-6.11 [17.9], p<0.0001). The increase in urinary albumin excretion was less with telmisartan (p=0.004) or with combination therapy (p=0.001) than with ramipril.
In people at high vascular risk, telmisartan's effects on major renal outcomes are similar to ramipril. Although combination therapy reduces proteinuria to a greater extent than monotherapy, overall it worsens major renal outcomes.
The aim of this study was to determine the association of bleeding as a complication of warfarin therapy with polymorphism of CYP2C9 gene (alleles 1, 2 and 3). The CYP2C9 is the main enzyme for warfarin metabolism. Study included 181 patients receiving warfarin for at least one month. Allele 1 of CYP2C9 gene (in 94.5%) and genotype *1/*1 (57.5%) prevailed. Allele 3 was found in 12.7% patients. Bleeding side-effects occurred in 18 patients (10%). Patients with allele *1 needed significantly higher maintenance warfarin dose (p=0.011). Those with allele *3 had significantly lower maintenance warfarin dose (p=0.005) and higher prothrombin time (PT) at induction (p=0.034). Bleeding occurred significantly more often in those with lower maintenance warfarin dose (p=0.017). Patients with allele *3 had increased risk of bleeding, with marginal significance (p=0.05). Polymorphism of CYP2C9 could determine dose of warfarin therapy and thus it could be related to the risk of bleeding complications. Allele *3 carriers need lower warfarin dose. Therefore, initially reduced warfarin induction dose in allele *3 carriers could avoid more prolonged PT and decrease the risk of bleeding complication.
Mancozeb, an ethylenebisdithiocarbamate (EBDC), was administered orally at a dose of 700 mg/kg body weight/day to female virgin rats for 5, 10, 20, and 30 days to examine the effect on ovarian follicular development. No significant change occurred in the number of estrous cycles and the duration of proestrus, estrus, and metestrus, but mancozeb treatment for 5 days significantly increased the duration of diestrus. Mancozeb treatment for 10 days significantly increased the number of estrous cycle and the duration of estrus, with a concomitant significant increase in diestrus, but no change in proestrus and metestrus. With mancozeb treatment for 20 and 30 days, the number of estrous cycles and duration of proestrus, estrus, and metestrus were significantly decreased, with a concomitant significant increase in the duration of diestrus. Exposure of rats to mancozeb for 5 days resulted in a significant decrease in stage II and the total number of healthy follicles but no change in atretic follicles. Mancozeb treatment for 10 days resulted in a significant decrease in stages I, II, and IV and in the total number of healthy follicles. A significant increase in atretic follicles was found in rats treated with mancozeb for 20 and 30 days. No significant change occurred in body and organ weights in any group, but the thyroid weight of 20 and 30 days mancozeb-treated rats was significantly increased. The level of protein in the ovary was significantly decreased, but no change was found in the uterus and liver of mancozeb-treated animals. The level of glycogen was significantly decreased in the ovary and the uterus with mancozeb treatment, but not in the liver. With mancozeb treatment, the levels of phospholipids and neutral lipids were significantly increased in the liver but significantly decreased in the uterus. The change in the biochemical constituents of ovary, uterus, and liver was duration dependent. The results of the study thus indicate a marked disruption of the estrous cycle, pathological changes in the gonads, and organ-specific biochemical changes in rats after exposure to mancozeb.
Recently, acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) presenting nephrotic syndrome and renal failure induced by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) has been recognized with increasing frequency. We described here a 43-year-old woman who developed this type of nephropathy after taking NSAID for rheumatoid arthritis. Flurbiprofen (Froben) was assumed to be a causal drug based on a clinical course and a positive result of lymphocyte transformation test. Withdrawal of flurbiprofen therapy led no sufficient improvement, and high-dose steroid therapy done 15 months after the onset resulted in only a minor improvement. So far as we know, this was the second case of AIN associated with flurbiprofen and the youngest in NSAID-induced AIN with irreversible chronic renal insufficiency.
This study examined the effects of acute (15 mg/kg, i.p.) and chronic subanesthetic (15 mg/kg, i.p., t.i.d, for 6 days) doses of ketamine [a noncompetitive N-methyl-D: -aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist] on amphetamine (presynaptic dopamine releasing agent; 10 mg/kg, i.p.) and apomorphine (a D(2) receptor agonist; 1 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced stereotyped behaviors. The effect of acute and chronic ketamine on haloperidol (a D(2) receptor antagonist; 1.6 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced catalepsy was also examined. Acute ketamine and chronic ketamine pretreatment increased amphetamine-induced stereotyped sniffing and locomotion compared with control groups. Acute ketamine significantly increased apomorphine-induced stereotyped sniffing. However, chronic ketamine had no significant effect on apomorphine-induced stereotyped sniffing. Acute, but not chronic ketamine treatment abolished haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The increase in amphetamine-induced stereotyped behaviors and the reversal of haloperidol-induced catalepsy by acute ketamine suggest that blockade of NMDA receptors by ketamine facilitates dopaminergic transmission. The absence of significant effect of chronic ketamine on apomorphine-induced stereotyped sniffing and haloperidol-induced catalepsy suggests that chronic ketamine does not modulate postsynaptic dopaminergic D(2) receptors. It is suggested that chronic ketamine increased amphetamine-induced behaviors by causing hypersensitivity of presynaptic dopamine releasing mechanisms on dopaminergic terminals.
