Lithium-induced diabetes insipidus occurs in up to one third of patients on long-term therapy. It usually manifests during the treatment course, often with preceding signs or symptoms. We wish to highlight a case in which diabetes insipidus developed many days after cessation of long-term lithium therapy. We seek to explain this delayed onset by a discussion of the molecular and genetic changes underlying the pathogenesis of lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
Hypoproteinemia is a common condition in critically ill patients, associated with the development of acute lung injury and acute respiratory distress syndrome and subsequent worse clinical outcomes. Albumin with furosemide benefits lung physiology in hypoproteinemic patients with acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome, but the independent pharmacologic effects of these drugs are unknown.
Randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled multicentered trial.
Eleven medical, surgical, and trauma intensive care units including 190 beds within two university hospital systems.
Forty mechanically ventilated patients with acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome, whose serum total protein concentrations were <6.0 g/dL were included. Patients were excluded for hemodynamic instability or significant renal or hepatic failure.
Subjects were equally randomly allocated to receive furosemide with albumin or furosemide with placebo for 72 hrs, titrated to fluid loss and normalization of serum total protein concentration.
The primary outcome was change in oxygenation from baseline to day 1, with secondary physiologic and clinical outcomes. There were no differences in baseline characteristics of the subjects in relation to group assignment. Albumin-treated patients had greater increases in oxygenation (mean change in Pao2/Fio2: +43 vs. -24 mm Hg at 24 hrs and +49 vs. -13 mm Hg at day 3), serum total protein (1.5 vs. 0.5 g/dL at day 3), and net fluid loss (-5480 vs. -1490 mL at day 3) throughout the study period (all p < .05). Fluid bolus administration to control patients reduced net negative fluid balance; control patients more frequently developed hypotension and had fewer shock-free days, which translated to differences in organ failure at study end.
The addition of albumin to furosemide therapy in hypoproteinemic patients with acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome significantly improves oxygenation, with greater net negative fluid balance and better maintenance of hemodynamic stability. Additional randomized clinical trials are necessary to examine mechanisms and determine the effect on important clinical outcomes, such as the duration of mechanical ventilation.
Hepatic fibrosis is associated with the activation of stellate cells (HSCs), the major source of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), signaling via Smad3, is the most profibrogenic cytokine and the major promoter of ECM synthesis. Halofuginone, an inhibitor of liver fibrosis, inhibits TGF-beta-dependent Smad3 phosphorylation in human HSCs in culture. We have used transcriptional profiling to evaluate the effect of halofuginone on gene expression during the progression of thioacetamide (TAA)-induced liver fibrosis in the rat and have focused on genes that are associated with TGF-beta. TAA treatment causes alterations in the expression of 7% of liver genes. Halofuginone treatment prevents the changes in the expression of 41% of these genes and results in the inhibition of HSC activation and collagen synthesis. During the early stages of the disease, halofuginone affects genes involved in alcohol, lipid, protein, and phosphate metabolism and cell adhesion and, at later stages, in the cell cycle (cell development, differentiation, cell proliferation, and apoptosis). The activation of TGF-beta-dependent genes, such as tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase, its putative substrate osteopontin, stellate cell activation-association protein, and fibrillin-1, during chemically induced fibrosis is prevented by halofuginone. This study thus highlights the role of TGF-beta signaling in liver fibrosis and especially its potential for pharmacological intervention. Halofuginone, which has demonstrated efficacy and tolerance in animals and humans, could become an effective and novel therapy for liver fibrosis.
Botulinum toxin A (BoNT/A) has been used therapeutically to treat muscular hypercontractions and sudomotor hyperactivity. There is increasing evidence that BoNT/A might also have analgesic properties, in particular in headache. In the present investigation we tested the often cited hypothesis that BoNT/A-induced analgesia can be attributed to inhibition of neuropeptide release from nociceptive nerve fibers. In 15 healthy volunteers BoNT/A (5, 10, 20 mouse units BOTOX) or saline (contralateral side) was injected intracutaneously on the volar forearm. On day zero, the day of injection, no further tests were performed. We repeatedly elicited pain, mechanical hyperalgesia and neurogenic flare by transcutaneous electrical stimulation simultaneously on the BoNT/A and saline treated side on day 1, 2, 3, 7 and 14 after injection. Before each session, sweating and local anhidrosis was assessed by iodine starch staining.BoNT/A suppressed sweating as early as from the second day after injection (p < 0.001). The size of electrically induced flare was smaller on the BoNT/A treated arm (BoNT/A side: 21.46 cm(2) +/- 3.58, saline side 24.80 +/- 3.46, p < 0.005) and BoNT/A reduced electrically-induced pain by about 10 % (p < 0.001). However, hyperalgesia to pin-prick and allodynia after electrical stimulation were unchanged. In conclusion our results indicate that peripheral neuropeptide release is attenuated by BoNT/A. In contrast, the analgesic effect of BoNT/A was very limited. Therefore we assume that other than neuropeptide mechanisms must be important for BoNT/A induced pain relief in clinical pain syndromes.
A double-blind randomized study was performed in 60 patients to compare the electrocardiographic and hemodynamic changes induced during cardiac angiography by 2 contrast media with relatively low osmolality. Ioxaglate meglumine sodium, an ionic dimer contrast medium, was compared with iopamidol, a nonionic compound. Of the 30 patients who received ioxaglate, 13 (43%) experienced a mild to moderate adverse reaction to the contrast media, while only 2 of the 30 patients (7%) in the iopamidol group had similar side effects (p less than 0.005). Significant prolongations of the QT intervals occurred with the ioxaglate injections. The QT intervals increased from 402 +/- 46 to 442 +/- 59 ms (p less than 0.001) with the right coronary artery injection and similar changes were observed after the left coronary artery injection and left ventriculography. Significant ST-segment and T-wave amplitude changes also occurred in the ioxaglate group. With iopamidol injections, there were no significant changes in any of these parameters. After the left ventriculogram, there were similar decreases in the systolic arterial pressures in both groups (-14 +/- 10 mm Hg with ioxaglate and -21 +/- 9 mm Hg with iopamidol). The left ventricular end-diastolic pressures increased after the ventriculogram in both groups (5 +/- 5 vs 2 +/- 3 mm Hg with ioxaglate and iopamidol, respectively, 60 seconds after the injection). This report demonstrates that mild to moderate adverse reactions, QT-interval prolongations, ST and T-wave changes were significantly greater during coronary angiography with ioxaglate when compared with iopamidol.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Most of renal cell carcinomas (RCCs) are refractory at the start of chemotherapy. We have demonstrated that the frequently elevated expression of the multidrug resistance gene (MDR) in RCCs is associated with the intrinsic vinca alkaloids and anthracyclines resistance. The preliminary clinical trials using verapamil or amiodarone in combination with vinblastine or doxorubicin to overcome multidrug-resistant (MDR) tumors could not achieve satisfactory results owing to severe cardiovascular toxicities of such reversing agents. In the present study, we studied the sensitizing ability of bis-benzyl-isoquinoline (cepharanthine) and SDB-ethylenediamine (N-1379) in natural MDR kidney cancer cells. Cepharanthine remarkably sensitized vinblastine and doxorubicin sensitivities in those cells with high MDR RNA levels. From a clinical point of view, cepharanthine seems to be a potent and less toxic agent to treat natural MDR kidney cancers.
A rare case of cardiac failure due to hypertensive crisis in pheochromocytoma in a 25-year-old young man is presented. In the Emergency Department the patient complained of persisting headache and vomiting; he was distressed but fully alert, his heart rate was 110 b/min and blood pressure 180/80 mmHg. Few hours after admission, the clinical course suddenly got worse with signs and symptoms of fatal cardiac shock (dyspnoea, cyanosis, pulmonary oedema, hypocontractility of left ventricle). Autopsy revealed a large tumour of the left adrenal gland. Histological examination confirmed macroscopic suspicion of pheochromocytoma. Catecholamine serum levels were analysed by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) with electrochemical detection. The urine contained 35 microg/24 h norepinephrine and 184 microg/24 h epinephrine (normal range < or = 64 and < or = 36 microg/24 h respectively). These laboratory findings impressively demonstrate that the tumour was active, secreting high levels of epinephrine. Cardiac failure due to an acute catecholamine-related hypertensive crisis was established as the cause of death.
Research with animals and humans suggests that impulsivity is both a determinant and a consequence of drug abuse. In the present study, rats screened for high (HiI) or low (LoI) impulsivity using a delay-discounting task were compared on a Go/No-go procedure for intravenous cocaine (0.4 mg/kg) or saccharin pellets (0.1%). An additional aim was to examine the effects of previous cocaine exposure on impulsive choice. Thus, following Go/No-go testing, HiI and LoI rats were reevaluated on delay discounting. The results indicated that HiI and LoI rats did not differ in Go (reinforced) responses or in the number of reinforcements earned under the cocaine or saccharin conditions. However, LoI rats made significantly more No-go (nonreinforced) responses under the cocaine versus the saccharin condition. After the Go/No-go procedure, cocaine-exposed LoI rats were more impulsive on the delay-discounting task for food, compared to LoI rats that were naive to cocaine; however, HiI rats did not differ on this measure. These results indicate that the effects of cocaine on measures of impulsivity may be determined by a preexisting level of impulsive behavior.
An inlet patch of gastric mucosa in the upper esophagus is usually an incidental, congenital finding found during upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy. Although it has been reported to cause dysphagia, strictures, adenocarcinoma, and webs, it has never been associated with cough and vocal cord dysfunction.
To report the first case of a patient with an inlet patch of gastric mucosa in the upper esophagus as the cause of a particularly troublesome, chronic cough that was initially missed on 2 upper endoscopies.
The patient is a 50-year-old man with a 7-year history of chronic cough associated with hoarseness, shortness of breath, and globus sensation. For diagnostic evaluation, pulmonary function tests, chest computed tomography, rhinolaryngoscopy, upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopy, and histologic examinations were performed.
A multidisciplinary approach revealed several possible causes for the chronic cough, including vocal cord dysfunction, postnasal drip syndrome, allergic rhinitis, and mild gastroesophageal reflux disease that was only partially responsive to therapy. The results of 2 initial upper gastrointestinal tract endoscopies were interpreted as normal. A third endoscopy detected an inlet patch of gastric mucosa in the upper esophagus. Treatment with a high-dose histamine type 2 receptor antagonist and a proton pump inhibitor alleviated the patient's symptoms.
An inlet patch of gastric mucosa in the upper esophagus is not uncommon, but it is often overlooked or believed to be an incidental, congenital finding. This is the first report, to our knowledge, of an inlet patch resulting in a troublesome, chronic cough.
Familial idiopathic basal ganglia calcification (IBGC) is a genetic condition with a wide spectrum of neuropsychiatric symptoms, including parkinsonism and dementia. Here, we identified mutations in SLC20A2, encoding the type III sodium-dependent phosphate transporter 2 (PiT2), in IBGC-affected families of varied ancestry, and we observed significantly impaired phosphate transport activity for all assayed PiT2 mutants in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Our results implicate altered phosphate homeostasis in the etiology of IBGC.
Three histamine H1-receptor antagonists, chlorpheniramine, diphenhydramine and tripelennamine, were tested alone or in combination with morphine, amphetamine and scopolamine on locomotor activity in mice. All three antihistaminics, at some dosage levels, enhanced morphine-induced hyperactivity, but did not change or even reduce locomotor stimulation induced by amphetamine and scopolamine. The results suggest that H1-blocking agents may specifically interact, though not necessarily directly, with opiate mechanisms in producing behavioural effects.
Sixty-one patients with epidermoid carcinoma of the esophagus have been treated with a three drug combination of cisplatin, vindesine, and bleomycin. Of 53 patients currently evaluable for response, 29 (55%) have had partial remissions: 7/16 with metastatic, and 22/37 with local-regional disease. The median duration of response in metastatic patients is eight months. Of 28 patients treated preoperatively, 23 (82%) had resectable disease. The major toxicities seen were nephrotoxicity and myelosuppression. Cisplatin, vindesine and bleomycin is an effective combination in the treatment of esophageal carcinoma. Effects on long-term survival cannot yet be evaluated.
Resveratrol is a grape polyphenol that prevents cardiac hypertrophy and protects the heart from ischemic injury, metabolic dysregulation, and inflammatory processes in several murine models.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of resveratrol on the inflammatory processes in human cardiac AC16 cells in order to gain a better understanding of its cardioprotective mechanisms in the human heart. Resveratrol induced the DNA-binding activity of the pro-inflammatory transcription factor NF-κB in AC16 cells, and exacerbated the increase caused by tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α). In accordance with this, resveratrol increased the expression of the pro-inflammatory genes ICAM-1 (intercellular adhesion molecule-1) and TNF-α. In contrast, resveratrol decreased the expression of pro-inflammatory genes IL-6 (interleukin-6) and MCP-1 (monocyte chemoattractant protein-1). Likewise, resveratrol also induced inflammation in rat neonatal cardiomyocytes, and in the heart of mice fed a standard chow diet supplemented with resveratrol (1g/kg diet) for four months. Western-blot analyses revealed that NF-κB p65 subunit levels were upregulated in an IκB-dependent manner in the nuclei of resveratrol-treated human cardiac cells. Finally, resveratrol activated the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling and induced the expression of its anti-apoptotic downstream effector Bcl-xL, both involved in the cardioprotective survival activating factor enhancement (SAFE) pathway.
Resveratrol enhanced NF-κB activity in human and murine cardiac cells, in a process that coincided with the activation of STAT3 and anti-apoptotic downstream effectors. Therefore, activation of the SAFE pathway by resveratrol might be involved in the cardioprotective effects of this compound.
Rare spontaneous remissions from age-related macular degeneration (AMD) suggest the human retina has large regenerative capacity, even in advanced age. We present examples of robust improvement of retinal structure and function using an OTC oral resveratrol (RV) based nutritional supplement called Longevinex® or L/RV (circa 2004, Resveratrol Partners, LLC, Las Vegas, NV, USA). RV, a polyphenolic phytoalexin caloric-restriction mimic, induces hormesis at low doses with widespread beneficial effects on systemic health. RV alone inhibits neovascularization in the murine retina. Thus far, published evidence includes L/RV mitigation of experimentally induced murine cardiovascular reperfusion injury, amelioration of human atherosclerosis serum biomarkers in a human Japanese randomized placebo controlled trial, modulation of micro RNA 20b and 539 that control hypoxia-inducing-factor (HIF-1) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) genes in the murine heart (RV inhibited micro RNA20b 189-fold, L/RV 1366-fold). Little is known about the effects of L/RV on human ocular pathology.
Absent FDA IRB approval, but with permission from our Chief of Staff and medical center IRB, L/RV is reserved for AMD patients, on a case-by-case compassionate care basis. Patients include those who progress on AREDS II type supplements, refuse intra-vitreal anti-VEGF injections or fail to respond to Lucentis®, Avastin® or Eylea®. Patients are clinically followed traditionally as well as with multi-spectral retinal imaging, visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, cone glare recovery and macular visual fields. Three cases are presented.
Observed dramatic short-term anti-VEGF type effect including anatomic restoration of retinal structure with a suggestion of improvement in choroidal blood flow by near IR multispectral imaging. The visual function improvement mirrors the effect seen anatomically. The effect is bilateral with the added benefit of better RPE function. Effects have lasted for one year or longer when taken daily, at which point one patient required initiation of anti-VEGF agents. Unanticipated systemic benefits were observed.
Preliminary observations support previous publications in animals and humans. Restoration of structure and visual function in octogenarians with daily oral consumption of L/RV is documented. Applications include failure on AREDS II supplements, refusing or failing conventional anti-VEGF therapy, adjunct therapy to improve RPE function, and compassionate use in medically underserved or economically depressed third-world countries.
We report the case of a patient with an angioedema during therapy with enalapril and tramadol. The most likely cause of the adverse effect if the ACE-inhibitor enalapril. A rechallenge with the ACE-inhibitor is dangerous and should not be performed. Because of its potential risks, further treatment with ACE-inhibitors should be avoided in all patients with ACE-inhibitor-induced angioedema. Possible therapeutic alternatives include diuretics, beta-blocking agents, calcium antagonists and also angiotensin II receptor antagonists.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is a key molecule in the inflammatory pathway in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Cytosolic phospholipase A (cPLA2) is an important enzyme providing substrate for cyclooxygenases. We therefore examined cPLA2 expression in human ALS and mutant Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) transgenic mice and its relation to COX-2. Immunohistochemistry and real-time RT-PCR revealed elevated cPLA2 protein and its mRNA levels in the lumbar spinal cord of mutant SOD1 mice. COX-2 immunoreactivity was increased in lumbar spinal cord sections from both familial ALS (FALS) and sporadic ALS (SALS) as compared to controls, and cPLA2 immunoreactivity was increased in a patient with FALS. Oral administration of the non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor, sulindac, extended the survival (by 10%) of G93A SOD1 mice as compared to littermate controls. Sulindac, as well as the selective COX-2 inhibitors, rofecoxib and celecoxib reduced cPLA2 immunoreactivity in the lumbar spinal cord of G93A transgenic mice. Sulindac treatment preserved motor neurons, and reduced microglial activation and astrocytosis, in the spinal cord of G93A SOD1 transgenic mice. These results suggest that cPLA2 plays an important role in supplying arachidonic acid to the COX-2 driven inflammatory pathway in ALS associated with SOD1 mutations.
Erythropoietin (Epo) is a glycoprotein secreted by the kidney in response to hypoxia that stimulates erythropoiesis through interaction with cell surface Epo receptors. Pre-treatment with Epo has been shown to protect neurons in models of ischemic injury. The mechanism responsible for this neuroprotection and the effects of Epo on astroglial and other non-neuronal cell populations remain unknown. In the present study, we determined whether Epo pre-treatment protects neonatal rat astrocytes from apoptotic cell death resulting from treatment with nitric oxide, staurosporine (STS) and arsenic trioxide and possible mechanisms mediating Epo-related cytoprotection. Epo (5-20 U/mL) significantly attenuated multiple hallmarks of apoptotic cell death in astroglia exposed to nitric oxide and STS but not arsenic trioxide. Epo (20 U/mL) induced mild oxidative stress as shown by increases in heme oxygenase (HO)-1 mRNA and protein expression that could be suppressed by antioxidant coadministration. Moreover, coincubation with tin-mesoporphyrin, a competitive inhibitor of HO activity, abrogated the cytoprotective effects of Epo (20 U/mL) in the face of STS treatment. Thus, induction of the ho-1 gene may contribute to the glioprotection accruing from high-dose Epo exposure. Epo may augment astroglial resistance to certain chemical stressors by oxidative stress-dependent and -independent mechanisms.
Acetaminophen toxicity after repeated administration of amounts that only moderately exceed recommended doses, is being increasingly reported in alcoholic or fasting adults. Pediatric experience with this pattern of acetaminophen toxicity is sparse. We present 2 children who developed severe hepatic damage, with renal insufficiency as well in 1, after 15-20 mg/kg of acetaminophen, given at 4-hour intervals for 3-4 days during an intercurrent febrile illness. When given in doses as low as 20 mg/kg at frequent intervals for a number of days, the drug puts children who are vomiting or have sharply reduced caloric intakes at increased risk for severe toxicity. Increased caution and awareness of the toxic effects of acetaminophen are needed, and it should be dispensed with appropriate package-label warnings.
Chlorambucil, a drug used in the treatment of neoplastic and non-neoplastic disease, was administered by gavage to BALB/c mice at a dose of 1.0 mg/kg body wt. 5 times per week for 12 weeks to test its carcinogenicity. The survival was statistically reduced in treated animals of both sexes (P less than 0.001). The treatment induced a significant increase in lung tumours (males, P less than 0.001; females, P less than 0.001) and lymphoreticular system tumours (males P less than 0.01; females, P less than 0.001) in both sexes and mammary carcinomas in female mice (P less than 0.05). These results with other investigations reported in literature, suggest that chlorambucil is carcinogenic in laboratory animals, mutagenic and that it could be a potential carcinogenic hazard to man.
Fatty acid binding proteins (FABPs) are essential for energy production and long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acid-related signaling in the brain and other tissues. Of various FABPs, heart-type fatty acid binding protein (H-FABP, FABP3) is highly expressed in neurons of mature brain and plays a role in arachidonic acid incorporation into brain and heart cells. However, the precise function of H-FABP in brain remains unclear. We previously demonstrated that H-FABP is associated with the dopamine D(2) receptor long isoform (D2LR) in vitro. Here, we confirm that H-FABP binds to dopamine D(2) receptor (D2R) in brain extracts and colocalizes immunohistochemically with D2R in the dorsal striatum. We show that H-FABP is highly expressed in acetylcholinergic interneurons and terminals of glutamatergic neurons in the dorsal striatum of mouse brain but absent in dopamine neuron terminals and spines in the same region. H-FABP knock-out (KO) mice showed lower responsiveness to methamphetamine-induced sensitization and enhanced haloperidol-induced catalepsy compared with wild-type mice, indicative of D2R dysfunction. Consistent with the latter, aberrant increased acetylcholine (ACh) release and depolarization-induced glutamate (Glu) release were observed in the dorsal striatum of H-FABP KO mice. Furthermore, phosphorylation of CaMKII (Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II) and ERK (extracellular signal-regulated kinase) was significantly increased in the dorsal striatum. We confirmed elevated ERK phosphorylation following quinpirole-mediated D2R stimulation in H-FABP-overexpressing SHSY-5Y human neuroblastoma cells. Together, H-FABP is highly expressed in ACh interneurons and glutamatergic terminals, thereby regulating dopamine D2R function in the striatum.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is a potentially lethal side effect of neuroleptic drugs, characterized by fever, muscle rigidity, autonomic dysfunction, and altered consciousness. A 50-year-old female hospitalized three times in the past for psychiatric treatment was admitted to Umayabashi Hospital for treatment of a relapse of a schizophrenic psychosis. She had received 50 mg of chlorpromazine and one tablet of Vegetamin-A (chlorpromazine 25 mg, promethazine 12.5 mg, phenobarbital 40 mg). Approximately 24-36 hours later, the patient became febrile and lost consciousness, and eight days later, acute renal failure occurred with muscle rigidity. She was transported to Maebashi Red Cross Hospital to receive hemodialysis. On admission, the laboratory studies showed high levels of serum creatine phosphokinase, glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase, glutamic pyruvic transaminase, creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. She underwent hemodialysis for treatment of acute renal failure and recovered from it after 16 sessions of hemodialysis.
The molecular mechanisms regulating the amount of dietary cholesterol retained in the body, as well as the body's ability to exclude selectively other dietary sterols, are poorly understood. An average western diet will contain about 250-500 mg of dietary cholesterol and about 200-400 mg of non-cholesterol sterols. About 50-60% of the dietary cholesterol is absorbed and retained by the normal human body, but less than 1% of the non-cholesterol sterols are retained. Thus, there exists a subtle mechanism that allows the body to distinguish between cholesterol and non-cholesterol sterols. In sitosterolemia, a rare autosomal recessive disorder, affected individuals hyperabsorb not only cholesterol but also all other sterols, including plant and shellfish sterols from the intestine. The major plant sterol species is sitosterol; hence the name of the disorder. Consequently, patients with this disease have very high levels of plant sterols in the plasma and develop tendon and tuberous xanthomas, accelerated atherosclerosis, and premature coronary artery disease. We previously mapped the STSL locus to human chromosome 2p21 and further localized it to a region of less than 2 cM bounded by markers D2S2294 and D2S2291 (M.-H.L. et al., manuscript submitted). We now report that a new member of the ABC transporter family, ABCG5, is mutant in nine unrelated sitosterolemia patients.
Thirty-five neonates with sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL), identified by brainstem auditory evoked response (BAER), and 70 matched controls with normal BAERs were studied. All infants had had BAERs before discharge from hospital as part of a screening program for high-risk neonates. Infants with SNHL showed no response to a 60dBnHL click stimulus and all had these results confirmed on at least one occasion after hospital discharge. Based on the screening program results, over-all prevalence of non-hereditary hearing loss was estimated to be 0.93 per 1000 live births, and in neonates weighing less than 2000g at birth to be 15.54 per 1000 live births. Several factors, including seizures, exposure to anticonvulsant drugs, furosemide and kanamycin were associated with SNHL, but after multivariate analysis, only exposure to furosemide remained significant. Peak serum bilirubin concentration and benzyl alcohol exposure did not appear to be related to hearing loss.
To describe the response rate and survival of children and adolescents with unresected or metastatic nonrhabdomyosarcomatous soft tissue sarcomas (NRSTS) treated with vincristine, ifosfamide, and doxorubicin.
Between September 1996 and June 2000, 39 eligible patients received vincristine (1.5 mg/m(2) weekly for 13 doses), ifosfamide (3 g/m(2) daily for 3 days every 3 weeks for seven cycles), doxorubicin (30 mg/m(2) daily for 2 days for six cycles), and mesna (750 mg/m(2) for four doses after ifosfamide). Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor was administered daily (5 mug/kg) after each cycle of chemotherapy. Radiotherapy was administered from weeks 7 through 12.
The median patient age at diagnosis was 11.7 years; the most common primary tumor site was lower extremity (36%); and synovial sarcoma was the predominant histology. More than three fourths of all tumors were 5 cm or greater at their largest diameters. The overall objective combined partial and complete response rate was 41% (95% CI, 25.7% to 56.7%). The estimated 3-year overall survival and progression-free survival rates (+/- standard deviation) for eligible patients were 59% +/- 8.2% and 43.6% +/- 7%, respectively. Patients with clinical group III disease had significantly better 3-year and progression-free survival rates compared with patients who presented with metastatic disease.
The vincristine, ifosfamide, and doxorubicin regimen was moderately active against pediatric NRSTS. Patients with synovial sarcoma had higher response rates than other patients, and patients with unresected disease had improved outcomes. Patients with metastatic disease continue to fare poorly, and newer approaches are indicated for these patients.
To elucidate whether the M6p/Igf2 receptor (M6p/Igf2r) gene might be involved in exogenous and endogenous liver carcinogenesis, we investigated its alteration in hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) induced by N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) and by a choline-deficient L-amino acid-defined (CDAA) diet in rats. Male F344 rats, 6 wk old, received a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of DEN at a dose of 10 mg/kg body weight, followed by combined treatment with partial hepatectomy and colchicine to induce cell cycle disturbance, and a selection procedure regimen, HCCs being obtained after 42 wk. With continuous CDAA diet feeding, tumors were sampled after 75 wk. Total RNA was extracted from individual HCCs for assessment of mutations within exons 27, 28, 31, 33, and 34, and aberrant transcript of the M6p/Igf2r gene by reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) and RT-PCR analyses, respectively. Mutations were detected in three of 15 HCCs (20%) induced by the CDAA diet, a TTT to TTG (Phe to Leu) transversion at codon 1516 and two AAG to AGG (Lys to Arg) transitions at codon 1620, but in none of those caused by DEN. Aberrant transcripts were found in seven of 15 HCCs after DEN treatment (46.7%) and in two of 15 HCCs induced by the CDAA diet (13.3%). These results suggest that alterations of the M6p/Igf2r gene may be involved in both exogenous and endogenous liver carcinogenesis with the different patterns and frequencies.
Repeated cocaine alters glutamate neurotransmission, in part, by reducing cystine-glutamate exchange via system xc-, which maintains glutamate levels and receptor stimulation in the extrasynaptic compartment. In the present study, we undertook two approaches to determine the significance of plasticity involving system xc-. First, we examined whether the cysteine prodrug N-acetylcysteine attenuates cocaine-primed reinstatement by targeting system xc-. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (1 mg/kg/200 microl, i.v.) under extended access conditions (6 h/day). After extinction training, cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) primed reinstatement was assessed in rats pretreated with N-acetylcysteine (0-60 mg/kg, i.p.) in the presence or absence of the system xc- inhibitor (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine (CPG; 0.5 microM; infused into the nucleus accumbens). N-acetylcysteine attenuated cocaine-primed reinstatement, and this effect was reversed by co-administration of CPG. Secondly, we examined whether reduced system xc- activity is necessary for cocaine-primed reinstatement. To do this, we administered N-acetylcysteine (0 or 90 mg/kg, i.p.) prior to 12 daily self-administration sessions (1 mg/kg/200 microl, i.v.; 6 h/day) since this procedure has previously been shown to prevent reduced activity of system xc-. On the reinstatement test day, we then acutely impaired system xc- in some of the rats by infusing CPG (0.5 microM) into the nucleus accumbens. Rats that had received N-acetylcysteine prior to daily self-administration sessions exhibited diminished cocaine-primed reinstatement; this effect was reversed by infusing the cystine-glutamate exchange inhibitor CPG into the nucleus accumbens. Collectively these data establish system xc- in the nucleus accumbens as a key mechanism contributing to cocaine-primed reinstatement.
