This study compared clinical outcomes and nursing labor costs associated with (a) balsam Peru, hydrogenated castor oil, and trypsin (BCT) ointment; (b) BCT + Other; and (c) Other treatments in 2014 wound episodes occurring in 861 patients (mean 2.34 wounds/patient). Treatment with BCT ointment or BCT + Other was associated with a higher healing rate (P < .05). No Stage 1 or 2 ulcer treated with BCT ointment progressed, compared with 13.8% treated with BCT + Other and 13.4% treated with Other. The reported mean duration of treatment and time to heal were shorter for ulcers treated with BCT ointment, but differences did not reach significance, possibly because of the variability in reported treatment times. Mean daily nursing labor costs were lower for treatment with BCT than Other ($50.8 vs $61.7, P < .05). These data suggest that treatment of Stage 1 or 2 ulcers with BCT may be associated with shorter treatment time and time to heal and a potential reduction in treatment-related nursing labor costs.
Methamphetamine (MA) is a psychostimulant that target the sensory systems, with the neurosensory retina having been shown to be affected. In the brain, MA-related toxicity can be linked to oxidative stress; the same relationship has yet to be established for the retina. The aim of this study, therefore, was to evaluate the effects of repeated exposure to MA on oxidative stress parameters in the rat retina. Oxidative stress parameters in the blood plasma were also assessed. Male Wistar rats were given 5mg/kg MA every 2h for a period of 6h (i.e., 4 injections) daily between postnatal day (PND) 91 and 100. Evolution of body weight was registered. Rats were sacrificed at PND 110. Blood plasma was collected and immediately frozen for storage at -70 degrees C. The eyes were enucleated, and the retina and choroids rapidly dissected on ice under dim light also to be stored at -70 degrees C. Lipid peroxidation activity was measured by the thiobarbituric acid (TBA) test. Total antioxidant status, superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, catalase (Cat) activity, and nitrogen oxides contents were also determined. Lipid peroxidation was significantly higher in the retina and blood plasma of the MA-treated rats. Total antioxidant levels were significantly lower in both retina and blood plasma of the MA-treated rats. The activity of SOD was significantly increased in the retina and blood plasma of MA-treated rats. Catalase activity did not differ between groups in either the retina or the blood plasma. Nitric oxide production was significantly higher in both the retina and blood plasma in the MA-treated animals. The overall findings show that the oxidative stress defence mechanisms in the retina are compromised by MA toxicity. The results are similar to those found in the brain, and, moreover, showed some correlation with the blood plasma.
Arsenic has been well documented as a major risk factor in the development of blackfoot disease (BFD), a unique peripheral vascular disease (PVD) endemic to the southwestern coast of Taiwan, where residents imbibed artesian well water containing excessive amounts of arsenic for more than 50 yr. Long-term arsenic exposure was also reported to be associated with mortality attributed to PVD. A tap-water supply system was implemented in the early 1960s in the BFD endemic areas. Artesian well water was no longer used for drinking and cooking after the mid-1970s. The objective of this study was to examine whether mortality attributed to PVD decreased after the consumption of artesian well water containing high concentrations of arsenic ceased and, if so, when the reduction occurred. Standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) for PVD were calculated for the BFD endemic area for the years 1971-2003. Cumulative-sum techniques were used to detect the occurrence of changes in the SMRs. Data showed that mortality due to PVD declined gradually for approximately 25 to 27 yr following cessation of consumption of this arsenic artesian well water. Based on the reversibility criterion, the association between arsenic exposure and PVD-attributed mortality is likely to be causal.
Sophocarpine, an effective compound derived from foxtail-like sophora herb and seed, has been reported that it can alleviate non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in rats and affect adipocytokine synthesis. Meanwhile, adipocytokines could adjust hepatic lipid metabolism through AMPK signaling pathway. In the work presented here, primary hepatocytes were isolated from specific pathogen-free male SD rats and incubated with 200 μmol/L oleic acid for 24h to induce steatotic model, then treated with sophocarpine for 72 h. Oil red staining was performed to evaluate steatosis, total RNA and protein of primary hepatocytes were extracted for real-time RT-PCR and western blot analysis. A cluster of aberrances were observed in the model group, including hepatocyte steatosis, increased leptin and decreased adiponectin mRNA expressions. While sophocarpine treatment resulted in: significant improvement of steatosis (>50% decrease), decrease of leptin expression (<0.57-fold) and increase of adiponectin expression (>1.48-fold). Moreover, compared with the model group, sophocarpine could significantly increase P-AMPKα (>5.82-fold), AMPKα (>1.29-fold) and ACC (>3.27-fold) protein expressions, and reduce P-ACC (<0.30-fold) and HNF-4α (<0.20-fold) protein expression. The mRNA expression of Srebp-1c was downregulated significantly simultaneously (<0.68-fold). We concluded that sophocarpine could alleviate hepatocyte steatosis and the potential mechanism might be the activated signaling pathway of AMPK.
Although several reports have failed to observe adverse subchronic renal effects following relatively high melamine exposure, the safety of low and continuous melamine exposure is still debatable. Recent studies suggest that long-term, low-dose melamine exposure is associated with an increased risk of urolithiasis, which has been linked to chronic kidney disease (CKD). CKD is a consequence of nephron loss and is associated with the interaction of inflammation, oxidative stress, and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), which increases extracellular matrix genes and cell apoptosis with progression to fibrosis and end-stage renal disease. Thus far, information is still lacking regarding the influence of melamine at the gene and protein levels, which are activated at a much earlier phase than the occurrence of the renal morphological change. In this study, we stimulated human renal proximal tubular HK-2 cells with melamine (0, 125, 250, 500, or 1000 µg/ml) for different time intervals and observed its effects on several well-documented molecular mechanisms of CKD. Here, we demonstrate that melamine can activate mitogen-activated protein kinases, NFκB, and reactive oxygen species, which results in the upregulation of interleukin-6, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, and TGF-β1 in HK-2 cells. The melamine-stimulated overexpression of TGF-β1 not only promotes fibronectin production but also leads to decreased antiapoptotic (bcl-2, bcl-xl)/proapoptotic (bad, bax) protein ratio, increased caspase-3 and caspase-9 activities, and eventually HK-2 cell apoptosis. Our study suggests that melamine exposure may be a risk factor for the chronic loss of tubular cells and may ultimately lead to tubulointerstitial damage.
The effects of dietary sodium and potassium, given as salts of chloride or bicarbonate, on theophylline-induced hypercalciuria in the rat were investigated. In experiment 1, rats fed diets containing 0.3 mmol/g diet NaCl, KCl, NaHCO3, or KHCO3 exhibited a calciuria of NaCl > KCl > controls = NaHCO3 = KHCO3. This study indicated that cation effects were dependent on the accompanying anion, however the dose of added salt was inadequate to produce a consistent, significant salt effect. A second experiment was run in which animals were given salts at 0.4 mmol/g diet; the salt-induced pattern of calciuria was similar. After one week of salt pretreatment, rats were given diets containing theophylline (7.72 mumol/g diet), which induced calciuria all groups regardless of salt pretreatment. Urinary volume and urinary phosphate changes were parallel to each other and not to the changes in urinary calcium induced by salt or theophylline. Changes in urinary excretion of prostaglandin E2 were directly proportional to changes in urinary calcium. In the rat, pretreatment with sodium bicarbonate or sodium chloride reduces the extent of theophylline-induced diuresis, but does not reduce theophylline-induced hypercalciuria. Further, potassium chloride increases and potassium bicarbonate does not reduce urinary calcium excretion. Theophylline-induced calciuria is correlated with prostaglandin E2 excretion rates.
Fatal hepatitis associated with intake of carbamazepine occurred in two females, 37 and 23 years old. The former used carbamazepine to prevent alcohol withdrawal symptoms. She had also been treated with disulfiram. The latter had used the drug as the only medication for epilepsy. This report supports the view that carbamazepine may induce serious hepatic damage.
There are inconsistent reports regarding the caudate nucleus volume in patients with schizophrenia compared with healthy subjects. The reason for this is that neuroleptic medication may affect the volume of the caudate nucleus in schizophrenic patients. To clarify which antipsychotic medication changes the volume of the caudate nucleus in patients with schizophrenia, we measured the volumes of grey and white matter in the caudate nucleus of schizophrenic patients. Ten patients with schizophrenia were examined twice by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to measure the grey and white matter volumes in the caudate nucleus. After the first MRI examination, all the patients were treated with olanzapine. The clinical responses were evaluated by the positive and negative rating scale. When the symptoms improved, the patients were examined by a second MRI scan. Ten healthy control subjects also underwent MRI. The schizophrenic patients had reduced volumes of grey and white matter in the caudate nucleus compared to the healthy control subjects. The volumes of grey and white matter in the caudate nucleus of the schizophrenic patients increased after treatment with olanzapine. These findings suggest that treatment with olanzapine may increase the grey and white matter volumes in the caudate nucleus in patients with schizophrenia.
We propose that aging is an important factor in the susceptibility of neurons to oxidative stress and to subsequent apoptosis. In the present report we demonstrate that aged rabbits treated intracisternally with aluminum maltolate exhibit intense intraneuronal silver positivity indicative of the formation of neurofilamentous aggregates, together with oxidative stress. These changes occur in the CA1 region of the hippocampus as well as in cerebral cortical areas. Apoptosis, measured by the TUNEL in situ technique, colocalizes with oxidative stress. Young animals treated with aluminum show few of these alterations, while age-matched controls are essentially negative. Further studies on the time course of these and related changes demonstrate that oxidative stress and redox-active iron accumulation in hippocampal neurons occur very rapidly, within a period of 3 hours, and increased in intensity at 72 hours. Changes suggestive of apoptosis are seen by 24 hours and are pronounced at 72 hours. In aged animals there is an initially intense immunopositivity at 3 hours for Bcl-2, with negative staining for Bax. By 72 hours, when apoptosis is strongly evident, Bcl-2 is negative and Bax strongly positive. In contrast to the aged rabbits, young animals treated similarly with aluminum exhibit much less oxidative stress with no apoptosis, and maintain Bcl-2 immunopositivity and negative Bax staining. Our findings strongly support the key role that oxidative damage plays in the process of neurodegeneration and in the increased vulnerability to aluminum-induced injury in the aged animal. These are novel observations which may have important implications for aiding in our understanding of the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration occurring in Alzheimer's disease.
To determine if epigenetic-modifying drugs can increase iodine uptake in thyroid carcinoma cell lines.
Human thyroid carcinoma cell lines were tested for iodine uptake before and after treatment with epigenetic-modifying agents.
Thyroid carcinoma cell lines DRO and 2-7 had high levels of DNA methylation (74% and 80%) compared with normal thyroid tissue (6%) (P < 0.05). This finding correlated with low levels of sodium iodide symporter (NIS) expression in the untreated thyroid carcinoma cell line. Combination treatment with the epigenetic-modifying agents 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine and sodium butyrate resulted in increases in NIS messenger RNA levels, global histone acetylation, and 9- and 8-fold increases in I(125) uptake for the DRO and 2-7 cells, respectively.
Epigenetic-modifier drugs represent a novel adjuvant treatment for those patients with radioablation-resistant thyroid cancer.
Epigenetic-modifying agents show potential for treatment of radioablation-resistant thyroid cancer.
Sodium stibogluconate is the mainstay of treatment for all forms of leishmaniasis. Therapy is associated with an increase in serum aminotransferases. In this study liver damage was assessed during treatment of American cutaneous leishmaniasis with sodium stibogluconate and also in a control group given aminosidine. In addition to standard liver function tests, acute hepatocellular damage was assessed by measuring plasma glutathione S-transferase B1 (GST), and hepatic metabolic capacity was assessed by a caffeine clearance (CCL) test, before, during and after treatment. Thirteen patients were treated; 5 received sodium stibogluconate, 6 received aminosidine and a further 2 patients received aminosidine followed by sodium stibogluconate. Treatment with sodium stibogluconate was associated with an increase in both alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and GST and a fall in the CCL, indicating both hepatocellular damage and functional impairment. Six weeks after treatment had stopped ALT and GST had returned to pre-treatment levels and the CCL remained depressed in only one patient. Patients given aminosidine did not show any evidence of liver damage. Sodium stibogluconate is associated with significant hepatocellular damage and hepatic functional impairment. However, this is rapidly reversible on drug withdrawal. We suggest that liver function is monitored throughout treatment and that patients with pre-existing liver disease receive alternative treatment.
MK-801, a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, was tested for anticonvulsant effects in rats using two seizure models, coadministration of lithium and pilocarpine and administration of a high dose of pilocarpine alone. Three major results are reported. First, pretreatment with MK-801 produced an effective and dose-dependent anticonvulsant action with the lithium-pilocarpine model but not with rats treated with pilocarpine alone, suggesting that different biochemical mechanisms control seizures in these two models. Second, the anticonvulsant effect of MK-801 in the lithium-pilocarpine model only occurred after initial periods of seizure activity. This observation is suggested to be an in vivo demonstration of the conclusion derived from in vitro experiments that MK-801 binding requires agonist-induced opening of the channel sites of the NMDA receptor. Third, although it is relatively easy to block seizures induced by lithium and pilocarpine by administration of anticonvulsants prior to pilocarpine, it is more difficult to terminate ongoing status epilepticus and block the lethality of the seizures. Administration of MK-801 30 or 60 min after pilocarpine, i.e., during status epilepticus, gradually reduced electrical and behavioral seizure activity and greatly enhanced the survival rate. These results suggest that activation of NMDA receptors plays an important role in status epilepticus and brain damage in the lithium-pilocarpine model. This was further supported by results showing that nonconvulsive doses of NMDA and pilocarpine were synergistic, resulting in status epilepticus and subsequent mortality.
G protein-coupled receptors play a pivotal role in regulating cardiac automaticity. Their function is controlled by regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins acting as GTPase-activating proteins for Galpha subunits to suppress Galpha(i) and Galpha(q) signaling. Using knock-in mice in which Galpha(i2)-RGS binding and negative regulation are disrupted by a genomic Galpha(i2)G184S (GS) point mutation, we recently (Fu Y, Huang X, Zhong H, Mortensen RM, D'Alecy LG, Neubig RR. Circ Res 98: 659-666, 2006) showed that endogenous RGS proteins suppress muscarinic receptor-mediated bradycardia. To determine whether this was due to direct regulation of cardiac pacemakers or to alterations in the central nervous system or vascular responses, we examined isolated, perfused hearts. Isoproterenol-stimulated beating rates of heterozygote (+/GS) and homozygote (GS/GS) hearts were significantly more sensitive to inhibition by carbachol than were those of wild type (+/+). Even greater effects were seen in the absence of isoproterenol; the potency of muscarinic-mediated bradycardia was enhanced fivefold in GS/GS and twofold in +/GS hearts compared with +/+. A(1)-adenosine receptor-mediated bradycardia was unaffected. In addition to effects on the sinoatrial node, +/GS and GS/GS hearts show significantly increased carbachol-induced third-degree atrioventricular (AV) block. Atrial pacing studies demonstrated an increased PR interval and AV effective refractory period in GS/GS hearts compared with +/+. Thus loss of the inhibitory action of endogenous RGS proteins on Galpha(i2) potentiates muscarinic inhibition of cardiac automaticity and conduction. The severe carbachol-induced sinus bradycardia in Galpha(i2)G184S mice suggests a possible role for alterations of Galpha(i2) or RGS proteins in sick sinus syndrome and pathological AV block.
The sequence of myocardial changes in the mouse induced by doxorubicin (Dx) treatment (10 mg/kg i.v.) has been investigated by electron microscopy with the help of the zinc iodide-osmium tetroxide (ZIO) technique. Accumulation of ZIO-reactive material, possibly oxidized glutathione and other disulfides, in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (S.R.) is among the earliest (1 h after Dx injection), more prominent and persistent findings (up to 100 days). It may have a pathogenic relationship with a number of functional and morphologic changes occurring in myocardial cells, including impairment of calcium transport and contractility, S.R. dilation up to extensive vacuolization, as well as inhibition of DNA, RNA and protein synthesis leading to atrophy and disruption of sarcomeres. The latter finding, first appearing in a few cells 4 to 7 days after Dx and progressively increasing in severity and extension during the next 3 months, may represent a key factor in the evolution of chronic cardiomyopathy to cardiac insufficiency. In most cells, only a minority of mitochondria showed obvious ultrastructural lesions, which were first observed 24 h after treatment and disappeared by the end of the first month, when no more mitochondrial damage was found outside degenerating cells. The myocardium of mice receiving multiple Dx injections (4 mg/Kg, 10 times, or 9 mg/Kg, 5 times) showed the same changes observed in animals treated with a single dose, though they were more severe and extensive.
The antiangiogenic and immunomodulatory properties of thalidomide have led to its use and evaluation in refractory or relapsed multiple myeloma (MM). However, thalidomide use is associated with several side effects, although deep vein thrombosis and peripheral neuropathy are the most serious. The incidence of thrombosis after treatment with thalidomide ranges from 2% to 23%, but is higher among patients who also receive chemotherapy. Thromboembolic episodes are usually venous and may cause pulmonary embolism or even myocardial infarction and cerebral venous thrombosis. Arterial occlusion is rare, and the association between arterial thrombotic events and thalidomide is infrequent with only a few patients reported who developed arterial strokes on thalidomide. We describe a case of nonfatal thrombotic stroke occurring in a patient with relapsed MM treated with thalidomide.
Activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-α which regulates lipid metabolism in peripheral tissues such as the liver and skeletal muscle, decreases circulating lipid levels, thus improving hyperlipidemia under fasting conditions. Recently, postprandial serum lipid levels have been found to correlate more closely to cardiovascular diseases than fasting levels, although fasting hyperlipidemia is considered an important risk of cardiovascular diseases. However, the effect of PPARα activation on postprandial lipidemia has not been clarified. In this study, we examined the effects of PPARα activation in enterocytes on lipid secretion and postprandial lipidemia. In Caco-2 enterocytes, bezafibrate, a potent PPARα agonist, increased mRNA expression levels of fatty acid oxidation-related genes, such as acyl-CoA oxidase, carnitine palmitoyl transferase, and acyl-CoA synthase, and oxygen consumption rate (OCR) and suppressed secretion levels of both triglycerides and apolipoprotein B into the basolateral side. In vivo experiments revealed that feeding high-fat-diet containing bezafibrate increased mRNA expression levels of fatty acid oxidation-related genes and production of CO(2) and acid soluble metabolites in enterocytes. Moreover, bezafibrate treatment suppressed postprandial lipidemia after oral administration of olive oil to the mice. These findings indicate that PPARα activation suppresses postprandial lipidemia through enhancement of fatty acid oxidation in enterocytes, suggesting that intestinal lipid metabolism regulated by PPARα activity is a novel target of PPARα agonist for decreasing circulating levels of lipids under postprandial conditions.
The impact of the polymorphic amino acids 16 and 27 of the beta 2-adrenoceptor (beta 2-AR) on the susceptibility to bronchodilator tolerance remains unclear since clinical studies thus far have shown discordant results. Tolerance towards the effects of inhaled beta 2-AR agonists generally is more easily shown for systemic parameters than for airway effects and can be substantial. This study evaluates whether differences exist between position 16 homozygous genotyped asthmatics, in tolerance development towards airway responses and the systemic effect hypokalemia.
Twenty patients were genotyped for amino acids 16 and 27 of the beta 2-AR gene. Time-effect curves for FEV1 and serum potassium concentration were constructed after s.c. administration of terbutaline after two-week treatment periods with either terbutaline inhalation or matching placebo in a double-blind, randomised and cross-over design. Statistical analysis was done by a repeated measures multivariate analysis on area under time-effect curve (AUC).
Pre-treatment with inhaled terbutaline did not influence the improvement in FEV1 in response to s.c. terbutaline and there were no significant differences between Arg-16 and Gly-16 individuals in this respect. Pre-treatment with inhaled terbutaline resulted in an overall increase of baseline plasma potassium before administration of s.c. terbutaline (3.78-3.95 mmol/L, p=0.034). However, this effect appeared to be solely confined to the Arg-16 homozygous individuals, leading to a statistically highly significant difference between the Arg-16 and Gly-16 subjects (p=0.005). However, there was no genotype related difference in the decrease in plasma potassium response to s.c. terbutaline relative to baseline.
In patients carrying the Arg-16 genotype the development of hypokalemia by s.c. terbutaline is attenuated after pre-treatment with inhaled terbutaline, be it on the basis of higher baseline values.
To report a case of cefotetan disodium-induced hemolytic anemia.
Original research articles and case reports.
A 46-year-old woman developed fulminant hemolytic anemia following a second exposure to intravenous cefotetan disodium for postoperative prophylaxis. She developed respiratory failure requiring intubation and acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis. The hemolysis was successfully treated with plasmapheresis, but the patient died on the 25th postoperative day. Positive Coomb's tests have been reported in less than three percent of patients receiving cefotetan. To our knowledge, this is the first case of fulminant hemolytic anemia associated with intravenous cefotetan disodium therapy.
Cefotetan should be added to the list of drugs known to cause hemolytic anemia. Monitoring for hemolysis should be considered for patients who receive multiple courses of therapy.
To investigate the effect and possible mechanisms of resveratrol on pancreatic cancer cells in vitro.
After being treated with resveratrol, cell viability, cell cycle phase distribution and apoptosis rate of pancreatic cancer cells were measured by CCK-8 assay and flow cytometer, respectively. The effects of resveratrol on the Hedgehog pathway were studied by real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting. By interfering Gli1 expression in PANC-1 cells and overexpressing Gli1 in BxPC-3 cells, we detected the expressions of Gli1-targeted genes, such as Ptc1, CCND1 and BCL-2, compared with resveratrol experimental group. We further used the luciferase reporter assay to explore the correlation between resveratrol and Gli1.
Resveratrol inhibited the growth of pancreatic cancer cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Compared with control group, the cells in the G0/G1 phase and the apoptosis rate were significantly increased. Low concentration of resveratrol decreased the expression of the Hedgehog pathway members including Gli1, Ptc1 and Smo. The expression of downstream target genes of the Hedgehog pathway such as Gli1, Ptc1, CCND1 and BCL-2 were significantly decreased after 12.5 μM resveratrol treatment, which demonstrated a similar change of gene expression when Gli1 was knocked down by the RNAi technique in PANC-1 cells. Resveratrol also downregulated the expression of Gli1, Ptc1, CCND1 and BCL-2 in Gli1-overexpressed BxPC-3 cells. Results of the luciferase assay showed that resveratrol did not act on the Gli1 promoter directly.
Resveratrol can inhibit pancreatic cancer cell survival and its mechanisms might be partly via the Hedgehog signaling pathway. and IAP.
Arsenic trioxide exhibits antiproliferative, antiangiogenic and proapoptotic activity in cancer cells, and many genes associated with these responses are regulated by specificity protein (Sp) transcription factors. Treatment of cancer cells derived from urologic (bladder and prostate) and gastrointestinal (pancreas and colon) tumors with arsenic trioxide demonstrated that these cells exhibited differential responsiveness to the antiproliferative effects of this agent and this paralleled their differential repression of Sp1, Sp3 and Sp4 proteins in the same cell lines. Using arsenic trioxide-responsive KU7 and non-responsive 253JB-V bladder cancer cells as models, we show that in KU7 cells, < or =5 microM arsenic trioxide decreased Sp1, Sp3 and Sp4 and several Sp-dependent genes and responses including cyclin D1, epidermal growth factor receptor, bcl-2, survivin and vascular endothelial growth factor, whereas at concentrations up to 15 microM, minimal effects were observed in 253JB-V cells. Arsenic trioxide also inhibited tumor growth in athymic mice bearing KU7 cells as xenografts, and expression of Sp1, Sp3 and Sp4 was significantly decreased. Inhibitors of oxidative stress such as glutathione or dithiothreitol protected KU7 cells from arsenic trioxide-induced antiproliferative activity and Sp repression, whereas glutathione depletion sensitized 253JB-V cells to arsenic trioxide. Mechanistic studies suggested that arsenic trioxide-dependent downregulation of Sp and Sp-dependent genes was due to decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and induction of reactive oxygen species, and the role of peroxides in mediating these responses was confirmed using hydrogen peroxide.
This study was performed to investigate the protective and therapeutic effects of resveratrol (RES) against CdCl2-induced toxicity in rat testes. Seven experimental groups of adult male rats were formulated as follows: A) controls+NS, B) control+vehicle (saline solution of hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin), C) RES treated, D) CdCl2+NS, E) CdCl2+vehicle, F) RES followed by CdCl2 and M) CdCl2 followed by RES. At the end of the protocol, serum levels of FSH, LH and testosterone were measured in all groups, and testicular levels of TBARS and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were measured. Epididymal semen analysis was performed, and testicular expression of Bcl-2, p53 and Bax was assessed by RT-PCR. Also, histopathological changes of the testes were examined microscopically. Administration of RES before or after cadmium chloride in rats improved semen parameters including count, motility, daily sperm production and morphology, increased serum concentrations of gonadotropins and testosterone, decreased testicular lipid peroxidation and increased SOD activity. RES not only attenuated cadmium chloride-induced testicular histopathology but was also able to protect against the onset of cadmium chloride testicular toxicity. Cadmium chloride downregulated the anti-apoptotic gene Bcl2 and upregulated the expression of pro-apoptotic genes p53 and Bax. Resveratrol protected against and partially reversed cadmium chloride testicular toxicity via upregulation of Bcl2 and downregulation of p53 and Bax gene expression. The antioxidant activity of RES protects against cadmium chloride testicular toxicity and partially reverses its effect via upregulation of BCl2 and downregulation of p53 and Bax expression.
Metoprolol is a lipophilic beta(1) selective adrenergic receptor antagonist used in antihypertensive therapy. It is metabolized by the protein product of the cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) gene. Few studies have been performed on the association between the beta(1) adrenoreceptor, CYP2D6 polymorphism and blood pressure. The one reported here is a prospective, observational, clinical study in Chinese Han hypertensive patients on the combined influences of CYP2D6 and beta(1) adrenoreceptor polymorphisms on the therapeutic effects of metoprolol in 300 out-patients with essential hypertension. The same dose of metoprolol achieved different therapeutic effects in patients with different CYP2D6 and beta(1) adrenoreceptor polymorphisms. Additionally, different doses of metoprolol could achieve the same therapeutic effects in patients with different CYP2D6 and beta(1) adrenoreceptor polymorphisms. Knowledge of the combination of CYP2D6 and beta(1) adrenoreceptor polymorphisms may be used to guide antihypertensive therapy using beta(1) adrenoreceptor antagonists.
The metabolic syndrome (MS) increases the risk of coronary heart disease, yet few data are available on the effects of statin treatment in improving lipid measures in patients with the syndrome. This analysis compares the effects of statin therapy on plasma low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) goal achievement and lipid levels in hypercholesterolaemic patients with or without the MS.
The Measuring Effective Reductions in Cholesterol Using Rosuvastatin TherapY I (MERCURY I) trial compared rosuvastatin 10 mg with atorvastatin 10 mg and 20 mg, simvastatin 20 mg and pravastatin 40 mg over 8 weeks in patients with coronary or other atherosclerotic diseases or diabetes who had fasting levels of LDL-C of >or=2.99 mmol/l and triglycerides of <4.52 mmol/l. Modified National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III) criteria for the MS were met by 1342 (43%) of 3140 patients.
LDL-C goal achievement rates and reductions in LDL-C, total cholesterol and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) were similar in patients with and without the MS within statin treatment groups; triglycerides were reduced more and HDL-C tended to be increased more in patients with the MS, as expected. Treatment with rosuvastatin 10 mg was more effective in allowing patients with and without the MS to reach European and ATP III LDL-C goals, compared to atorvastatin 10 mg, simvastatin 20 mg and pravastatin 40 mg (p < 0.0001 for all comparisons); consistently produced greater reductions in LDL-C, total cholesterol and non-HDL-C, compared to these treatments; and produced similar or greater reductions in triglycerides and increases in HDL-C, compared to the other treatments.
Statin therapy is effective in allowing LDL-C goal achievement and improving the lipid profile in hypercholesterolaemic high-risk patients with the MS. Rosuvastatin 10 mg presents significant advantages in goal achievement and lipid lowering over other statins at commonly used doses in patients both with and without the MS.
