The leucine zipper-, EF-hand-containing transmembrane protein 1 (LETM1) has recently been cloned in an attempt to identify genes deleted in Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome (WHS), a microdeletion syndrome characterized by severe growth and mental retardation, hypotonia, seizures, and typical facial dysmorphic features. LETM1 is deleted in almost all patients with the full phenotype and has recently been suggested as an excellent candidate gene for the seizures in WHS patients. We have shown that LETM1 is evolutionarily conserved throughout the eukaryotic kingdom and exhibits homology to MDM38, a putative yeast protein involved in mitochondrial morphology. Using LETM1-EGFP fusion constructs and an anti-rat LetM1 polyclonal antibody we have demonstrated that LETM1 is located in the mitochondria. The present study presents information about a possible function for LETM1 and suggests that at least some (neuromuscular) features of WHS may be caused by mitochondrial dysfunction.
The functions of the putative noradrenergic innervation of cerebral microvessels from the nucleus locus ceruleus remain ambiguous. Although most evidence indicates that such innervation does not have a major role in the control of cerebral blood flow, there are increasing indications that it modulates transport and permeability functions of the blood-brain barrier. In this study we investigated the effect of unilateral chemical lesioning of the locus ceruleus on the leakage of radioiodinated human serum albumin across the blood-brain barrier. Experiments were performed in awake and restrained rats under steady-state conditions and during drug-induced systemic arterial hypertension, and in anesthetized and paralyzed rats during bicuculline-induced seizures. Both hypertension and seizures are known to be associated with increased leakage of macromolecules across the blood-brain barrier. Albumin leakage into norepinephrine-depleted forebrain structures ipsilateral to the locus ceruleus lesion was compared with that of the contralateral side. There were no side-to-side differences in blood-brain barrier permeability to albumin under steady-state conditions, the stress of restraint, or angiotensin-induced hypertension, or after isoproterenol administration. Norepinephrine-induced hypertension and seizures, however, caused significant increases in albumin leakage into forebrain structures ipsilateral to the lesion. These results suggest that noradrenergic innervation of cerebral microvessels from the locus ceruleus helps preserve the integrity of the blood-brain barrier during pathophysiological states associated with hypertension and increased circulating catecholamines.
Repeated administration of opioids not only leads to tolerance and dependence, but also results in nociceptive enhancement called opioid-induced hyperalgesia (OIH). Nociceptive mediators involved in OIH generation remain poorly understood. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that Ca(2+)/calmodulin-depent protein kinase II (CaMKIIalpha) is critical for OIH. Opioid-induced hyperalgesia was produced by repeated morphine administration or pellet implantation in mice. Correlating with the development of tactile allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia, spinal CaMKIIalpha activity was significantly increased in OIH. KN93, a CaMKII inhibitor, dose- and time-dependently reversed OIH and CaMKII activation without impairing locomotor coordination. To elucidate the specific CaMKII isoform involved, we targeted CaMKIIalpha by using small interfering RNA and demonstrated that knockdown of spinal CaMKIIalpha attenuated OIH. Furthermore, morphine failed to induce OIH in CaMKIIalpha(T286A) point mutant mice, although wild-type littermate mice developed robust OIH after repeated treatments with morphine. These data implicate, for the first time, an essential role of CaMKIIalpha as a cellular mechanism leading to and maintaining opioid-induced hyperalgesia.
We performed a prospective, randomized study comparing the efficacy and safety of remifentanil, propofol or both for conscious sedation during eye surgery under retrobulbar blockade. Forty-five unpremedicated patients were assigned to receive remifentanil (group R) (n = 15, mean dosage: 0.05 +/- 0.03 microgram kg-1 min-1), propofol (group P) (n = 15, 1.5 +/- 0.5 mg kg-1 h-1) or a combination (group RP) (n = 15, R: 0.03 +/- 0.01 microgram kg-1 min-1; P: 0.7 +/- 0.2 mg kg-1 h-1). Haemodynamic responses were comparable among all groups. Minimum values for respiratory rate were lower in R patients (R: 7 vs. P and RP: 10 breaths min-1). Perioperative blood gas analysis showed differences in maximum carbon dioxide tensions (R: 51.5 vs. P: 48.3 vs. RP: 45.5 mmHg) and decrease in minimum pH values (R: -0.06 vs. P: -0.0 vs. RP: -0.01). All group P patients reported mild to intense pain during retrobulbar block, while 53% of the group R patients were free from pain. In group RP, 60% of patients experienced no pain and the remaining 40% reported mild pain only. Remifentanil, applied as the sole agent, provided superior pain relief and patient comfort when compared with propofol, but produced greater respiratory depression and postoperative nausea. The combination of remifentanil and propofol provided haemodynamic stability, adequate spontaneous respiration and pain relief, with a low risk of untoward side effects.
Withdrawal of beta-blocker therapy has been associated with the development of adrenergic hypersensitivity and adverse clinical effects in patients with coronary artery disease and hypertension. The aim of this study was to establish the occurrence and clinical significance of adrenergic hypersensitivity after abrupt withdrawal of long-term beta blockade in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Beta-adrenergic sensitivity was measured using the isoprenaline chronotropic dose25. Symptom assessment chronotropic dose25 calculation, bicycle exercise, echocardiography and Holter monitoring were performed while the patient received beta-blocker therapy and repeated on days 2, 4, 6, 8 (acute withdrawal period) and on day 21 after abrupt withdrawal. The study was terminated after 7 patients had been studied because all patients experienced a marked deterioration in symptoms and several clinical events had occurred. The chronotropic dose25 (mean +/- standard deviation) demonstrated beta 1-adrenergic hypersensitivity with a minimal value of 1.6 +/- 0.8 micrograms during the acute withdrawal period compared with 3.8 +/- 1.7 micrograms on day 21 (p = 0.003). Heart rates during rest and exercise showed an overshoot increase during the acute withdrawal period. The maximal 24-hour ventricular ectopic count was higher during the acute withdrawal period than during day 21 (p = 0.04). Of 3 patients with inducible outflow tract gradients, 2 developed resting gradients greater than 30 mm Hg during the acute withdrawal period. There was an increase in peak late filling velocity of mitral inflow after beta-blocker withdrawal. In conclusion, transient beta-adrenergic hypersensitivity occurs after beta-blocker withdrawal in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and is associated with significant physiologic changes and adverse clinical consequences.
To assess the usefulness of oncostatin M (osm) gene therapy in liver regeneration, we examined whether the introduction of OSM cDNA enhances the regeneration of livers damaged by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) in rats. Repeated injection of OSM cDNA enclosed in hemagglutinating virus of Japan envelope into the spleen resulted in the exclusive expression of OSM protein in Kupffer cells of the liver, which was accompanied by increases in body weight, liver weight, and serum albumin levels and the reduction of serum liver injury parameters (bilirubin, aspartate aminotransferase, and alanine aminotransferase) and a serum fibrosis parameter (hyaluronic acid). Histological examination showed that osm gene therapy reduced centrilobular necrosis and inflammatory cell infiltration and augmented hepatocyte proliferation. The apoptosis of hepatocytes and fibrosis were suppressed by osm gene therapy. Time-course studies on osm gene therapy before or after DMN treatment showed that this therapy was effective not only in enhancing regeneration of hepatocytes damaged by DMN but in preventing hepatic cytotoxicity caused by subsequent treatment with DMN. These results indicate that OSM is a key mediator for proliferation and anti-apoptosis of hepatocytes and suggest that osm gene therapy is useful, as preventive and curative means, for the treatment of patients with liver damage.
Male and female CD rats were administered one of two dose levels of clofibrate, gemfibrozil, or bezafibrate daily by oral gavage for a period of 14 days in order to establish an empirical data base using the Charles River CD rat with a single class of drugs against which the potency of novel proprietary compounds could be compared. Subsequent gross examination of the liver indicated significant and dose-related increases in relative and absolute liver weights in males following clofibrate and gemfibrozil. In females, absolute and relative liver weights were significantly elevated to a similar degree with either dose of gemfibrozil, and absolute liver weights were higher in clofibrate-dosed animals. Bezafibrate had no effect on female liver weights. Clofibrate and gemfibrozil increased hepatic palmitoyl CoA beta-oxidation in both sexes; however, clofibrate had the greater effect in males and gemfibrozil had the least effect in females. Bezafibrate treatment resulted in a very pronounced elevation of palmitoyl CoA beta-oxidation in the males but had no similar effect in the females. Concurrent ELISA analysis for cytochrome CYP4A revealed very good correspondence between beta-oxidation and cytochrome induction for each of the three compounds in males, but other cytochromes were not greatly affected, except CYP1A1 which was elevated in bezafibrate-dosed females. For males, further analysis for markers of cellular proliferation, namely cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), indicated dose-related increases for both with clofibrate, increases at the high dose for gemfibrozil, and, for PCNA, a dose-related increase for bezafibrate. In females, both markers for cell proliferation showed either slight or no increases following any of the three drug treatments. These results demonstrate clear sex-dependent differences in terms of relative potency in the hepatic response of the Sprague-Dawley-derived rat to these peroxisome proliferators. Bezafibrate is most potent and gemfibrozil is least potent in stimulating peroxisome-associated beta-oxidation and cytochrome P450 4A induction in the males. Even though gemfibrozil significantly increased liver weights, beta-oxidation and cytochrome P450 4A in the females increased only after clofibrate treatment, although to a lesser degree than in the males administered the same dose. Similar sex-related differences were observed for cell proliferation. In conclusion, sex-related differences were noted in the potency to stimulate acyl Co-A oxidation, its association with hepatomegaly, and the stimulation of cell proliferation, but CYP4A induction always accompanied any substantial drug-dependent increases in beta-oxidation.
Caulophine is a new fluorenone alkaloid isolated from the radix of Caulophyllum robustum MAXIM and identified as 3-(2-(dimethylamino) ethyl)-4,5-dihydroxy-1,6-dimethoxy-9H-fluoren-9-one. Due to its new chemical structure, the pharmacological activities of caulophine are not well characterized. The present study evaluated the protective effect and the primary mechanisms of caulophine on cardiomyocyte injury. Viability of cardiomyocytes was assayed with the MTT method, and cell apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. Myocardial infarction was produced by ligating the coronary artery, and myocardial ischemia was induced by isoproterenol in rats. Myocardial infarction size was estimated with p-nitro-blue tetrazolium staining. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatine kinase (CK), superoxide dismutase (SOD), malondialdehyde (MDA), and free fatty acid (FFA) were spectrophotometrically determined. Histopathological and ultrastructural changes of ischemic myocardium were observed. The results showed that pretreatment with caulophine increased the viability of H(2)O(2)- and adriamycin-injured cardiomyocytes; decreased CK, LDH, and MDA; increased SOD; and inhibited H(2)O(2)-induced cellular apoptosis. Caulophine reduced myocardial infarct size and serum CK, LDH, FFA, and MDA; raised serum SOD; and improved histopathological and ultrastructural changes of ischemic myocardium. The results demonstrate that caulophine has the ability to protect cardiomyocytes from oxidative and ischemic injury through an antioxidative mechanism that provides a basis for further study and development of caulophine as a promising agent for treating coronary heart disease.
Methamphetamine is a psychomotor stimulant which, given in high doses, produces neurodegenerative changes in the dopamine and serotonin systems. This study was designed to assess motoric deficits in the rat following a high-dose regimen of methamphetamine. Long-Evans male rats received either four injections of saline or methamphetamine (12.5 mg/kg, every 2 hr), a dose sufficient to produce 45 and 36% reductions in striatal dopamine and serotonin, respectively. Before treatment, subjects were trained to perform one of the following motor tasks: one-way active avoidance, inhibitory avoidance, rotorod or the balance beam. After recovery, performance under base-line and drug challenge conditions revealed that methamphetamine treatment caused significant deficits in active avoidance performance (24% increase in response latency) and balance beam performance (2- to 3-fold increase in footfalls), but had no effect on inhibitory avoidance or rotorod performance. Administration of l-dopa (100 mg/kg) significantly improved the methamphetamine-treated subjects' performance on the balance beam, but had no effect on the control subjects' performance. The methamphetamine-treated subjects exhibited a significant decrease in sensitivity to the effects of fenfluramine in comparison to the controls on both the rotorod and active avoidance tasks. We conclude that high-dose methamphetamine treatment produces long-lasting motor deficits associated with chronic reductions of striatal dopamine and serotonin. These data and the utility of the motor tasks are discussed in reference to a laboratory model of Parkinson's disease.
Acne inversa (AI), also known as hidradenitis suppurativa, is a chronic, recurrent, inflammatory disease of hair follicles that often runs in families. We studied six Chinese families with features of AI as well as additional skin lesions on back, face, nape, and waist and found independent loss-of-function mutations in PSENEN, PSEN1, or NCSTN, the genes encoding essential components of the γ-secretase multiprotein complex. Our results identify the γ-secretase component genes as the culprits for a subset of familial AI, implicate the γ-secretase-Notch pathway in the molecular pathogenesis of AI, and demonstrate that familial AI can be an allelic disorder of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease.
The endothelins are peptides with vasoconstricting and growth-promoting properties. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is known for its direct positive inotropic and chronotropic effects on isolated heart, and for growth effects. The aim of this pilot study was to investigate the frequency distribution of a common polymorphism of the endothelin (ET-1) gene and its possible relation to the hemodynamic consequences of malignant ventricular arrhythmia in patients with structural heart disease.
We studied 26 consecutive patients with malignant ventricular arrhythmia and implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD), mean age 62.7 +/- 12.2 years, mean LVEF 0.37 +/- 11. The Taq polymorphism of ET-1 was detected using our original PCR method. The PCR product with a length of 358 bp in its non-mutated form contains a target sequence for the TaqI restrictive enzyme, while the mutated product loses this cleavage site.
Out of the 26 patients, 9 (34%) had recurrent palpitations and 8 (30.8%) had syncopes during their malignant arrhythmic episodes. 19 of the patients were receiving amiodarone after ICD implantation, 7 were not. 15 patients had the (++) and 11 had the (+ -) ET-1 genotype; none had the (- -) genotype. The risk of syncopes was associated with the (++) genotype (p=0.01). Patients with amiodarone had a significantly higher frequency of the (++) genotype (p=0.011).
All our results suggested that the presence of the (++)ET-1 genotype in patients with structural heart disease, severe left ventricular dysfunction, and malignant ventricular arrhythmia put these patients at a higher risk of hemodynamic collapse during arrhythmic episodes.
We reviewed the urinalyses from 2 multicenter controlled randomized trials, one comparing moderate and low dose D-penicillamine to placebo and another comparing gold sodium thiomalate (GSTM), auranofin (AF) and placebo. In the D-penicillamine trial 30% of the 40 patients taking placebo, 34% of the 70 patients receiving 125 mg/day of D-penicillamine and 31% of the 61 patients receiving 500 mg of D-penicillamine had recurrent hematuria. In the GSTM/AF trial, 35% of the 43 placebo treated patients, 35% of the 54 GSTM treated patients and 30% of the 64 AF treated patients had hematuria. No significant difference in the frequency of hematuria between the groups in either trial was apparent. These findings suggest that the traditionally held belief that gold and D-penicillamine cause hematuria should be reconsidered.
The authors sought to confirm a chance observation that intravenous lipid treatment increases the dose of bupivacaine required to produce asystole in rats. The authors also measured the partitioning of bupivacaine between the lipid and aqueous phases of a plasma-lipid emulsion mixture.
Anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats were used in pretreatment (protocol 1) and resuscitation (protocol 2) experiments. In protocol 1, animals were pretreated with saline or 10%, 20%, or 30% Intralipid (n = 6 for all groups), then received 0.75% bupivacaine hydrochloride at a rate of 10 ml x kg x min(-1) to asystole. In protocol 2, mortality was compared over a range of bolus doses of bupivacaine after resuscitation with either saline or 30% Intralipid (n = 6 for all groups). The lipid:aqueous partitioning of bupivacaine in a mixture of plasma and Intralipid was measured using radiolabeled bupivacaine.
Median doses of bupivacaine (in milligrams per kilogram) producing asystole in protocol 1 were for 17.7 for saline, 27.6 for 10% Intralipid, 49.7 for 20% Intralipid, and 82.0 for 30% Intralipid (P < 0.001 for differences between all groups). Differences in mean +/- SE concentrations of bupivacaine in plasma (in micrograms per milliliter) were significant (P < 0.05) for the difference between saline (93.3 +/- 7.6) and 30% Intralipid (212 +/- 45). In protocol 2, lipid infusion increased the dose of bupivacaine required to cause death in 50% of animals by 48%, from 12.5 to 18.5 mg/kg. The mean lipid:aqueous ratio of concentrations of bupivacaine in a plasma-Intralipid mixture was 11.9 +/- 1.77 (n = 3).
Lipid infusion shifts the dose-response to bupivacaine-induced asystole in rats. Partitioning of bupivacaine into the newly created lipid phase may partially explain this effect. These results suggest a potential application for lipid infusion in treating cardiotoxicity resulting from bupivacaine.
Ethanol interacts allosterically with the picrotoxin binding sites on the oligomeric GABA receptor complex in vitro. Chronic ethanol treatment does not alter the binding properties of [35S]t-butyl-bicyclophosphorothioate or [3H]flunitrazepam to brain membranes. In behavioral studies, ethanol prevents convulsions induced by bicuculline, picrotoxin and maximal electroshock seizures. Further, subprotective dose of ethanol in combination with other facilitators of GABAergic transmission, provide protection against these convulsions. Finally, ethanol potentiates the effect of GABA on 36Cl-influx in cultured spinal cord neurons. These studies indicate a role for GABAAergic transmission in the actions of ethanol.
We report three cases of fatal hyperthermia in the course of neuroleptic drug treatment. One patient developed his symptoms within hours after a single drug dose whereas the two others had a prolonged symptomatology which lasted for several days after the administration of different neuroleptic drugs. Biochemical events included diffuse intravascular coagulation, muscle cell necrosis and acute renal failure. Rhabdomyolysis was proved pathologically in two patients but brain lesions were atypical in all three cases. We conclude that the biochemical and pathological abnormalities seen in these patients are those which have been described by some authors in the malignant hyperthermia syndrome after anaesthesia. The symptomatology however can be insidious and the syndrome can develop after withdrawal of the drugs.
MLL5 is a divergent member of the Drosophila Trithorax-related (SET) domain and plant homeodomain (PHD) domain-containing chromatin regulators that are involved in the regulation of transcriptional "memory" during differentiation. Human MLL5 is located on chromosome 7q22, which frequently is deleted in myeloid leukemias, suggesting a possible role in hemopoiesis. To address this question, we generated a loss-of-function allele (Mll5(tm1Apa)) in the murine Mll5 locus. Unlike other Mll genes, Mll5(tm1Apa) homozygous mice are viable but display defects in immunity and hematopoiesis. First, Mll5(tm1Apa) homozygous mice show increased susceptibility to spontaneous eye infections, associated with a cell-autonomous impairment of neutrophil function. Second, Mll5(tm1Apa/tm1Apa) mice exhibit a mild impairment of erythropoiesis. Third, Mll5(tm1Apa/tm1Apa) hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) have impaired competitive repopulating capacity both under normal conditions and when subjected to self-renewal stimulation by NUP98-HOXA10. Fourth, Mll5(tm1Apa) homozygous HSCs show a dramatic sensitivity to DNA demethylation-induced differentiation (5-azadeoxycytidine). Taken together, our data show that MLL5 is involved in terminal myeloid differentiation and the regulation of HSC self-renewal by a mechanism that involves DNA methylation. These data warrant investigation of MLL5 expression levels as a predictive marker of demethylating-agent response in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes and leukemias and identify MLL5 as a key regulator of normal hematopoiesis.
1. The paper describes the mental disturbances of 44 abusive cases of "BRON," an over-the-counter (OTC) cough suppressant solution containing methylephedrine, codeine, caffeine, and chlorpheniramine. 2. Major psychiatric symptoms observed included hallucinatory-paranoid state and affective disorder. There also were groups which exhibited a combination of the two states and abuse only. 3. The hallucinatory-paranoid state group had a relatively small BRON usage amount, short usage term and few withdrawal symptoms. The affective disorder group, in contrast, had large usage amount, longer usage term, and showed significant autonomic nerve disorders during withdrawal. These tendencies were seen more clearly in the mixed state group. 4. The hallucinatory-paranoid state group showed little or no physical dependence, while that of the affective disorder group was thought to be firmly established. Thus, in the former group, methylephedrine was considered the major behavior modifying drug, while in the latter, it was thought to be codeine.
There is no pharmaceutical or definitive surgical cure for inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs). The naturally occurring polyphenol resveratrol exerts anti-inflammatory properties. However, its rapid metabolism diminishes its effectiveness in the colon. The design of prodrugs to targeting active molecules to the colon provides an opportunity for therapy of IBDs. Herein we explore the efficacy of different resveratrol prodrugs and pro-prodrugs to ameliorate colon inflammation in the murine dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) model. Mice fed with a very low dose (equivalent to 10 mg for a 70 kg-person) of either resveratrol-3-O-(6'-O-butanoyl)-β-D-glucopyranoside (6) or resveratrol-3-O-(6'-O-octanoyl)-β-D-glucopyranoside (7) did not develop colitis symptoms and improved 6-fold the disease activity index (DAI) compared to resveratrol. Our results indicate that these pro-prodrugs exerted a dual effect: (1) they prevented the rapid metabolism of resveratrol and delivered higher quantities of resveratrol to the colon and (2) they reduced mucosal barrier imbalance and prevented diarrhea, which consequently facilitated the action of the delivered resveratrol in the colon mucosa.
Ototoxicity is a common side effect of high-dose cisplatin treatment. Thiol-containing chemoprotectors ameliorate cisplatin ototoxicity under experimental conditions. The trial was initiated to test the efficacy of amifostine protection in high-dose cisplatin treatment (125-150 mg/m) for metastatic malignant melanoma, to correlate the ototoxic outcome with cisplatin pharmacokinetics, and to evaluate the importance of using a selective analytical method for the quantification of cisplatin.
Prospective study of 15 patients with stage IV malignant melanoma.
Clinical follow-up of therapeutic response, pure-tone audiometry, and analysis of cisplatin and its monohydrated complex in blood ultrafiltrate by liquid chromatography with postcolumn derivatization were performed. Ultrafiltered blood platinum was analyzed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry.
Ototoxicity and gastrointestinal toxicity were the most prominent side effects. Three patients ultimately required hearing aids. All patients had audiometric changes at one or more frequencies after the second treatment course, and all but one patient reported auditory symptoms. No correlation was found between hearing loss and blood cisplatin pharmacokinetics. Platinum levels determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry were higher than total platinum levels calculated from cisplatin and monohydrated complex concentrations obtained by liquid chromatography analysis.
Ototoxicity was unacceptable despite amifostine treatment. Cisplatin pharmacokinetics during the first treatment course were not predictive of hearing loss. Amifostine caused a lowering of dose-normalized area under the concentration-time curve for cisplatin and monohydrated complex. Use of the unselective inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry analysis leads to an overestimation of active drug. Selective analysis of cisplatin is especially important when evaluating cisplatin pharmacokinetics during chemoprotector treatment.
Toluene diisocyanate (TDI)-induced asthma is a common cause of occupational lung disease. In addition, a sore throat is one of the complaints of TDI-exposed workers. The aim of the present study was to determine whether TDI exposure induces laryngeal and/or tracheal lesions in experimental animals.
Guinea pigs underwent naris application of TDI three times, and their respiratory tracts were then examined using light and electron microscopy. Some animals simultaneously received vitamins C and E. which function as antioxidant agents.
When TDI-treated animals showed the clinical sign of labored breathing, many eosinophils had appeared in the lamina propria and mucosa of both the larynx and trachea, which finally infiltrated the tract lumen through the ruptured epithelium. Laryngo-tracheal inflammation was more severe than that observed in the lungs. However, supplementation with antioxidant vitamins in TDI-treated animals ameliorated the respiratory eosinophilia.
Naris application of TDI induced laryngotracheitis. which was significantly suppressed by the antioxidant vitamins, This implies a preventive effect of the vitamins on this occupational disease.
Organochlorine (OC) insecticides have been regulated as possible human carcinogens primarily on the basis of animal studies. However, the epidemiologic evidence is inconsistent. We investigated the relationship between cancer incidence and OC insecticide use among pesticide applicators enrolled in the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective cohort study of 57,311 licensed applicators in Iowa and North Carolina enrolled between 1993 and 1997. Information on ever use of 7 OC insecticides (aldrin, chlordane, DDT, dieldrin, heptachlor, lindane, toxaphene) was collected from a self-administered questionnaire at enrollment. Lifetime exposure-days to OC insecticides were calculated using additional data from a take-home questionnaire completed by 25,291 participants (44% of total). We found no clear evidence of an association between use of OC insecticides and incident cancers (N = 1,150) ascertained through December, 2002. When we focused on individual insecticides and structurally similar groups (aldrin and dieldrin; chlordane and heptachlor), significantly increased relative risks of some cancers were observed for use of some chemicals (rectal cancer and chlordane, lung cancer and dieldrin, non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and lindane, melanoma and toxaphene, leukemia and chlordane/heptachlor). Some significant decreased relative risks were also observed (colon cancer and aldrin; overall cancer and heptachlor). In conclusion, we did not observe any clear relationship between cancer risk and the use of OC insecticides. Our chemical-specific findings are based on small numbers and multiple comparisons, and should be interpreted with caution; however, some observed associations (lindane and NHL, chlordane/heptachlor and leukemia) are supported by previous evidence.
Deformability of blood cells is known to influence vascular flow and contribute to vascular complications. Medications for hematologic diseases have the potential to modulate these complications if they alter blood cell deformability. Here we report the effect of chemotherapy on leukemia cell mechanical properties. Acute lymphoblastic and acute myeloid leukemia cells were incubated with standard induction chemotherapy, and individual cell stiffness was tracked with atomic force microscopy. When exposed to dexamethasone or daunorubicin, leukemia cell stiffness increased by nearly 2 orders of magnitude, which decreased their passage through microfluidic channels. This stiffness increase occurred before caspase activation and peaked after completion of cell death, and the rate of stiffness increase depended on chemotherapy type. Stiffening with cell death occurred for all cell types investigated and may be due to dynamic changes in the actin cytoskeleton. These observations suggest that chemotherapy itself may increase the risk of vascular complications in acute leukemia.
