Myeloid and lymphoid malignancies associated with fibroblast growth factor receptor-1 (FGFR1) abnormalities are characterized by constitutively activated FGFR1 kinase and rapid transformation to acute myeloid leukemia and lymphoblastic lymphoma. Molecular targeted therapies have not been widely used for stem cell leukemia/lymphoma (SCLL). Ponatinib (AP24534), which potently inhibits native and mutant BCR-ABL, also targets the FGFR family. Using murine BaF3 cells, stably transformed with six different FGFR1 fusion genes, as well as human KG1 cells expressing activated chimeric FGFR1 and five newly established murine SCLL cell lines, we show that ponatinib (<50 nM) can effectively inhibit phosphoactivation of the fusion kinases and their downstream effectors, such as PLCγ, Stat5 and Src. Ponatinib also significantly extended survival of mice transplanted with different SCLL cell lines. Ponatinib administered at 30 mg/kg daily also significantly delayed, or even prevented, tumorigenesis of KG1 cells in xenotransplanted mice. Furthermore, we demonstrate that ponatinib specifically inhibits cell growth and clonogenicity of normal human CD34+ progenitor cells transformed by chimeric FGFR1 fusion kinases. Overall, our data provide convincing evidence to suggest that pharmacologic inhibition of FGFR1 fusion kinases with ponatinib is likely to be beneficial for patients with SCLL and perhaps for other human disorders associated with dysregulated FGFR1 activity.
National Toxicology Program (NTP) inhalation studies demonstrated that cumene significantly increased the incidence of alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas and carcinomas in B6C3F1 mice. Cumene or isopropylbenzene is a component of crude oil used primarily in the production of phenol and acetone. The authors performed global gene expression analysis to distinguish patterns of gene regulation between cumene-induced tumors and normal lung tissue and to look for patterns based on the presence or absence of K-ras and p53 mutations in the tumors. Principal component analysis segregated the carcinomas into groups with and without K-ras mutations, but failed to separate the tumors based on p53 mutation status. Expression of genes associated with the Erk MAP kinase signaling pathway was significantly altered in carcinomas with K-ras mutations compared to tumors without K-ras mutations or normal lung. Gene expression analysis also suggested that cumene-induced carcinomas with K-ras mutations have greater malignant potential than those without mutations. In addition, significance analysis of function and expression (SAFE) demonstrated expression changes of genes regulated by histone modification in carcinomas with K-ras mutations. The gene expression analysis suggested the formation of alveolar/bronchiolar carcinomas in cumene-exposed mice typically involves mutation of K-ras, which results in increased Erk MAP kinase signaling and modification of histones.
The incidences of alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas and carcinomas in cumene-treated B6C3F1 mice were significantly greater than those of the control animals. We evaluated these lung neoplasms for point mutations in the K-ras and p53 genes that are often mutated in humans. K-ras and p53 mutations were detected by cycle sequencing of PCR-amplified DNA isolated from paraffin-embedded neoplasms. K-ras mutations were detected in 87% of cumene-induced lung neoplasms, and the predominant mutations were exon 1 codon 12 G to T transversions and exon 2 codon 61 A to G transitions. P53 protein expression was detected by immunohistochemistry in 56% of cumene-induced neoplasms, and mutations were detected in 52% of neoplasms. The predominant mutations were exon 5, codon 155 G to A transitions, and codon 133 C to T transitions. No p53 mutations and one of seven (14%) K-ras mutations were detected in spontaneous neoplasms. Cumene-induced lung carcinomas showed loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on chromosome 4 near the p16 gene (13%) and on chromosome 6 near the K-ras gene (12%). No LOH was observed in spontaneous carcinomas or normal lung tissues examined. The pattern of mutations identified in the lung tumors suggests that DNA damage and genomic instability may be contributing factors to the mutation profile and development of lung cancer in mice exposed to cumene.
The activity and mass of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) in postheparin plasma (PHP) from patients with hypertriglyceridemia coupled with hypertension, impaired glucose tolerance, hyperinsulinemia were investigated in order to clarify the cause of hypertriglyceridemia and the effects of bezafibrate (CAS 41859-67-0), a novel lipid lowering agent. Eight weeks of treatment with bezafibrate (200 mg/d) lowered plasma total cholesterol and triglyceride by 7 and 39%, respectively, and increased plasma high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol by 23% in the patients (n = 15). The LPL activity and mass of PHP in the patients were found to be lower than in the normal controls. The LPL activity and mass of PHP in the patients before treatment with bezafibrate (n = 15) were 2.05 +/- 1.06 mumol/ml/h and 147 +/- 45 ng/ml, respectively, whereas after treatment with 200 mg/d of bezafibrate for 8 weeks, these values were 3.62 +/- 1.30 mumol/ml/h (p < 0.01) and 226 +/- 57 ng/ml (p < 0.05), respectively. The increases of LPL mass were positively correlated with the decrease of triglyceride levels during the same period. These results suggest that the expression of LPL enzyme protein is impaired in patients with hypertriglyceridemia coupled with hypertension, impaired glucose tolerance and hyperinsulinemia, and the impaired expression of LPL recovers during treatment with bezafibrate, resulting in improvement of hypertriglyceridemia.
Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is a frequent complication in patients receiving long-term lithium therapy. Both thiazide diuretics and amiloride may reduce the polyuria, but the use of each is associated with problems. We report the results of a clinical trial using the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indomethacin to treat a patient with well-documented lithium-induced NDI that persisted following cessation of lithium treatment. The administration of a single dose of indomethacin resulted in a dramatic decrease in urine volume and increase in urine osmolality that persisted for several hours, and was independent of renal hemodynamic changes. Subsequently, the patient experienced a sustained, favorable effect on her polyuria during long-term (3 months) indomethacin therapy without a deleterious effect on her renal function. Indomethacin may be a useful therapeutic tool for the amelioration of lithium-induced NDI.
We present the neuropathology of two cases of variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) showing significant vacuolar degenerative alterations specifically affecting brain macrophages/microglia within the thalamus and, to a lesser extent, within the neocortical grey matter. Vacuolar degeneration in these cells was extensive, and likely to be associated with the development of a uniform sub-type of 'spongiform' vacuole seen in vCJD. The extensive morphological alterations described here closely resemble those very recently reported by Zucconi and colleagues, in response to experimental copper deficiency induced through dietary restriction, but could not be detected in cases of sporadic CJD examined. The significance of these novel findings are discussed in relation to copper homeostasis, loss of function of cellular prion protein and aberrant lysosomal catabolism within brain macrophages/microglia. This type of vacuolation may constitute a component of the overall profile of spongiform changes associated with vCJD.
E-cadherin is involved in the formation of cell-junctions and the maintenance of epithelial integrity. Direct evidence of E-cadherin mutations triggering tumorigenesis has come from the finding of inactivating germline mutations of the gene (CDH1) in hereditary diffuse gastric cancer (HDGC). We screened a series of 66 young gastric cancer probands for germline CDH1 mutations, and two novel missense alterations together with an intronic variant were identified. We then analysed the functional significance of the two exonic missense variants found here as well as a third germline missense variant that we previously identified in a HGDC family. cDNAs encoding either the wild-type protein or mutant forms of E-cadherin were stably transfected into CHO (Chinese hamster ovary) E-cadherin-negative cells. Transfected cell-lines were characterized in terms of aggregation, motility and invasion. We show that a proportion of apparently sporadic early-onset diffuse gastric carcinomas are associated with germline alterations of the E-cadherin gene. We also demonstrate that a proportion of missense variants are associated with significant functional consequences, suggesting that our cell model can be used as an adjunct in deciding on the potential pathogenic role of identified E-cadherin germline alterations.
Arsenic Trioxide (ATO) is effective in about 20% of patients with myelodysplasia (MDS); its mechanisms of action have already been evaluated in vitro, but the in vivo activity is still not fully understood. Since ATO induces apoptosis in in vitro models, we compared the expression of 93 apoptotic genes in patients' bone marrow before and after ATO treatment. For this analysis, we selected 12 patients affected by MDS who received ATO in combination with Ascorbic Acid in the context of the Italian clinical trial NCT00803530, EudracT Number 2005-001321-28.
Real-time PCR quantitative assays for genes involved in apoptosis were performed using TaqMan® Assays in 384-Well Microfluidic Cards "TaqMan® Human Apoptosis Array".Quantitative RT-PCR for expression of EVI1 and WT1 genes was also performed. Gene expression values (Ct) were normalized to the median expression of 3 housekeeping genes present in the card (18S, ACTB and GAPDH).
ATO treatment induced up-regulation of some pro-apoptotic genes, such as HRK, BAK1, CASPASE-5, BAD, TNFRSF1A, and BCL2L14 and down-regulation of ICEBERG. In the majority of cases with stable disease, apoptotic gene expression profile did not change, whereas in cases with advanced MDS more frequently pro-apoptotic genes were up-regulated. Two patients achieved a major response: in the patient with refractory anemia the treatment down-regulated 69% of the pro-apoptotic genes, whereas 91% of the pro-apoptotic genes were up-regulated in the patient affected by refractory anemia with excess of blasts-1. Responsive patients showed a higher induction of BAD than those with stable disease. Finally, WT1 gene expression was down-regulated by the treatment in responsive cases.
These results represent the basis for a possible association of ATO with other biological compounds able to modify the apoptotic pathways, such as inhibitors of the BCL2 family.
Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) is a potent inhibitor of epithelial cell growth. Human colon cancer cell lines with high rates of microsatellite instability were found to harbor mutations in the type II TGF-beta receptor (RII) gene. Eight such examples, due to three different mutations, were identified. The mutations were clustered within small repeated sequences in the RII gene, were accompanied by the absence of cell surface RII receptors, and were usually associated with small amounts of RII transcript. RII mutation, by inducing the escape of cells from TGF-beta-mediated growth control, links DNA repair defects with a specific pathway of tumor progression.
The art of general practice is to identify important causes of common, often undifferentiated symptoms. This article presents two cases of clinical digoxin toxicity in the presence of normal or low serum digoxin levels. Standard teaching says that symptoms are related directly to toxic serum levels, but this appears to be not always the case.
Lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (Li-NDI) is associated with increased urinary sodium excretion and decreased responsiveness to aldosterone and vasopressin. Dysregulation of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) is thought to play an important role in renal sodium wasting. The effect of 7-day aldosterone and spironolactone treatment on regulation of ENaC in rat kidney cortex was investigated in rats with 3 wk of Li-NDI. Aldosterone treatment of rats with Li-NDI decreased fractional excretion of sodium (0.83 +/- 0.02), whereas spironolactone did not change fractional excretion of sodium (1.10 +/- 0.11) compared with rats treated with lithium alone (1.11 +/- 0.05). Plasma lithium concentration was decreased by aldosterone (0.31 +/- 0.03 mmol/l) but unchanged with spironolactone (0.84 +/- 0.18 mmol/l) compared with rats treated with lithium alone (0.54 +/- 0.04 mmol/l). Immunoblotting showed increased protein expression of alpha-ENaC, the 70-kDa form of gamma-ENaC, and the Na-Cl cotransporter (NCC) in kidney cortex in aldosterone-treated rats, whereas spironolactone decreased alpha-ENaC and NCC compared with control rats treated with lithium alone. Immunohistochemistry confirmed increased expression of alpha-ENaC in the late distal convoluted tubule and connecting tubule and also revealed increased apical targeting of all three ENaC subunits (alpha, beta, and gamma) in aldosterone-treated rats compared with rats treated with lithium alone. Aldosterone did not, however, affect alpha-ENaC expression in the cortical collecting duct (CCD), which showed weak and dispersed labeling similar to that in rats treated with lithium alone. Spironolactone did not affect ENaC targeting compared with rats treated with lithium alone. This study shows a segment specific lack of aldosterone-mediated alpha-ENaC regulation in the CCD affecting both alpha-ENaC protein expression and trafficking, which may explain the increased sodium wasting associated with chronic lithium treatment.
21-Aminosteroid, or lazaroid, is one of a novel class of antioxidant drugs designed to inhibit iron-dependent lipid peroxidation in biological lipid environments. They have shown promising results in several animal models of traumatic, ischemic and hemorrhagic injury of the central nervous system. Neuroleptic-induced orofacial dyskinesia is an animal model of tardive dyskinesia whose pathophysiology has been related to oxidative stress in the basal ganglia. In this study, we have examined the protective role of U-74500A [pregna-1,4,9(11)-triene-3,20-dione, 21-(4-(5,6-bis(diethylamino)-2-pyridinyl)-1-piperazinyl)-16-ethyl-HCl (16-alpha)], a 21-aminosteroid having antioxidant property in attenuating the behavioral and biochemical effects of chronic haloperidol and chlorpromazine administration. Haloperidol (1 mg/kg/day i.p.) and chlorpromazine (5 mg/kg/day i.p.) administered for 21 days caused a significant increase in vacuous chewing movements (VCMs), tongue protrusion (TP) and the number of facial twitchings (FT) observed on day 22. U-74500A (1, 2 and 5 mg/kg i.p.), administered every day, along with haloperidol (1 mg/kg/day i.p.) and chlorpromazine (5 mg/kg/day), attenuated the increase of VCMs and related behaviors on day 22. Haloperidol and chlorpromazine significantly increased lipid peroxidation in various brain areas such as the cortex, striatum and subcortical parts characterized by an increase in MDA levels. The coadministration of U-74500A limited the effect of haloperidol and chlorpromazine on MDA levels in the cortex and striatum but not in the subcortical parts. U-74500A, an aminosteroid, may have therapeutic use in typical neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia-like effects.
A large-scale transcriptome database of rat liver (TG-GATEs) has been established by the Toxicogenomics Project in Japan. In the present study, we focused on 8 hepatotoxic compounds within TG-GATEs, i.e., clofibrate, omeprazole, ethionine, thioacetamide, benzbromarone, propylthiouracil, Wy-14,643 and amiodarone, which induced coagulation abnormalities. Aspirin was selected as a reference compound that directly causes coagulation abnormality, but not through liver toxicity. In blood chemical examinations, for all the coagulopathic compounds there was little elevation of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and/or alanine aminotransferase (ALT), suggesting no severe cell death by treatment with the compounds. We extracted 344 probe sets from the data for these 8 typical drugs, which induced this phenotype at any time from 3 to 28 days of repeated administration. Principal component analysis using these probe sets clearly separated dose- and time-dependent clusters of the treated groups from their controls, except aspirin and propylthiouracil, both of which were considered to cause coagulopathy not due to their hepatotoxicity but due to their direct effects on the blood coagulation system. Reviewing the extracted genes, changes in lipid metabolism were found to be dominant. Genes related to blood coagulation were generally down-regulated by these drugs except that vitamin K epoxide reductase complex subunit 1 (Vkorc1) like 1, a paralogous gene of Vkorc1, was up-regulated. As expected, expression changes of these genes were least prominent in aspirin or propylthiouracil-treated liver. We concluded that these probe sets could be a good starting point in developing mechanism-based biomarkers for diagnosis or prognosis of hepatotoxicity-related coagulation abnormalities in the early stage of drug development.
Numerous preclinical and clinical studies have shown that interleukin-2 (IL-2) induces regression of metastatic tumors. We have conducted a phase I/II, multicenter, open-label, dose-escalating study to evaluate the safety, efficacy, and biological effects of repeated intratumoral injections of adenovirus-IL-2 (TG1024) in patients with advanced solid tumors and melanoma. Thirty five patients (twenty-five with metastatic melanoma and ten with other solid tumors) were treated in eight successive cohorts at dose levels ranging from 3 x 10(8) to 3 x 10(11) viral particles (vp). Intratumoral TG1024 injections in combination with dacarbazine (DTIC) were tested in metastatic melanoma in one cohort. No clinical responses were observed at doses below 3 x 10(11) vp. Six local objective responses were recorded in patients receiving 3 x 10(11) vp per treatment [five in metastatic melanoma and one in metastatic squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the skin], of which two were complete responses (CRs). Most of the common side effects were injection site reactions and flu-like syndrome. TG1024 dose intensification across cohorts resulted in increased serum IL-2 levels after the injection. Intratumoral TG1024 injection induced pronounced inflammation of the treated lesion, with predominant CD8(+), TIA+ lymphocytic infiltrate. Our results show that intratumoral injections of TG1024 are safe and well tolerated. The clinical activity of TG1024 observed in this study warrants further investigations.
The combined ingestion of ketamine (Ket) and amphetamine (Amph) by drug-users has been rampant and produced more severe behavioral abnormality. However, the interactive consequences of the two drugs are still unclear. In this study, we treated adult male mice with a single i.p. injection of saline, Amph (5 mg/kg), low Ket (LK, 10 mg/kg), high Ket (HK, 50 mg/kg), or Amph and LK or HK (ALK or AHK) and examined their behavioral and neurochemical changes at 0.5 and 2 h post-injection. Compared with saline, Amph, LK or HK treatment alone increased the levels of motor activities such as locomotion, stereotypy or ataxia of mice. Notably, at combined treatments, LK and HK differentially exacerbated Amph-induced locomotion and stereotypy, whereas Amph worsened LK or HK-produced ataxia. The higher striatal dopamine levels of A, ALK and AHK groups correlated with their greater motor activities. The prolonged increase of dopamine in the motor cortex of ALK and AHK mice may associate with the longer duration of behavioral hyperactivity and greater peak score of locomotion; the greater dopamine level in the somatosensory cortex probably contributes to the more severe ataxia. Furthermore, in the striatum of all drug-treated groups, the expression of GAD67 mRNA and GAD67-positive punctates was higher than respective saline controls, indicating the involvement of GABAergic system in the drug-induced behavioral changes. Our results demonstrate the acute interplay between Amph and Ket in both behavioral and neurochemical aspects for the first time. Dopaminergic and GABAergic systems were affected differentially by the drugs in the striatum.
We tested the action of intraperitoneal sumatriptan, a 5-HT1D receptor agonist that aborts migraine headaches, using a model of neurogenic inflammation induced by capsaicin applied to the rat sciatic epineurium. Sumatriptan prevented the development of capsaicin-induced hyperemia without inducing pretreatment vasoconstriction or altering AV shunt flow. The findings indicate that sumatriptan prevents "neurogenic" vasodilation by a mechanism other than vasoconstriction or changes in AV shunt flow.
A chronic toxicity study of kojic acid (KA) was performed using male F344 rats by dietary administration at concentrations of 0 (control), 0.5 and 2.0% for 55 weeks. Body weight gain was suppressed in the 2.0% group. The major hematological findings were decreased red blood cell (RBC) count and hematocrit (Ht) values at both 0.5 and 2.0%. In serum biochemistry, increased aspartate transaminase (AsT), alanine transaminase (AlT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GTP) levels were detected in the 0.5 and 2.0% groups. Histopathologically, single cell necrosis of hepatocytes and proliferation of bile ductules in both treatment groups, and hypertrophy of hepatocytes, granulomas and proliferation of bile ducts in the 2.0% group were increased in incidence, and numbers and areas of glutathione-S-transferase placental-form (GST-P) positive foci were increased in the liver of the 2.0% group. In the thyroids, diffuse follicular cell hyperplasia at 0.5 and 2.0% and focal follicular cell hyperplasia and follicular adenoma at 2.0% were increased. A thyroid follicular carcinoma was also observed at 2.0%. Additionally, increased incidences of hyaline casts and basophilic tubules in the kidneys at 2.0% and microgranulomas containing crystals in the lung in both treatment groups were noted. At 2.0%, hypertrophy of cortical cells in zona fasciculata was also increased in the adrenals. In conclusion, no observed adverse effect level of KA was below 0.5%, which is equivalent to 227 mg/kg body weight/day in male rats.
In comparison with detajmium, prajmalium, ajmaline, quinidine, lidocaine, disopyramide, propranolol, and Ethmozin the substance GS 015 is tested on the aconitin-induced arrhythmia of the rat, the auricular fibrillation by aconitin of the dog, the ventricular arrhythmia induced by ouabaine of the dog, the arrhythmia caused by calcium chloride of the rat, and the arrhythmia induced by barium chloride of the rabbit. The particular qualities of effect in the special forms of arrhythmia are discussed in connection with the study of the antiarrhythmic action in case of coronary occlusion, with the increase of the electric fibrillatory threshold, and with the electrophysiologic tests.
To evaluate the use of the lactate: pyruvate ratio as a test for the detection of zidovudine myopathy.
Twenty consecutive human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients with muscle involvement and 20 without muscle involvement were studied prospectively. Blood lactate and pyruvate levels and serum creatine kinase levels were tested, muscle involvement was assessed both clinically and electrophysiologically, and muscle biopsy was performed in patients with myopathy.
Nine patients had biopsy-proven zidovudine myopathy. All 9 had a high lactate:pyruvate ratio, with elevations on 2 of 2 determinations in 6 patients and on 1 of 2 in 3 patients. Two of 11 patients with other myopathies and 2 of 20 patients without myopathy had a high lactate:pyruvate ratio on 1 of 2 determinations.
The lactate:pyruvate ratio, when determined repeatedly, is a sensitive test for detecting mitochondrial muscular toxicity of zidovudine.
Rats were exposed under static conditions to phosgene at concentrations within the LCt50 range and above. Lungs were removed at various postexposure intervals. Degrees of pulmonary edema were estimated by increases in percentage of water in the lungs of exposed groups as opposed to control animals. Lungs were fractionated into four major subcellular organelle fractions: nuclear debris, mitochondrial-lysosomal, microsomal, and soluble (cytoplasmic). Activities of p-nitrophenyl phosphatase, cytochrome C oxidase, ATP'ase, and LDH within these fractions were decreased after phosgene exposure. There was a concomitant increase in serum LDH levels. One possible mechanism that may play a role in phosgene damage can be associated with either inhibition or loss of enzyme activities from the lung.
In inflammatory bowel disease, increased production of prostaglandins by cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) contributes to bowel dysfunction, inflammatory edema, and hyperemia suggesting that inhibitors of COX-2 may have beneficial effect in gut inflammation. We compared the effects of nimesulide, a preferential COX-2 inhibitor, with those of indomethacin, acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), and dexamethasone in a 24-h model of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in the rat. TNBS-induced colitis was associated with enhanced COX-2 expression in the gut and increased circulating concentrations of PGE2 metabolite (PGEM). Treatment with nimesulide (10 mg/kg), indomethacin (10 mg/kg), or dexamethasone (1 mg/kg) reduced plasma PGEM concentrations and edema in the inflamed bowel. In addition, nimesulide and dexamethasone treatments decreased neutrophil infiltration into the inflamed colon mucosa. ASA (10 mg/kg) did not have a significant effect on any of these measures of inflammation. None of the studied drugs reduced the size of inflammatory mucosal lesions in the colon. In TNBS-induced acute inflammation of the colon, nimesulide reduced the formation of inflammatory edema, probably by a mechanism related to inhibition of PGE2 production by COX-2 pathway. In addition, nimesulide inhibited neutrophil infiltration into inflamed mucosa mimicking the action of dexamethasone.
We report the first known case of daunorubicin administered directly into the human central nervous system. A 3 1/2-year-old female with pneumonia and otitis media was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and was admitted for antibiotics and chemotherapy. On the first day she inadvertently received a 17 mg intrathecal (IT) injection of daunorubicin. When the error was recognized about 1 hour later, her cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was exchanged with sterile saline by barbotage, IT hydrocortisone was given, a subarachnoid catheter was inserted, and the CSF was allowed to drain for 36 hours. Only 5.6 mg (33%) of the dose was recovered from CSF, 2.7 mg as daunorubicin and 2.9 mg as the metabolite, daunorubicinol. Initially she was asymptomatic and induction therapy continued with vincristine, 1-asparaginase, prednisone, and IT methotrexate. One week after the daunorubicin injection she developed headache and irritability; CSF protein was 3.2 gm/dl. On the 12th day, she developed fungal sepsis and worsening pneumonia. On the 15th day, she became comatose with a flacid paraparesis, areflexia, and an ascending progressive bulbar palsy. A series of computerized tomography scans over 6 weeks showed increasing diffuse cerebral atrophy. Nerve conduction velocity studies were consistent with an axonal neuropathy. Despite her multiple concurrent medical problems, the timing and characteristics of neurologic damage suggest that IT daunorubicin caused progressive destruction of the nervous system.
The effect of testosterone administration on plasma lipoproteins and eicosanoids was studied in 24 male cynomolgus monkeys. We hypothesized that elevated plasma testosterone would unfavorably alter plasma lipids as well as thromboxane A2 (TxA2) and prostacyclin (PGI2), two eicosanoids that have been linked to the increased incidence of atherosclerosis, myocardial ischemia, and thrombosis. To test our hypothesis, half of the monkeys (N = 12) were subjected to 10 wk of testosterone treatment, whereas the remaining monkeys (N = 12) received a sesame oil vehicle. The plasma concentrations of thromboxane B2 (TxB2) and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, the stable metabolites of TxA2 and PGI2, respectively, were determined. Additionally, assays were conducted on total cholesterol (TC), high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and triglycerides (TG). Distribution of the HDL subfraction protein was measured by gradient gel electrophoresis. All monkeys exhibited significant increases in TC (P less than 0.001) and low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) (P less than 0.001); however, monkeys who received testosterone also displayed significant increases in TxB2 (P less than 0.03) and decreases in HDL-C (P less than 0.03) compared with control monkeys. There was a trend in the HDL-C subfraction data, indicating that testosterone treatment may be associated with a decrease in the larger HDL2b subfraction and a corresponding increase in HDL3c. These results demonstrate that exogenous testosterone adversely alters cardiovascular risk profiles by increasing TXB2 production and decreasing HDL-C. Athletes who use testosterone as an anabolic androgenic steroid may have an increased risk for coronary heart disease.
Domestic fuel combustion from cooking and heating is an important public health issue because roughly 3 billion people are exposed worldwide. Recently, the International Agency for Research on Cancer classified indoor emissions from household coal combustion as a human carcinogen (group 1) and from biomass fuel (primarily wood) as a probable human carcinogen (group 2A).
We pooled seven studies from the International Lung Cancer Consortium (5,105 cases and 6,535 controls) to provide further epidemiological evaluation of the association between in-home solid-fuel use, particularly wood, and lung cancer risk.
Using questionnaire data, we classified subjects as predominant solid-fuel users (e.g., coal, wood) or nonsolid-fuel users (e.g., oil, gas, electricity). Unconditional logistic regression was used to estimate the odds ratios (ORs) and to compute 95% confidence intervals (CIs), adjusting for age, sex, education, smoking status, race/ethnicity, and study center.
Compared with nonsolid-fuel users, predominant coal users (OR = 1.64; 95% CI, 1.49-1.81), particularly coal users in Asia (OR = 4.93; 95% CI, 3.73-6.52), and predominant wood users in North American and European countries (OR = 1.21; 95% CI, 1.06-1.38) experienced higher risk of lung cancer. The results were similar in never-smoking women and other subgroups.
Our results are consistent with previous observations pertaining to in-home coal use and lung cancer risk, support the hypothesis of a carcinogenic potential of in-home wood use, and point to the need for more detailed study of factors affecting these associations.
The effects of 17 beta-estradiol versus tamoxifen on the growth and metabolism of MCF7 human breast cancer cells, in culture and in tumors implanted in nude mice, were studied by 31P and 13C nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy and by proton magnetic resonance imaging. In culture, the content of the phosphate metabolites including nucleoside triphosphates (NTP), phosphomonoesters, phosphodiesters and inorganic phosphate (Pi) were not affected by tamoxifen treatment. However, in the presence of estrogen the rate of glucose consumption and lactate production via glycolysis (270 and 280 fmol/cell.h, respectively) were twice that of tamoxifen treated cells. Estrogen rescue of tamoxifen treated cells indicated that glycolysis induction occurs at the early stages of the hormonal response. The in vivo studies included recording of proton images that provided an accurate measure of tumor size and distribution of tumor cells, necrotic regions and stromal tissue. Tamoxifen caused enhanced necrosis extending from the center of the tumor during the first two days of treatment (12 h to 6 days). This was followed by growth of reparative tissue along with tumor regression. Tamoxifen also modified the content of the phosphate metabolites, increasing markedly (P less than 0.0002) the ratio of NTP to Pi from 0.41 before treatment to 1.75 9-19 days after treatment. This change was attributed to the enhanced growth of repair tissue. The results provide new information regarding the response of human breast cancer to hormonal treatment and suggest a mechanism for the induction of tumor regression by tamoxifen.
Lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) is found in about 15-32% of infected patients with or without co-infection with HIV-1 after 1 year of lamivudine therapy. Adefovir dipivoxil is active in vivo and in vitro against wild-type and lamivudine-resistant HBV. We assessed the safety and efficacy of a once daily dose of adefovir dipivoxil in an open-label trial for the treatment of lamivudine-resistant HBV infection in HIV-1-infected patients.
35 HIV-1/HBV co-infected patients receiving lamivudine therapy (150 mg twice daily) as part of their current HIV-1 antiretroviral regimen were enrolled. Patients received a 10 mg once-daily dose of adefovir dipivoxil for48 weeks while maintaining their existing anti-HIV-1 therapy, including lamivudine. Patients were assessed every 4 weeks for safety and efficacy.
Four patients withdrew from the study (two because of adverse events), leaving 31 patients who received adefovir dipivoxil for a median of 48 weeks (range 44-48). Mean decreases in serum HBV DNA concentrations from baseline (log 8.64 copies/mL [SE log 0.08]) were 2log 3.40 copies/mL [log 0.12] at week 24 (n=31) and 2log 4.01 copies/mL [log 0.17] at week 48 (n=29; p<0.0001). Two patients underwent hepatitis B e antigen seroconversion-one at week 32 and one at week 36. Adefovir dipivoxil was generally well tolerated, but was associated with a transient increase in serum alanine aminotransferase concentrations in 15 patients. We found no significant changes in either HIV-1 RNA or CD4 cell count.
These results indicate that 48 weeks of 10 mg daily adefovir dipivoxil is well tolerated and active against lamivudine-resistant HBV in HIV-1/HBV co-infected patients.
The effects of chronic carbamazepine (CBZ) on the development and expression of cocaine-kindled seizures and seizures produced by an acute injection of cocaine were evaluated in BALB/cByJ, C57Bl/6J and SJL/J mice. The repeated administration of a subconvulsant dose of cocaine initially resulted in the development of an increased sensitivity to the convulsant effects of cocaine in the three strains. Chronic, dietary carbamazepine attenuated this initial sensitization to cocaine-induced seizures. While the continued administration of cocaine resulted in a relatively permanent sensitization to cocaine-induced seizures among SJL mice, tolerance to cocaine-induced seizures ultimately developed among C57 mice and to a lesser degree among BALB mice. Genetic factors were found to mediate the effects of chronic CBZ on the development of sensitization and/or tolerance to the convulsant effects of cocaine. Among BALB mice, chronic CBZ appears to have eliminated the development of tolerance to cocaine-induced seizures and allowed an underlying sensitization to be manifest. Among SJL mice, however, the sensitization observed following repeated cocaine injections was reduced, but not eliminated. Genetic factors were also found to be associated with the effects of CBZ on seizures induced by the acute administration of cocaine. BALB and C57 mice, but not SJL mice, chronically treated with dietary CBZ were less susceptible to a consulvant dose of cocaine than their corresponding dietary controls for at least 72 h after stopping CBZ administration. In addition, there were genotype-specific lethal effects associated with the concurrent administration of CBZ and cocaine.
