RGS2 (regulator of G-protein signaling 2) modulates dopamine receptor signal transduction. Functional variants in the gene may influence susceptibility to extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) induced by antipsychotic drugs. To further investigate our previous report of association of the RGS2 gene with susceptibility to antipsychotic-induced EPS, we performed a replication study. EPS were rated in 184 US patients with schizophrenia (115 African Americans, 69 Caucasian) treated for at least a month with typical antipsychotic drugs (n=45), risperidone (n=46), olanzapine (n=50) or clozapine (n=43). Six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within or flanking RGS2 were genotyped (rs1933695, rs2179652, rs2746073, rs4606, rs1819741 and rs1152746). Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated by logistic regression. Our results indicate association of SNP rs4606 with antipsychotic-induced parkinsonism (AIP), as measured by the Simpson Angus scale, in the overall sample and in the African-American subsample, the G (minor) allele having a protective effect. ORs for AIP among rs4606 G-allele carriers were 0.23 (95% CI 0.10-0.54, P=0.001) in the overall sample, and 0.20 (0.07-0.57, P=0.003) in the African-American subsample. In the previously studied Israeli sample the OR was 0.31 (0.11-0.84, P=0.02). We completely sequenced the RGS2 gene in nine patients with AIP and nine patients without, from the Israeli sample. No common coding polymorphisms or additional regulatory variants were revealed, suggesting that association of the rs4606 C/G polymorphism with AIP is biologically meaningful and not a consequence of linkage disequilibrium with another functional variant. Taken together, the findings of the current study support the association of RGS2 with AIP and focus on a possible protective effect of the minor G allele of SNP rs4606. This SNP is located in the 3'-regulatory region of the gene, and is known to influence RGS2 mRNA levels and protein expression.
Dextrorphan (CAS 125-73-5) is the active metabolite of the antitussive agent dextromethorphan (CAS 125-71-3). The activity of dextromethorphan, its specific pharmacology, acute toxicity and general pharmacology in respect to the central nervous system were investigated in comparison to dextromethorphan. The studies showed that dextrorphan exerts an antitussive activity comparable to the one of dextromethorphan, but a better tolerability and a lower toxicity. These results suggest to use dextrorphan instead of its precursor dextromethorphan in therapy.
Varenicline, alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) partial agonist, is a new class of medications for treating nicotine dependence. As an alpha4beta2 nAChR partial agonist, varenicline serves to reduce nicotine withdrawal symptoms, while high-affinity binding of the agonist mitigates the reinforcing effects of smoking. In the present study, we compared serum brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels of nicotine dependence and nonsmokers, and we investigated changes in serum BDNF levels after 8 weeks of treatment with varenicline. Patients met the DSM-IV criteria for nicotine dependence. Both the Fagerström test for nicotine dependence (FTND) and the Tobacco Dependence Screener (TDS) were used. Serum BDNF levels and breath carbon monoxide (CO) levels were measured before and 8 weeks after varenicline treatment. Fourteen of 16 subjects (87.5%) stopped smoking within 12 weeks of varenicline treatment. Thirteen healthy nonsmokers who never had previously smoked were randomly selected as a control group. Serum BDNF levels of patients before treatment (4.8 +/- 3.8 ng/ml) were significantly lower than those in the control group (12.4 +/- 6.13 ng/ml). Serum BDNF levels had not increased from baseline (4.8 +/- 3.8 ng/ml) to 8 weeks after varenicline treatment (3.0 +/- 1.1 ng/ml) of patients. These results suggest that smoking might decrease serum BDNF levels and that treatment with varenicline for 8 weeks, combined with 12 weeks of not smoking, does not increase serum BDNF levels in smokers.
The major function of vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) is contraction to regulate blood pressure and flow. SMC contractile force requires cyclic interactions between SMC alpha-actin (encoded by ACTA2) and the beta-myosin heavy chain (encoded by MYH11). Here we show that missense mutations in ACTA2 are responsible for 14% of inherited ascending thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections (TAAD). Structural analyses and immunofluorescence of actin filaments in SMCs derived from individuals heterozygous for ACTA2 mutations illustrate that these mutations interfere with actin filament assembly and are predicted to decrease SMC contraction. Aortic tissues from affected individuals showed aortic medial degeneration, focal areas of medial SMC hyperplasia and disarray, and stenotic arteries in the vasa vasorum due to medial SMC proliferation. These data, along with the previously reported MYH11 mutations causing familial TAAD, indicate the importance of SMC contraction in maintaining the structural integrity of the ascending aorta.
The developmental toxicity of trans-1,2-dichloroethylene (t-DCE), a component of certain Freon cleaning agents, was examined in pregnant rats. t-DCE was administered by inhalation 6 hr daily on Days 7-16 of gestation (the day copulation was confirmed was termed Day 1 of gestation) at exposure levels of 0, 2000, 6000, or 12,000 ppm. The offspring were then examined on Day 22 of gestation. Overt maternal toxicity was expressed as a significant reduction in weight gain at 12,000 ppm and in feed consumption at 6000 and 12,000 ppm. During the exposure period, lacrimation and stained periocular hair, and signs of ocular irritation, were observed in all groups. In addition, increased incidences of alopecia, lethargy, and salivation were observed in the high-dose dams. Significant increases in the mean number of resorptions per litter were seen in the litters of dams exposed to 6000 and 12,000 ppm of t-DCE; however, these values are within the range of historical controls and not considered to be treatment related. The mean combined and female fetal weights were significantly reduced in the litters of dams exposed to the highest concentration (12,000 ppm) of t-DCE. Marginal effects on feed consumption, unaccompanied by other changes and reflective of the pattern seen at higher doses, were seen at 2000 ppm. Thus, marginal maternal toxicity was seen at 2000 ppm and exposures to 6000 ppm t-DCE or higher caused frank maternal toxicity while the fetus was affected only at 12,000 ppm. Therefore, t-DCE is not considered to be uniquely toxic to the rat conceptus.
A 14-year-old girl with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) developed cardiomyopathy following chemotherapy for remission induction and subsequent consolidation consisting of cumulative doses of 644 mg/m2 of daunorubicin and 31 mg/m2 of mitoxantrone. Six months after the first complete remission, when relapse of APL was recognized an allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from her HLA-identical brother was performed. A preconditioning regimen, consisting of cytarabine (Ara-C, 2 g/m2/day x 3 days and 4 g/m2/day x 3 days), total body irradiation (TBI, 1200 cGy) and etoposide (VP-16, 50 mg/kg) caused moderate gastrointestinal symptoms and transient hemorrhagic cystitis, but did not worsen her cardiac function. Both continuous intravenous administration of heparin to control DIC and continuous low dose dopamine infusion to prevent cardiac failure achieved their purpose. The patient is leukemia-free and has no symptoms related to cardiomyopathy at the eight month after BMT. A preconditioning regimen (Ara-C, TBI and VP-16) appeared to be suitable for BMT to a patient with anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) has been shown to suppress the development of cancer. Tamoxifen (TAM), a nonsteroidal anti-estrogen that is widely used in chemotherapy, is known to be a modulator of antioxidant status. However, the mechanism by which TAM mediates antioxidant enzyme induction remains unclear. In this study we investigated TAM enhancement of MnSOD induction by TNF-alpha. The results show that co-treatment with TAM and TNF-alpha increases the MnSOD promoter/enhancer driven luciferase activity, MnSOD mRNA and protein levels. Interestingly, co-treatment with TAM and TNF-alpha drastically decreases the binding activity of the p50/p50 homodimer and increases that of the p50/p65 heterodimer compared to TNF-alpha alone. This change in DNA binding could not be attributed to a decrease in the level of p50, its precursor, p105, or its inhibitors. Furthermore, TAM did not enhance degradation of IkappaB-alpha. These results suggest that p50/p50 homodimer may act as an inhibitory complex of MnSOD expression. Modulation of the DNA binding activity in favor of the p50/p65 complex may enhance NF-kappaB mediated induction of MnSOD by TAM. These findings reveal a potential novel mechanism for the induction of the human MnSOD gene.
Serotonin 2C and 2A receptor (5-HT2C and 5-HT2A) antagonisms are hypothesized to play a role in the metabolic adverse effects induced by olanzapine and clozapine. Associations between polymorphisms in 5-HT2C and 5-HT2A receptor coding genes, HTR2C and HTR2A, with antipsychotic-induced weight gain have been reported. The impact of HTR2C and HTR2A polymorphisms on body mass index (BMI), glucose-insulin homeostasis, and blood lipid levels was evaluated in 46 patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and treated with olanzapine (n = 28) or clozapine (n = 18) for at least 6 months. Olanzapine-treated patients with HTR2C haplotype C (-759C, -697C, and 23Ser) had higher BMI (P = 0.029) and C peptide levels (P = 0.029) compared with patients with haplotype B (-759T, -697C, and 23Cys). The frequency of patients homozygous for the HTR2C haplotype A (-759C, -697G, and 23Cys) was significantly higher among clozapine-treated patients with obesity (BMI >/= 30 kg/m) compared with nonobese patients (P = 0.015; odds ratio, 28; 95% confidence interval, 2-380). Patients carrying the HTR2A haplotype 2 (-1438A, 102T, and 452His) had significantly higher C peptide levels compared with haplotype 3 (-1438A, 102T, and 452Tyr) carriers in the olanzapine group (P = 0.034) and in the overall study population (P = 0.019). None of the haplotypes were associated with serum levels of insulin, triglycerides, and cholesterol or with homeostasis model assessment index for insulin resistance. In conclusion, both HTR2C and HTR2A gene polymorphisms seem to be associated with the occurrence of metabolic abnormalities in patients treated with olanzapine or clozapine.
Dextromethorphan, a clinically available N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor antagonist, has an analgesic effect in patients with diabetic neuropathy. The aim of this study was to evaluate the analgesic and adverse effects of a single high dose of dextromethorphan on spontaneous pain in patients suffering long-term neuropathic pain of traumatic origin.
Fifteen patients with post-traumatic neuropathic pain participated in this placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized crossover study. On two separate occasions, the participants received 270 mg of dextromethorphan hydrobromide or placebo. Pain intensity, adverse effects and serum concentrations of dextromethorphan and metabolites were registered.
Dextromethorphan had a statistically significant analgesic effect compared with placebo, but the effect varied markedly among the patients. Light-headedness was the most important adverse effect reported. Extensive metabolizers of dextromethorphan had an apparently better analgesic effect than poor metabolizers.
This report indicates that a single high dose of dextromethorphan has an analgesic effect in patients with neuropathic pain of traumatic origin. The main metabolite dextrorphan seems to be important for the analgesic effect. At the relatively high dose studied, the clinical usefulness of dextromethorphan is limited to that portion of the patient population experiencing analgesia without an unacceptable level of adverse effects.
It is known that calcium channel blockers induce Parkinsonism. In this study, amlodipine-, diltiazem-, and verapamil-induced catalepsy was investigated in mice. All of these three calcium channel blockers induced catalepsy. Dopamine D1, D2, and mACh receptor occupancies were estimated under the same conditions, and the affinities of these drugs for each receptor were also estimated in vitro. Intensity of catalepsy was predicted by dopamine D1, D2, and mACh receptor occupancies with the dynamic model which had already been constructed and was compared with the observed values. The predicted and the observed values were comparable (r = 0.98, p < 0.001). In conclusion, the dynamic model considering D1, and D2, and mACh receptor occupancy may be useful for quantitative prediction of drug-induced catalepsy.
Twenty-four mice (male, 8 weeks) were divided equally into four groups: Control (GC), Amphetamine (GAnf), Exercise (GEx) and Exercise with Amphetamine (GExAnf). The protocol began with i.p. administration of 0.1 ml saline solution (to GC and GEx) and 20 mg/kg d-amphetamine dissolved in 0.1 ml saline solution (to GAnf and GExAnf). Immediately afterwards, GEx and GExAnf started exercise (swimming, 60 min at 37 degrtees C). At the same time GC and GAnf were immersed in shallow water (60 min at 37 degrees C, without exercise). Subcutaneous temperature was measured every 15 minutes, and the animals were sacrificed 60 min after the i.p. injection, with cardiac muscle tissue harvested for histological analysis and quantification of oxidized and reduced glutathione (GSSG and GSH), thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and carbonyl groups. Body temperature remained constant during the protocol, in all groups. GC and GEx exhibited normal histology, whereas GAnf exhibited the most marked histological changes. GSH levels were higher (p < 0.05) in GEx and GExAnf (vs. GC and GAnf respectively) with similar % GSSG in all groups. TBARS content was also similar in all groups; carbonyl groups were higher (p < 0.05) in GEx (122 +/- 7) and GExAnf (129 +/- 9) compared to GC (100 +/-7 ) and GAnf (114 +/-7). Carbonyl group levels were significantly higher in GAnf than in GC. Administration of 20 mg/kg of d-amphetamine produced histological signs of cardiotoxicity, which were not enhanced by physical exercise; however, the combined action of d-amphetamine and physical exercise significantly aggravated protein oxidation markers.
Hypertriglyceridemia is a hallmark of many disorders, including metabolic syndrome, diabetes, atherosclerosis and obesity. A well-known cause is the deficiency of lipoprotein lipase (LPL), a key enzyme in plasma triglyceride hydrolysis. Mice carrying the combined lipase deficiency (cld) mutation show severe hypertriglyceridemia owing to a decrease in the activity of LPL and a related enzyme, hepatic lipase (HL), caused by impaired maturation of nascent LPL and hepatic lipase polypeptides in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here we identify the gene containing the cld mutation as Tmem112 and rename it Lmf1 (Lipase maturation factor 1). Lmf1 encodes a transmembrane protein with an evolutionarily conserved domain of unknown function that localizes to the ER. A human subject homozygous for a deleterious mutation in LMF1 also shows combined lipase deficiency with concomitant hypertriglyceridemia and associated disorders. Thus, through its profound effect on lipase activity, LMF1 emerges as an important candidate gene in hypertriglyceridemia.
The differential effects of short- or long-term exposure to the liver tumor promoters di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) or phenobarbital (PB) were studied in male B6C3F1 mice. Mice were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) at 4 weeks of age with N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) at a dosage of 80 mg/kg. At 5 weeks of age, the mice were fed diets containing PB or DEHP for periods of from 1 to 168 days and killed at 168 or 252 days. When DEHP was fed at a dietary level of 3000 ppm for 28, 84, or 168 days, or PB was fed in the water at 500 ppm for 168 days, there were significantly increased incidences of mice with focal hepatocellular proliferative lesions (FHPL) as compared with those in mice receiving DEN alone. There was no significant promotion of FHPL when DEHP was fed for 1 or 7 days or when PB was fed for 1, 7, 28, or 84 days. Thus, DEHP was an effective promoter after only 28, 84, or 168 days exposure whereas PB required 168 days of continuous exposure for a promotive effect to be evident.
Everolimus has recently received approval for immunosuppressive therapy in heart transplant recipients in Austria and Germany. At our heart center we have treated 114 patients with everolimus since January 2004. Here we describe 6 cases of lingual angioedema (corresponding to 5.3% of the patients). Symptoms occurred within 2 to 41 days after initiation of therapy. In 5 out of the 6 patients, lingual angioedema disappeared with anti-allergic treatment alone. However, in one patient, two severe recurrent episodes of lingual angioedema occurred so that therapy had to be discontinued. We conclude that the potentially life-threatening condition of lingual angioedema should be considered a severe drug reaction after initiation of everolimus therapy in heart transplant recipients.
Nine patients with the loin-pain/haematuria syndrome are described. The previously reported clinical features of severe recurrent loin pain and tenderness in young women, the relationship of symptoms to use of oral contraceptives, and the demonstration of intrarenal vascular abnormalities by angiography are confirmed. Histology revealed minor non-specific abnormalities, and electron microscopy showed fibrin in the afferent arteriole and in glomerular capillaries of one patient only. No diagnostic changes were found on renography. In all patients except one the heparin-thrombin clotting-time was abnormal, suggesting increased platelet activity or release and providing further evidence of a vascular disorder.
In a nested case-control study, the authors investigated whether the deletion polymorphism of glutathione S-transferases GSTM1 and GSTT1 represents a risk factor for the development of asbestosis.
In total, 262 cases with asbestosis and 265 controls, selected from a cohort of 2080 workers occupationally exposed to asbestos, were genotyped for GSTM1 and GSTT1-null alleles. Cumulative exposure for each subject was available.
Asbestosis was associated with cumulative exposure (odds ratio [OR]=3.21, confidence interval [CI] 2.43-4.23) and GSTT1-null genotype (OR=0.61, CI 0.40-0.94), but not with GSTM1-null genotype (OR=1.01, CI 0.71-1.43). The risk of GSTM1-null and GSTT1-null genotype for asbestosis did not change after adjustment by cumulative exposure, smoking, gender, and age.
An important finding of this study is that GSTT1 gene deletion might have a protective effect on the development of asbestosis.
The increased incidence of liver tumors in women of childbearing age who have been using oral contraceptives for many years suggests an environmental causation. The causative agent may be the steroidal oral contraceptives. Two lesions are recognized: focal nodular hyperplasia and hepatic adenoma. This paper concentrates on focal nodular hyperplasia, with two cases added to the four previously described cases. It is postulated that the estrogen component causes vascular lesions characterized by myointimal hyperplasia and thrombosis, leading to infarct, necrosis, and subsequent nodular hepatic regeneration. The clinical feature highlighted is the long history of gastrointestinal disturbance associated with negative gastrointestinal investigation with the possible exception of cholelithiasis. It is suggested that gray-scale ultrasonography is an effective screening method that also aids in a definitive diagnosis. As these tumors are often incidental findings it is emphasized that the liver should always be inspected at laparoscopy. Ultimately, diagnosis by biopsy or excision is essential as it may well be possible to treat cases of focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver conservatively, once oral contraceptives have been discontinued.
We report two patients. The first is a 68-year-old woman who presented with a 2-day history of vomiting. She was hypernatraemic and her elevated serum sodium concentration did not improve initially, despite adequate fluid replacement. She subsequently developed polyuria and polydipsia. The second patient, a 77-year-old woman, presented with delirium and severe hypernatraemia after being treated for a chest infection 1 week earlier. Both patients were on long-term lithium treatment.
In both the cases, a supervised water-deprivation test done after normalization of the blood biochemistry showed partial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
Lithium was discontinued.
Older people on lithium-especially those requiring supportive care-are at risk of severe hypernatraemia after an acute illness or if their fluid intake is restricted.
The hCHK2 gene encodes the human homolog of the yeast Cds1 and Rad53 G2 checkpoint kinases, whose activation in response to DNA damage prevents cellular entry into mitosis. Here, it is shown that heterozygous germ line mutations in hCHK2 occur in Li-Fraumeni syndrome, a highly penetrant familial cancer phenotype usually associated with inherited mutations in the TP53 gene. These observations suggest that hCHK2 is a tumor suppressor gene conferring predisposition to sarcoma, breast cancer, and brain tumors, and they also provide a link between the central role of p53 inactivation in human cancer and the well-defined G2 checkpoint in yeast.
In a previous study, we found an association between 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) receptor 2C (HTR2C) polymorphisms and the occurrence of the metabolic syndrome in patients using antipsychotics. In the current study, we set out to replicate our findings in another sample of patients and to explore in a pooled analysis of both samples the influence of the effect of individual antipsychotics. Data for this cross-sectional study came from 2 different samples, the original sample (n = 112) and the replication sample (n = 164). Primary end point was the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome as classified by a modified version of the National Cholesterol Education Program's Adult Treatment Panel III. Primary determinants were polymorphisms in the promoter region of the HTR2C gene [HTR2C:c.1-142948(GT)n, rs3813929 (-759 C/T), and rs518147 (-697 G/C)] and an intragenic polymorphism (rs1414334:C>G). The variants of HTR2C:c.1-142948(GT)n (odds ratio [OR], 1.69; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.75-3.81) and rs1414334 (OR, 2.35; 95% CI, 0.96-5.77) were not significantly associated with the metabolic syndrome in the replication sample but did show significance in the pooled analysis (OR, 2.09; 95% CI, 1.12-3.91; and OR, 2.35; 95% CI, 1.19-4.62, respectively). The variant rs1414334 C allele was specifically associated with the metabolic syndrome in patients using clozapine (OR, 9.20; 95% CI, 1.95-43.45) or risperidone (OR, 5.35; 95% CI, 1.26-22.83). This study extends previous findings to a larger sample of patients and implicates specific antipsychotic drugs. The increased risk for the metabolic syndrome is particularly strong in carriers of the rs1414334 C allele using clozapine or risperidone.
Rat hepatocytes cultured without (normal cells) and with 1 mM alpha-linolenic acid-bovine serum albumin complex (alpha-linolenic acid [LNA]-loaded cells) for 12 hr were challenged with paraquat at concentrations ranging from 0.01 to 5 mM. The addition of paraquat to normal hepatocytes induced a relatively low level of lipid peroxidation as measured by the accumulation of malondialdehyde in the medium, even at a high paraquat concentration that caused severe cell injury. LNA-loaded hepatocytes markedly underwent lipid peroxidation on addition of paraquat, with a rise in the malondialdehyde accumulation beginning at the lowest concentration used (0.01 mM). The enhanced lipid peroxidation induced in LNA-loaded hepatocytes by the addition of paraquat was accompanied by the occurrence of cell injury at noncytotoxic paraquat concentrations for normal cells. Of further importance was that in LNA-loaded cells, lipid peroxidation promptly occurred after the addition of paraquat and was followed by the loss of cell viability. Addition of antioxidants such as N,N'-diphenyl-p-phenylenediamine and alpha-tocopherol with paraquat prevented lipid peroxidation in both normal and LNA-loaded hepatocytes but protected only the latter cells from cell injury. Neither lipid peroxidation nor cell injury in either group of hepatocytes was prevented by the presence of .OH scavengers such as mannitol and dimethyl sulfoxide. In addition, paraquat-driven lipid peroxidation in LNA-loaded hepatocytes was promoted by the addition of ascorbate but was rather suppressed by the addition of H2O2. In conclusion, it is likely that the addition of paraquat induced Fe(++)-lipid hydroperoxide-dependent lipid peroxidation that led to lethal cell injury in LNA-loaded hepatocytes.
To investigate the impact of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) on allograft arteriosclerosis (chronic rejection) in rat aortic allograft model, we administrated MMF 20 mg/kg/day from the day of transplantation and sacrificed the rats at 1-12 months afterwards. MMF significantly suppressed all major histological manifestations of allograft arteriosclerosis, i.e. adventitial inflammation, media necrosis and intimal thickening and cellularity. There was a significant decrease in the replication rate (3H-thymidine incorporation) of inflammatory cells in the adventitia and of smooth muscle cells (SMC) in the media. MMF did not have any major effect on mRNA expression of several growth factors, (determined by polymerase chain reaction with inbuilt glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase control), which have previously been demonstrated to be elevated in nonimmunosuppressed allografts. Immunoperoxidase staining showed a 40% reduction in the number of adventitial interleukin-2 receptors expressing lymphoid cells in MMF-treated allografts. The intensity of SMC alpha-actin staining was also significantly reduced. As the results suggested that MMF may have a direct antiproliferative effect on SMC, this possibility was investigated in primary SMC cultures in vitro and using the carotid denudation model in vivo. Both approaches showed inhibition of SMC proliferation by MMF. Our results indicate that MMF inhibits histopathological changes of chronic rejection by reducing the immune response and possible replication of SMC.
Recent advances in the chemotherapy of malignant diseases, particularly, in hematopoietic malignancies, has opened oncologists' eyes in wonder, whereas the chemotherapy of solid malignant diseases including the carcinoma of the lung is not satisfactory compared with the results of other modalities such as radiotherapy and surgery. The chemotherapy, however, gradually becomes a great importance because the majority of the cases of lung cancer is that of advanced one. Between June, 1974 and December 1980 we experienced 54 inoperable cases of lung cancers among which there were 11 cases diagnosed as an anaplastic carcinoma. The combination chemotherapy of vincristine (1 mg/body, iv, day 1), methotrexate (30 mg/body, iv, day 1 and 5), ACNU (100mg/body, iv, day 2) and adriamycin (40mg/m2, iv, day 2) was employed. Vincristine and methotrexate were given every 3 weeks and ACNU and adriamycin were repeated every 9 weeks. If the moderate degree of neuropathy due to vincristine occurred it was suspended and methotrexate was stopped if WBC was less than 2000/mm or if patients were suffered from stomatitis which disturbed their swallowing. According to the response criteria of Koyama-Saito 4, cases were responded and one of them survived 17 months after the initiation of above 4-drug combination chemotherapy, although she received another combination chemotherapy because of the relapse of disease. The combination chemotherapy of ACNU and adriamycin was tried to utilize the advantage of their time different effects on the bone marrow suppression and to cover heterogenous histopathological diagnosis of anaplastic carcinoma. The heterogeneity of anaplastic carcinoma included undifferentiated squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, large cell carcinoma and even small cell carcinoma. In taking consideration of these points, the drug-combination was designed. Clinically, however, the long resting period made the tumor regrow in some cases due to severe delayed myelosuppression by the combination of ACNU and adriamycin. Thus, more cautiously-designed combination should be considered.
To define the mechanism(s) underlying an association between asthenozoospermia and elevated blood, seminal plasma, and testicular cadmium levels in infertile human males using a rat model of environmentally relevant cadmium exposures.
University medical center andrology research laboratory.
Male Wistar rats (n = 60), documented to be sensitive to the testicular effects of cadmium.
Rats were given ad libitum access to water supplemented with 14% sucrose and 0 mg/L, 5 mg/L, 50 mg/L, or 100 mg/L cadmium for 1, 4, or 8 weeks beginning at puberty.
Testicular cadmium levels were determined by atomic absorption, cauda epididymal sperm motility by visual inspection, and testicular gene expression by DNA microarray hybridization.
Chronic, low-dose cadmium exposures produced a time- and dose-dependent reduction in sperm motility. Transcription of genes regulated by calcium and expression of L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel mRNA splicing variants were altered by cadmium exposure. Expression of calcium binding proteins involved in modulation of sperm motility was unaffected.
A causal relationship between elevated testicular cadmium and asthenozoospermia was identified. Aberrrant sperm motility was correlated with altered expression of L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel isoforms found on the sperm tail, which regulate calcium and cadmium influx.
We report the case of a patient who developed an acute anteroseptal and inferior myocardial infarction during dobutamine stress echocardiography. The proposed mechanism for this event is discussed based on results obtained during emergency coronary angioplasty and subsequent clinical findings.
The antiangiogenic effect of Lygodium flexuosum extract was evaluated in Wistar rats intoxicated with N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) in preventive and curative models. In preventive groups, NDEA was administered for 20 weeks. Daily doses of L. flexuosumn-hexane extract (200mg/kg) started 1 week before the onset of NDEA intoxication and continued for 20 weeks. In curative animals, NDEA was administered for 20 weeks followed by treatment with the n-hexane extract of L. flexuosum for 28 days. Rats intoxicated with NDEA had elevated levels of serum gamma-GT, AST, ALT, LDH levels and hepatic MDA and decreased levels of hepatic GSH. When treated with L. flexuosum extract had normal levels of gamma-GT, AST, ALT, LDH levels, hepatic MDA and GSH. NDEA administered rat liver showed an overexpressed levels of angiopoietins 1 (Ang-1) and 2 (Ang-2) and its receptor Tie-2 mRNA. L. flexuosum extract treatment significantly (p<or=0.05) reduced the levels of Ang-1 and Ang-2 and Tie-2 in rat livers evidenced by RT-PCR. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was overexpressed and localized around periportal area of liver sections intoxicated with NDEA and its overexpression was effectively reduced by the treatment with L. flexuosum extract. Histopathological observations also substantiated NDEA-induced hepatotoxicity and the effect was significantly (p<or=0.05) reduced by L. flexuosum extract treatment. Thus, L. flexuosum extract at a dose of 200mg/kg effectively reversed the hepatotoxicity induced by N-nitrosodiethylamine in both experimental models.
In this multicentre, placebo-controlled, 16-week trial, the efficacy and safety of oxcarbazepine monotherapy in patients with neuropathic pain of diabetic origin was evaluated. Eligible patients had a 6-month to 5-year history of neuropathic pain symptoms of diabetic origin and a pain rating of > or =50 units on the visual analogue scale (VAS). Oxcarbazepine was initiated at a dose of 300 mg/day and titrated to a maximum dose of 1800 mg/day. In total, 146 patients (oxcarbazepine, n=69; placebo, n=77) were randomized. After 16 weeks, oxcarbazepine-treated patients experienced a significantly larger decrease in the average change in VAS score from baseline compared with placebo (-24.3 vs. -14.7 units, respectively; p=0.01). The reduction from baseline in mean VAS score for oxcarbazepine-treated patients was of a greater magnitude than placebo as early as week 2 (-8.0 vs. -4.7; p<0.05). A significantly greater proportion of oxcarbazepine-treated patients experienced a >50% reduction from baseline in VAS score at the end of treatment compared with placebo (35.2% vs. 18.4%, respectively; p=0.0156; number needed to treat=6.0). Global assessment of therapeutic effect rating was improved in more oxcarbazepine patients than placebo patients (48% vs. 22%, respectively; p=0.0025). Patients on oxcarbazepine were awakened less frequently due to pain than patients on placebo. Most adverse events were mild to moderate in severity, transient, and in line with the known tolerability profile of oxcarbazepine. These observations suggest that oxcarbazepine monotherapy, pending additional trials, may be efficacious and may provide clinically meaningful pain relief in patients with neuropathic pain of diabetic origin.
