Three continuous cell lines were isolated from N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT)-induced carcinoma of the Fischer rat urinary bladder by standard explant techniques. RBTCC-2 carcinoma cells were derived from a noninvasive FANFT tumor of Stage 0, RBTCC-5 carcinoma cells were from an invasive FANFT tumor of Stage B2, and RBTCC-8 carcinoma cells were from a s.c. metastasis of a FANFT tumor of Stage D2. Invasive and metastatic carcinoma cells were differentiated from their noninvasive counterparts by cellular and nuclear pleomorphism, cell size, nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio, number of nucleoli, and abnormalities of occludens junctions. Using low (less than 10) and high (greater than 80) passages of these cell strains, tumorigenicity experiments in syngeneic rats showed that the normal in vivo progression of FANFT tumors was interrupted by the isolation of carcinoma cells to cell culture. Histological appearance and biological behavior of tumor isografts closely resembled those of the original FANFT tumors. This was best demonstrated when tumor cells were inoculated adjacent to rat femurs. The destruction of bone, monitored radiographically and histologically, served as a measure of the invasive potential of the tumor cells. Destruction and deep invasion were observed only with isografts of invasive and metastatic carcinoma cells, presumably due to collagenolytic activity. Despite rapid degradation of bone by these isografts, the natural resistance of cartilage to tumor invasion could not be overcome. These carcinoma cell lines, together with their normal epithelial counterparts and the major supporting cells of connective tissue characterized previously by our laboratory, provide a unique system to study tumor invasion.
The aim of this study was to compare symptoms and anterior segment tolerability with short-term (3-day) administration of once-daily timolol hemihydrate 0.5%, timolol maleate in sorbate 0.5%, and generic timolol maleate gel-forming solution 0.5% in the treatment of glaucoma and/or ocular hypertension.
In this prospective, randomized, double-masked, active-controlled, 3-period crossover pilot study, eligible patients had primary open-angle, pigment-dispersion, or exfoliation glaucoma, and/or ocular hypertension in > or = 1 eye; had a best corrected visual acuity of 1.0 or better in each eye, as measured using the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) visual acuity testing chart; were receiving 1 glaucoma medication; and had an untreated intraocular pressure (IOP) of < or = 28 mm Hg in both eyes after washout (if required) at visit 2 (day 0). Patients were assigned to receive, in randomized order, timolol hemihydrate 0.5%, timolol in sorbate 0.5%, or generic timolol gel-forming solution 0.5%, 1 drop each morning (approximately 8 am) in the qualified eye(s) (washout IOP < or = 28 mm Hg) for 3 days. Each treatment period was separated by a 7-day washout period. At all baseline and end-of-treatment study visits, patients completed a solicited symptom survey (used for the assessment of stinging or burning [grade 0 = none to 4 = severe] and blurred or dimmed vision [grade 0 = none to 4 = severe], among other parameters) and underwent ETDRS, Goldmann applanation tonometry, slit-lamp biomicroscopy, anterior segment staining (corneal, conjunctival nasal, and conjunctival temporal staining), conjunctival hyperemia assessment, measurement of tear breakup time, and Schirmer's testing with anesthesia. At end-of-treatment assessments, patients were questioned about adverse events.
Thirty patients were enrolled (15 men, 15 women; mean [SD] age, 66.3 [8.9] years; white, 19 patients, black, 11; primary open-angle glaucoma, 17; ocular hypertension, 13). Mean (SD) stinging or burning grade was significantly greater with timolol in sorbate compared with timolol hemihydrate and timolol gel-forming solution (0.9 [0.9] vs 0.4 [0.6] and 0.2 [0.6], respectively; P < 0.001). The between-treatment differences on anterior segment staining, conjunctival hyperemia, tear breakup time, and Schirmer's testing with anesthesia were not significant, with the exception of the change from baseline in conjunctival nasal staining by count, which was significantly higher with timolol gel-forming solution compared with timolol hemihydrate and timolol in sorbate (3.1 [13.4] vs -2.9 [10.1] and -3.0 [8.0], respectively; P = 0.04). On the solicited symptom survey, timolol gel-forming solution was associated with a poorer mean score on blurred or dimmed vision compared with timolol hemihydrate and timolol in sorbate (0.3 [0.7] vs 0.1 [0.3] and 0.0 [0.2], respectively; P = 0.02). Mean best corrected ETDRS visual acuity immediately after instillation was significantly lower with timolol gel-forming solution compared with timolol hemihydrate and timolol in sorbate (49.6 [8.4] vs 53.0 [6.1] and 53.1 [6.7], respectively; P = 0.007). The mean 24-hour trough IOP did not differ significantly between the 3 treatments.
In this pilot study that compared the symptoms and tolerability of once-daily timolol hemihydrate 0.5%, timolol in sorbate 0.5%, and timolol gel-forming solution 0.5% in these patients with glaucoma and/or ocular hypertension, short-term (3-day) administration of timolol in sorbate was associated with more stinging or burning compared with timolol hemihydrate and timolol gel-forming solution. Timolol gel-forming solution was associated with more postinstillation blurred or dimmed vision compared with timolol hemihydrate and timolol in sorbate.
We determined recently that dentin sialophosphoprotein (DSPP), a member of the SIBLING (Small integrin-binding ligand N-linked glycoproteins) family of phosphoglycoproteins, is highly upregulated in human oral squamous cell carcinomas (OSCCs) where upregulation is associated with tumor aggressiveness. To investigate the effects of DSPP-silencing on the tumorigenic profiles of the oral cancer cell line, OSC2, short-hairpin RNA (shRNA) interference was employed to silence DSPP in OSC2 cells.
Multiple regions of DSPP transcript were targeted for shRNA interference using hDSP-shRNA lentiviral particles designed to silence DSPP gene expression. Control shRNA plasmid encoding a scrambled sequence incapable of degrading any known cellular mRNA was used for negative control. Following puromycin selection of stable lines of DSSP-silenced OSC2 cells, phenotypic hallmarks of oral carcinogenesis were assayed by western blot and RT-PCR analyses, MTT (cell-viability), colony-formation, modified Boyden-Chamber (migration and invasion), and flow cytometry (cell-cycle and apoptosis) analyses. DSPP-silenced OSC2 cells showed altered cell morphology, reduced viability, decreased colony-formation ability, decreased migration and invasion, G0/G1 cell-cycle arrest, and increased tumor cell sensitivity to cisplatin-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-9, VEGF, Ki-67, p53, and EGFR were down-regulated. There was a direct correlation between the degree of DSPP-silencing and MMP suppression, as indicated by least squares regression: MMP-2 {(y = 0.850x, p<0.001) (y = 1.156x, p<0.001)}, MMP-3 {(y = 0.994x, p<0.001) (y = 1.324x, p = 0.004)}, and MMP-9 {(y = 1.248x, p = 0.005, y = 0.809, p = 0.013)}.
DSPP-silencing in OSC2 cell decreased salient hallmarks of oral tumorigenesis and provides the first functional evidence of a potential key role for DSPP in oral cancer biology. The down-regulation of MMP-2, MMP-3, MMP-9, p53 and VEGF in DSPP-silenced OSC2 cells provides a significant functional/molecular framework for deciphering the mechanisms of DSPP activities in oral cancer biology.
Panax ginseng is a well-known traditional Chinese medicine and has been used for treatment of various diseases for more than four thousand years in Asia. Ginseng saponins or ginsenosides, the active constituents are reported to possess antidiabetic activity, but their antihyperglycemic mechanisms are not fully elucidated. In the present study, the mechanisms of action of ginsenoside Re were investigated in vitro models.
3T3-L1 cells were chosen as the model to investigate the molecular mechanisms of action of ginsenoside Re. Influence of ginsenoside Re on the adipogenesis was examined by determining TG levels in 3T3-L1 adipocytes by the method of TG oxidation enzyme. Glucose uptake in 3T3-L1 cells stimulated by insulin in the absence or presence of ginsenoside Re were quantified by measuring (3)H-2-deoxy-d-glucose levels. Cytokine proteins released into the medium including adiponectin and TNF-α were tested using respective ELISA kits. In addition, real time RT-PCR was conducted to investigate the expression changes of PPAR-γ and its responsive genes, ap2, adiponectin, IRS-1, GLUT4 and TNF-α. And western blot analysis was performed to determine the translocation of GLUT4. Finally, effects of ginsenoside Re on NO production in 3T3-L1 adipocytes and in macrophages were investigated through measurement of nitrite concentration by Griess reagent.
Ginsenoside Re induced adipogenesis of 3T3-L1 adipocytes by accumulating TG, increased glucose uptake and up-regulated PPAR-γ2, IRS-1, ap2 and adiponectin genes expressions. Meanwhile, Re also increased production and release of adiponectin. Although having no effects on GLUT4 gene expression, Re facilitated GLUT4 protein translocation to the membranes. In addition, Re inhibited the expression and release of TNF-α. Finally, Re did not show inhibitory effects on NO production both in 3T3-L1 cells stimulated by LPS, TNF-α and IFN-γ and in LPS-stimulated mouse peritoneal macrophages.
Ginsenoside Re exhibited the action of reducing insulin resistance through activation of PPAR-γ pathway by directly increasing the expressions of PPAR-γ2 and its responsive genes, adiponectin, IRS-1, ap2, inhibiting TNF-α production and facilitating the translocation of GLUT4 to promote glucose uptake and disposal in 3T3-L1 adipocytes.
We evaluated the efficacy of intravenous lidocaine, with and without a tourniquet, to decrease the intensity of pain during intravenous propofol injection in 82 patients undergoing general anesthesia. Patients in group A (n = 20) received propofol (2 mg/kg IV); patients in group B (n = 22) received 2% lidocaine (100 mg IV) followed 1 min later by propofol (2 mg/kg). Patients in group C (n = 21, saline placebo) and D (n = 19, 2% lidocaine) had an arm tourniquet inflated to 50 mm Hg applied for 1 min after gravity drainage of venous blood. The intensity of pain along the forearm was marked on a 0-100-mm visual analogue scale. Pain intensity was less in group B (21 +/- 19 mm) than in group A (75 +/- 28 mm; P less than 0.05). Pain intensity was significantly less in group D (1 +/- 2 mm) compared with group B (21 +/- 19 mm; P less than 0.001). We conclude that intravenous lidocaine before propofol injection attenuates the painful response; whereas, lidocaine administered after a tourniquet inflated to 50 mm Hg for 1 min virtually abolishes the pain associated with intravenous propofol.
Propofol has a high incidence of pain with injection, particularly into small veins. We sought to determine whether concomitant administration of lidocaine could prevent this pain. In a randomized double-blind trial, 368 women were allocated to one of four groups to receive 19 mL of propofol mixed with either 1 mL of 0.9% saline, 1 mL of 0.5% (5 mg) lidocaine, 1 mL of 1% (10 mg) lidocaine, or 1 mL of 2% (20 mg) lidocaine. The pain of injection was scored as none, mild, moderate, or severe. There was a significant reduction in the overall incidence of pain from 73% with saline to 32% with 20 mg lidocaine. A highly significant negative dose-response relationship between the dose of lidocaine and the severity of pain was demonstrable, both at induction of anesthesia and as recalled in the recovery room (P less than 0.001 for both). Lidocaine (20 mg IV) will significantly reduce the incidence and severity of pain with propofol injection, but about 6% of patients will still suffer unpleasant pain if the dorsum of the hand is used.
We studied two cases of primary, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that occurred following hormone therapy (estrogen therapy in one case and total androgen blockade therapy in another) for stage D2 prostate cancer. Prostate cancer is considered to be hormone-dependent, and androgens appear to be important hormonal factors. However, hepatocellular carcinoma has been shown to have both estrogen and androgen receptors, suggesting that this may be dependent on estrogen or androgen. Reported here are two unique cases of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with prostate cancer; the pathogenesis of HCC in these patients was suspected to be related to diethylstilbestrol (DES) therapy and antiandrogen therapy for their prostate cancer.
Most sporadic colon adenomas acquire mutations in the adenomatous polyposis coli gene (APC) and show defects in APC-dependent signaling. APC influences the expression of several genes, including the c-myc oncogene and its antagonist Mad1. Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), the first enzyme in polyamine synthesis, is a transcriptional target of c-myc and a modifier of APC-dependent tumorigenesis. A single-nucleotide polymorphism exists in intron 1 of the human ODC gene, which lies between two myc-binding domains. This region is known to affect ODC transcription, but no data exist on the relationship of this polymorphism to risk of colorectal neoplasia in humans. We show that individuals homozygous for the minor ODC A-allele who reported using aspirin are approximately 0.10 times as likely to have an adenoma recurrence as non-aspirin users homozygous for the major G-allele. Mad1 selectively suppressed the activity of the ODC promoter containing the A-allele, but not the G-allele, in a human colon cancer-derived cell line (HT29). Aspirin (>or=10 microM) did not affect ODC allele-specific promoter activity but did activate polyamine catabolism and lower polyamine content in HT29 cells. We propose that the ODC polymorphism and aspirin act independently to reduce the risk of adenoma recurrence by suppressing synthesis and activating catabolism, respectively, of colonic mucosal polyamines. These findings confirm the hypothesis that the ODC polymorphism is a genetic marker for colon cancer risk, and support the use of ODC inhibitors and aspirin, or other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), in combination as a strategy for colon cancer prevention.
Prostate cancer developed in two male patients being treated with fluoxymesterone for erectile impotence. It is suggested that the current increased interest in and therapy for sexual dysfunction be accompanied by an awareness of a possible causal relationship between exogenous androgens and prostrate cancer.
To evaluate the joint effects between genetic polymorphisms of glutathione S-transferase M1, T1, P1, and p53, and arsenic exposure through drinking well water on the risk of carotid atherosclerosis, 605 residents including 289 men and 316 women were recruited from a northeastern area of Taiwan. Carotid atherosclerosis was diagnosed by either a carotid artery intima-media thickness (IMT) of >1.0 mm, a plaque score of > or =1, or stenosis of >50%. A significant age- and gender-adjusted odds ratio of 3.3 for the development of carotid atherosclerosis was observed among the high-arsenic exposure group who drank well water containing arsenic at levels >50 microg/L. The high-arsenic exposure group with GSTP1 variant genotypes of Ile/Val and Val/Val, and with the p53 variant genotypes of Arg/Pro and Pro/Pro had 6.0- and 3.1-fold higher risks of carotid atherosclerosis, respectively. In addition, the high-arsenic exposure group with one or two variant genotypes of GSTP1 and p53 had 2.8- and 6.1-fold higher risks of carotid atherosclerosis, respectively, and showed a dose-dependent relationship. A multivariate-adjusted odds ratio of 3.4 for the risk of carotid atherosclerosis among study subjects with the two variant genotypes of GSTP1 and p53 was also found. Our study showed the joint effects on the risk of carotid atherosclerosis between the genetic polymorphisms of GSTP1 and p53, and arsenic exposure.
In West Bengal, India, at present, more than 26 million people are exposed to arsenic through drinking water. Among them, only 15-20% manifest arsenic-induced noncancerous, precancerous, and cancerous skin lesions, indicating that genetic variants play important role in arsenic susceptibility. Chronic arsenic exposure has been associated with impairment of immune systems in the exposed individuals. Because cytokines are important immune mediators, alteration in expression of these gene products may lead to arsenic-specific disease manifestations. The aim of the present work was to investigate the association between the TNF-α-308G>A (rs1800629) and IL10 -3575T>A (rs1800890) polymorphisms and arsenic-induced dermatological and nondermatological health outcomes. A case-control study was conducted in West Bengal, India, involving 207 cases with arsenic-induced skin lesions and 190 controls without skin lesions having similar arsenic exposure. The polymorphisms were determined using conventional PCR-sequencing method. ELISA was done to determine the serum levels of the two cytokines tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) and interleukin 10 (IL10). Associations between the polymorphisms studied and nondermatological health effects in the study subjects were determined from our epidemiological survey data. Individuals with GA/AA (-308 TNF-α) and TA/AA (-3575 IL10) genotypes were at higher risk of developing arsenic-induced skin lesions, ocular, and respiratory diseases. Also the -308 TNF A allele corresponded to a higher production of TNF-α, and -3575 IL10 A allele corresponded to a lower production of IL10. Thus, the polymorphisms studied impart significant risk toward development of arsenic-induced dermatological and nondermatological health effects in the chronically exposed population of West Bengal, India.
Steroid-induced ocular hypertension is generally attributed to alterations in the trabecular meshwork, reducing aqueous outflow.
A case with several episodes of steroid-induced ocular hypertension is presented. Later, with unremitting intraocular pressures above 50 mmHg, despite maximal hypotensive medication, there is evidence of extensive failure of aqueous egress. A successful Molteno seton bypasses the failed trabecular meshwork to lower the pressure into the teens. The eye is then challenged with topical steroid on two occasions. The pressure rises, only to fall again with steroid withdrawal.
Here is a case where the trabecular meshwork has been bypassed, but ocular hypertension was still induced with the application of topical steroid.
Low-dose ketamine behaves as an analgesic in the treatment of acute and chronic pain. To further understand ketamine's therapeutic profile, the authors performed a population pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic analysis of the S(+)-ketamine analgesic and nonanalgesic effects in healthy volunteers.
Ten men and ten women received a 2-h S(+)-ketamine infusion. The infusion was increased at 40 ng/ml per 15 min to reach a maximum of 320 ng/ml. The following measurements were made: arterial plasma S(+)-ketamine and S(+)-norketamine concentrations, heat pain intensity, electrical pain tolerance, drug high, and cardiac output. The data were modeled by using sigmoid Emax models of S(+)-ketamine concentration versus effect and S(+)-ketamine + S(+)-norketamine concentrations versus effect.
Sex differences observed were restricted to pharmacokinetic model parameters, with a 20% greater elimination clearance of S(+)-ketamine and S(+)-norketamine in women resulting in higher drug plasma concentrations in men. S(+)-ketamine produced profound drug high and analgesia with six times greater potency in the heat pain than the electrical pain test. After ketamine-infusion, analgesia rapidly dissipated; in the heat pain test but not the electrical pain test, analgesia was followed by a period of hyperalgesia. Over the dose range tested, ketamine produced a 40-50% increase in cardiac output. A significant consistent contribution of S(+)-norketamine to overall effect was detected for none of the outcome parameters.
S(+)-ketamine displays clinically relevant sex differences in its pharmacokinetics. It is a potent analgesic at already low plasma concentrations, but it is associated with intense side effects.
The clinical response, survival, and toxicity of a 3-h infusion of single-agent paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) for Japanese patients with recurrent ovarian cancer were investigated. We also examined whether or not cancer antigen (CA) 125 would be suitable as an indicator of the effects of the paclitaxel on ovarian cancer.
Twenty-one patients clinically diagnosed as having recurrent ovarian cancer met the entry criteria, agreed to participate in this study, and received the treatment.
One hundred and twenty-six courses were administered to the 21 patients. One patient achieved a complete response, and 5 a partial response; the overall response rate was 35.3%. Using CA125 criteria, 42.1% of patients achieved a response. The median progression-free interval was 4.4 months, and the median overall survival time was 14.5 months. While hematological toxicity was not severe, 3 patients experienced severe peripheral neuropathy, and 2 patients experienced grade 4 myalgia/arthralgia.
The 3-h infusion of single-agent paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) was an effective treatment for patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. CA125 was a useful indicator of the response to the treatment. While peripheral neuropathy and the myalgia/arthralgia were severe, 3-h infusion of single-agent paclitaxel offers a promising treatment for recurrent ovarian cancer.
The emergence of levodopa (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia and motor fluctuations represents a major clinical problem in Parkinson's disease (PD). While it has been suggested that the daily dose of l-DOPA can play a critical role, the mechanisms linking l-DOPA dosage to the occurrence of motor complications have not yet been explored. Using an experimental model of PD we have recently demonstrated that long-term l-DOPA treatment leading to the induction of abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) alters corticostriatal bidirectional synaptic plasticity. Dyskinetic animals, in fact, lack the ability to reverse previously induced long-term potentiation (LTP). This lack of depotentiation has been associated to a defect in erasing unessential motor information. Here chronic l-DOPA treatment was administered at two different doses to hemiparkinsonian rats, and electrophysiological recordings were subsequently performed from striatal spiny neurons. Both low and high doses of l-DOPA restored normal LTP, which was disrupted following dopamine (DA) denervation. By the end of the chronic treatment, however, while the low l-DOPA dose induced AIMs only in half of the rats, the high dose caused motor complications in all the treated animals. Interestingly, the dose-related expression of motor complications was associated with a lack of synaptic depotentiation. Our study provides further experimental evidence to support a direct correlation between the daily dosage of l-DOPA and the induction of motor complications and establishes a critical pathophysiological link between the lack of synaptic depotentiation and the expression of AIMs.
The administration of 160 mg of propranolol during pregnancy, labor, and delivery was associated with profound hypoglycemia and respiratory depression in a newborn infant. The neonate's plasma propranolol level rose from 40 ng/ml at the time of birth to 90 ng/ml four hours later. This increase in plasma propranolol concentration might be due to redistribution of the drug in the neonate as well as to different elimination mechanisms than in adults. The elevated propranolol level four hours after delivery was not associated with any signs or symptoms of drug toxicity, but drug effect was apparent on the electrocardiogram. The administration of propranolol during pregnancy in doses capable of producing therapeutic maternal blood levels may be dangerous to the neonate.
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a heterogeneous group of inherited retinal degeneration. This group of disorders essentially leads to blindness due to mutations in different genes. The genetic basis affected by sporadic and inherited autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive or X-linked mutations is complex. In humans, RP is in most cases associated with missense mutations in the rhodopsin gene (RHO). RHO plays an important role in phototransduction pathways. So far, few studies have described associations between chromosomal alterations and RP. In this study, we present a case report of a premature, 32-week-old male baby who suffered from retinopathy, facial dysmorphisms and other disorders. His chromosomes were analyzed by conventional and high-resolution chromosomal techniques. This analysis revealed structural aberrations on chromosomes 3 and 5 with an apparently balanced chromosomal translocation with karyotype 46,XY,t(3;5)(q25;q11.2). Remarkably, the 3q breakpoint on the long arm of chromosome 3 is located close to the physical RHO chromosomal gene location. In this study, we describe presumably for the first time a possible association between a 3q;5q chromosomal alteration and RP. We conclude that the new detected chromosomal translocation may lead either to loss or inactivation of the intragenic RHO gene or its respective gene regulatory region. As a consequence, the chromosomal aberration may be responsible for retinitis pigmentosa.
Chronic actinic dermatitis represents a spectrum of photosensitive dermatoses. Phototesting and photopatch testing are necessary to elucidate the specific subtype. Such patients may have multiple cutaneous allergies and photoallergies.
This is a case report of a patient with chronic actinic dermatitis whose condition was worsened by certain sunscreens and corticosteroids. Our purpose was to identify the specific subtype of chronic actinic dermatitis and cutaneous allergens.
Phototesting to UVB and UVA was performed. Photopatch testings to standard photoallergens and to Photoplex sunscreen ingredients was performed. Patch testing to standard allergens and proprietary corticosteroids was performed.
Positive photoallergies to Photoplex sunscreen and the UVA screen within Photoplex, Parsol 1789 (4-tert-butyl-4'-methoxydibenzoyl-methane), were identified. Positive allergies to Aclovate (alclometasone dipropionate) cream and ointment and Locoid (hydrocortisone butyrate) ointment were identified. The patient showed increased UVB sensitivity.
This is a case report of a patient with chronic actinic dermatitis. A relevant photoallergy to Parsol 1789 and corticosteroid sensitivities to aclometasone and hydrocortisone butyrate were identified. Multiple cutaneous allergens may be identified in patients with chronic actinic dermatoses, and avoidance of known allergens may result in significant improvement of the chronic dermatitis.
Anthracycline antibiotics are among the more active agents currently available for the treatment of solid tumors. Their use is limited by the development of severe cardiomyopathy. This makes it necessary to subject new anticancer agents to laboratory and clinical tests in order to determine their capacity to damage cardiac cells. Mitoxantrone is an anthracenedione derivative with structural and functional similarities to doxorubicin. Comparative trials on rat suggest that mitoxantrone induced cardiac toxicity might be less marked than that caused by doxorubicin, while some clinical studies report a significant incidence of cardiac failure following mitoxantrone administration. The present study was undertaken to evaluate (in vitro) the effect of increasing concentrations of mitoxantrone on respiratory control, measuring oxygen uptake of rat heart slices in a Warburg manometric apparatus. Over a period of 60 min, cellular endogenous respiration was progressively inhibited by increasing mitoxantrone concentration (from 5 to 20 microM). The date show that the rate of oxygen uptake levels off with time at all concentrations except the lowest (5 microM) and with the control. Oxygen uptake values range from 2.87 to 1.41 microliter/mg dry weight and differ significantly as compared to controls (p less than 0.01). The values of oxygen uptake between 0 and 20 min show that a linear correlation is approached by all the date group and if we consider an exponential relation (i.e., log slope versus dose), the linear correlation coefficient is somewhat improved (r = -0.939). These results indicate that mitoxantrone, in a manner analogous to doxorubicin, inhibits cellular respiration and impairs the cardiac respiratory control. This impairment is probably one of the aspects of cellular damage leading to cardiac failure. Moreover, in a recent study we observed the same pathological lesions induced by doxorubicin in the heart of rats treated with mitoxantrone.
Coumarins have been associated with non-predictable hepatic injury. In the case of dicoumarol, there is no hard evidence in the literature of a causal connection with liver damage. We report the case of a 73-year-old woman who developed a fatal liver disease of a mixed hepatocellular-cholestatic type after 3 months of treatment with dicoumarol. A thorough diagnostic work-up did not reveal any other possible cause of the liver disease.
To study the cardiopulmonary safety and ocular hypotensive efficacy of topical betaxolol hydrochloride 0.5% (a selective beta-1 blocker) in patients with unacceptably elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) and respiratory dysfunction.
Thirty-one patients with poor control of elevated IOP were selected on the basis of coexistent respiratory disease which could be exacerbated by beta-antagonist administration and/or who had past adverse reactions to topical timolol. Using an open-label design, the ophthalmic, cardiovascular and pulmonary parameters of these patients were measured before betaxolol therapy, for four hours immediately after the first administration of the drug, and after one, four and 12 weeks of therapy. The screening and 12-week examinations included a bronchial challenge with methacholine, a non-specific bronchoconstricting agent.
IOP reduction was significant at all time points measured after first instillation of betaxolol, with a mean maximum fall of 8.4 (SD, 3.2) mmHg (95% Cl -9.545 to -7.261) from a baseline mean IOP of 23.9 (SD, 3.8) mmHg. Over 12 weeks of therapy, the mean reduction from baseline in IOP was 3.9 (SD, 2.6) mmHg (95% Cl -4.908 to -2.988). After first instillation of betaxolol, mean arterial pressure (MAP) fell transiently to a mean maximum fall of 3.9 (SD, 9.3) mmHg (95% Cl -7.159 to -0.582), from a mean baseline MAP of 107.7 (SD, 9.4) mmHg. Heart rate did not change. There were no changes in any of the respiratory parameters measured: forced expiratory volume in one second, forced vital capacity and peak expiratory flow rate. Over 12 weeks of betaxolol therapy, there were no changes in any of the above systemic parameters and no change in mean bronchial reactivity as measured by methacholine challenge. Of the 31 patients, who included 13 patients with previous intolerance to timolol (a non-selective beta-antagonist), only one showed intolerance to betaxolol.
Betaxolol appears to be an effective and well tolerated ocular hypotensive agent in a typical glaucoma population, which includes many patients with cardiopulmonary disease. Individual intolerance to betaxolol will continue to occur and care is always required when patients with cardiac or respiratory dysfunction are exposed to any beta-antagonist.
Pemoline is an indirectly acting sympathomimetic with actions similar to amphetamine and methylphenidate. While choreoathetosis is a well-recognised complication of acute or chronic amphetamine abuse, only 3 previous case reports have implicated pemoline in such a movement disorder. We report a 49-year-old man who developed severe choreoathetosis with rhabdomyolysis after markedly increasing his intake of pemoline. Abnormal movements responded to diazepam and completely resolved over 48 hours. He made a complete recovery with supportive care. This is only the second case of pemoline-induced choreoathetosis in an adult reported in the English literature, and the first case of rhabdomyolysis and myoglobinuria complicating choreoathetosis.
Patients with Parkinson's disease have been known to have sleep disturbances of various types. Zolpidem tartrate, an imidazopyrimidine short-acting hypnotic drug used treat insominia and several patients with PD have described a significant improvement of parkinsonian symptoms after administration of zolpidem tartrate. We tried to evaluate effect of zolpidem tartrate for sleep disturbances in patients with PD by a Japanese version of Chaudhuri's Parkinson's disease Sleep Scale (PDSS) and Unified Parkinson's disease rating Scale (UPDRS) motor scale. Twelve patients with PD (mean age 67.4 years old, range 40-77 years old) were evaluated by PDSS and UPDRS before and two weeks after prescribed zolpidem tartrate 5 mg per day. Patients showed improvement in items relating overall sleep disturbances, sleep refreshment and morning stiffness. Disabilities remained unchanged before and two weeks after prescribing zolipdem tartrate. Zolpidem tartrate may be useful for sleep disturbances in patients with PD and for improving their quality of daily livings.
To explore the effects of acrylamide on the permeability of blood cerebrospinal fluid barrier (BCB) and tight junction protein ZO-1 of choroid plexus in rats and to provide a theoretical basis for explaining the mechanism of nerve injury induced by acrylamide.
Thirty two male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into ACR and control groups. ACR group was exposed to 20 mg/kg ACR daily for 5 days a week by intraperitoneal injection (i.p.) for 4 weeks. Control group was exposed to normal saline. The neurobehavioral tests (including sensatory and motor functions) were performed every week. At the end of exposure, Evan blue (EB) and Sodium fluorescein (NaFI) content in rat CSF were detected for determining the BCB permeability, Real-time PCR was used to measure the expression levels of ZO-1 mRNA in the epithelium cells of choroid plexus, and laser scanning confocal microscope (LSCM) was utilized to observe the distribution of ZO-1 protein.
Neurobehavioral tests showed that the tail-flick latencies of ACR group were 27.77% and 53.71% as long as control group in the 3rd week and 4th week, respectively (P < 0.05). The hind lamb splay distances of ACR group were 131.76% and 153.77% as long as control group in the 3rd week and 4th week, respectively (P < 0.05). Evan blue (EB) and Sodium fluorescein (NaFI) content of ACR group were significantly higher than those of control group (P < 0.05). In the 4th week, the expression level of ZO-1 mRNA in ACR group was 0.21 +/- 0.07, which was significantly lower than that (0.31 +/- 0.11) in control group (P < 0.05). In the 4th week, the ZO-1 protein expression level of choroid plexus in ACR group was significantly lower than that in control group (P < 0.05).
Acrylamide could increased the BCB permeability of rats, which may be involved in the central nervous injury induced by ACR.
