2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), the most abundant carcinogenic heterocyclic amine in cooked meat and fish, is speculated to be associated with human carcinogenesis. It has been shown to induce DNA adducts in a variety of organs in rodents and thus clarification of any enhancement of neoplasia is a very important subject for assessing human risk. In order to evaluate modifying effects of PhIP on carcinogenesis, several in vivo experiments in rats were performed. These featured dietary administration of PhIP at different dose levels and for different durations, and included intragastric dosing for a short period, or continuous dietary administration after initiation with other carcinogen, namely 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) or 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH). The data indicate that a short administration of PhIP is sufficient to induce prostate tumors but long-term treatment is required for effects in the colon. They also suggest tumor enhancing potential dependent on the organ, i.e. evident in the colon but not the prostate. Furthermore, promotion of colon neoplasia may depend on the initiator employed. Thus these findings suggest that the carcinogenic mechanisms of PhIP may vary in its different target organs.
Mutations in the retinal-expressed gene CRX (cone-rod homeobox gene) have been associated with dominant cone-rod dystrophy and with de novo Leber congenital amaurosis. However, CRX is a transcription factor for several retinal genes, including the opsins and the gene for interphotoreceptor retinoid binding protein. Because loss of CRX function could alter the expression of a number of other retinal proteins, we screened for mutations in the CRX gene in probands with a range of degenerative retinal diseases. Of the 294 unrelated individuals screened, we identified four CRX mutations in families with clinical diagnoses of autosomal dominant cone-rod dystrophy, late-onset dominant retinitis pigmentosa, or dominant congenital Leber amaurosis (early-onset retinitis pigmentosa), and we identified four additional benign sequence variants. These findings imply that CRX mutations may be associated with a wide range of clinical phenotypes, including congenital retinal dystrophy (Leber) and progressive diseases such as cone-rod dystrophy or retinitis pigmentosa, with a wide range of onset.
A number of studies have pointed to the involvement of AKT signaling pathways in the etiology of schizophrenia. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the AKT1 gene is involved in the etiology of schizophrenia and whether it affects therapeutic outcomes in the Chinese population.
Five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped among 384 schizophrenic patients (DSM-IV criteria) and 384 healthy controls from the Chinese population. We systematically analyzed the association of the AKT1 gene with schizophrenia on the basis of sex, age at onset, therapeutic response to typical antipsychotics and atypical antipsychotics, and presence or absence of extrapyramidal syndrome. The study was conducted from May 2004 to June 2006.
We found a positive association of the G allele of the SNP marker rs3803300 with schizophrenia (p = .003), both in early-onset and late-onset subjects, and that a haplotype A-G-C-G-A constructed by the 5 SNPs showed significant association (p = .00004886). However, we found no relationship between any of the 5 SNP markers and therapeutic response to typical and atypical antipsychotics and chlorpromazine-induced extrapyramidal syndrome.
Our study suggests that AKT1 is a susceptibility gene for schizophrenia in the Chinese population and that the AKT1 gene may play no major role in the therapeutic response to antipsychotics or in chlorpromazine-induced extrapyramidal syndrome.
To investigate the effects of adeno-associated virus (AAV) mediated expression of human interferon-gamma for gene therapy in experimental hepatic fibrosis in vitro and in vivo.
We constructed the recombinant AAV encoding human INF-gamma (rAAV- INF-gamma) and took the primary rat hepatic stellate cells and carbon tetrachloride induced rats as the experimental hepatic fibrosis model in vitro and in vivo. Immunocytochemistry analysis was used to reveal the expression of alpha-SMA, the marker protein expressed in hepatic stellate cells. The mRNA expression of TGF-beta, TIMP-1, and MMP-13 were analyzed by RT-PCR method. In vivo study, the hydroxyproline content in liver and serum AST, ALT were also detected.
In vitro study, AAV vector could mediated efficient expression of human INF-gamma, which inhibit the activation of hepatic stellate cells, decrease the expression of alpha-SMA and mRNA of TIMP-1, TGF-beta, with the MMP-13 unchanged. In vivo study, the histological examination revealed that rAAV- INF-gamma could inhibit the progression of the hepatic fibrosis. In the rAAV-INF-gamma induced group, the hydroxyproline content and serum AST, ALT level were decreased to 177+/-28 microg/g wet liver, 668.5+/-140.0, 458.4+/-123.5 U/L, compare with the fibrosis control group 236+/-31 microg/g wet liver, 1 019.1+/-276.3, 770.5+/-154.3 U/L, respectively (P<0.01). mRNA expression of TIMP-1 in the rAAV-INF-gamma induced rat liver was decreased while no significant change was observed in TGF-beta and MMP-13.
All these results indicated that rAAV-INF-gamma has potential effects for gene therapy of hepatic fibrosis, which could inhibit the progression of hepatic fibrosis.
A case of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and skin necrosis induced by coumarin is reported in a 58-year-old female patient suffering from metastatic breast adenocarcinoma and deep vein thrombosis. The thrombosis resolved after treatment with low molecular weight heparin and the thrombocytopenia recovered within a few days. The occurrence of both these rare complications in the same patient has not been previously reported in the literature. We present a review of these complications and their current treatment.
The effectiveness of ventroposterolateral pallidotomy in the treatment of akinesia and rigidity is not a new discovery and agrees with recent investigations into the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease, which highlight the role played by the unbridled activity of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the consequent overactivity of the globus pallidus internalis (GPi). Because high-frequency stimulation can reversibly incapacitate a nerve structure, we applied stimulation to the same target. Seven patients suffering from severe Parkinson's disease (Stages III-V on the Hoehn and Yahr scale) and, particularly, bradykinesia, rigidity, and levodopa-induced dyskinesias underwent unilateral electrode implantation in the posteroventral GPi. Follow-up evaluation using the regular Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale has been conducted for 1 year in all seven patients, 2 years in five of them, and 3 years in one. In all cases high-frequency stimulation has alleviated akinesia and rigidity and has generally improved gait and speech disturbances. In some cases tremor was attenuated. In a similar manner, the authors observed a marked diminution in levodopa-induced dyskinesias. This could be an excellent primary therapy for younger patients exhibiting severe bradykinesia, rigidity, and levodopa-induced dyskinesias, which would allow therapists to keep ventroposterolateral pallidotomy in reserve as a second weapon.
Studies suggest that the 1,5-benzodiazepine clobazam possesses a favorable anticonvulsant profile due to its minimal neurotoxicity. The anticonvulsant and motor impairment effects of clobazam and 2 1,4-benzodiazepine, diazepam and clonazepam, were compared by dose-response analysis in amygdala-kindled rats and on 3 tests of motor function: gross motor impairment, a vertical screen test, and muscle tone. All drugs produced a significant, dose-dependent decrease in the duration of both behavioral and electrographic kindled seizure measures. Forelimb clonus suppression was the most sensitive measure of anticonvulsant drug effect. The order of potency for all effects was clonazepam greater than diazepam greater than clobazam. ED50s for the benzodiazepines' effects on motor impairment were compared to their ability to protect rats from forelimb clonus. Different spectrums of action for the various benzodiazepines were found depending on the comparison measure. Clonazepam had the most favorable ratio of potency for anticonvulsant vs. motor impairment activity when ataxia rating was the comparison measure. Diazepam had the most advantageous profile when the more sensitive screen test was used for comparison. Clobazam was not found to have a superior spectrum of action when compared across these measures. The results emphasize the importance of dose-response analyses and the consideration of behavioral measures used to assess beneficial and adverse effects of anticonvulsants.
The carcinogenic potential of nelfinavir mesylate (nelfinavir) was evaluated in a 2-year oral (gavage) study on Sprague-Dawley rats at dose levels of 0 (control), 0 (vehicle control), 100, 300 and 1000 mg/kg per day. At the end of the treatment, increased incidences of thyroid follicular cell hyperplasia and neoplasms were observed at 300 (males) and 1000 mg/kg per day (both sexes). There were no other treatment-related effects and no tumors at other sites. Results from previous studies indicated a number of effects in the liver and thyroid, as well as metabolic profiles that suggested nelfinavir might cause thyroid hyperplasia/neoplasia secondary to hormone imbalance by altering thyroid hormone disposition. To investigate this hypothesis, the effects of nelfinavir on gene expression in rat hepatocytes and liver slices (in vitro), thyroxine plasma clearance, and thyroid gland function were evaluated. Compared to controls, gene expression analyses demonstrated an increased expression of glucuronyltransferase (UDPGT) and CYP450 3A1 in nelfinavir-treated rat hepatocytes and liver slices. In rats treated with nelfinavir (1000 mg/kg per day) for 4 weeks, liver weights and centrilobular hepatocellular hypertrophy were increased and minimal to mild diffuse thyroid follicular cell hypertrophy and follicular cell hyperplasia were evident in the thyroid gland. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) levels were significantly increased (three-fold), while tri-iodothyronine (T3)/tetra-iodothyronine (T4) and reverse T3(rT3) levels were unchanged, indicating that a compensated state to maintain homeostasis of T3/T4 had been achieved. Plasma 125I-thyroxine clearance was increased and the plasma thyroxine AUC0-48 was decreased (24%) compared to control. In conclusion, these data indicate that thyroid neoplasms observed in the nelfinavir-treated rats were secondary to thyroid hormone imbalance. Increased thyroxine clearance contributes to the effects of nelfinavir on thyroid gland function and is probably a result of UDPGT induction that leads to elevated TSH levels in the rat and eventual thyroid neoplasia. These results are consistent with a well-recognized rat-specific mechanism for thyroid neoplasms.
To explore the potential of dexrazoxane to suppress subclinical cardiotoxicity in MS patients receiving mitoxantrone.
An open-label study was performed to evaluate possible subclinical cardiotoxicity in multiple sclerosis patients treated quarterly with mitoxantrone (48 mg/m(2) cumulative), with and without concomitant dexrazoxane, using blinded serial radionucleide ventriculography.
No patient experienced symptoms of heart failure. Patients receiving dexrazoxane, which is cardioprotective for anthracyclines, exhibited a significantly lesser decline in left ventricular ejection fraction (mean change, -3.80% vs -8.55%, p < 0.001).
These results support a cardioprotective effect of dexrazoxane in mitoxantrone treated multiple sclerosis patients.
2-Butoxyethanol increases hemangiosarcomas selectively in male mouse liver after chronic inhalation through mechanisms that have not fully been elucidated. Hemolysis, a primary toxic effect associated with 2-butoxyethanol exposure in rodents, increased hemosiderin (iron) deposition in Kupffer cells in the liver. These findings, along with the induction of hepatic neoplastic lesions, led to our hypothesis that the induction hemangiosarcomas by 2-butoxyethanol is due to the activation of Kupffer cells, subsequent to hemolysis, that results in the induction of DNA synthesis in target cells (endothelial cells); allowing for the selective proliferation of preneoplastic target cells and/or the promotion of new initiated cells. The present studies were conducted to determine whether Kupffer cells contributed to 2-butoxyethanol-induced endothelial DNA synthesis in the liver, thereby determining whether a linkage exists between these events. Male B6C3F1 mice were treated with 450 and 900 mg/kg 2-butoxyethanol (via daily gavage; 5x/week) for 7 days in the presence or absence of Kupffer cell depletion (via clodronate-encapsulated liposomes). 2-Butoxyethanol (450 and 900 mg/kg/day) increased the number of F4/80 stained cells (Kupffer cells) compared to controls (approximately 1.3- and approximately 1.6-fold over control, respectively). Clodronate liposome treatment reduced the number of Kupffer cells by >90%, as assessed by F4/80 immunohistochemistry. Increased hemolysis, measured by increases in relative spleen weights and decreased hematocrit was confirmed in 2-butoxyethanol treated mice. The percentage of iron-stained endothelial cells increased by approximately 11-fold over control, and endothelial cell DNA synthesis increased approximately 1.7-fold over control in 2-butoxyethanol exposed mice. Importantly, Kupffer cell depletion reduced 2-butoxyethanol-induced iron staining and hepatic endothelial cell DNA synthesis. These studies provide evidence supporting the hypothesis that the Kupffer cell modulates 2-butoxyethanol-induced endothelial cell DNA synthesis, and therefore may contribute to hemangiosarcoma induction by 2-butoxyethanol.
Uncovering SNP (single nucleotide polymorphisms)-environment interactions can generate new hypotheses about the function of poorly characterized genetic variants and environmental factors, like pesticides. We evaluated SNP-environment interactions between 30 confirmed prostate cancer susceptibility loci and 45 pesticides and prostate cancer risk in 776 cases and 1,444 controls in the Agricultural Health Study. We used unconditional logistic regression to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Multiplicative SNP-pesticide interactions were calculated using a likelihood ratio test. After correction for multiple tests using the False Discovery Rate method, two interactions remained noteworthy. Among men carrying two T alleles at rs2710647 in EH domain binding protein 1 (EHBP1) SNP, the risk of prostate cancer in those with high malathion use was 3.43 times those with no use (95% CI: 1.44-8.15) (P-interaction= 0.003). Among men carrying two A alleles at rs7679673 in TET2, the risk of prostate cancer associated with high aldrin use was 3.67 times those with no use (95% CI: 1.43, 9.41) (P-interaction= 0.006). In contrast, associations were null for other genotypes. Although additional studies are needed and the exact mechanisms are unknown, this study suggests known genetic susceptibility loci may modify the risk between pesticide use and prostate cancer.
Provoking delayed migraine with nitroglycerin in migraine sufferers is a cumbersome model. Patients are difficult to recruit, migraine comes on late and variably and only 50-80% of patients develop an attack. A model using normal volunteers would be much more useful, but it should be validated by testing the response to drugs of known efficacy in acute migraine. Furthermore, treatment during headache rather than pretreatment is the most naturalist method. To fulfil these requirements we used continuous long-lasting infusion of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) 0.2 microg kg-1 min-1 for 140 min and gave aspirin 1000 mg, zolmitriptan 5 mg or placebo to normal healthy volunteers. The design was double-blind, placebo-controlled three-way crossover. Our hypothesis was that these drugs would be effective in the treatment of the mild constant headache induced by long-lasting GTN infusion. The headaches did not fulfil the International Headache Society diagnostic criteria for migraine without aura. Moreover, there was no effect on headache of either zolmitriptan or aspirin. Thus our hypothesis was disproved and we conclude that our model is not valid for the testing of new acute antimigraine drugs. Our experiment suggests that headache caused by direct nitric oxide (NO) action in the continued presence of NO is very resistance to analgesics and to specific acute migraine treatments. This suggests that NO works very deep in the cascade of events associated with vascular headache, whereas tested drugs work higher in the cascade. The model suggested here should therefore be tested with other headache/migraine-provoking agents that supposedly work higher in the cascade of events. The need for human models persists, but the solution to this problem is still pending.
The authors report on a 17-year-old female patient who suffered an acute psychotic attack after local application of cyclopentolate 1.0% in both eyes. The literature is reviewed with regard to systemic side effects of local application of cyclopentolate. Toxicity of cyclopentolate may be found in every age group even if tolerated without side effects before and it has no specificity for patients with certain (especially brain) diseases. The rapid short-term cycloplegic effect and the rare cases of systemic toxicity support the authors opinion that cyclopentolate is a very useful and well-tolerated diagnostic substance.
Epidemiological studies have shown that women who use third-generation oral contraceptives (OC) containing desogestrel, gestodene or norgestimate have a higher risk of venous thrombosis than women who use second-generation OC containing levonorgestrel. It is also known that a mutation in factor V (factor V(Leiden)), which results in resistance to activated protein C (APC) and which is the most common cause of hereditary thrombophilia, potentiates the prothrombotic effect of OC. Effects of APC on thrombin generation in the plasma of women using OC were compared to the response to APC in non-OC users and in individuals that were heterozygous or homozygous for factor V(Leiden). The response towards APC was evaluated on basis of the ratio (APC-sr) of the time integrals of thrombin formation determined in the presence and absence of APC. Compared with women not using OC, women who used OC exhibited a significantly decreased sensitivity to APC (P<0.001), independent of the kind of OC used. Women who used third-generation monophasic OC were significantly less sensitive to APC than women using second-generation OC (P<0.001) and had APC-sr that did not significantly differ from heterozygous female carriers of factor V(Leiden) who did not use OC. Women who were heterozygous for factor V(Leiden) and used OC had APC-sr in the range of homozygous carriers of factor V(Leiden). Two women who started OC therapy had significantly elevated APC-sr within 3 d. Acquired APC resistance may explain the epidemiological observation of increased risk for venous thrombosis in OC users, especially in women using third-generation OC.
Granulomas are characterized histologically by a nodular collection of macrophages with occasional admixture of epithelioid cells, multinucleate giant cells, and other immunocompetent cells. Chemokines are considered to play an important role in the recruitment of these constituent cells of granulomas. The present study has examined the effect of a deficiency of C-C chemokine receptor-2 (CCR2) on hepatic granuloma formation induced by a single injection of Zymosan A. In CCR2+/+ mice, the number and the size of granulomas gradually increased until they reached peak values at 10 days after the injection. In contrast, both the number and the size of granulomas were smaller in CCR2-/- mice than in CCR2+/+ mice from days 5 to 21. They showed low peaks at day 5, after which the number and the size of the granulomas gradually decreased. Immunohistochemical analysis of the constituent granuloma cells using cell type-specific monoclonal antibodies revealed rapid accumulation of blood monocytes, with subsequent differentiation to macrophages, in CCR2+/+ mice during days 2-10. This process was greatly impaired in CCR2-/- mice and granulomas remained small. At all time points, the percentage of polymorphonuclear cells in granulomas was higher in CCR2-/- mice than in CCR2+/+ mice. Interestingly, multinucleate giant cells were frequently observed in granulomas in CCR2-/- mice, whereas they rarely appeared in CCR2+/+ mice. Profiles of liver cytokine RNA levels as well as serum cytokine levels revealed reduced expression of the Th1 cytokine IFN-gamma in CCR2-/- mice. These data clearly indicate that signalling through CCR2 has many effects on the normal growth and development of hepatic granulomas.
Although it has been reported that bezafibrate influences carbohydrate metabolism, this possibility has never been properly evaluated in a controlled clinical trial. In this study we attempted to evaluate the effects of bezafibrate on plasma lipoproteins, glucose tolerance, insulin secretion and peripheral insulin sensitivity in a group of hypertriglyceridemic patients with and without diabetes. Sixteen hyperlipidemic patients (10 males and 6 females) participated in the study. Eight had type IIB and 8 type IV hyperlipoproteinemia; 6 of them also had non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. The study was performed according to a double blind, crossover design: after 1 month wash-out period in which patients were on diet alone, they underwent, in a random order, a period of placebo therapy and another period in which they received a single daily dose of a long-acting bezafibrate preparation (400 mg) administered in the evening. Each treatment lasted 2 months. Total plasma and VLDL triglyceride concentrations were consistently reduced by bezafibrate (-46%, P less than 0.001; and -50%, P less than 0.001). Total and VLDL-cholesterol were also reduced by bezafibrate. The effects of bezafibrate on lipoproteins were similar in diabetic and non-diabetic subjects. Bezafibrate treatment did not influence fasting blood glucose concentration, glucose tolerance, peripheral insulin sensitivity or insulin secretion. In conclusion, the results of this controlled trial clearly indicate that bezafibrate can be successfully employed to lower plasma lipid levels in patients with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemia.
Chronic haloperidol treatment in the laboratory rat induces spontaneous orofacial movements in some but not all of the animals, a behavior which has been described in the literature as vacuous chewing movements (VCMs). In an attempt to understand the neurochemical mechanism of these rat dyskinesias, we measured regional dopamine D1, D2, and GABAA binding density in rats with and without VCMs after chronic haloperidol treatment and in untreated controls using in vitro receptor autoradiography and correlated the binding changes with the dyskinetic behavior. Chronic haloperidol treatment produced an overall increase in dopamine D2 family receptor binding in the caudate putamen and in nucleus accumbens in both groups of treated rats, those with and without VCMs. In the haloperidol-treated rats with VCMs, a significant increase in GABAA receptor density occurred in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNR), with a trend in those rats without VCMs. However, only in those haloperidol-treated animals with VCMs did a significant decrease in dopamine D1 receptor density occur in SNR. These receptor alterations are consistent with a process of haloperidol-induced neuronal death of striatonigral fibers. However, we have failed to identify cellular evidence of such toxicity. Alternatively, the receptor changes may reflect increased dendritic dopamine release in SNR, or, more speculatively a functional response to chronically diminished striatonigral pathway activity. Perhaps the release of dopamine from dendrites of the local DA-containing neurons might be variably enhanced with ongoing haloperidol treatment.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rac1, a Rho GTPase, modulates diverse cellular processes and is hyperactive in some cancers. Estrogen receptor-alpha (ERα) in concert with intracellular signaling pathways regulates genes associated with cell proliferation, tumor development, and breast cancer cell survival. Therefore, we examined the possibility of Rac1 and ERα crosstalk in breast cancer cells. We found that Rac1 enhanced ERα transcriptional activity in breast cancer cells. Vav3, a Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor that activates Rac1, was an upstream mediator, and P21/Cdc42/Rac1 activating kinase-1 (Pak-1) was a downstream effector of Rac1 enhancement of ERα activity. These results suggest that Rac1 may prove to be a therapeutic target. To test this hypothesis, we used a small molecule Rac inhibitor, EHT 1864, and found that EHT 1864 inhibited ERα transcriptional activity. Furthermore, EHT 1864 inhibited estrogen-induced cell proliferation in breast cancer cells and decreased tamoxifen-resistant breast cancer cell growth. EHT 1864 decreased activity of the promoter of the ERα gene resulting in down-regulation of ERα mRNA and protein levels. Therefore, ERα down-regulation by EHT 1864 is the likely mechanism of EHT 1864-mediated inhibition of ERα activity and estrogen-stimulated breast cancer cell proliferation. Since ERα plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of breast cancer and the Rac inhibitor EHT 1864 down-regulates ERα expression and breast cancer cell proliferation, further investigation of the therapeutic potential of Rac1 targeting in the treatment of breast cancer is warranted.
We sought to determine the continued benefit and the pattern of motor complications of long-term levodopa treatment in Parkinson's disease. Patients were evaluated between 1968 and 1996. Only those who had an adequate levodopa trial and in whom autopsy revealed Lewy body Parkinson's disease were included. Total levodopa and mean daily dose were calculated in each case. Dyskinesia, wearing-off and on-off were collectively classified as motor adverse effects and reported as cumulative incidence. Forty-two patients (male, 30; female, 12) with mean 15.9 years of illness and 9.1 years follow-up received on average 500-mg levodopa daily over 9.8 years. Seventeen of 21 patients assessed during the last 18 months of life reported some motor benefit. Adverse effects were seen in 71.4% of patients. The most common was dyskinesia, in 61.9%; wearing-off in 35.7%; and on-off in 16.7% of patients. The earliest adverse effect was dyskinesia and the last to emerge was on-off. Isolated dyskinesia was seen in 35.7% and wearing-off in 7.1% of patients; 15.5% of patients developed dyskinesia after 2.6 years and 31% after 6.4 years on levodopa. We concluded that levodopa benefit declined and adverse effects increased with time. Dyskinesia was the earliest and the most common isolated adverse effect.
The discovery of transient receptor potential (TRP) receptors has advanced understanding of temperature sensation, and pre-clinical studies have identified TRP as major novel analgesic targets in inflammatory and neuropathic pain states. We systematically investigated the sensory effects and interactions of TRP agonists capsaicin (TRPV1), menthol (TRPM8) and cinnamaldehyde (TRPA1) applied topically to the skin in 14 healthy human participants. Capsaicin lowered heat pain thresholds while warm detection thresholds were unchanged, suggesting an effect purely on nociceptor nerve fibres. The amplitude of contact heat-evoked potentials (CHEP) and evoked pain ratings were negatively correlated after capsaicin, whereas CHEP had been correlated positively without capsaicin in a previous volunteer study. Menthol caused cold hypersensitivity and cinnamaldehyde caused heat hypersensitivity, but neither had an effect on evoked potentials. The CHEP after application of capsaicin show features observed in some patients with painful neuropathy, and could provide a model for development of novel analgesics, particularly TRPV1 antagonists.
Endotoxemia causes a decrease of blood flow to most organs. If this could be prevented, chances of survival might improve. In endotoxemic rats, we studied the effect of a therapeutic infusion of dopexamine (dopaminergic, beta 2-adrenergic) on blood flow and percentage of the cardiac output distributed to heart, brain, hepatic artery, stomach, intestines, spleen, pancreas, kidneys, adrenals, diaphragm, skeletal muscle, and skin. Dopexamine action was compared with that of dobutamine (beta 1-adrenergic). Endotoxin shock was induced in 28 rats with infusion of 8 mg/kg Escherichia coli O127:B8 endotoxin from 0 to 60 minutes; the rats were then divided into 3 groups, which received from 60 to 135 minutes of an infusion of saline (ES; n = 10), dopexamine hydrochloride (DX, 3 x 10(-8) mol/kg.min; n = 10) or dobutamine (DB, 10(-7) mol/kg.min; n = 8). A fourth group served as time-matched controls (C, saline from 0 to 135 minutes; n = 8). In the untreated endotexemic rats, cardiac output decreased and organ blood flow decreased except in the diaphragm, heart, and brain; the percentage of the cardiac output to those organs increased. Dopexamine and dobutamine similarly improved cardiac output in endotoxemic rats. All organs benefitted to the same extent from the increased cardiac output. Therapeutic infusion of dopexamine during endotoxemia did not favor flow to any particular organ; redistribution of cardiac output changed little after administration of dopexamine, and its effects were not significantly different from those of dobutamine.
We determine whether single-dose activated charcoal (SDAC) administration after citalopram overdose reduces the proportion of patients developing abnormal QT prolongation.
Data were collected retrospectively for citalopram overdose patients presenting to 8 emergency departments. Demographics, dose, coingested drugs, SDAC administration, and serial ECGs were extracted from medical records. The primary outcome was the proportion of patients who had an observed QT,RR combination at any time above an abnormal threshold, established as a predictor of torsade de pointes. We compared the proportion of patients with QT prolongation who received or did not receive SDAC. These data were analyzed within a Bayesian framework, using probabilities of abnormal QT,RR combinations with and without derived from a previous single-center study. WinBUGS was used to generate posterior estimates and credible intervals of the relative risk by combining the prior probabilities and the study data.
SDAC was administered on average 2.1 hours (range, 0.5 to 6.25 hours) after ingestion in 48 of 254 admissions, and abnormal QT,RR combinations occurred in 2 cases (4.2%), compared with 23 of 206 (11.2%) cases not receiving SDAC. There did not appear to be any clinically important difference in age, sex, dose, and cardiotoxic coingestants between the 2 groups. No cases of torsade de pointes occurred. The estimated relative risk of having an abnormal QT,RR combination for SDAC compared to no SDAC was 0.28 (0.06 to 0.70) (median with 2.5% and 97.5% credible limits). The probability that the relative risk was less than 1.0 was 0.99, which can be interpreted as very strong evidence in favor of a beneficial effect of SDAC. The absolute risk difference was estimated as 7.5% and the median number needed to treat as 13.3.
SDAC may be effective in reducing the risk of a prolonged QT in patients after citalopram overdose. Current trends toward nonuse of activated charcoal should be evaluated to determine whether patients poisoned by specific agents may benefit from activated charcoal administration.
To evaluate whether the major histocompatibility complex contains susceptibility genes for carbamazepine hypersensitivity. Carbamazepine hypersensitivity is immune-mediated, although factors determining its occurrence and severity are unknown.
Using PCR in 60 carbamazepine-hypersensitive patients, 37 with nonserious (Group I) and 23 with serious (Group II) reactions, and 313 control subjects (63 patients on carbamazepine without adverse effects and 250 healthy volunteers), the association with polymorphisms in the promoter region of the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) gene (positions -308 and -238), and with HLA-DR3 and -DQ2 was determined.
The frequency of the variant allele (TNF2) at the -308 position was increased in Group II but not Group I carbamazepine-hypersensitive patients compared with all control subjects (p = 0.01; OR = 2.4), as was the frequency of HLA-DR3 (p = 0.01; OR = 3.3), HLA-DQ2 (p = 0.04; OR = 2.7), and the TNF2-DR3-DQ2 haplotypes (p = 0.02; OR = 3.2). None of the alleles were independently associated with serious carbamazepine hypersensitivity. For the -238 polymorphism, there was a difference in the genotype, but not in the allelic, frequencies between Group II hypersensitive patients and all control subjects.
The TNF2 allele was associated with severe, but not nonserious, carbamazepine hypersensitivity reactions, suggesting that hypersecretion of tumor necrosis factor alpha may be a determinant of the severity of tissue damage. However, the association of the TNF2 allele with carbamazepine hypersensitivity was not independent of HLA-DR3 and -DQ2, and therefore the possibility that it constitutes a passive component of the TNF2-DR3-DQ2 haplotype cannot be excluded.
Venous malformations are a subset of low-flow vascular malformations. These are usually present at birth and grow commensurate with the child. The treatment of low-flow vascular malformations has been studied extensively. Many interventions have been devised to benefit this patient population in regard to the pain, ulcerations, infections, cosmetic concerns, and overall bulk associated with these malformations. Treatment can begin with compression garments. Another treatment is sclerotherapy. This can be done as a stand-alone treatment or as an adjunct to surgical excision. Percutaneous sclerosis of venous malformations has an efficacy of between 74 and 90% in relieving symptoms. We present a case of percutaneous sclerotherapy with Sotradecol and ethanol into an extensive lower extremity venous malformation in the setting of orthopedic megaprosthesis. We feel that this led to extensive soft tissue necrosis and infection of the limb and created a precipitous situation.
Enterococci might be one of the meningitis pathogens, but meningitis is rarely caused by vancomycin-resistant enterococci. In this report, we present a 69-year-old man who had the underlying chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with long-term steroid treatment suffered from a meningitis episode after hospitalisation for the urinary tract infection. The cerebrospinal fluid culture of the patient grew Enterococcus faecium which was resistant to vancomycin. A vancomycin-resistant E. faecium was also isolated from the rectal swab of the patient. These two E. faecium isolates were found to harbour the vanA gene and to be identical by pulsed field gel electrophoresis typing. The patient was treated successfully with intravenous linezolid, 600 mg every 12 h for 2 weeks. This was the first case of meningitis caused by vancomycin-resistant E. faecium in Taiwan.
Sleep bruxism, the involuntary grinding and/or clenching of teeth during sleep, may occur in young children and may be secondary to medication use, especially selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). The mesocortical disinhibition produced by SSRIs may lead to dopamine depletion that manifests itself as nocturnal bruxism, a specific form of akathisia. This may be prevented by using buspirone, a 5-HT1A agonist that reduces serotonergic activity and increases dopaminergic activity. This article reports on a case history of an adolescent with fluoxetine-induced bruxism that was successfully treated with buspirone. As SSRI use is on the rise for treating childhood psychiatric disorders, this case report highlights the importance of recognizing SSRI-induced bruxism and the possible related adverse dental side effects. Furthermore, this report supports the efficacy of a treatment strategy in adolescents, which has previously been reported only for adult patients.
We present three cases of rare side effects which appeared to be attributable to antibacterial drug treatment. A 57-year-old female patient was admitted to hospital due to increasing dyspnea. Computed tomography revealed interstitial lung fibrosis which was attributed to the toxic effects of nitrofurantoin (50 mg/d) that the patient used for approximately one year for recurrent urinary tract infection. She died two weeks after hospital admission due to acute respiratory failure. A 20-year-old male patient presented with most intense headache and psychomotor deceleration. Pseudotumor cerebri, which was suspected to be the underlying cause, is described as a rare side effect of minocyclin which the patient has taken for acne pustulosa (100 mg single dose). After dechallenge of minocyclin, neurological symptoms quickly subsided. A 82-year-old female patient used moxifloxacin (400 mg/d) for febrile bronchopulmonary infection for one week. During this therapy, confusion and severe dementia presented and remained for more than two months after discontinuation. The demential syndrome appears to be possibly related to the fluoroquinolone use. In summary, adverse drug effects not pertaining to the primary physician's field are especially difficult to identify. Most importantly, rare side effects must be borne in mind by the prescribing physician.
