Amisulpride, a substituted benzamide, binds selectively to the dopamine D2- and D3-receptors. It has higher affinity for limbic compared to striatal dopamine receptors in vivo. At low doses, amisulpride facilitates dopamine transmission via a selective blockade of presynaptic D2- and D3-receptors. Amisulpride is an active antipsychotic compound effective at low doses for negative symptoms and at high doses for positive symptoms of schizophrenia. The CNS profile of multiple doses of a low dosage regimen of amisulpride (50 mg once daily for 4 days) was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, 3-way crossover, placebo-controlled study carried out in 12 young sleep-deprived (for 36 h) subjects, using EEG and various measures of psychomotor and cognitive functions. Caffeine slow release (600 mg) was used as a positive reference. Multiple doses of 50 mg amisulpride once daily were devoid of any detrimental effects on EEG and psychomotor performance and cognitive function after total sleep deprivation. In addition, 50mg amisulpride partially antagonized the deleterious effects of sleep deprivation on EEG and subjective sedation as shown by trends, and a significant increase in EEG relative beta power and a decrease in subjective sedation. These effects were more pronounced at the end of sleep deprivation, suggesting possible alerting effects of amisulpride at this dose level. Caffeine significantly antagonized the detrimental effects of sleep deprivation on vigilance (increase in EEG beta waves, speed of reaction, sustained attention and reduction in subjective sedation). In conclusion, the present results demonstrate that 50 mg amisulpride is devoid of detrimental effects on EEG, psychomotor and cognitive performance after sleep deprivation, a situation well-known to amplify such effects if they exist. Moreover, some data suggest possible alerting effects of this low dosage regimen of amisulpride.
To identify a distinctive constellation of persistent visual abnormalities secondary to treatment with clomiphene citrate.
Description of the clinical findings in three patients with visual disturbance secondary to clomiphene treatment.
A neuro-ophthalmology referral center.
Three women aged 32 to 36 years treated for infertility with clomiphene for 4 to 15 months.
All three patients experienced prolonged afterimages (palinopsia), shimmering of the peripheral field, and photophobia while undergoing treatment with clomiphene. The results of the neuro-ophthalmologic examination and electrophysiologic studies were normal in all three patients. Unlike previously reported cases, visual symptoms did not resolve on cessation of treatment. Patients remain symptomatic from 2 to 7 years after discontinuing treatment with the medication.
Treatment with clomiphene can cause prolonged visual disturbance. Patients who develop such symptoms should be advised that continued administration may cause irreversible changes. Women with characteristic visual symptoms should be questioned about past use of clomiphene.
A standard aqueous extract of Mangifera indica L., used in Cuba as antioxidant under the brand name VIMANG, was tested in vivo for its anti-inflammatory activity, using commonly accepted assays. The standard extract of M. indica, administered orally (50-200mg/kg body wt.), reduced ear edema induced by arachidonic acid (AA) and phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) in mice. In the PMA model, M. indica extract also reduced myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. In vitro studies were performed using macrophage cell line J774 stimulated with pro-inflammatory stimuli lipopolysaccharide-interferon gamma (LPS-IFNgamma) or calcium ionophore A23187 to determine prostaglandin PGE(2) or leukotriene LTB(4) release, respectively. The extract inhibited the induction of PGE(2) and LTB(4) with IC(50) values of 21.7 and 26.0microg/ml, respectively. Mangiferin (a glucosylxanthone isolated from the extract) also inhibited these AA metabolites (PGE(2), IC(50) value=17.2microg/ml and LTB(4), IC(50) value=2.1microg/ml). These results represent an important contribution to the elucidation of the mechanism involved in the anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive effects reported for the standard extract of M. indica VIMANG.
The flame retardant tris(2-butoxyethyl) phosphate (TBEP) is a frequently detected contaminant in the environment, wildlife and human milk. The potentially toxic effects of TBEP and their underlying molecular mechanisms have not been elucidated. Here, zebrafish embryos were exposed to different concentrations of TBEP from 4 hours of post-fertilization (hpf) to 120 hpf, and effects on embryonic development and global protein expression patterns examined. Our results demonstrate that treatment with TBEP (0.8-100mg/L) causes a concentration- and time-dependent decrease in embryonic survival and the hatching percentage. The median lethal concentration was 10.7 mg/L at 120 hpf. Furthermore, exposure to 150 or 800 μg/L TBEP inhibited the degradation and utilization of vitellogenins and down-regulated the expression of proteins related to cation binding, and lipid transport, uptake and metabolism, accompanied by a decrease in heart rate and body length. Exposure to TBEP (150 or 800 μg/L) also decreased the expression of proteins involved in cell proliferation and DNA repair, and led to an increased number of apoptotic cells in the tail region. Collectively, our results suggest that exposure to TBEP causes toxicity in the developing zebrafish by inhibiting the degradation and utilization of nutrients from the mother and inducing apoptosis.
A 51-year-old man suddenly collapsed while being arrested. He was an abuser of methamphetamine (MP) with a history of previous convictions. The blood MP concentration at autopsy was below the lethal level. The heart revealed hypertrophy and endocardial thickening of the bilateral ventricles. On microscopic examination, the typical findings of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were not seen, however endocardial thickening with increasing elastic fibres was seen in all the ventricles and in the atria. In the conduction system, the AV node artery with luminal narrowing was longitudinally compressed by circumferential tissue. Severe interstitial fibrosis and small scar formation of the superiorventricular septum were also seen. In addition, diffuse hypertensive pulmonary arteriopathy was seen in the lung parenchyma. We surmise that the AV node artery had been chronically compressed by the circumferential architecture, due to a chronic increase in intracardiac pressure. We believe that the pathological lesions noted in both the cardiac conduction system and the lung in our case may be a complication of MP abuse, and that an MP abuser with such lesions could easily die suddenly upon experiencing emotional stress.
Three children with malignancies developed severe neurotoxicity, including transient cortical blindness, following chemotherapy regimens. The only drug in common was vincristine sulfate. The clinical courses of these patient are described. All have completely recovered, although one child who was rechallenged with vincristine had a cardiorespiratory arrest, increasing neurotoxicity, and recurrence of blindness. Transient cortical blindness has not previously been attributed to vincristine sulfate therapy, but must be considered as a possible complication of treatment with this agent.
To assess lethal hepatic injury by combined treatment of radiation (RT) plus chemotherapy in a rat model with thioacetamide (TAA)-induced liver cirrhosis.
Male Wistar rats were treated with 0.3 g/L TAA in drinking water. The development of liver cirrhosis was histologically confirmed, and the degree of liver function impairment was assessed by indocyanine green retention test (ICG R15). The established cirrhotic rats were given one of the following treatments: partial liver radiotherapy (25 Gy on about one-third of the whole liver), 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) chemotherapy (50 mg/kg), and combined treatment of partial RT plus 5-FU. The treated rats were closely followed until either death or 30 weeks after the treatment, and the postmortem liver sampling was examined for lethal hepatic injury by the treatments.
The rats developed overt liver cirrhosis after 30 weeks of TAA treatment. At that time, the mean ICG R15 level in the TAA-treated rats (TAA-rats) was 14.1% +/- 0.7% compared to 4.6% +/- 0.7% in the control (p < 0.05). The 30-week survival rates in the control and TAA-rats were 100% (5/5) and 75% (6/8), respectively, after partial liver RT (p = 0.72). In the 5-FU chemotherapy group, the survival in TAA-rats was only one-half of that in the controls (100% vs. 50%, p = 0.06). Poor survival in TAA-rats was shown also in the combined group of partial RT plus 5-FU (87.5% vs. 16.7%, p = 0.06). The rats that died before the last observation time showed advanced cirrhosis with areas of lobular collapse, in contrast to the moderate cirrhotic features in those that survived.
In a rat cirrhosis model with mildly impaired liver function, combined treatment of partial RT plus 5-FU resulted in significantly high incidence of lethal liver injury. The results in this study show that a combined treatment of RT plus chemotherapy in cirrhotic patients should be applied with extreme caution.
We report a case of a 39-year-old man with Hodgkin lymphoma who developed depressive symptoms after starting adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine chemotherapy and later exhibited sexual disinhibition in addition to cognitive dysfunction (mainly executive dysfunction). Seven months after the start of adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine chemotherapy, he was finally diagnosed as having fronto-temporal lobular degeneration-like dementia facilitated by adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine chemotherapy. At the time of writing, the patient's condition has persisted for more than 6 months after the discontinuation of adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine chemotherapy, and the changes in brain function brought on by the adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine chemotherapy may now be irreversible. This case points to the importance of being attentive to the appearance of neuropsychiatric symptoms and evaluating brain functions properly when performing anti-cancer chemotherapy.
To report the results of liver transplantation in 31 Asian patients with chronic hepatitis B using lamivudine prophylaxis in an open-label study.
Chronic hepatitis B is a prevalent cause of end-stage liver disease in Asia, but the results of liver transplantation in these patients are poor.
Thirty-one Asian patients with chronic hepatitis B underwent liver transplantation using lamivudine prophylaxis (100 mg daily). Twenty-three (74%) patients had detectable serum hepatitis B envelope antigen (n = 18) or hepatitis B virus DNA (n = 11) before treatment, and seven had associated hepatocellular carcinoma. Lamivudine was continued indefinitely after transplantation, and hepatitis B immune globulin was not used.
The actuarial patient and graft survival rates were 84% and 81%, respectively. Five patients died of causes unrelated to hepatitis B, and 26 patients were alive at a median follow-up of 16 months (range 6-47) after transplantation. One (3.8%) patient developed recurrent hepatitis B resulting from viral breakthrough at week 53 and survived after retransplantation using adefovir and hepatitis B immune globulin treatment. The remaining 25 surviving patients had no biochemical or histologic evidence of recurrent hepatitis, and serum hepatitis B virus DNA remained negative by polymerase chain reaction. In six patients, hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) persisted or reappeared in serum. Among 19 patients who became negative for HBsAg from 5 to 431 days after transplantation, 13 developed anti-HBsAb that lasted a median of 6 months (range 1-21). None of the seven patients with hepatocellular carcinoma developed recurrent tumor.
Asian patients with chronic hepatitis B may achieve a good outcome after liver transplantation using lamivudine prophylaxis.
Liver injury is known to often progress even after the hepatotoxicant is dissipated. The hydrolytic enzyme calpain, which is released from dying hepatocytes, destroys the surrounding cells and results in progression of injury. Therefore, control of calpain activation may be a suitable therapeutic intervention in cases of fulminant hepatic failure. This study evaluated the effects of a potent cell-permeable calpain inhibitor, MDL28170, and its mechanisms of action on thioacetamide (TAA)-induced hepatotoxicity in mice. We found that MDL28170 significantly decreased mortality and change in serum transaminase after TAA administration. The necroinflammatory response in the liver was also suppressed. Furthermore, a significant suppression of hepatocyte apoptosis could be found by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labeling assay. The upregulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), both of which are known to mediate the propagation of inflammation, was abolished. MDL2810 also effectively blocked hepatic stellate cell activation, which is assumed to be the early step in liver fibrosis. These results demonstrated that MDL28170 attenuated TAA-induced acute liver failure by inhibiting hepatocyte apoptosis, abrogating iNOS and TNF-alpha mRNA upregulation and blocking hepatic stellate cell activation.
To describe the characteristics of 3 patients hospitalized in the Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital Center, Rijeka, as the result of acute hepatitis, a rare adverse drug reaction to flutamide.
All 3 patients with advanced prostate carcinoma were treated with oral flutamide at a dose rate of 250 mg 3 times daily. The patients developed clinical signs (jaundice, anorexia, nausea, dark urine etc.) and laboratory liver function test changes (high aminotransferase and bilirubin level), indicative of acute hepatitis, 20-22 weeks after commencing flutamide treatment. The flutamide therapy was immediately discontinued and this resulted in spontaneous remission (clinical and liver function test results returned to normal) during the next 8 weeks.
Our data clearly suggest that flutamide causes acute hepatitis and that the monitoring of the patients' liver function tests in order to detect these changes as early as possible, is important.
Many tumor promoters, including the phorbol esters, do not require biotransformation to stimulate cell growth. By contrast, some promoters, notably organic peroxides and hydroperoxides, must be metabolized to reactive intermediates to trigger signal transduction pathways for mitogenesis. These intermediates can be both free radicals and electrophiles. For example, skin tumor promoters such as tert-butyl hydroperoxide, cumene hydroperoxide, dicumyl peroxide and benzoyl peroxide undergo metal-dependent activation in keratinocytes to form alkoxyl, alkyl and aryl radicals as determined by spin trapping and electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy. These radicals can participate in substitution, addition or hydrogen-abstraction reactions leading to protein oxidation or alkylation, lipid peroxidation and/or DNA damage. Scavenger studies indicate that these macromolecular interactions mediate the cytotoxic and mitogenic effects of these peroxides. In some instances radicals can undergo further oxidation to electrophiles. The promoting activity of butylated hydroxytoluene hydroperoxide is mediated by a quinone methide, an electrophile formed through a phenoxyl radical intermediate. In this instance, covalent interaction of the quinone methide with sulfhydryl groups or other nucleophiles in the target cell appears to transmit the molecular signal for cell division and replication. Like the phorbol esters, peroxides and hydroperoxides lead to a genetic reprogramming manifest by the induction of immediate early response genes such as c-jun and late response genes such as ornithine decarboxylase, suggesting convergence in the molecular signalling processes among different classes of promoters.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction have been identified by many workers as key pathogenic mechanisms in ageing-related metabolic, cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases (for example diabetes mellitus, heart failure and Alzheimer's disease). However, although numerous molecular mechanisms have been advanced to account for these processes, their precise nature remains obscure. This author has previously suggested that, in such diseases, these two mechanisms are likely to occur as manifestations of a single underlying disturbance of copper regulation. Copper is an essential but highly-toxic trace metal that is closely regulated in biological systems. Several rare genetic disorders of copper homeostasis are known in humans: these primarily affect various proteins that mediate intracellular copper transport processes, and can lead either to tissue copper deficiency or overload states. These examples illustrate how impaired regulation of copper transport pathways can cause organ damage and provide important insights into the impact of defects in specific molecular processes, including those catalyzed by the copper-transporting ATPases, ATP7A (mutated in Menkes disease), ATP7B (Wilson's disease), and the copper chaperones such as those for cytochrome c oxidase, SCO1 and SCO2. In diabetes, impaired copper regulation manifests as elevations in urinary CuII excretion, systemic chelatable-CuII and full copper balance, in increased pro-oxidant stress and defective antioxidant defenses, and in progressive damage to the blood vessels, heart, kidneys, retina and nerves. Linkages between dysregulated copper and organ damage can be demonstrated by CuII-selective chelation, which simultaneously prevents/reverses both copper dysregulation and organ damage. Pathogenic structures in blood vessels that contribute to binding and localization of catalytically-active CuII probably include advanced glycation end products (AGEs), as well as atherosclerotic plaque: the latter probably undergoes AGE-modification itself. Defective copper regulation mediates organ damage through two general processes that occur simultaneously in the same individual: elevation of CuII-mediated pro-oxidant stress and impairment of copper-catalyzed antioxidant defence mechanisms. This author has proposed that diabetes-evoked copper dysregulation is an important new target for therapeutic intervention to prevent/reverse organ damage in diabetes, heart failure, and neurodegenerative diseases, and that triethylenetetramine (TETA) is the first in a new class of anti-diabetic molecules, which function by targetting these copper-mediated pathogenic mechanisms. TETA prevents tissue damage and causes organ regeneration by acting as a highly-selective CuII chelator which suppresses copper-mediated oxidative stress and restores anti-oxidant defenses. My group has employed TETA in a comprehensive programme of nonclinical studies and proof-of-principle clinical trials, thereby characterizing copper dysregulation in diabetes and identifying numerous linked cellular and molecular mechanisms though which TETA exerts its therapeutic actions. Many of the results obtained in nonclinical models with respect to the molecular mechanisms of diabetic organ damage have not yet been replicated in patients' tissues so their applicability to the human disease must be considered as inferential until the results of informative clinical studies become available. Based on evidence from the studies reviewed herein, trientine is now proceeding into the later stages of pharmaceutical development for the treatment of heart failure and other diabetic complications.
For its low cost and ease of handling, the mouse remains the preferred experimental animal for preclinical tests. To avoid the interaction of the animal immune system, in vivo antibiotic pharmacodynamic studies often employ cyclophosphamide (CPM) to induce neutropenia. Although high doses (350-450 mg/kg) are still used and their effects on mouse leukocytes have been described, a lower dose (250 mg/kg) is widely preferred today, but the characteristics and applicability of this approach in outbred mice have not been determined.
Fifteen female ICR mice were injected intraperitoneally with 150 and 100 mg/kg of CPM on days 1 and 4, respectively. Blood samples (approximately 160 microL) were drawn from the retro-orbital sinus of each mouse on days 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 11. Leukocytes were counted manually and the number of granulocytes was based on microscopic examination of Wright-stained smears. The impact of neutropenia induced by this method was then determined with a variety of pathogens in three different murine models of human infections: pneumonia (Klebsiella pneumoniae, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus), meningoencephalitis (S. pneumoniae), and the thigh model (S. aureus, Escherichia coli, Bacteroides fragilis).
The basal count of leukocytes was within the normal range for outbred mice. On day 4, there was an 84% reduction in total white blood cells, and by day 5 the leukopenia reached its nadir (370 +/- 84 cells/mm3). Profound neutropenia (< or =10 neutrophils/mm3) was demonstrated at day 4 and persisted through days 5 and 6. Lymphocytes and monocytes had a 92% and 96% decline between days 1 and 5, respectively. Leukocytes recovered completely by day 11. Mice immunosupressed under this protocol displayed clinical and microbiological patterns of progressive and lethal infectious diseases after inoculation in different organs with diverse human pathogens.
A CPM total dose of 250 mg/kg is sufficient to induce profound and sustained neutropenia (<10 neutrophils/mm3) at least during 3 days in outbred mice, is simpler than previously described methods, and allows successful induction of infection in a variety of experimental models.
Medaka fish are an established non-mammalian research model for the study of liver carcinogenesis and exposure to environmental pollutants. Studies have emphasized the development of hepatic neoplasms in medaka following exposure to model carcinogens. To date however, little information is known regarding the mechanisms underlying initiation of hepatic tumors in this species. The aim of this study was to relate our understanding of diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced tumor formation to ras gene activation in hepatic neoplasms of exposed medaka. Initial studies were conducted to identify medaka ras exons 1 and 2 by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Amplification of ras exons 1 and 2 from untreated medaka liver resulted in the identification of three polymorphic ras sequence variants exhibiting a high degree of homology to other teleost and mammalian ras genes. Exposure of medaka to 159 ppm of DEN resulted in a wide range of hepatic neoplasms including: hepatocellular adenomas, hepatocellular carcinomas, cholangiomas, and mixed hepatocholangiocellular carcinomas. Individual liver tumors were examined for oncogenically activating ras mutations by probing genomic DNA with probes specific for activating point mutations or by direct cloning and sequencing of ras transcripts using RT-PCR. Using allele-specific oligonucleotide (ASO) analysis, a single point mutation was detected in codon 12 position two in 8/25 (32%) tumors examined. Mutated ras alleles were additionally detected in 12 of 39 (30%) medaka liver tumors by sequence analysis. Ten of the 12 mutations identified contained a single point mutation at codon 12 resulting in a Gly to Asp amino acid substitution. Two unique mutations were identified at codon 16 resulting in either Lys to Asn or Lys to Thr amino acid substitutions. Our results show that ras mutations are induced by DEN and are present in over 30% of the fish that developed tumors. A ras mutation incidence of 30% is similar to that reported in mammalian species exposed to DEN. While mutations at codon 12 have previously been reported, the present study is the first in vivo report of ras point mutations at codon 16.
Testosterone pretreatment (1.0-4.0 mg/kg) attenuated, in a dose-response fashion, the induction of stereotyped behavior and hyperactivity by pargyline (0.25, 4.0 mg/kg) and beta-phenylethylamine (8.0, 16.0 mg/kg) in preubertal, male rats. The dyskinetic movements induced by pargyline and beta-phenylethylamine were proposed as a possible animal model for tardive dyskinesias. Attenuation by testosterone of these effects suggested an hormonal involvement consistent with the reported predominant occurrence of tardive dyskinesias in women and in the elderly.
Two multi-investigator, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trials were conducted to determine whether tri-buffered formulations of both regular strength aspirin and extra strength aspirin would be less likely than plain aspirin to provoke subjective gastrointestinal (GI) intolerance. Each trial was divided into two phases, a qualification phase and a test phase. During the qualification phase, subjects with a history of gastrointestinal intolerance to aspirin were randomized to a double-blind crossover treatment with aspirin and placebo (325 mg aspirin per tablet in study 1 and 500 mg aspirin per tablet in study 2), two tablets four times a day for 3 days or until the occurrence of stomach upset. Subjects who reported gastrointestinal symptoms with aspirin and not with placebo qualified to participate in the test phase of the study. They were rerandomized to participate in a three-way crossover study of plain aspirin, tri-buffered aspirin, and placebo in the test phase. Tri-buffered aspirin was associated with an appreciable reduction in the incidence of gastrointestinal upset relative to plain aspirin, 34 percentage points in study 1 (p less than 0.001) and 33 percentage points in study 2 (p less than 0.001). Similar results were obtained in the evaluation of the reduction of the severity of gastrointestinal symptoms.
Epidemiological studies suggest that urinary tract infection is an important risk factor in the development of bladder cancer. Chronic urinary tract infection in rats is associated with urothelial hyperplasia and papillomatosis. In the Sprague-Dawley strain, exposure to the 5-nitrofuran, N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT), is associated in particular with the development of renal pelvic tumors. The present study was designed to evaluate whether chronic urinary tract infection could enhance tumor development in FANFT-induced urinary tract carcinogenesis. One hundred forty-four female Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into the following groups. Group 1 received 0.2% FANFT in the diet for 7 wk followed by control diet. Group 2 received 0.2% FANFT in the diet for 7 wk followed by control diet. One wk after completion of FANFT administration, the suspension of 0.5 ml of Escherichia coli (06K13H1) was injected into the bladder through the urethra. Group 3 received 0.2% FANFT in the diet for 7 wk followed by control diet. One wk after completion of FANFT administration, a suspension of heat-killed E. coli (06K13H1) was injected into the bladder through the urethra. Group 4 received a suspension of 0.5 ml of E. coli (06K13H1) through the urethra and received control diet throughout the experiment. Group 5 was fed control diet only. The experiment continued for 104 wk. A significantly higher number of urinary tract tumors, particularly of the renal pelvis, was recorded in Group 2 compared to Groups 1, 3, 4, and 5. The majority of the rats in Groups 2 and 4 had morphological signs of urinary tract infections, particularly pyelitis and/or pyelonephritis. Thus, a single injection of E. coli (06K13H1) into the bladder results in an enhancement of FANFT-induced urinary tract carcinogenesis in the Sprague-Dawley rat, especially for renal pelvic tumors. The formation of dimethylnitrosamine or other nitroso compounds from nitrates in the urine or increased cell proliferation due to chronic inflammation or both may be important pathogenetic factors in the tumor development.
We had previously demonstrated that vascular and neural dysfunction in Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats is progressive. In this study, we sought to determine whether monotherapy of ZDF rats can reverse the vascular and nerve defects.
ZDF rats at 16 weeks of age were treated for 12 weeks with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril, the antioxidant alpha-lipoic acid, the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor rosuvastatin or the PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone. Vasodilation of epineurial arterioles was measured by videomicroscopy. Endoneurial blood flow (EBF) was measured by hydrogen clearance, and nerve conduction velocity was measured following electrical stimulation of motor or sensory nerves.
Motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV), sensory nerve conduction velocity (SNCV) (70 and 77% of control, respectively), EBF (64% of control), and vascular relaxation in response to acetylcholine (50% of control) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP; 73% of control) are impaired in ZDF rats at 28 weeks of age compared with lean littermate controls. Treatment with enalapril and alpha-lipoic acid attenuated the decrease in MNCV and SNCV. Enalapril, alpha-lipoic acid and rosiglitazone treatment of ZDF rats were partially effective in improving endothelium-dependent vascular dysfunction as measured by vascular relaxation in response to acetylcholine. The same drugs also attenuated the decrease in EBF. However, impairment in vascular relaxation in response to CGRP was improved with only alpha-lipoic acid or rosuvastatin treatment. The increase in superoxide and nitrotyrosine levels in vascular tissue was attenuated by all treatments.
The efficacy of monotherapy treatment of ZDF rats using different classes of drugs for vascular and neural dysfunction once complications have developed did not achieve expected levels. This could be because of the complex aetiology of vascular and neural disease in type 2 diabetes.
Conventional adjuvant chemotherapies for bladder transitional cell carcinomas (TCCs) may cause strong systemic toxicity and local irritation. Non-toxic resveratrol inhibits TCC cell growth but its feasibility in clinical management of TCCs remains obscure. This study aimed to evaluate the safety and anti-TCC efficacy of resveratrol, using the experimental models closer to the clinical treatment condition. Human TCC EJ cells were exposed to 100 µM, 150 µM and 200 µM resveratrol respectively for 1 hour and 2 hours to mimic intravesical drug instillation and the cell responses were analyzed by multiple experimental approaches. An orthotopic TCC nude mouse model was established by injecting EJ cells into the sub-urothelial layer and used for short-term intravesical resveratrol instillation. The safety of resveratrol instillation was evaluated and compared with that of MCC. The results revealed that 2 h 150 µM or 200 µM resveratrol treatment leaded to remarkable S phase arrest and apoptosis at 72 h time-point, accompanied with attenuated phosphorylation, nuclear translocation and transcription of STAT3, down-regulation of STAT3 downstream genes (survivin, cyclinD1, c-Myc and VEGF) and nuclear translocations of Sirt1 and p53. The importance of STAT3 signaling in cell growth was confirmed by treating EJ cells with JAK2 inhibitor tyrphostin AG490. The efficacy and safety of resveratrol instillation were proved by the findings from nude mouse orthotopic xenograft models, because this treatment caused growth suppression, distinctive apoptosis and STAT3 inactivation of the transplanted tumors without affecting normal urothelium. Our results thus suggest for the first time the practical values of resveratrol as a safe and effective agent in the post-operative treatment of TCCs.
To evaluate the allergic effect of airborne particulate matter (PM) on the airway, separated soluble supernatant (Sup) and insoluble precipitate (Pre) in suspended PM were inoculated into NC/Nga mice with a high sensitivity for mite allergens. Sup, Pre, or both Sup and Pre with or without pronase treatment were inoculated via the nasal route five times for sensitization and a challenge inoculation on the 11th day in NC/Nga mice. On the 14th day, mice were examined for airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) cell count, mRNA expression of Th1 and Th2 cytokines in the lung tissue, and histopathology. Synergistic effects of Sup and Pre were observed as increases in AHR and a histopathological change of Periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) staining. Increases in neutrophils, macrophages, and lymphocytes of BALF cells were dependent on Pre. The expression of IL-4 mRNA was increased by Sup, and those of IL-5 mRNA and Il-13 mRNA was increased by Sup and Pre. Augmented AHR, mRNA expression of IL-4, peribronchial inflammation, and PAS staining by Sup plus Pre were attenuated by treatment of Sup with pronase to digest proteins. These results suggest that some proteins of ambient PM may be important environmental factors for AHR and airway inflammation with the aid of insoluble particulates, although some soluble factors such as endotoxins cannot be ruled out.
Breast cancer is a malignancy whose dependence on estrogen exposure has long been recognized even though the mechanisms whereby estrogens cause cancer are not clearly understood. This work was performed to determine whether 17beta-estradiol (E2), the predominant circulating ovarian steroid, is carcinogenic in human breast epithelial cells and whether nonreceptor mechanisms are involved in the initiation of breast cancer. For this purpose, the effect of four 24 h alternate periods of 70 nM E2 treatment of the estrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha) negative MCF-10F cell line on the in vitro expression of neoplastic transformation was evaluated. E2 treatment induced the expression of anchorage-independent growth, loss of ductulogenesis in collagen, invasiveness in Matrigel, and loss of 9p11-13. Only invasive cells that exhibited a 4p15.3-16 deletion were tumorigenic. Tumors were poorly differentiated ER-alpha and progesterone receptor-negative adenocarcinomas that expressed keratins, EMA, and E-cadherin. Tumors and tumor-derived cell lines exhibited loss of chromosome 4, deletions in chromosomes 3p12.3-13, 8p11.1-21, 9p21-qter, and 18q, and gains in 1p, and 5q15-qter. The induction of complete transformation of MCF-10F cells in vitro confirms the carcinogenicity of E2, supporting the concept that this hormone could act as an initiator of breast cancer in women. This model provides a unique system for understanding the genomic changes that intervene for leading normal cells to tumorigenesis and for testing the functional role of specific genomic events taking place during neoplastic transformation.
A compound identified as 3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-3-hydroxypropionic acid (HPHPA) was found in higher concentrations in urine samples of children with autism compared to age and sex appropriate controls and in an adult with recurrent diarrhea due to Clostridium difficile infections. The highest value measured in urine samples was 7500 mmol/mol creatinine, a value 300 times the median normal adult value, in a patient with acute schizophrenia during an acute psychotic episode. The psychosis remitted after treatment with oral vancomycin with a concomitant marked decrease in HPHPA. The source of this compound appears to be multiple species of anaerobic bacteria of the Clostridium genus. The significance of this compound is that it is a probable metabolite of m-tyrosine (3-hydroxyphenylalanine), a tyrosine analog which depletes brain catecholamines and causes symptoms of autism (stereotypical behavior, hyperactivity, and hyper-reactivity) in experimental animals.
