Administration of NMDA antagonists leads to attenuation or disappearance of some symptoms of central sensitization, such as secondary hyperalgesia. However, the side effects of NMDA antagonists to a large extent counterbalance the expected benefits, thus preventing wide or prolonged use. Dextromethorphan and its metabolite dextrophan, on the other hand, are established and safe drugs. Experimentally they both antagonize the NMDA receptor. This study evaluates the effects of dextromethorphan and its metabolite in pain models using electrical stimulation for testing the antinociceptive effect and capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia. Dextromethorphan shows clear antinociceptive as well as neuromodulary effects, both depending heavily on the cytochrome P450 2D6 phenotype (CYP2D6).
Ciprofloxacin is an antibiotic that belongs to fluoroquinoles, characterized by broad spectrum of action against pathogens, especially Gram(-) aerobic bacilli. For a long time, it has been thought that ciprofloxacin has an effect only on bacterial cells. Now it is known, that this drug can significantly affect eukaryotic cells including human cancer cells. Its bactericidal action relay on inhibition of topoisomerase II, enzyme responsible for alterations in 3D structure of DNA during replication, transcription and chromatin condensation. Thanks to that, ciprofloxacin can induce cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of cancer cells. The effectiveness of ciprofloxacin was confirmed in several in vitro studies on tumor cell lines such as: human bladder cells, leukaemic cell lines, human osteosarcoma cells, human prostate cancer cells, human colorectal carcinoma cells and human non-small cell lung cancer cell line. Ciprofloxacin is particularly effective against non-small cell lung cancer mainly due to accumulation of ciprofloxacin in lung tissue after intravenous administration and its toxicity against lung cancer lines in vitro in a concentration and time-dependent manner.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is one of the virulence factors in the Helicobacter pylori (Hp)-infected stomach, but it remains unknown whether single and prolonged pretreatment with Hp-LPS can affect the course of gastric damage induced by aspirin (ASA). We compared the effects of Hp-LPS with those induced by LPSs isolated from intestinal Bacteroides fragilis, Yersinia enterocolitica, and Campylobacter jejuni applied for 4 days on acute ASA-induced gastric lesions in rats. The area of ASA-induced gastric lesions, gastric blood flow (GBF), expression of mRNA and protein of leptin and plasma leptin, gastrin, interleukin-1beta, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels were examined. Single (once) or repeated (five times) i.p. injections of Hp-LPS (1 mg/kg) or intestinal LPSs failed to produce macroscopic gastric damage and did not affect the GBF when compared with vehicle. Hp-LPS injected repeatedly suppressed the gastric acid secretion, up-regulated leptin mRNA and protein, and increased plasma leptin and gastrin levels. Hp-LPS significantly reduced the ASA-induced gastric damage and the accompanying decline in the GBF, and these effects were significantly attenuated by capsaicin denervation and selective antagonism of cholecystokinin-B (CCK2) receptors by RPR-102681 [N-(metoxy-3 phenyl) N-(N-methyl N-phenyl-carbamylmethyl) carbamoylmethyl]-3 ureido]-3 phenyl]-2 propronique] but not by loxiglumide, an antagonist of CCK1 receptors. We conclude that 1) daily application of Hp-LPS enhances gastric mucosal resistance against ASA damage due to the increase of GBF and the expression and release of leptin and gastrin exerting trophic and gastroprotective effects, and 2) this enhanced resistance to ASA damage in Hp-LPS-adapted stomach is mediated by the sensory afferents and specific CCK2/gastrin receptors.
No strong evidence of ototoxicity of teicoplanin can be found in the literature, possibly because of conservative definitions of ototoxicity. We performed audiometry over time to compare the ototoxicity of teicoplanin with that of cloxacillin as a non-ototoxic standard. The data were analyzed with a linear mixed-effects model. The hearing thresholds of 12 patients who were treated with teicoplanin for severe staphylococcal infections showed a slight but significant increase over time, whereas the thresholds of 5 patients treated with cloxacillin decreased significantly during treatment. This improvement in hearing with cloxacillin may be attributed to improvement of the clinical condition. This outcome implies that previous reports that suggest a lack of ototoxicity of teicoplanin potentially underestimate the risk and should be interpreted accordingly.
An open-label, randomized controlled study was conducted at a tertiary care teaching hospital to compare efficacy and safety of intravenous sodium valproate versus diazepam infusion for control of refractory status epilepticus. Forty children with refractory status epilepticus were randomized to receive either intravenous sodium valproate or diazepam infusion. Refractory status epilepticus was controlled in 80% of the valproate and 85% of the diazepam patients. The median time to control refractory status epilepticus was less in the valproate group (5 minutes) than the diazepam group (17 minutes; P < .001). None of the patients in the valproate group required ventilation or developed hypotension, whereas in the diazepam group 60% required ventilation and 50% developed hypotension after starting diazepam infusion. No adverse effects on liver functions were seen with valproate. It is concluded that intravenous sodium valproate is an effective alternative to diazepam infusion in controlling refractory status epilepticus in children and is free of respiratory depression and hypotension.
Growth failure is a cardinal feature of chronic renal failure in children. Administration of recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) ameliorates this problem but may adversely affect the kidney and hasten the progression to end-stage renal disease. We conducted experiments to examine the impact of rhGH on the severity of chronic puromycin aminonucleoside (PAMN) nephropathy in rats. The glomerulopathy was induced by serial injections of PAMN over a 12 week period. Experimental animals (N = 6) received rhGH, 0.5 mg per dose, three times weekly, while control rats (N = 6) received hormone vehicle. rhGH had no effect on weight gain, hematocrit, or blood pressure in rats with the experimental renal disease. Urinary protein excretion increased approximately 50% in rhGH-treated rats with chronic PAMN nephropathy compared to untreated animals between four to eight weeks of the observation period. After 12 weeks, the inulin clearance was significantly lower in rhGH-treated rats, 0.26 +/- 0.05 versus 0.50 +/- 0.06 ml/min/100 g body wt in control PAMN animals, P < 0.05. Compared to untreated rats with PAMN nephropathy, administration of rhGH increased the extent of segmental glomerulosclerosis from 11 +/- 3 to 46 +/- 9% (P < 0.005) and elevated the tubulointerstitial injury score from 0.5 +/- 0.1 to 1.4 +/- 0.4 (P < 0.05). Furthermore, glomerular hypertrophy was enhanced in animals with chronic PAMN nephropathy given rhGH, as evidenced by a larger glomerular planar area, 9.2 +/- 0.3 x 10(-3) versus 11.9 +/- 0.5 x 10(-3) mm2, P < 0.005.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Plasma PLTP (phospholipid-transfer protein) is a member of the lipid transfer/LBP [LPS (lipopolysaccharide)-binding protein] family, which constitutes a superfamily of genes together with the short and long PLUNC (palate, lung and nasal epithelium clone) proteins. Although PLTP was studied initially for its involvement in the metabolism of HDL (high-density lipoproteins) and reverse cholesterol transport (i.e. the metabolic pathway through which cholesterol excess can be transported from peripheral tissues back to the liver for excretion in the bile), it displays a number of additional biological properties. In particular, PLTP can modulate the lipoprotein association and metabolism of LPS that are major components of Gram-negative bacteria. The delayed association of LPS with lipoproteins in PLTP-deficient mice results in a prolonged residence time, in a higher toxicity of LPS aggregates and in a significant increase in LPS-induced mortality as compared with wild-type mice. It suggests that PLTP may play a pivotal role in inflammation and innate immunity through its ability to accelerate the 'reverse LPS transport' pathway.
We report on the preclinical management of a 4-year-old child who was found in a comatose condition with respiratory failure after accidental ingestion of methadone. Emergency airway management was carried out with endotracheal intubation instead of administering the antagonist naloxone. The child could be extubated 12 h later and was released from hospital after 3 days with no neurological symptoms. The authors attempt to formulate an algorithm for the preclinical management of opioid intoxication with reference to the literature and own experience. Endotracheal intubation seems to be superior to the use of the antagonist naloxone, especially in a critical situation. This is the only way to ensure a rapid oxygenation with adequate airway protection and with the simultaneous avoidance of the side-effects of naloxone. A restrictive and critical administration of the opioid antagonist naloxone is recommended when there is suspicion of opioid ingestion but no signs of intoxication.
As well as being key structural components of many proteins, increasing evidence suggests that zinc and copper ions function as signaling molecules in the nervous system and are released from the synaptic terminals of certain neurons. In this review, we consider the actions of these two ions on proteins that regulate neuronal excitability. In addition to the established actions of zinc, and to a lesser degree copper, on excitatory and inhibitory ligand-gated ion channels, we show that both ions have a number of actions on selected members of the voltage-gated-like ion channel superfamily. For example, zinc is a much more effective blocker of one subtype of tetrodotoxin (TTX)-insensitive sodium (Na+) channel (NaV1.5) than other Na+ channels, whereas a certain T-type calcium (Ca2+) channel subunit (CaV3.2) is particularly sensitive to zinc. For potassium (K+) channels, zinc can have profound effects on the gating of certain KV channels whereas zinc and copper have distinct actions on closely related members of the 2 pore domain potassium channel (K2P) channel family. In addition to direct actions on these proteins, zinc is able to permeate a number of membrane proteins such as (S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptors, Ca2+ channels and some transient receptor potential (trp) channels. There are a number of important physiological and pathophysiological consequences of these many actions of zinc and copper on membrane proteins, in terms of regulation of neuronal excitability and neurotoxicity. Furthermore, the concentration of free zinc and copper either in the synaptic cleft or neuronal cytoplasm may contribute to the etiology of certain disease states such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and epilepsy.
Studies were carried out to test the hypothesis that inflammatory liver disease increases the expression of specific cytochrome P-450 isoenzymes involved in aflatoxin B1 (AFB) activation. The immunohistochemical expression and localization of various human cytochrome P-450 isoforms, including CYP2A6, CYP1A2, CYP3A4, and CYP2B1, were examined in normal human liver and liver with hepatitis and cirrhosis. The constitutive expression of CYP3A4 in normal liver showed a characteristic pattern of distribution in centrilobular hepatocytes, whereas CYP1A2, CYP2A6, and CYP2B1 were expressed uniformly throughout the liver acinus. In sections of liver infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV), the expression of CYP2A6 was markedly increased in hepatocytes immediately adjacent to areas of fibrosis and inflammation. CYP3A4 and CYP2B1 were induced to a lesser degree, and expression of CYP1A2 was unaffected. In HBV-infected liver, double immunostaining revealed that overexpression of CYP2A6 occurred in hepatocytes expressing the HBV core antigen. In HCV-infected liver, CYP2A6, CYP3A4, and CYP2B1 were overexpressed in hepatocytes with hemosiderin pigmentation. These results suggest that alterations in phenotypic expression of specific P-450 isoenzymes in hepatocytes associated with hepatic inflammation and cirrhosis might increase susceptibility to AFB genotoxicity.
Disulone (dapsone + iron oxalate) is a sulfone used in the treatment of numerous skin diseases. We report two cases of hepatosiderosis secondary to long-term administration of Disulone.
Case n degrees 1. A 51-year-old man was treated with Disulone for a neutrophilic skin disease. After 17 years of treatment, elevated serum ferritin and free iron with hemolysis were found. Liver biopsy confirmed hepatosiderosis. A diagnosis of genetic hemochromatosis was ruled out by the absence of C282Y mutation of the HFE gene. Case n degrees 2. A 52-year-old man receiving Disulone for dermatitis herpetiformis for 25 years presented elevated serum ferritin and free iron with hemolysis. Hepatic iron overload was confirmed by liver biopsy. The absence of C282Y mutation (HFE gene) ruled out a diagnosis of genetic hemochromatosis.
In our two cases, hepatosiderosis was noted after long-term administration of Disulone. This complication has been reported only rarely. In murine models, a relationship was found between prolonged administration of dapsone and hepatic iron overload as revealed by hemolysis. Although it is difficult to extrapolate this relationship to humans with any certainty, our patients had also chronic hemolysis and iron overload secondary to administration of Disulone. Moreover in France, dapsone is marketed in combination with iron oxalate, with the attendant risk of iron overload. These cases raise the question of the need for serum ferritin analysis during Disulone therapy.
The long-lasting protective effect of dexrazoxane (ADR-529) against doxorubicin- and epirubicin-induced cardiotoxicity was evaluated in the multiple-dose 35-wk rat model. Groups of 36 male Sprague-Dawley rats were given ADR-529 30 min before administration of cardiotoxic doses of doxorubicin (1 mg/kg/wk) or epirubicin (1.13 mg/kg/wk). The compounds were intravenously injected once weekly for 7 consecutive wk at ADR-529; anthracycline ratios ranging from 5:1 to 20:1. These ratios covered the entire chemotherapeutic range in humans and allowed studying the chronic progressive cardiomyopathy in our rat model. Animals were observed for up to 35 wk to follow the time course of the well-characterized cardiomyopathy, which was evaluated through the well-established qualitative/quantitative morphological grading. It was clearly demonstrated in this rat model that ADR-529, at the ratios administered, provided ample cardioprotection for a duration of 35 wk, which corresponds to 25 yr of equivalent human time.
Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) transcription factor regulates several cell signaling pathways, such as differentiation and inflammation, which are both altered in osteoarthritis. Inhibitor kappaB kinase (IKK)alpha and IKKbeta are kinases involved in the activation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor. The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of glucosamine (GlcN), which is administered in the treatment of osteoarthritis, and of its 2-(N-Acetyl)-L-phenylalanylamido-2-deoxy-beta-D-glucose (NAPA) derivative on IKK kinases and, consequently, on NF-kappaB activation in human chondrocytes.
The human chondrosarcoma cell line HTB-94 and human primary chondrocytes were stimulated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha after pre-treatment with GlcN or NAPA. Gene mRNA expression level was evaluated by real-time PCR. Inhibitor kappaB protein (IkappaB)alpha phosphorylation and p65 nuclear re-localization were analyzed by Western blotting; IKKalpha nuclear re-localization was also investigated by immunocytochemistry and Western blotting. IKK kinase activity was studied by in vitro kinase assay.
After TNFalpha stimulation, the mRNA expression level of some of the genes under NF-kappaB control, such as interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8, increased, while treatment with GlcN and NAPA reverted the effect. We investigated the possibility that GlcN and NAPA inhibit IKK kinase activity and found that NAPA inhibits the IKKalpha kinase activity, whereas GlcN does not. Interestingly, both GlcN and NAPA inhibit IKKalpha nuclear re-localization.
Our results demonstrate that glucosamine and its peptidyl derivative can interfere with NF-kappaB signaling pathway by inhibiting IKKalpha activity in human chondrocytes. However, the mechanism of action of the two molecules is not completely overlapping. While NAPA can both specifically inhibit the IKKalpha kinase activity and IKKalpha nuclear re-localization, GlcN only acts on IKKalpha nuclear re-localization.
In the present study, sulfated glucosamine (SGlc) that has been reported to relieve joint pain and inflammation in many arthritis patients was studied for its inhibitory effects on MMP-2 and MMP-9 in human fibrosarcoma cells. Expression and activity of above MMPs studied using gelatin zymography suggested SGlc as a potent MMP inhibitor. Further, transfection of promoter genes of MMPs and their transcription factors clearly exhibited that inhibition of MMP-2 and MMP-9 was due to down-regulation of transcription factor, NF-kappaB. However expression of activator protein-1 (AP-1), another important transcription factor of MMPs, was not affected by SGlc treatment. In addition, protein expression results of Western blot analysis were also in agreement with the results of gene transfection experiments. Moreover, down-regulation of NF-kappaB resulted in production of low levels of both NF-kappaB p50 and p65 proteins and directly affected activation process of MMP-2 and MMP-9 expressions. Since MMPs involve in joint inflammation, it can be presumed that inhibition of MMP-2 and MMP-9 can be one of the mechanisms of SGlc to be an effective drug in relieving the symptoms of osteoarthritis.
To assess the toxicity, efficacy, and pharmacology of combined zidovudine and ganciclovir therapy in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and serious cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease.
Prospective, phase I multicenter trial (ACTG 004) with patients grouped by previous study drug history.
Three university-based AIDS Clinical Trials Units sponsored by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID).
Forty-one patients with AIDS-related CMV disease. Previous therapy with either zidovudine or ganciclovir was allowed.
Patients were treated with zidovudine, 600 to 1200 mg/d; or, if on ganciclovir maintenance, ganciclovir, 5 mg/kg body weight; blood was sampled for pharmacokinetic studies. The other drug was then administered to the patient with blood sampling and, finally, the two drugs in combination were given. Patients were continued on both drug therapies with dose reduction of zidovudine only for grade 3 or 4 toxicity.
Forty patients were eligible. Hematologic toxicity was frequent, with 9 of the 10 patients requiring dose reductions for grade 3 or 4 toxicity at zidovudine doses of 1200 mg/d. With zidovudine doses of 600 mg/d, 82% experienced such hematologic toxicity. Median survival was 6 months; 10 patients developed intercurrent infection and 19, progressive CMV disease. Pharmacokinetic variables (alpha and beta half-lives, volume of distribution, clearance) were not affected in combination therapy.
The combination of zidovudine and ganciclovir is poorly tolerated in patients with AIDS and serious-CMV disease, with 82% developing severe to life-threatening hematologic toxicity. Such toxicity is not a result of pharmacologic interactions, drug metabolism, or excretion.
The development of dyskinesias is a common side effect during chronic levodopa therapy in parkinsonian patients. Recent reports suggest that amantadine, a drug with well known antiparkinsonian activity, is effective in the treatment of this complication. In order to evaluate its usefulness we conducted an open label, prospective and longitudinal study in 26 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) on chronic levodopa therapy who presented peaks of dose dyskinesias. After 3 weeks' treatment dyskinesia severity was reduced by 70% (p < 0.0001) on the I SAPD scale and by 68.8% (p < 0.0002) on the UPDRS IV subscale. Patients were later evaluated every 45 days showing persistent drug benefit during follow-up ranging from 2 to 11 months (mean 6.5 months). One third of our series presented unwanted effects which were only severe enough in 2 cases to discontinue treatment. In the others, side effects were transient or readily abated with amantadine dose reduction. Our findings support amantadine as a safe and useful drug to treat levodopa-induced dyskinesias which on occasion prove as disabling as PD itself. Treatment with amantadine should routinely be considered before indicating pallidotomy for levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
The immuno-suppressant Leflunomide, a potent inhibitor of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) and tyrosine kinases, is teratogenic in laboratory animals. To better understand its teratogenic mechanism, pregnant mice (CD-1) received a single dose of 70mg/kg Leflunomide, or vehicle control, by gastric intubation on gestation day 10. Gene expression was evaluated in the pooled fore- and hindlimb buds of embryos 4 and 24h post-treatment. The down-regulation of cholesterol biosynthesis-related genes was observed but could not be correlated with teratogenicity, since Leflunomide did not alter cholesterol concentration in limb bud. Leflunomide inhibited the mitosis of limb mesenchymal cells, which may be linked to DHODH inhibition as well as a potential effect on tyrosine kinases that mediate cytokine and growth factor signaling and that may be responsible for the Leflunomide's teratogenicity.
The present study was performed to determine experimental conditions for thalidomide induction of fetal malformations and to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying thalidomide teratogenicity in cynomolgus monkeys. Cynomolgus monkeys were orally administered thalidomide at 15 or 20mg/kg-d on days 26-28 of gestation, and fetuses were examined on day 100-102 of gestation. Limb defects such as micromelia/amelia, paw/foot hyperflexion, polydactyly, syndactyly, and brachydactyly were observed in seven of eight fetuses. Cynomolgus monkeys were orally administered thalidomide at 20mg/kg on day 26 of gestation, and whole embryos were removed from the dams 6h after administration. Three embryos each were obtained from the thalidomide-treated and control groups. Total RNA was isolated from individual embryos, amplified to biotinylated cRNA and hybridized to a custom Non-Human Primate (NHP) GeneChip((R)) Array. Altered genes were clustered into genes that were up-regulated (1281 genes) and down-regulated (1081 genes) in thalidomide-exposed embryos. Functional annotation by Gene Ontology (GO) categories revealed up-regulation of actin cytoskeletal remodeling and insulin signaling, and down-regulation of pathways for vasculature development and the inflammatory response. These findings show that thalidomide exposure perturbs a general program of morphoregulatory processes in the monkey embryo. Bioinformatics analysis of the embryonic transcriptome following maternal thalidomide exposure has now identified many key pathways implicated in thalidomide embryopathy, and has also revealed some novel processes that can help unravel the mechanism of this important developmental phenotype.
Tissue transglutaminase 2 belongs to a family of transglutaminase proteins that confers mechanical resistance from proteolysis and stabilizes proteins. Transglutaminase 2 promotes transamidation between glutamine and lysine residues with the formation of covalent linkages between proteins. Transglutaminase 2 also interacts and forms complexes with proteins important in extracellular matrix organization and cellular adhesion. We have identified the novel finding that treatment of glioblastoma cells with transglutaminase 2 inhibitors promotes cell death and enhances sensitivity to chemotherapy. Treatment with either the competitive transglutaminase 2 inhibitor, monodansylcadaverine, or with highly specific small-molecule transglutaminase 2 inhibitors, KCA075 or KCC009, results in induction of apoptosis in glioblastoma cells. Treatment with these transglutaminase 2 inhibitors resulted in markedly decreased levels of the prosurvival protein, phosphorylated Akt, and its downstream targets. These changes promote a proapoptotic profile with altered levels of multiple intracellular proteins that determine cell survival. These changes include decreased levels of the antiapoptotic proteins, survivin, phosphorylated Bad, and phosphorylated glycogen synthetase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta), and increased levels of the proapoptotic BH3-only protein, Bim. In vivo studies with s.c. murine DBT glioblastoma tumors treated with transglutaminase 2 inhibitors combined with the chemotherapeutic agent, N-N'-bis (2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosourea (BCNU), decreased tumor size based on weight by 50% compared with those treated with BCNU alone. Groups treated with transglutaminase 2 inhibitors showed an increased incidence of apoptosis determined with deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotin nick-end labeling staining. These studies identify inhibition of transglutaminase 2 as a potential target to enhance cell death and chemosensitivity in glioblastomas.
The beta-catenin signaling pathway is dysregulated in most cases of colon cancer resulting in an accumulation of nuclear beta-catenin and increased transcription of genes involved in tumor progression. This study examines the effect of retinol on beta-catenin protein levels in three all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-resistant human colon cancer cell lines: HCT-116, WiDr, and SW620. Each cell line was treated with increasing concentrations of retinol for 24 or 48 h. Retinol reduced beta-catenin protein levels and increased ubiquitinated beta-catenin in all cell lines. Treatment with the proteasomal inhibitor MG132 blocked the retinol-induced decrease in beta-catenin indicating retinol decreases beta-catenin by increasing proteasomal degradation. Multiple pathways direct beta-catenin to the proteasome for degradation including a p53/Siah-1/adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), a Wnt/glycogen synthase kinase-3beta/APC, and a retinoid "X" receptor (RXR)-mediated pathway. Due to mutations in beta-catenin (HCT-116), APC (SW620), and p53 (WiDr), only the RXR-mediated pathway remains functional in each cell line. To determine if RXRs facilitate beta-catenin degradation, cells were treated with the RXR pan-antagonist, PA452, or transfected with RXRalpha small interfering RNA (siRNA). The RXR pan-antagonist and RXRalpha siRNA reduced the ability of retinol to decrease beta-catenin protein levels. Nuclear beta-catenin induces gene transcription via interaction with T cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor (TCF/LEF) proteins. Retinol treatment decreased the transcription of a TOPFlash reporter construct and mRNA levels of the endogenous beta-catenin target genes, cyclin D1 and c-myc. These results indicate that retinol may reduce colon cancer cell growth by increasing the proteasomal degradation of beta-catenin via a mechanism potentially involving RXR.
Certain 2-aminothiazole-substituted 5-nitrofuran carcinogens specifically and potently induce tumors of the urinary tract. Cooxidation by the hydroperoxidase activity of prostaglandin H synthase (PHS) has been implicated in the initiation of this process in vivo. The molecular mechanism of this process was examined utilizing 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)thiazole (ANFT) as the organic cosubstrate. The ability of ANFT to release electrons was determined by cyclic voltammetry, which established that ANFT is oxidized to yield an extremely reactive intermediate by an apparent one-electron mechanism. In conventional incubations containing solubilized microsomal PHS at pH 7.8, glutathione was found to trap approximately 50% of the ANFT present as a soluble metabolite. Comparative u.v. spectrophotometry, cyclic voltammetry, proton and carbon magnetic resonance spectroscopy, and chemical synthesis established that conjugate formation occurs by S-substitution of the thiazole ring to yield 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-5-(glutathion-S-yl)thiazole. The 5-nitrofuran ring is not altered by this pathway. This suggests that PHS may oxidize the aminothiazole ring of ANFT by direct electron withdrawal to generate a reactive electrophilic intermediate which may react with critical cellular nucleophiles. This conjugate, or a further metabolite thereof, may be a biologic marker of PHS activity and may be useful in assessing the effects of potential chemoprotective agents on hydroperoxidase activity in vivo.
Benzodiazepines are used as hypnotics to reduce anxiety and give a good night's sleep on the night prior to surgery. In a double-blind procedure, patients were given either lorazepam (2 mg or 4 mg), lormetazepam (1 mg or 2 mg), nitrazepam 10 mg or placebo. Measures were taken of sleep, anxiety, memory and after-effects. There was no evidence that the drugs reduced anxiety, nor evidence of amnesia. Quality and length of sleep was shown to be better for nitrazepam (P less than 0.05), lorazepam 2 mg (P less than 0.05) and lorazepam 4 mg (P less than 0.01), compared with placebo. However, significantly higher ratings of clumsiness and confusion as after-effects were found with nitrazepam (P less than 0.05), and clumsiness (P less than 0.005), slurred speech and blurred vision (P less than 0.01), sleepiness, nausea, weakness and confusion (P less than 0.05) with lorazepam 4 mg. It was concluded that lorazepam 2 mg produced the greatest net benefit.
Connexins are a family of transmembrane proteins essential for the gap junctions, which mediate cell-to-cell communication. Several connexins are reported to be tumor suppressors, and we have established transgenic (Tg) rats with a connexin 32 (Cx32) dominant negative mutant showing high sensitivity to early-stage diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced liver carcinogenesis. In this study, we carried out two independent experiments using Tg rats to further investigate the roles of disrupted Cx32 in late-stage carcinogenesis (carcinoma induction and metastasis) in the liver. In the first experiment, of 50 weeks' duration, DEN was administered at 6 weeks of age and at 26 weeks to explore the effects of carcinogen treatments at different stages. The number of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) was significantly increased in Tg compared with non-Tg rats. The second experiment focused on the effects of Cx32 disruption on metastasis by HCCs induced by administration of DEN and N-nitrosomorpholine. Only Tg rats had multiple metastases of HCCs in the lung, and the development and growth of HCCs was dramatically accelerated in Tg compared to non-Tg rats. Thus, normal function of Cx32 may be essential for suppression of both early and late stages of hepatocarcinogenesis.
To evaluate the effects of methylphenidate on cerebral glucose metabolism in patients with impaired consciousness after acquired brain injury.
Fourteen patients with impaired consciousness after acquired brain injury were enrolled in our study. We evaluated the level of consciousness with the Glasgow Coma Scale upon initial evaluation and at the 6-week follow-up after methylphenidate medication (0.3 mg/kg per day, which was administered twice daily). Positron emission tomography was performed before and after 6 weeks of medication, and the effects of methylphenidate on cerebral glucose metabolism were analyzed using statistical parametric mapping.
The statistical parametric mapping analysis indicated that significant increases of the cerebral glucose metabolism after methylphenidate therapy, compared with the initial positron emission tomographic image, were most evident in the left precuneus, the right posterior cingulated and the right retrosplenial cortices, and the right inferior parietal cortex (P < 0.001). In addition, cerebral glucose metabolism was significantly increased in the right precuneus, the right superior and middle temporal gyri, and bilateral middle occipital gyri (P < 0.005). In the correlation analysis, improvement of the Glasgow Coma Scale scores after methylphenidate medication was significantly associated with increased cerebral glucose metabolism in the bilateral precuneus, the bilateral middle occipital gyri, and right middle frontal gyrus.
Our findings suggest that the posteromedial parietal cortex, which is part of the neural network for consciousness, may be the relevant structure for the pharmacological response to methylphenidate treatment in patients with impaired consciousness after acquired brain injury.
1 Low doses of tiprenolol (0.01-0.02 mg/kg) and propranolol (0.05 mg/kg) abolished the ventricular arrhythmias produced by the intravenous injection of adrenaline in anaesthetized dogs respired with halothane.2 Larger doses of tiprenolol (2.0-4.0 mg/kg) restored sinus rhythm in four of five dogs with ventricular tachycardia produced by toxic doses of ouabain. Propranolol (2.0-4.0 mg/kg) had the same effect in each of four dogs.3 Both tiprenolol (4.0-8.0 mg/kg) and propranolol (4.0 mg/kg) increased the frequency of sinus beats and reduced the ventricular rate in dogs with ventricular tachycardia 20-44 h after ligation of a coronary artery.4 Practolol (0.5-16.0 mg/kg) did not reduce the ventricular rate or increase the frequency of sinus beats in dogs with ventricular tachycardia after ligation of a coronary artery.5 In dogs with ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia mean arterial pressure was reduced after the administration of tiprenolol (0.5-8.0 mg/kg) or propranolol (4.0-8.0 mg/kg). Depression of sinus and atrioventricular nodal function, and of intraventricular conduction developed in some of the dogs given tiprenolol (4-8 mg/kg) or propranolol (8.0 mg/kg).6 The administration of tiprenolol (1.0-8.0 mg/kg) or propranolol (4.0-8.0 mg/kg) depressed the arterial pressure and caused the deaths of some dogs in which a coronary artery had been ligated. Such deaths did not occur in the group which had been given toxic doses of ouabain.
Oxidative stress plays a critical role in pathogenesis of the neointimal arterial hyperplasia. The aim of the study was to evaluate effects of resveratrol (RSV) on the vascular hyperplasia stimulated by oxidative damage.
Balloon vascular injury was induced in rats that were intraperitonealy exposed to resveratrol (1 mg/kg) on 7 or 14 days after surgical procedure. Animals were euthanized on 7 or 14 days after operation. The blood level of 8-iso-prostaglandin F2α, arterial morphology as well as expression of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and interleukin-6 in carotid wall were measured. Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) were isolated from the thoracic aorta. Cellular proliferation and migration assays, reactive oxygen species (ROS), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and NADPH oxidative activity, protein level of β-actin, histone H3, NF-ĸB p65, IĸB, ERK1/2, phospho-ERK1/2, phospho-p38 as well as NF-ĸB transcription activity were evaluated in-vitro after angiotensin II stimulation and resveratrol (50-200 µmol/L) treatment.
Significant decreases in neointimal/medial area, serum prostaglandin level and genes expression were found in rats treated with resveratrol, when compared to the control group. Significant changes were also revealed for proliferation and migration rates, ROS level, as well as SOD, NADPH oxidase, ERK1/2 phosphorylation and NF-ĸB transcriptional activity in cell cultures exposed to highest dose of resveratrol. Insignificant changes were observed for NF-kappaB p65 translocation and IĸB degradation, p38 phosphorylation in MAPK pathway.
Resveratrol significantly suppressed the neointimal hyperplasia after balloon injury through inhibition of oxidative stress and inflammation by blocking the ERK1/2/NF-kappa B pathway.
