From October 1978 to October 1981, 135 patients with disseminated transitional cell carcinomas of the urinary tract, with either measurable or evaluable disease, were randomized to receive either cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (DDP) or cyclophosphamide (CTX), Adriamycin (ADR) (Adria Laboratories, Columbus, Ohio), and DDP (CAD). DDP was given at a dose of 60 mg/m2, CTX at 400 mg/m2, and ADR at 40 mg/m2 intravenously every three weeks. Patients over the age of 65 and those with prior radiation received 75% of the dose initially. The dose was escalated if only mild toxicity developed. Of the patients on the CAD arm, 34% developed grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity, as compared to 3% in patients on the DDP therapy. Of the 93 patients with measurable disease, 48 received DDP. Seventeen percent had a partial or complete remission, as compared to 33% of the 45 patients on the CAD arm (P = .09). The crude median survival of patients on DDP was 6.0 months as compared to 7.3 months in patients receiving CAD (P = .17). We conclude that the CAD combination is more toxic than DDP with, at best, very marginal benefit in survival.
Excess visceral adiposity may predispose to chronic diseases like hypertension and type 2 diabetes with a high risk for coronary artery disease. Adipose tissue secreted cytokines and oxidative stress play an important role in chronic disease progression. To combat adiposity, plant-derived triterpenes are currently receiving much attention as they possess antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties and the ability to regulate glucose and lipid metabolism. In the search for potential antiobese compounds from natural sources, this study evaluated the effects of oleanolic acid (OA), a pentacyclic triterpene commonly present in fruits and vegetables, in glucose tolerance test and on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity in mice. Adult male Swiss mice treated or not with OA (10 mg/kg) were fed a HFD during 15 weeks. Sibutramine (SIB) treated group (10 mg/kg) was included for comparison. Weekly body weights, food and water consumption were measured, and at the end of study period, the levels of blood glucose and lipids, plasma hormone levels of insulin, ghrelin and leptin, and the visceral abdominal fat content were analysed. Mice treated with OA and fed a HFD showed significantly (p<0.05) improved glucose tolerance, decreased body weights, visceral adiposity, blood glucose, plasma lipids relative to their respective controls fed no OA. Additionally, OA treatment, while significantly elevating the plasma hormone level of leptin, decreased the level of ghrelin. However, it caused a greater decrease in plasma amylase activity than lipase. Sibutramine-treated group also manifested similar effects like OA except for blood glucose level that was not different from HFD control. These findings suggest that OA ameliorates visceral adiposity and improves glucose tolerance in mice and thus has an antiobese potential through modulation of carbohydrate and fat metabolism.
We report the case of two young subjects who developed an obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) during a heavy use of ecstasy. After several months of discontinuation of the drug, major depression with psychotic features developed in one subject and a psychotic disorder in the other individual. No mental disorder preceded the use of ecstasy in any subject.
A familial and personality vulnerability for mental disorder was revealed in one subject, but not in the other, and all physical, laboratory and cerebral NMR evaluations showed normal results in both patients. Remission of OCD and depressive episode or psychotic disorder was achieved after treatment with a serotoninergic medication associated with an antipsychotic.
The heavy long-term use of ecstasy may induce an alteration in the brain balance between serotonin and dopamine, which might constitute a pathophysiological mechanism underlying the onset of obsessive-compulsive, depressive and psychotic symptoms. The heavy use of ecstasy probably interacted with a vulnerability to psychiatric disorder in one subject, whereas we cannot exclude that an "ecstasy disorder" ex novo affected the other individual.
Cyclosporine (CsA) is an immunosuppressive agent frequently used in the clinic for prevention of allograft rejection and for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. Despite its desired action on the immune system, CsA treatment may present serious adverse effects, which are masked by the concomitant use of other drugs. The search for effective immunosuppression protocols which does not affect the quality of life of patients is driving research to investigate the CsA involvement in vascular diseases, frequent in patients under immunosuppression. Thus, 45 non-transplanted Wistar rats were treated for 8 weeks with vehicle or 5 or 15 mg/kg CsA (n=15/group) by gavage administration to evaluate the specific influence of cyclosporine on the levels of risk factors (metabolic and inflammatory) of vascular disease and its mechanism of action. Therefore, serum insulin levels, glucose tolerance test, serum lipids profile, total homocysteine and fibrinogen levels were assessed. The biochemical alterations reported here suggest the development of a framework straight to diabetes. Glucose homeostasis was affected as indicated by decreased insulin levels and altered glucose tolerance test in CsA 15 mg/kg group compared to other groups. Serum insulin and total homocysteine levels presented a significant negative correlation (R=- 0.76, P<0.0001). Fibrinogen and serum lipids profiles were significantly increased in CsA 15 mg/kg group compared to other groups and correlated positively with total homocysteine levels. Considering the well-established correlation among insulin resistance, lipid and total homocysteine levels, hypercoagulability and atherosclerosis, we can assume that this protocol of long-term CsA treatment in non-transplanted rats alter biochemical parameters related to cardiovascular and cerebrovascular risk, mainly in CsA 15 mg/kg group. Insulin and tHcy serum levels appear to be central in this process.
A case of a patient with chronic lung disease who developed an addiction pattern of corticosteroid dependency is described in which steroid-induced delirium also developed. The rare phenomenon of corticosteroid dependency is discussed as well as the phenomenology and possible mechanisms of steroid-induced delirium.
Low-dose extrapolation and dose-related transitions are paramount in the ongoing debate regarding the quantification of cancer risks for nongenotoxic carcinogens. Phenobarbital (PB) is a prototypical nongenotoxic carcinogen that activates the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) resulting in rodent liver tumors. In this study, male and female CD-1 mice administered dietary PB at 0, 0.15, 1.5, 15, 75, or 150 mg/kg-day for 2 or 7 days to characterize multiple apical and molecular endpoints below, at (∼75 mg/kg-day), and above the carcinogenic dose level of PB and examine these responses using benchmark dose modeling. Linear toxicokinetics were observed for all doses. Increased liver weight, hepatocellular hypertrophy, and mitotic figures were seen at 75 and 150 mg/kg-day. CAR activation, based on Cyp2b qPCR and pentoxyresorufin dealkylase activity, occurred at doses ≥ 1.5 mg/kg-day. The no-observable transcriptional effect level for global gene expression was 15 mg/kg-day. At 2 days, several xenobiotic metabolism and cell protective pathways were activated at lower doses and to a greater degree in females. However, hepatocellular proliferation, quantified by bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry, was the most sensitive indicator of PB exposure with female mice more sensitive than males, contrary to sex-specific differences in sensitivity to hepatocarcinogenesis. Taken together, the identification of low-dose cellular and molecular transitions in the subtumorigenic dose range aids the understanding of early key events in CAR-mediated hepatocarcinogenesis.
Cocaine is the most frequently used illicit drug among individuals seeking emergency-room care, with fatal outcome most often attributable to the cardiovascular manifestations of drug abuse. While the symptomatic presentations of cocaine toxicity are increasingly understood, the molecular determinants that define outcome remain largely unknown. Here, we report that the susceptibility to cocaine-induced cardiotoxicity is genetically regulated. Targeted deletion of the KCNJ11-encoded Kir6.2 pore-forming subunit of sarcolemmal K(ATP) channels resulted in amplified vulnerability to the toxic effects of chronic cocaine abuse. Under the hyperadrenergic stress, imposed by daily 3-week-long intraperitoneal administration of 30 mg/kg cocaine in Kir6.2-knockout mice, failure to maintain cardiac homeostasis translated into decreased exercise tolerance revealed by poor treadmill stress performance, and dilated hypokinetic left hearts with aggravated cellular hypertrophy and pathognomonic characteristics of chronic cocaine-induced cardiac toxicity. This study therefore reveals a previously unrecognized role of Kir6.2-encoded K(ATP) channels in determining cardiovascular outcome in chronic cocaine abuse, identifying a novel molecular determinant of cocaine cardiotoxicity.
Psychotic features in patients with Parkinson's Disease usually present as visual hallucinations against a background of cognitive deterioration and dopaminomimetic therapy. Isolated delusions are rare. We report here 4 patients with Parkinson's Disease who developed a delusional syndrome resembling schizophreniform psychosis in the absence of changes in alertness, visual hallucinations or dementia. We suggest that this syndrome may be more common than previously recognized, and that it may be related to the use of dopaminergic medications and environmental triggers on a background of a susceptible individual. This syndrome suggests interesting parallels with the pathophysiology of amphetamine-induced psychosis and schizophrenia.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a phospholipid that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of glomerulonephritis and can be synthesized by glomerular cells in response to different stimuli. PAF increases glomerular permeability to proteins and urinary PAF has been determined to be of renal origin. In order to assess whether urinary PAF can be found augmented in situations of glomerular damage without glomerular leukocyte infiltration, urinary PAF was quantified in human and experimental nephrosis.
Urinary PAF was quantified by platelet bioassay and glomerular PAF by incorporation of 3H-acetate into PAF. PAF was characterized by its behaviour on thin-layer chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography and the blockade of its bioactivity by receptor antagonists.
Urinary PAF excretion was significantly higher in patients with active idiopathic nephrotic syndrome than in controls (5.8+/-1.5 versus 1.7+/-0.75 mg/24 h; P<0.05) and patients in remission (1.63+/-0.75 ng/24 h; P<0.02). In rats with nephrosis induced by puromycin aminonucleoside there was an early increase in urinary PAF excretion (138+/-19 versus 49+/-22 pg/24 h in controls; P<0.035) that coincided with the augmented glomerular PAF synthesis (67+/-3.4 versus 36+/-1.2 DPM/mg protein in controls; P<0.003).
These results suggest that the synthesis of PAF in the kidney may be involved in the pathogenesis of the proteinuria in idiopathic nephrotic syndrome and that urinary PAF excretion may be a good marker of disease activity.
Neural adaptations in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key component of the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system, are thought to mediate several of the long-term behavioral sequelas of chronic in vivo exposure to drugs of abuse. Here, we examine whether the modulation of excitatory synaptic transmission by DA in the NAc shell is modified after chronic cocaine exposure that induced behavioral sensitization. The DA-induced inhibition of AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic responses was enhanced in cocaine-treated mice, an effect that was caused by activation of D1-like receptors. DA did not enhance NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic responses in saline- and cocaine-treated mice or in the dorsal striatum of control mice. We hypothesize that the enhanced inhibitory effects of DA on synaptic transmission in the NAc are one of a number of adaptations that contribute to a decrease in excitatory drive to NAc after exposure to drugs of abuse.
Experimental studies conducted on rabbits enabled the authors to reveal the central mechanism of the ketamine effect. Based on the experimental data obtained, the authors elaborated and used clinically the method of balance ketamine anesthesia consisting in a combination of ketamine with antispasmatic drugs: seduxen and mydocalm. This method of anesthesia is recommended for eliminating ketamine side effects.
Meropenem is a parenteral carbapenem that has been used clinically since 1994. Since the first review of its safety profile in 1995, the patient database has increased substantially. This new safety analysis includes data from 46 clinical trials in hospitalized patients with serious bacterial infections. The additional data comprise patients with lower respiratory tract and intra-abdominal infections, septicaemia and meningitis, and cancer patients with febrile neutropenia, and represents a group of more severely ill patients compared with the earlier review. In total, 4872 patients with 5026 meropenem treatment exposures were compared with 4642 patients treated with comparator agents (4752 exposures). Meropenem was administered most often by intravenous injection at 1g or 500 mg every 8 h. Meropenem-related adverse events most frequently reported were diarrhoea (2.3%), rash (1.4%), nausea/vomiting (1.4%) and injection site inflammation (1.1%). The most commonly reported meropenem-related laboratory adverse events were thrombocytosis (1.6%) and increased hepatic enzymes (1.5-4.3%). In meropenem-treated patients with meningitis, the incidence of seizures was low and none were drug related. In patients with infections other than meningitis, the incidence of seizures considered by the investigators to be related to meropenem was 0.08%. In general, the safety profile of meropenem was similar to that of the comparator agents. Withdrawals and deaths were similarly infrequent in the meropenem, cephalosporin and imipenem-cilastatin groups. Increased doses of meropenem were not associated with an increased incidence of adverse events. Meropenem was well tolerated in all patients, including children and patients with neutropenia. This new analysis supports the previous findings that meropenem has a favourable and acceptable safety profile.
The efficacy of tamoxifen treatment was studied in 46 postmenopausal patients with localized and disseminated breast cancer. Objective remissions were observed in 47.8, stabilization of tumor process-in 21.7%, mostly in cases of metastasis into the skin, subcutaneous fat, lymph nodes, pleura and bones. Tamoxifen proved sufficiently effective both in primary treatment and as a measure taken when the effect of a specific therapy (radiation, cytostatic or hormonal) was over. Side-effects were slight and were registered in 19.6%.
Atypical antipsychotics (quetiapine, olanzapine, risperidone and clozapine) are increasingly prescribed in Australia, and emergency departments report growing rates of overdose of these agents. As these drugs are comparatively new, the spectrum of toxicity may be unfamiliar to critical care physicians. Severe hypotension is a recognised consequence of quetiapine poisoning. We describe three patients with massive quetiapine overdose who developed significant hypotension resistant to fluid resuscitation. In each case, blood pressure fell dramatically after commencement of adrenaline infusions. Haemodynamic stability was restored when noradrenaline was substituted for adrenaline. The pharmacodynamics of quetiapine and the literature on overdose are reviewed. We present these cases to broaden the knowledge of physicians treating quetiapine overdose and to publicise the potential deleterious interaction with adrenaline. We recommend use of noradrenaline in preference to adrenaline in pharmacological management of shock in these patients.
Glucocorticoids are used as a treatment for a variety of conditions and hypertension is a well-recognized side effect of their use. The mechanism of glucocorticoid-induced hypertension is incompletely understood and has traditionally been attributed to promiscuous activation of the mineralocorticoid receptor by cortisol. Multiple lines of evidence, however, point to the glucocorticoid receptor as an important mediator as well. We have developed a mouse model of glucocorticoid-induced hypertension, which is dependent on the glucocorticoid receptor. To determine the site(s) of glucocorticoid receptor action relevant to the development of hypertension, we studied glucocorticoid-induced hypertension in a mouse with a tissue-specific knockout of the glucocorticoid receptor in the distal nephron. Although knockout mice had similar body weight, nephron number and renal histology compared to littermate controls, their baseline blood pressure was mildly elevated. Nevertheless, distal nephron glucocorticoid receptor knockout mice and controls had a similar hypertensive response to dexamethasone. Urinary excretion of electrolytes, both before and after administration of glucocorticoid was also indistinguishable between the two groups. We conclude that the glucocorticoid receptor in the distal nephron is not necessary for the development or maintenance of dexamethasone-induced hypertension in our model.
The blood pressure and serum angiotensin-I converting enzyme (SACE) activity were measured in captopril-treated hypertensive patients at frequent intervals. Inhibition of SACE was observed in patients responding to the treatment with lowering of blood pressure as well as in nonresponding cases. It was therefore concluded that a mechanism not depending on the formation of angiotensin-II by ACE is responsible for the high blood pressure persisting in the captopril treated nonresponding hypertensive patients. SACE activity in sera of captopril-treated patients recovers from inhibition when stored in frozen state at -20 degrees c. An apparent dissociation was therefore observed when regeneration of SACE activity during storage of sera was not taken into account. Meaningful activities are therefore obtained only if the assay is performed without prolonged storage.
The authors evaluated using clinical and echocardiographic examination the effect of chemotherapy involving bolus administration of doxorubicin on the heart muscle in 90 patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and with Hodgkin lymphoma. In 18% of patients they found an asymptomatic decrease of the left ventricular ejection fraction during chemotherapy, chronic cardiotoxicity was recorded in 5% patients, in 2% of the patients one year after termination of chemotherapy a clinically latent myocardial infarction was found. The diastolic function was impaired (impaired relaxation) in 44% patients after terminated chemotherapy and in 50% after one year. Echocardiographic examination provided evidence that the impaired systolic and diastolic function persists even after one year following termination of chemotherapy. High-dose chemotherapy with administration of peripheral stem cells did not lead to marked deterioration of left ventricular function as compared with patients who did not undergo this treatment. The main clinical complications--death, cardiotoxicity, relapse of the malignant disease, cardiovascular complications--were present in the course of a 18.5-month follow up after establishment of the diagnosis in 32% of the patients.
A phase I investigation of chlorozotocin, a new-water soluble chloroethylnitrosourea, was undertaken to define its pharmacologic effects in man. Forty-three patients received single intravenous doses ranging from 5 to 175 mg/m2 every 6 wk. No signs of toxicity were observed at doses of under 120 mg/m2, but thrombocytopenia occurred at higher doses. The thrombocytopenic nadir appeared to be dose-dependent and occurred 4 wk after treatment. Platelet transfusions were required in 2 patients who had previously received intensive chemotherapy. No significant leukopenia occurred. A mild reversible and delayed elevation of hepatic transaminases was found in 25% of courses of 120 mg/m2 or more. No renal toxicity was observed and gastrointestinal toxicity was mild. Investigation of clinical pharmacology revealed a rapid triphasic plasma clearance with initial t1/2S of 3, 15, and 30 min. The concentration of N-nitroso intact drug at 1 hr was 10% of the initial peak level. Renal excretion accounted for half of the dose. No significant concentration of N-nitroso intact or radiolabeled drug was detected in the cerebrospinal fluid of 2 patients in whom it was examined. There were objective signs of therapeutic activity in 5 patients, 3 of whom had melanoma. Based on these studies, the recommended dose for phase II investigation of chlorozotocin is 120 mg/m2 every 6 wk.
Recent studies have shown that diesel exhaust particles (DEP) have adverse effects on the respiratory tract in vitro and in vivo, related to various pro-inflammatory cytokines and inflammatory mediators. The inflammation induced by the production of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, an important mediator of inflammation and tumor promotion, and excess eicosanoids may be central to the pathogenesis of DEP-induced airway inflammation. However, the role of COX-2 in the pathogenesis of DEP-induced lung inflammation remains unclear, especially in vivo. In this study, we demonstrated that treatment with 50 microg/ml of DEP for 24h induced the expression of the COX-2 gene at both the transcriptional and protein levels, which led to an increase in the release of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) in A549 cells. In addition, the increased levels of COX-2 and PGE(2) by DEP exposure were significantly suppressed by treatment with 50 pg/ml of dexamethasone (Dex). We also showed that exposure to 25 mg/kg of DEP induced the expression of the COX-2 protein in mouse lung tissues, and this increased COX-2 expression was attenuated by pretreatment with 5 mg/kg of Dex. These findings suggest that COX-2 may play an important role in the pathogenesis of DEP-induced pulmonary inflammation, which is effectively inhibited by glucocorticoid treatment.
Effects of increased and decreased blood pressure on adrenal sympathetic nerve activity and catecholamine secretion were examined in anesthetized Wistar rats. Efferent nerve impulses were counted and adrenal venous plasma was collected just before and 30 s after the onset of hypotensive stimulation induced by bleeding (average decrease in systolic blood pressure over the stimulation period was 38 mm Hg) or a hypertensive stimulation induced by phenylephrine administration (average increase in systolic blood pressure over the stimulation period was 41 mm Hg). While nerve activity and epinephrine and norepinephrine secretion were not significantly altered by the change in blood pressure in baroreceptor denervated animals, there were increases in these variables (131.1% of control levels for epinephrine, 117.5% for norepinephrine, and 127.1% for nerve activity) in response to bleeding and a marked decrease (to 63.0% of control levels for epinephrine, 53.9% for norepinephrine, and 54.0% for nerve activity) in response to phenylephrine administration with baroreceptors intact. These changes were significant both with respect to control blood pressure levels and with regard to the effect of stimulation in the baroreceptor-denervated animals. The reflex responses in adrenal nerve and catecholamine secretion were generally proportional in magnitude. The present results are discussed with regard to the effects of somatic stimulation on nerve activity and catecholamine secretion.
The binding of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) with the aryl hydrocarbon (AH) receptor and subsequent changes in gene expression have been studied intensively, but the mechanisms by which these lead to toxicity are unclear. We investigated the influence of iron, previously implicated in TCDD-induced hepatic porphyria, in mice with alleles of Ahr that encode receptors with varied affinity for TCDD. The administration of iron to Ahrb-1 C57BL/6J (AH-responsive) mice before a single dose of TCDD (75 micrograms/kg) markedly potentiated not only the hepatic porphyria but also general hepatocellular damage and elevation of plasma hepatic enzymes. The formation of hydroxylated and peroxylated derivatives of uroporphyrins formed from uroporphyrinogen and the induction of a mu-glutathione transferase (GST) were consistent with the operation of an oxidative mechanism. In a comparison of C57BL/6J mice with Ahrb-2 BALB/c (AH-responsive) and Ahrd SWR and DBA/2 (AH-nonresponsive) mice, iron overcame the weak hepatic porphyria and toxicity responses in BALB/c and SWR strains but not in DBA/2. CYP1A isoforms are strongly implicated in the mechanism of porphyria, but activities were lowered by 20-30% with iron treatment, and a comparison of levels between strains did not fully account for the resistance of DBA/2 mice. Studies with the use of gel shift assays and cytosolic aconitase of the capacity of the iron regulatory protein controlling the translation of some iron metabolism proteins showed a significant difference between C57BL/6J and DBA/2 mice after the administration of TCDD. We conclude that iron potentiates both the hepatic porphyria and toxicity of TCDD in susceptible mice in an oxidative process with disturbance of iron regulatory protein capacity. Iron even overcomes the AH-nonresponsive Ahrd allele in the SWR strain but not in DBA/2 mice, which remain resistant.
A patient with lymphosarcoma treated with weekly injections of vincristine developed an acute myocardial infarction immediately after the second injection of vincristine. After he recovered from the infarction, the treatment was continued and he developed an additional myocardial infarction. In vivo and in vitro studies have not revealed any effect of vincristine on the clotting mechanism. The possible causes for the association of vincristine-treated lymphoma and myocardial infarction are discussed.
Inhibition of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) provides renoprotection in adriamycin nephropathy (AN), along with a decrease in overexpression of glomerular heparanase. Angiotensin II (AngII) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) are known to regulate heparanase expression in vivo. However, it is unknown whether this is also the case for aldosterone. Therefore, we further assessed the role of aldosterone, AngII and ROS in the regulation of glomerular heparanase expression.
Six weeks after the induction of AN, rats were treated with vehicle (n = 8), lisinopril (75 mg/L, n = 10), spironolactone (3.3 mg/day, n = 12) or the combination of lisinopril and spironolactone (n = 14) for 12 weeks. Age-matched healthy rats served as controls (n = 6). After 18 weeks, renal heparanase and heparan sulfate (HS) expression were examined by immunofluorescence staining. In addition, the effect of aldosterone, AngII and ROS on heparanase expression in cultured podocytes was determined.
Treatment with lisinopril, spironolactone or their combination significantly blunted the increased glomerular heparanase expression and restored the decreased HS expression in the GBM. Addition of aldosterone to cultured podocytes resulted in a significantly increased heparanase mRNA and protein expression, which could be inhibited by spironolactone. Heparanase mRNA and protein expression in podocytes were also significantly increased after stimulation with AngII or ROS.
Our in vivo and in vitro results show that not only AngII and ROS, but also aldosterone is involved in the regulation of glomerular heparanase expression.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether increased local control and improved survival can be achieved in patients with glioblastoma multiformes (GBMs) who undergo aggressive resection, Gliadel wafer implantation, Gamma Knife radiosurgery (GKS), and fractionated radiotherapy (RT) as the initial treatment.
Thirty patients with radiographically suspected GBMs were screened for enrollment in a Phase I/II prospective clinical trial. Twenty-seven patients were eligible and underwent gross-total resection and Gliadel wafer implantation. Gamma Knife radiosurgery (12 Gy at 50%) was administered to the resection cavity within 2 weeks of surgery. Patients then received standard fractionated RT (total dose 60 Gy over 6 weeks). Temozolomide was prescribed for patients at the time of recurrence. Surveillance MR imaging, neurological examination, and quality-of-life evaluations were performed at 2-month intervals. To estimate the potential effects on the DNA repair mechanism, tumor tissue was analyzed with methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction analysis and immunohistochemical assays for MGMT gene promoter methylation and protein expression.
The median survival for all patients was 50 weeks and the 2-year survival rate was 22%. When stratified into standard and high-risk patient groups, the median survivals were 76 and 33 weeks, respectively. Two patients remain alive at the time of this report with no clinical or radiographic evidence of disease at > 189 and 239 weeks posttreatment and excellent performance status. Local tumor control was achieved in 53% of patients, and local failure occurred in 47%. No acute early toxicity was noted; however, delayed symptomatic radionecrosis occurred in 47% of patients, which required repeated operations 9-24 months after the initial treatment. Delayed hydrocephalus requiring ventriculoperitoneal shunt placement occurred in 47% of patients. There was a significant difference in survival between patients whose tumors contained the methylated and unmethylated MGMT promoter, 103 versus 45 weeks, respectively (p = 0.0009, log-rank test).
The combination of aggressive resection, Gliadel wafer implantation, and GKS in addition to standard fractionated RT in selected patients resulted in increased local control and increased survival compared with a historical control group treated with surgery and involved-field RT alone. Delayed focal radionecrosis was increased to 47% in this series and was managed with steroids and repeated resection. Aggressive local tumor control with these multimodal therapies should be approached judiciously for a select group of high performance patients and the probability of developing symptomatic radionecrosis requiring surgery should be anticipated and fully disclosed to patients who undergo this treatment.
The majority of prostate cancers (PCa) that relapse after androgen deprivation therapy (androgen-independent PCa) continue to express androgen receptor (AR). To study the functional importance of AR in these tumors, we derived androgen-independent CWR22 PCa xenografts in castrated mice and generated a cell line from one of these xenografts (CWR22R3). Similarly to androgen-independent PCa in patients, the relapsed xenografts and cell line expressed AR and were resistant to treatment with bicalutamide. However, expression of the AR-regulated PSA gene in the CWR22R3 cell line was markedly decreased compared to the relapsed xenografts in vivo. Transfections with androgen-regulated reporter genes further indicated that the cells lacked androgen-independent AR transcriptional activity and were not hypersensitive to low androgen concentrations despite constitutive activation of the Erk/MAP kinases. Nonetheless, AR remained essential for androgen-independent growth because retroviral shRNA-mediated AR down-regulation resulted in marked long-term growth suppression. This was associated with increased levels of p27(kip1) and hypophosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein but not with decreases in D-type cyclin levels or MAP kinase activation. These results reveal a potentially critical function of AR in androgen-independent PCa that is distinct from its previously described transcriptional or nontranscriptional functions.
