Angiotensin II receptor antagonists have become clinically available for the treatment of arterial hypertension. Presently, there is little information about their effects on BP, proteinuria, and renal function in patients with moderate or advanced renal failure. This study examines the effects of the angiotensin II antagonist Valsartan (80 mg/d) on proteinuria and glomerular permselectivity in patients with chronic renal failure during a 6-mo treatment, using a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study (treatment group [V-group]: n = 5, age 57 +/- 7 yr, serum creatinine 365 +/- 122 micromol/L; placebo group [P-group]: n = 4, age 62 +/- 11 yr, serum creatinine 346 +/- 61 micromol/L). Study parameters included BP, 24-h proteinuria, GFR, and effective renal plasma flow (ERPF) as determined by inulin and para-aminohippurate clearance. Changes in glomerular permselectivity were assessed by measuring the fractional clearances of neutral dextrans by HPLC gel-permeation chromatography. Valsartan lowered the mean arterial pressure on average by 13 +/- 7 mmHg during the 6-mo treatment (P < 0.05). GFR and ERPF remained almost unchanged. However, after 6 mo of Valsartan treatment, proteinuria was reduced by 396 +/- 323 mg/24 h (26 +/- 18%) and albuminuria by 531 +/- 499 mg/24 h (41 +/- 21%) with regard to baseline values (P < 0.05). In the P-group, both proteinuria and albuminuria increased slightly with time (by 30 +/- 43% and 30 +/- 54%, respectively, NS). The fractional clearances of high molecular weight dextrans >66 A were significantly reduced after 6 mo of Valsartan treatment (P < 0.05), indicating a reduction of the glomerular shunt volume by 54 +/- 20% (P < 0.05) according to the model of Deen et al. (Am J Physiol 249: 347-389, 1985). The mean pore size radius of the glomerular membrane remained unchanged. This effect was independent of glomerular hemodynamic changes. Valsartan persistently lowered proteinuria in patients with chronic renal failure. Although GFR and ERPF remained nearly stable, this effect could be attributed to an improvement in glomerular permselectivity.
To develop a relevant mouse model for prostate cancer prevention research, we administered a dietary carcinogen, 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), to CYP1A-humanized mice. In comparison with mouse Cyp1a2, human CYP1A2 preferentially activates PhIP to a proximate carcinogen. Following a single oral dose of PhIP (200 mg/kg body weight), we observed inflammation, atrophy of acini, low-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN; after 20 weeks), and high-grade PIN (HgPIN; after 30 to 50 weeks) in dorsolateral, ventral, and coagulating anterior prostate glands of these mice. These lesions were androgen receptor positive and featured the loss of expression of the basal cell marker p63 and the tumor suppressor PTEN. Similar to human prostate carcinogenesis, glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) expression was lost or partially lost in HgPIN. E-Cadherin expression was also lost in HgPIN. The expression of DNA methyltransferase 1 was elevated, possibly to enhance promoter hypermethylation for the silencing of GSTP1 and E-cadherin. Prostate carcinogenesis was promoted by a high-fat stress diet, resulting in HgPIN that developed earlier and in advanced lesions displayed features consistent with carcinoma in situ. This dietary carcinogen-induced prostate cancer model, recapitulating important features of early human prostate carcinogenesis, constitutes a new experimental system for prostate cancer research.
Joint mobilization is a treatment approach commonly used by physical therapists for the management of a variety of painful conditions. However, the clinical effectiveness when compared to placebo and the neurophysiological mechanism of action are not known. The purpose of this study was to establish that application of a manual therapy technique will produce antihyperalgesia in an animal model of joint inflammation and that the antihyperalgesia produced by joint mobilization depends on the time of treatment application. Capsaicin (0.2%, 50 microl) was injected into the lateral aspect of the left ankle joint and mechanical withdrawal threshold assessed before and after capsaicin injection in Sprague-Dawley rats. Joint mobilization of the ipsilateral knee joint was performed 2 h after capsaicin injection for a total of 3 min, 9 min or 15 min under halothane anaesthesia. Control groups included animals that received halothane for the same time as the group that received joint mobilization and those whose limbs were held for the same duration as the mobilization (no halothane). Capsaicin resulted in a decreased mechanical withdrawal threshold by 2 h after injection that was maintained through 4 h. Both 9 and 15 min of mobilization, but not 3 min of mobilization, increased the withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimuli to baseline values when compared with control groups. The antihyperalgesic effect of joint mobilization lasted 30 min. Thus, joint mobilization (9 or 15 min duration) produces a significant reversal of secondary mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intra-articular injection of capsaicin.
Paraquat (PQ) poisoning induces many physiological and histological changes in the human body, but PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis is most often associated with death. The signaling pathway associated with pulmonary fibrosis is reliant on transforming growth factor-beta 1 (tgf-β(1)) activation of Smad3, as evidenced by Smad3-deficient mice being resistant to tgf-β(1)-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Thus, we sought to determine whether targeted silencing of Smad3 gene expression could inhibit PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis in mice. We developed an RNA interference (RNAi) method using short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) targeting Smad3. The shRNA expression cassettes capable of effectively silencing Smad3 in L929 mouse fibroblasts were transferred to an adenovirus vector and intratracheally administered into mouse lung. Treated mice presented with inhibited Smad3 mRNA and protein and were resistant to PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis, as evidenced by suppressed expressions of procollagen type I mRNA and hydroxyproline amino acid. Thus, silencing of Smad3 appears to be a promising alternative strategy for the treatment of PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis.
Liver injuries can trigger a cascade of inflammatory responses and as a result, initiate the process of hepatic regeneration and fibrogenesis. Resveratrol (RSV) has multiple health-promoting benefits. This study evaluated the potential protective effects and mechanism of RSV as related to cholestatic liver injury. RSV was given (4 mg/kg/day, i.p.) for either 3 days or 7 days after bile duct ligation (BDL) injury. RSV significantly reduced serum ALT, AST but not T-bil on Day 3. At this early stage of injury, RSV significantly reduced TNF-α and IL-6 mRNA and decreased the number of Kupffer cells (CD68(+) ) recruited in the injured liver. RSV decreased hepatic fibrosis and reduced collagen Iα1 and TIMP-1 mRNA on Day 7. At the later stages of injury, RSV increased the number of Ki67(+) hepatocytes indicating that RSV promoted hepatocyte proliferation. Additionally, it resulted in decreased expression of 4-hydroxynonenal and increased expression of the hepatocyte growth factor protein and mRNA in the RSV-treated BDL group. Meanwhile, RSV reduced the mortality rate of BDL mice. In conclusion, RSV attenuated inflammation and reduced Kupffer cells activation. RSV decreased fibrosis and promoted hepatocyte regeneration, which increased the survival of BDL mice. RSV was beneficial for the treatment of cholestatic liver injury.
Myocardial infarction is a previously unreported complication of treatment with racemic epinephrine that is used commonly in the emergency department for severe respiratory distress in bronchiolitis or croup syndrome. We describe a pediatric patient who presented with the croup syndrome and severe respiratory distress that required multiple doses of nebulized racemic epinephrine in the emergency department. The patient developed ventricular tachycardia and mild chest discomfort during one treatment, which resolved spontaneously on discontinuation of the nebulization. Persistently abnormal electrocardiograms and elevated creatine phosphokinase MB isoenzyme (CPK-MB) levels suggested a myocardial infarction had occurred. Subsequent echocardiography, cardiac catheterization, and angiography revealed an anatomically normal heart with normal coronary circulation; however, a stress nuclear study showed a small myocardial infarct. The significance of this previously unreported complication of racemic epinephrine is discussed, along with recommendations for proper use in the emergency department.
Platinum-based combination chemotherapy has become the standard treatment for good performance patients with stage IIIb and IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, newer agents such as gemcitabine and paclitaxel appear to have superior single agent activity and are more easily tolerated in comparison to the older platinum compounds. Therefore, we conducted this phase II study to evaluate the activity and toxicity of the combination paclitaxel and gemcitabine in advanced NSCLC. Gemcitabine was given at 1,000 mg/m(2) intravenously over 30 min followed by paclitaxel at 110 mg/m(2) intravenously over 1 h on days 1, 8 and 15 every 28 days for a maximum of 6 cycles. Between April 1998 and June 1999, 40 of 42 patients entered were eligible and received chemotherapy. Data was available on 39 patients. Toxicities included Grade 3/4 neutropenia in 43% of patients, while thrombocytopenia (13%) and anemia (7%) were less frequent. Five (12.5%) patients developed neutropenic fever. Four (10%) patients developed bilateral interstitial shadows with hypoxia suggestive of a drug-induced pneumonitis. There were 4 treatment-related deaths (1 from pneumonitis, 3 from neutropenic complications). Five patients were not evaluable due to early death. Therefore, 34 patients were evaluable with 12 (35.3%) achieving a partial remission and 1 achieving a complete remission for an overall response rate of 38.2% (32.5% on an intention-to-treat basis). The median progression free survival was 107 days (range, 14-391), median survival was 148 days (range, 12-495) and 1-year survival was 26%. In conclusion, weekly gemcitabine with paclitaxel in patients with advanced NSCLC is an active regimen; however, toxicity and poor survival precludes the use of this regimen as an experimental arm on a future phase III study.
A double-blind randomized crossover study of 0.125 mg Pergolide (Lilly) at bedtime versus 250mg L-Dopa + Carbidopa (Roche) was conducted in 16-day phases in 11 patients with idiopathic restless legs syndrome. Two patients reported a partial and 9 patients a complete relieve of motor restlessness while receiving Pergolide. Only 1 patient experienced an improvement of restlessness after L-Dopa. The patients showed polysomnographically a mean decrease in NMS cluster disturbed time by 45% from control on L-Dopa (p < 0.025) and by 79% from control on Pergolide (p < 0.001). In addition, Pergolide increased the total sleep time compared to L-Dopa (p < 0.05). In conclusion, the dopamine agonist Pergolide is superior to L-Dopa in the treatment of RLS and NMS.
To investigate the effect of resveratrol on hypoxia-induced cardiomyocytes injury and its potential mechanism.
Cell injury was evaluated by supernatant lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay and cell viability. NO production in cardiomyocytes were assessed by Griess reagent, expressions of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1α) were determined reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). HIF-1α protein was determined by Western blot.
Hypoxia increased LDH release, decreased cell viability. Pretreatment with resveratrol (10, 25, and 50μM) decreased LDH release and increased cell viability. Resveratrol suppressed the mRNA expression of iNOS as well as NO production in hypoxia-induced cardiomyocytes. Consistent with the inhibitory effect on iNOS protein expression, resveratrol inhibited iNOS mRNA expression. Resveratrol also inhibited HIF-1α mRNA expression.
These results suggested that resveratrol attenuates acute hypoxic injury in cardiomyocytes, and the mechanism might be associated with inhibition of iNOS-NO signaling pathway via HIF-1α.
Measurements of radionuclide first-pass left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEFrn) were carried out in 37 patients receiving doxorubicin and/or daunorubicin treatment for their malignant disease. The validity of the systolic time intervals (STI) and echocardiography (ECHO) in the detection of left ventricular dysfunction was evaluated using LVEFrn as reference method. LVEFrn showed a significant decrease in left ventricular function with cumulative anthracycline doses inpatients with and without previous clinical evidence of cardiovascular disease. A multiple regression analysis showed that the impairment in LVEFrn was significantly correlated with the cumulative anthracycline dose, patient's age and previous cardiovascular disease. In five patients (one without previous cardiac disease, one with coronary artery disease, three with hypertension) the drug had to be withdrawn due to signs or symptoms of cardiac dysfunction. The sensitivity and the specificity of STI and ECHO in the detection of left ventricular dysfunction remained rather low as compared with the results by LVEFrn.
Infusion of lipid emulsion has been demonstrated to facilitate return of spontaneous circulation in animal models and human cases of local anaesthetic induced cardiac arrest. Guidelines for lipid application exist; however, experimental evidence of efficacy at recommended dosing is lacking. In 20 sedated, mechanically ventilated, and invasively monitored New Zealand White rabbits, asystole was induced via bolus bupivacaine injection. Animals were randomised to receive either 20% Intralipid administered according to Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland guidelines, or identical volumes of 0.9% saline solution, in addition to standard Advanced Cardiac Life Support resuscitative measures. Seven lipid treated rabbits developed return of spontaneous circulation vs four saline treated animals (p = 0.370). A trend toward sooner return of spontaneous circulation in the lipid treated group was observed (2.4 (0.53) vs 3.8 (1.7) min; p = 0.082). Five animals in the lipid treated group survived to protocol termination vs nil animals from the saline treated group (p = 0.033). The current Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland lipid infusion protocol provides a useful beginning for lipid emulsion administration.
Skeletal muscle atrophy and whole-body glucose intolerance are consequences of muscle disuse associated with conditions leading to prolonged bed rest. Nutritional supplementation with chromium has been shown to prevent weight loss and improve glucose tolerance in malnourished subjects on long-term total parenteral nutrition. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of oral supplementation with a novel chromium complex, chromium (d-phenylalanine)(3) [Cr(d-phe)(3)] at 45 microg/kg/day for 5 weeks, on skeletal muscle atrophy and glucose intolerance in a hindlimb suspension mouse model. Hindlimb-suspended mice exhibited reduced skeletal muscle fiber size and enhanced whole-body glucose intolerance, both of which were reversed by chromium treatment. The inhibition of skeletal muscle atrophy by chromium was associated with reductions in the ubiquitination ligase atrogin-1/muscle atrophy F-box, which is elevated in hindlimb-suspended mice. Neither hindlimb suspension nor chromium treatment altered the protein levels of the myostatin, phospho-Forkhead box O-1 and mammalian target of rapamycin. Chromium-treated animals exhibited elevated Akt (Homo sapiens v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog) phosphorylation in their skeletal muscle, with no change observed in the levels of activated JNK (c-Jun N-terminal kinase). Thus, these data suggest that nutritional supplementation with chromium may have potential therapeutic benefits in minimizing skeletal muscle atrophy associated with long periods of muscle disuse.
Evidence is available from animal and human studies that protein traffic through the glomerular capillary has a pathogenetic role in subsequent renal damage and that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors appear superior to other drugs in lowering proteinuria and the rate of renal function decline. This study compares the effect of ACE inhibition or angiotensin II (AngII) receptor blockade on urinary protein excretion and renal hemodynamics in 20 patients with IgA glomerulonephritis randomized to receive enalapril (20 mg/d) or irbesartan (100 mg/d) for 28 d in a double-blind study with two parallel groups. This study also evaluated whether addition of indomethacin (75 mg twice a day) to each of the two treatments resulted in a more potent antiproteinuric effect. Enalapril alone reduced total protein excretion (61% change from baseline) and fractional clearance of albumin without changes in GFR and minor elevation in renal plasma flow. Also, patients randomized to receive the AngII receptor antagonist irbesartan for 28 d had lower proteinuria (55% change from baseline) and fractional clearance of albumin at the end of the treatment period with similar renal hemodynamic changes. When indomethacin was added to enalapril treatment, a further significant reduction in urinary proteins and fractional albumin clearance was observed. In patients given irbesartan, the addition of indomethacin further reduced proteinuria and fractional clearance of albumin. The combined therapy with enalapril or irbesartan and indomethacin did not significantly affect GFR and renal plasma flow compared with baseline. These findings indicate that in patients with IgA glomerulonephritis the antiproteinuric effect of blocking AngII activity by either ACE inhibitors or AngII receptor antagonists is potentiated by indomethacin, an effect that occurred without impairment of renal function.
Delta opioid peptide [D-Ala2, D-Leu5] enkephalin (DADLE) can partially reverse long-term loss of striatal dopamine transporters induced by multiple doses of methamphetamine via an unknown mechanism. This study was designed to examine the modulating effects of three opioid ligands, DADLE, Leucine enkephalin (L-enk), and naloxone, on the long-lasting dopamine depletion produced by 4 cumulative doses of methamphetamine. Both DADLE (at a dose of 18 mg/kg) and L-enk (100 microg/kg x 2) effectively attenuated methamphetamine-induced dopamine depletion in the striatum while their protective effects were not blocked by coadministration of naloxone. In contrast, naloxone (10 mg/kg x 2) alone potentiated the long-lasting dopamine depletion produced by methamphetamine. Moreover, none of the treatments with DADLE (18 mg/kg), L-enk (100 microg/kg), or naloxone (10 mg/kg) alone affected body temperature. These results suggest that the opioid ligands may, directly or indirectly, modulate this methamphetamine-induced dopamine neurotoxicity in the nigrostriatal system via a temperature-independent mechanism.
Peripheral neuropathy has been recognized as a dose-limiting adverse effect in Phase I studies of didanosine (ddI) therapy for HIV infection. To study the effect of the currently recommended lower dose of ddI, the databases of 4 randomized, controlled trials were used to assess the frequency of dose-limiting peripheral neuropathy during treatment with ddI 500 or 750 mg/d, compared with zidovudine (ZDV) monotherapy or combination therapy with ddI/ZDV or zalcitabine/ZDV. No between-group differences in risk factors for neuropathy (eg, infectious and metabolic factors, malignancy, concurrent medications) were observed in the individual trials, and the presence of these risk factors appeared to have no increased treatment effect on the occurrence of neuropathy. No significant between-group differences were observed in the individual studies with regard to the incidence or time to onset of peripheral neuropathy. Analysis of the combined results by treatment regimen showed no significant difference in the incidence of neuropathy between recipients of ddI 500 mg/d, ddI 750 mg/d, or ZDV and no significant difference in the cumulative dose received until the onset of neuropathy between the ddI 500- and 750-mg regimens. Entry CD4+ cell counts were significantly predictive of neuropathy, with each 100-cell/microL decrement associated with a 17% increase in risk (P = 0.002); a CD4+ cell count of <50 cells/microL was highly predictive of neuropathy (P = 0.0001). In summary, the risk for peripheral neuropathy was not increased by treatment with ddI versus comparator regimens or by treatment with ddI at the dosages used in studies conducted more recently than the Phase I trials. Peripheral neuropathy seems more likely to be associated with advanced HIV infection and lower CD4+ cell counts (particularly counts <50 cells/microL) than with ddI therapy at the currently recommended dose.
Seven cases of endometrial adenocarcinoma patients who had experienced long-term tamoxifen treatments as adjuvant therapy of breast carcinoma, were investigated with respect to estrogen receptor (ER) status. Four cases of endometrial adenocarcinoma without tamoxifen treatment but with a previous history of breast carcinoma were investigated for comparison. One of the 7 and two of the 4 cases were positive for ER immunohistochemically. Thus, the frequency of ER positivity in secondary endometrial adenocarcinoma seemed to be at random among tamoxifen-treated and non-treated breast cancer patients. These results suggest that tamoxifen-mediated human endometrial carcinogenesis may not involve estrogenic pathway(s) but may involve other carcinogenic mechanisms such as DNA adduct formation as shown in rat liver tumorigenesis.
We report a case of cardiac arrest due to hyperkalaemia following administration of suxamethonium during a procedure to facilitate a change of endotracheal tube in a septic patient. The cause of this rare but fatal complication is briefly described and discussed. In view of this, suxamethonium should be used with great caution in patients with burns and other forms of physical injury, in a number of nervous system disorders, and in critically ill patients requiring prolonged ITU care.
The purpose of this randomized double-blind study was to determine the optimal dose of epidural morphine by establishing a dose-effect relationship. The 139 patients, who had orthopedic operations on the lower extremities, received continuous lumbar epidural anesthesia with bupivacaine, 0.75%, with or without the addition of 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 mg of morphine hydrochloride. Analgesia and side effects were determined during the first 24 hr postoperatively. In the 12-hr period after epidural anesthesia, arterial blood gas tensions were compared between those patients who received 5 mg morphine (n = 13) and those who received no morphine (n = 14). Patients who received 2 or more mg of morphine were less likely to require the administration of postoperative systemic analgesics (P less than 0.05). The addition of 2 or more mg of morphine to bupivacaine, 0.75%, reduced postoperative pain intensity (P less than 0.05); 5 mg of morphine reduced pain intensity for the longest time. Frequency of catheterization and pruritus increased dose-dependently. The mean PaCO2 after 5 mg of epidural morphine averaged 5 mm Hg higher than in the control group, indicating minor respiratory depression, better analgesia, or both. The dose of 3 mg of epidural morphine added to the local anesthetic is recommended for postoperative analgesia after surgery of the lower extremity; it is a compromise that provides adequate analgesia with an acceptably low frequency and intensity of side effects.
In utero exposure to cocaine results in neurobehavioral abnormalities in both clinical and laboratory studies. Cocaine administration from embryonic day 13 to parturition disrupts the distribution of S-100-positive astrocytes in the hippocampus and subplate region of the cortex in cocaine-exposed animals. Postnatal treatment with ipsapirone, a 5-HT1A agonist, shown to stimulate glial release of S-100, alleviated the cellular disruptions and growth retardation caused by prenatal cocaine exposure.
We performed a double-masked, crossover study comparing the cardiovascular and intraocular pressure effects of 0.5% and 0.25% topical apraclonidine hydrochloride and 0.5% timolol maleate in 20 healthy female volunteers. The contralateral effects of unilateral apraclonidine and the plasma concentrations of apraclonidine were also assessed. All measurements were done 2, 5, and 8 hours after drop instillation. A 15-minute treadmill test was performed after the 2-hour measurements. All three active medications lowered intraocular pressure comparably. There was no significant contralateral intraocular pressure effect seen with apraclonidine. The apraclonidine plasma concentrations were variable and unrelated to the amount of intraocular pressure lowering and cardiovascular parameters measured. Apraclonidine did not affect blood pressure or heart rate any differently than placebo. Timolol, however, blunted exercise-induced tachycardia. There were no significant differences in pupillary diameters or interpalpebral fissure widths among treatment groups.
In monkeys anesthetized with 70% nitrous oxide and 0.5% inspired halothane in oxygen, we measured changes in systemic hemodynamics and regional blood flows produced by nitroprusside and trimethaphan. Regional blood flow measurements were made using the radioactive microsphere technique. Control measurements were made before infusion of nitroprusside and trimethaphan into each animal in sequence in amounts adequate to reduce mean arterial pressure to approximately 55 +/- 5 mm Hg. Measurements were made during each drug infusion after a stable period of hypotension lasting at least 30 min. During nitroprusside infusion, cerebral blood flow remained unchanged, but myocardial blood flow increased significantly. However, pressure-rate product, an indirect measure of myocardial oxygen consumption, was unchanged, implying that myocardial blood flow exceeded myocardial oxygen requirement. During trimethaphan infusion, cerebral blood flow decreased, although cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen was unchanged due to increased oxygen extraction by the brain. Trimethaphan also produced a decrease in myocardial blood flow that was in proportion to the decrease in myocardial oxygen requirement as indicated by pressure-rate product. Neither drug produced changes in renal or total hepatic blood flows. We conclude that brain oxygen reserve is decreased during hypotension induced by trimethaphan. Blood flows to other organs are not significantly impaired in monkeys during hypotension to a mean arterial pressure of approximately 55 mm Hg induced by either nitroprusside or trimethaphan.
Cholinergic activity has been recognized as a major regulatory component of stress responses after traumatic brain injury (TBI). Centrally acting acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors are also being considered as potential therapeutic candidates against TBI mediated cognitive impairments. We have evaluated the expression of molecules involved in cholinergic and inflammatory pathways in various regions of brain after repeated blast exposures in mice. Isoflurane anesthetized C57BL/6J mice were restrained and placed in a prone position transverse to the direction of the shockwaves and exposed to three 20.6 psi blast overpressures with 1-30 min intervals. Brains were collected at the 6h time point after the last blast exposure and subjected to cDNA microarray and microRNA analysis. cDNA microarray analysis showed significant changes in the expression of cholinergic (muscarinic and nicotinic) and gammaaminobutyric acid and glutamate receptors in the midbrain region along with significant changes in multiple genes involved in inflammatory pathways in various regions of the brain. MicroRNA analysis of cerebellum revealed differential expression of miR-132 and 183, which are linked to cholinergic anti-inflammatory signaling, after blast exposure. Changes in the expression of myeloperoxidase in the cerebellum were confirmed by Western blotting. These results indicate that early pathologic progression of blast TBI involves dysregulation of cholinergic and inflammatory pathways related genes. Acute changes in molecules involved in the modulation of cholinergic and inflammatory pathways after blast TBI can cause long-term central and peripheral pathophysiological changes.
Cocaine and other vasoactive substances are known causes of cerebrovascular disease. Ictus during drug intake adversely affects outcome.
A retrospective review revealed 42 patients with cocaine abuse and stroke. Aneurysmal bleed occurred in 15 patients; the rest had stroke. The outcome of stroke because of cocaine intoxication was analyzed.
Mean age for stroke was 38 (+/- 8.5 SD) years; males out-numbered females (20 : 7) similar to the pattern seen in subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) following aneurysm rupture. Nine had intracerebral hematomas, 6 had SAH with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH)/ infarct, I had transverse myelopathy. Transient ischemic attack was identified in 4. Carotid occlusion was found in 2, and slow-flow in the vertebrobasilar system in 1. Fifteen were known hypertensives. Cocaine was the principal substance in all patients; 7 used other substances including marijuana and heroin. Three patients had HIV, 3 had hepatitis, 2 had syphilis, and 1 had tuberculosis. Urinalysis was positive for cocaine metabolites in 15; 2 had late analysis. Nine had ICH or SAH with poor neurological status at admission and died. Cocaine intoxication correlated with fatal cerebrovascular accident (CVA) (p < 0.001) and poor Glasgow Outcome Score (GOS) (p < 0.001).
Stroke and cocaine use correlated with fatal CVA and poor outcome. Prompt diagnostic intervention may reveal the incidence of CNS injury with cocaine abuse.
The interactions of lidocaine with baroreceptor reflexes during simulated orthostatic stress or moderate volume depletion were investigated in healthy volunteers using the lower body negative pressure (LBNP) test. Cardiopulmonary baroreceptors were selectively unloaded at low levels of LBNP (-15 mm Hg) since the central venous pressure (CVP) decreased (-1.4 +/- 0.3 mm Hg) without changes in arterial pressure (AP) and heart rate (HR) but significant increases in forearm vascular resistance (FVR) and plasma noradrenaline (PNA). Cardiopulmonary as well as arterial baroreflexes were both unloaded at higher levels of LBNP (-40 mm Hg) since the CVP (-3.4 +/- 0.4 mm Hg) and systolic AP (-10 +/- 3 mm Hg) decreased whereas FVR, PNA, and plasma renin activity (PRA) increased further (all p less than 0.05). Following lidocaine infusion (serum level of 3.8 +/- 0.2 micrograms/ml), the AP, HR, FVR, and PNA increased and CVP decreased (p less than 0.05). Compared to LBNP performed under saline, lidocaine did not alter the LBNP (-15 mm Hg)-induced changes in cardiovascular and biological parameters but significantly decreased the induced rises in HR, FVR, PNA, and PRA at a LBNP of -40 mm Hg (p less than 0.05). In an additional study, it was also demonstrated that lidocaine significantly decreased the sensitivity of the reflex-mediated bradycardia following phenylephrine injection and attenuated the vasoconstrictor response to the cold pressor test taken as a nonspecific somatic pressor reflex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of quinidine and procainamide were studied in isolated canine atria cross-perfused with heparinized arterial blood from donor dogs as well as in these donor dogs. When administered intravenously to donor dogs, both drugs produced dose-related hypotensive effects, but quinidine was 3-10 times more potent than procainamide. Quinidine frequently caused tachycardia in the donor dogs, while procainamide usually produced bradycardia. Quinidine-induced tachycardia was partially suppressed by vagotomy and completely inhibited or changed to bradycardia after propranolol. In isolated atria, small doses of drugs caused slight negative chronotropic and inotropic effects, frequently accompanied by small and short-lasting increases in contractile force and heart rate. Only decreases in contractile force and rate were observed with large doses. Administration of quinidine and procainamide into the sinus node artery of the isolated atrium induced negative, biphasic, or triphasic changes in chronotropism and inotropism. In isolated atria, quinidine and verapamil depressed the contractile force to a greater extent at higher stimulation frequencies. Procainamide showed less of this effect, because atrial muscle became unresponsive to high-frequency pacing with the larger doses of procainamide. These results suggest that quinidine and procainamide have both cardiac-depressant and -stimulating properties.
