Apolipoprotein E4 (APOE4) allele is an important risk factor for breast cancer and affects clearance of chylomicron remnants. Tamoxifen therapy increases serum triglyceride levels and sometimes inducing severe hypertriglyceridemia in breast cancer patients.
Thirty-three women with breast cancer were recruited to examine the APOE polymorphism and fasting plasma lipid profiles before and after tamoxifen treatment for 6 months.
We found that plasma lipid profiles changed in accordance with the APOE4 allele after tamoxifen treatment for 6 months. Especially plasma triglyceride levels significantly decreased in the APOE4-positive patients (p=0.025), while there was no change in APOE4-negative patients (p=0.189). The total plasma cholesterol levels were reduced in APOE-4 positive patients after 6-month tamoxifen treatment (p=0.014). The levels of plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol and high density lipoprotein cholesterol significantly decreased in both APOE4-negative and APOE4-positive patients.
These findings indicate that the effects of tamoxifen on plasma triglyceride levels are modified by APOE polymorphism. Breast cancer patients with APOE4 allele have low plasma triglyceride levels when receiving tamoxifen therapy. Therefore, we suggest that APOE gene polymorphism is a critical validation before tamoxifen treatment in breast cancer patients.
A total of 43 hospitalized adult patients with acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis or bronchiectasis due to Gram-negative bacteria were randomized to receive either enoxacin (400 mg bd) or amoxycillin (1,000 mg tid) for 7-12 days. Micro-organisms isolated included 24 Haemophilus influenzae (three beta-lactamases positive), 11 Branhamella catarrhalis (six beta-lactamase positive), two Pseudomonas aeruginosa and two Neisseria meningitidis in 37 evaluable patients. In the enoxacin group (23 patients) 82.6% of the patients were clinically cured or improved against 93% of patients in the amoxycillin group (14 patients). In the enoxacin group 76% of the pathogens were eradicated with two failures (P. aeruginosa), one relapse (H. influenzae) and three superinfections (Streptococcus pneumoniae). In the amoxycillin group, 71% of the pathogens were eradicated with 29% relapses. The differences between the two groups were not statistically significant. An increase in theophylline concentration occurred in 15 of 16 patients receiving simultaneous administration of theophylline, without clinical evidence of toxicity when theophylline dosage was reduced and enoxacin continued. Enoxacin appears to be as effective as amoxycillin in the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis due to susceptible Gram-negative bacteria.
Quantitative differences in gene expression are thought to contribute to phenotypic differences between individuals. We generated genome-wide transcriptional profiles of lymphocyte samples from 1,240 participants in the San Antonio Family Heart Study. The expression levels of 85% of the 19,648 detected autosomal transcripts were significantly heritable. Linkage analysis uncovered >1,000 cis-regulated transcripts at a false discovery rate of 5% and showed that the expression quantitative trait loci with the most significant linkage evidence are often located at the structural locus of a given transcript. To highlight the usefulness of this much-enlarged map of cis-regulated transcripts for the discovery of genes that influence complex traits in humans, as an example we selected high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration as a phenotype of clinical importance, and identified the cis-regulated vanin 1 (VNN1) gene as harboring sequence variants that influence high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations.
Furosemide is frequently used for ascites and causes adverse reactions (AR). In an intensive prospective drug monitoring study of 1,920 patients, 172 (8.9%) had cirrhosis of the liver and received furosemide. Mean age was 53 years, and 66.3% were male; and 87% had alcoholic cirrhosis. Eighty-eight (51.2%) had 221 events that by consensus of the monitoring team and attending physicians were either definitely of probably related to furosemide. No AR was fatal but 24% of patients had severe reactions. Almost all reactions were dose-related (96%). The most common were electrolyte disturbances (23.3% of patients) and volume depletion (14%). Furosemide-induced coma occurred in 20 (11.6%) patients and was more frequent in patients with prior hepatic encephalopathy (p less than 0.0005). Higher total doses (p less than 0.001), hyerbilirubinemia (p less than 0.05), prolonged prothrombin time (p less than 0.02), and longer hospital stay (p less than 0.001) were associated with higher frequencies of AR to furosemide. The frequency of hypokalemia did not decrease when potassium chloride or potassium-sparing diuretics were added to furosemide therapy. Frequdncy of AR did not correlate with age, sex, renal impairment, serum albumin, transaminase, or alkaline phosphatase.
Methamphetamine intoxication causes long-lasting damage to dopamine nerve endings in the striatum. The mechanisms underlying this neurotoxicity are not known but oxidative stress has been implicated. Microglia are the major antigen-presenting cells in brain and when activated, they secrete an array of factors that cause neuronal damage. Surprisingly, very little work has been directed at the study of microglial activation as part of the methamphetamine neurotoxic cascade. We report here that methamphetamine activates microglia in a dose-related manner and along a time course that is coincident with dopamine nerve ending damage. Prevention of methamphetamine toxicity by maintaining treated mice at low ambient temperature prevents drug-induced microglial activation. MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine), which damages dopamine nerve endings and cell bodies, causes extensive microglial activation in striatum as well as in the substantia nigra. In contrast, methamphetamine causes neither microglial activation in the substantia nigra nor dopamine cell body damage. Dopamine transporter antagonists (cocaine, WIN 35,428 [(-)-2-beta-carbomethoxy-3-beta-(4-fluorophenyl)tropane 1,5-naphthalenedisulfonate], and nomifensine), selective D1 (SKF 82958 [(+/-)-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide]), D2 (quinpirole), or mixed D1/D2 receptor agonists (apomorphine) do not mimic the effect of methamphetamine on microglia. Hyperthermia, a prominent and dangerous clinical response to methamphetamine intoxication, was also ruled out as the cause of microglial activation. Together, these data suggest that microglial activation represents an early step in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. Other neurochemical effects resulting from methamphetamine-induced overflow of DA into the synapse, but which are not neurotoxic, do not play a role in this response.
The nephrotoxic potentials of a high-osmolar contrast medium, diatrizoate, and of a low-osmolar contrast medium, ioxaglate, were compared during early degenerative gentamicin-induced nephropathy in the rat. Male rats (13-22/group) were uninephrectomized. Six days later, the aorta was clamped above the renal artery, and either diatrizoate or ioxaglate was administered (1 ml/min for 3 min) via an aortic puncture into the remaining kidney. Some of the rats received chronic treatment with gentamicin (50 mg/kg/day i.m., 4 days), starting 2 days before and ending 1 day after contrast medium administration. Two control groups, only one of which received gentamicin, were subjected to a 3-min renal ischemia. The creatinine clearance (CrCl) per 100 g body weight was determined before and 24 and 48 h after contrast medium injection. A second study (6 rats/group) evaluated urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) excretion and the histologic appearance of the kidneys (blinded analysis) in the same experimental groups. Gentamicin induced a significant decrease in CrCl at baseline (0.35 +/- 0.19 vs. 0.41 +/- 0.19 ml/min; p < 0.01) and an increase in urinary NAG (128 +/- 92 vs. 39 +/- 57 mumol/h/mmol creatinine; p < 0.01). Taking into account these differences at baseline, univariate repeated-measures analysis showed that on day 1 diatrizoate caused a more marked decrease in CrCl than ioxaglate (p < 0.05), whether or not gentamicin was also administered. On day 2, the depressant effect of diatrizoate associated with gentamicin persisted (CrCl vs. day 0 = -0.19 +/- 0.10 ml/min), while that of diatrizoate alone returned to baseline (-0.05 +/- 0.24 ml/min).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Thirty-eight patients with collagen diseases undergoing chronic glucocorticoid treatment were studied to assess the effect of a 24 month administration of oral 1 alpha-hydroxyvitamin D (1 alpha-OHD), calcium and thiazide on bone and mineral metabolism. All patients were premenopausal women (mean age = 35 y.o.) and had been treated with prednisolone (mean dose = 11 mg/day). Patients were randomly divided into three groups. Fourteen patients were treated with 0.75 micrograms of 1 alpha-OHD and 400 mg of calcium daily (1 alpha-OHD group). Eleven patients were treated with 1 alpha-OHD, calcium and 4 mg of trichlormethiazide (thiazide group). Thirteen patients did not have any treatment for osteoporosis and served as a patient control group. There were no significant differences in age, underlying disease, dose of glucocorticoid, or pretreatment values of indices of osteoporosis among the three groups. Twenty-four hour urinary calcium excretion had increased above 300 mg/g creatinine at 12 or 24 months after the start of the treatment in 9 patients of the 1 alpha-OHD group, and asymptomatic renal stones developed in 2 of them. However, neither hypercalciuria nor renal stones developed in the thiazide group or the control group. Serum iPTH levels were suppressed significantly in the thiazide group, but did not change in the 1 alpha-OHD group or the control group. Metacarpal index (MCI) and sigma GS/D, indices of microdensitometry method which indicate bone mineral content, had significantly increased after 12 and 24 months in the thiazide group, while these indices did not change significantly in the 1 alpha-OHD group and deteriorated in the control group at 24 months. Seven patients of the control group and 4 of the 1 alpha-OHD group showed deteriorations in Singh's grade compared to only 2 in the thiazide group. Vertebral bone fractures developed in 5 vertebras of the 2 patients in the control group and 4 of the 3 patients in the 1 alpha-OHD group during the 24 months. But none of the thiazide group suffered from bone fractures. It may be concluded that combination therapy with 1 alpha-OHD, calcium and thiazide is effective in the prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis. Long-term administration of 1 alpha-OHD and calcium should be avoided in patients undergoing chronic glucocorticoid therapy because of the risk of the development of nephrolithiasis.
To assess toxicity of D-penicillamine a retrospective chart review was performed on 63 patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving penicillamine. These patients had a total of 83 courses of therapy. The mean age of patients was 52 years and the mean duration of disease was 10.07 years. Laboratory data showed an increase in hematocrit values from 36 per cent to 40 per cent and a decrease in the erythrocyte sedimentation rate from an average of 50 to 29 mm/hour. The platelet count also decreased with treatment from 394,000 to 267,000/mm3. The over-all complication rate was 53 per cent. Life-threatening complications occurred in two patients including one case of aplastic anemia and one case of nephrotic syndrome. One additional patient was referred with aplastic anemia. Minor complications include rash in 18 per cent, loss of taste in 6 per cent, dyspepsia in 11 per cent, oral ulceration in 7 per cent and proteinuria of less than 3 g/day in 8 per cent. In summary, 53 per cent of the courses of penicillamine were associated with toxicity including one episode of aplastic anemia and one case of nephrotic syndrome. Therapy was stopped due to complications in 39 per cent of the patients in this series.
We measured rat brain cortex PO2 (PtO2) with gold microelectrodes (tip diameter 5--10 micron) for up to 2 hours after 16 min of transient global brain ischemia with and without thiopental 90 mg/kg infused iv over 60 min beginning at 5 min postischemia. Seventeen rats were immobilized and mechanically ventilated on 1% halothane in oxygen with continuous monitoring of PtO2, ECG, end-expiratory CO2, rectal temperature, and arterial blood pressure. Global ischemia was induced by trimethaphan hypotension to an MAP of about 50 torr and a neck tourniquet inflated to 1500 torr. Postischemia, nine control rats (11 PtO2 measurements) were untreated and eight rats (8 PtO2 measurements) received thiopental 90 mg/kg. Preischemia, PtO2 values in both groups ranged from less than 5--70 torr with values of greatest frequency between 10 and 15 torr. Postischemia, PtO2 in control rats peaked at 45 +/- 8 (SEM) torr at 20 min. In thiopental treated rats, peak PtO2 was 24 +/- 6 torr at 10 min postischemia. Relative frequency histograms of PtO2 revealed that PtO2 in thiopental treated rats was lower (p less than 0.05) between 15 and 30 min postischemia. The magnitude of the decrease in PtO2 between 105 and 120 min postischemia appeared to correlate directly with the absolute preischemic value (i.e., the higher the preischemic PtO2, the greater the decrease in PtO2 postischemia). These results suggest that thiopental administered in large doses in early postischemia does not improve brain oxygenation secondary to a reduction in brain oxygen consumption. The relevance of the correlation between the magnitude of the fall in PtO2 postischemia and the magnitude of the preischemic value is discussed.
The central action of nomifensine (NF), a new antidepressive drug, was studied in rats and mice. NF stimulates locomotor activity in normal animals as well as in animals whose motor activity has been depressed by reserpine, alpha-methyltyrosine (alpha-MT), bis-(4-methyl-1-homopiperazinyl-thiocarbonyl)-disulfide (Fla-63) or phenoxybenzamine. The sedation produced by alpha-MT plus reserpine or by spiroperidol is not affected by NF. NF induces stereotypy in the rat and antagonizes the catalepsy induced in the rat by neuroleptics, pilocarpine and arecoline. The catalepsy induced by alpha-MT plus reserpine is not influenced. NF elevates the brain levels of serotonin (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) in the rat. These and previous results indicate that the profile of action of NF differs both from that of known tricyclic antidepressive drugs and that of dopaminergic stimulants.
Six marrow transplant recipients receiving acyclovir at various dosages for herpesvirus infections developed neurologic symptoms during treatment. Three were receiving concomitant human alpha interferon, and all six had received previous intrathecal methotrexate. Symptoms developed a median of 8 days (range, 2 to 18 days) after initiation of therapy and consisted of lethargy or agitation in five patients, tremor in five, and disorientation or transient hemiparesthesias in one patient each. The only consistent laboratory finding was an abnormal electroencephalogram. Five patients had an increased myelin basic protein level in cerebrospinal fluid. Improvement or resolution of symptoms occurred a median of 13 days (range, 4 to 15 days) after cessation of acyclovir therapy. Acyclovir used at a wide range of dosages may be associated with reversible neurologic symptoms in patients after marrow transplantation. The contribution of previous prophylaxis for central nervous system leukemia, herpesvirus infections, marrow transplantation, or the concomitant use of interferon is unknown.
A case of halothane hepatitis occurring 14 months after jejunoileal bypass for morbid obesity in a 49-year-old woman is described. Hepatic dysfunction after bypass procedures is especially seen in the weight losing phase, and has been ascribed to protein malnutrition. Halothane is considered immunogenic and it is possible that the hepatitis was provoked by repeated halothane administrations due to the patient's altered immunological competence.
We report the first case of acute drug-induced aseptic meningitis (DIAM) due to rifampin in a young female with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). DIAM is uncommon and its diagnosis is often difficult. This type of drug hypersensitivity is more frequently observed in patients with a history of auto-immune disease, particularly SLE. The major categories of causative agents are: nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antimicrobials, intravenous immunoglobulins and biotherapies.
Exposure of cells to toxic chemical species can result in reduced glutathione (GSH) depletion, generation of free radicals, and/or binding to critical cell determinants. Chemical stress is usually followed by a concerted cellular response aimed at restoring homeostasis, although the precise initial stimulus for the response is unclear. We have focused on one component of this stress response, the up-regulation of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (gamma-GCS) and the preceding molecular events involved in its regulation in an in vivo mouse model. Male CD-1 mice received buthionine sulphoximine (BSO; 7.2 mmol/kg), diethyl maleate (DEM; 4.2 mmol/kg), paracetamol (APAP; 3.5 and 1.0 mmol/kg), or carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4); 1.0 and 0.2 mmol/kg). Biochemical (serum transaminase and hepatic GSH levels) and molecular (c-jun and c-fos messenger RNA [mRNA] levels and activator protein 1 [AP-1] DNA binding activity) parameters were measured, as well as the consequent effects on gamma-GCS levels and activity. All compounds produced GSH depletion, but only the higher doses of APAP and CCl(4) caused liver damage. DEM, APAP, and CCl(4) increased c-jun and c-fos mRNA levels, together with an increase in AP-1 binding; BSO failed to induce AP-1 despite an increase in c-fos. Interestingly, the effects on gamma-GCS varied markedly according to the compound: BSO and DEM increased gamma-GCS enzyme activity, although only DEM, but not BSO, resulted in an increase in gamma-GCS(h) mRNA and protein. In contrast, APAP and CCl(4) both increased gamma-GCS(h) mRNA and protein; however, there was a marked dose-dependent decrease in gamma-GCS activity. These data indicate that the effect of chemical stress on the liver is compound specific and is not merely dependent on depletion of GSH.
In 5 cases with minimal change nephritis Cyclosporine A has been added to the conventional steroid therapy, when relapse of nephrotic syndrome occurred while reducing the daily prednisolone dose. The intended cyclosporine trough level ranged from 250 ng/ml to 450 ng/ml whole blood, estimated by the RIA method. Proteinuria disappeared in 4 out of the 5 cases, in the other one urinary protein excretion was strikingly reduced. In the 4 cases with complete remission of proteinuria prednisolone was tapered. These patients have cyclosporine A as the sole immunosuppressive drug since 56 weeks and do not show proteinuria. Side effects of cyclosporine therapy have been slight deterioration of kidney function in 2 out of the 5 cases and the occurrence of hypertension in 4 patients.
To identify novel methylation-silenced genes in gastric cancers, we carried out a chemical genomic screening, a genome-wide search for genes upregulated by treatment with a demethylating agent, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC). After 5-aza-dC treatment of a gastric cancer cell line (AGS) 579 genes were upregulated 16-fold or more, using an oligonucleotide microarray with 39,000 genes. From these genes, we selected 44 known genes on autosomes whose silencing in gastric cancer has not been reported. Thirty-two of these had CpG islands (CGI) in their putative promoter regions, and all of the CGI were methylated in AGS, giving an estimated number of 421+/-75 (95% confidence interval) methylation-silenced genes. Additionally, we analyzed the methylation status of 16 potential tumor-related genes with promoter CGI that were upregulated four-fold or more, and 14 of these were methylated in AGS. Methylation status of the 32 randomly selected and 16 potential tumor-related genes was analyzed in 10 primary gastric cancers, and 42 genes (ABHD9, ADFP, ALDH1A3, ANXA5, AREG, BDNF, BMP7, CAV1, CDH2, CLDN3, CTSL, EEF1A2, F2R, FADS1, FSD1, FST, FYN, GPR54, GREM1, IGFBP3, IGFBP7, IRS2, KISS1, MARK1, MLF1, MSX1, MTSS1, NT5E, PAX6, PLAGL1, PLAU, PPIC, RBP4, RORA, SCRN1, TBX3, TFAP2C, TNFSF9, ULBP2, WIF1, ZNF177 and ZNF559) were methylated in at least one primary gastric cancer. A metastasis suppressor gene, MTSS1, was located in a genomic region with frequent loss of heterozygosity (8q22), and was expressed abundantly in the normal gastric mucosa, suggesting its role in gastric carcinogenesis. (Cancer Sci 2006; 97: 64 -71).
Studies of primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) have been hampered by the lack of a suitable animal model because disruption of essential ciliary genes in mice results in a high incidence of lethal hydrocephalus. To develop a viable mouse model for long-term studies of PCD, we have generated a transgenic mouse line in which two conserved exons of the mouse intermediate dynein chain gene, Dnaic1, are flanked by loxP sites (Dnaic1(flox/flox)). Dnaic1 is the murine homolog of human DNAI1, which is mutated in approximately 10% of human PCD cases. These mice have been crossed with mice expressing a tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase (CreER). Treatment of adult Dnaic1(flox/flox)/CreER(+/-) mice with tamoxifen results in an almost complete deletion of Dnaic1 with no evidence of hydrocephalus. Treated animals have reduced levels of full-length Dnaic1 mRNA, and electron micrographs of cilia demonstrate a loss of outer dynein arm structures. In treated Dnaic1(flox/flox)/CreER(+/-) animals, mucociliary clearance (MCC) was reduced over time. After approximately 3 months, no MCC was observed in the nasopharynx, whereas in the trachea, MCC was observed for up to 6 months, likely reflecting a difference in the turnover of ciliated cells in these tissues. All treated animals developed severe rhinosinusitis, demonstrating the importance of MCC to the health of the upper airways. However, no evidence of lung disease was observed up to 11 months after Dnaic1 deletion, suggesting that other mechanisms are able to compensate for the lack of MCC in the lower airways of mice. This model will be useful for the study of the pathogenesis and treatment of PCD.
Combining apoptosis induction with anti-invasive and anti-angiogenic treatment is gaining increasing attention as a promising strategy for cancer chemoprevention. In the present study, eugenol (4-allyl-2-methoxyphenol) was evaluated for its chemopreventive effects on N-methyl-N(')-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)-induced gastric carcinogenesis in Wistar rats by analyzing markers of apoptosis, invasion and angiogenesis.
The expressions of markers of apoptosis (Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, Bax, Apaf-1, cytochrome C, caspase-9, caspase-3 and poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase; PARP), invasion (matrix metalloproteinase-2; MMP-2, matrix metalloproteinase-9; MMP-9, reversion-inducing cysteine rich protein with Kazal motifs; RECK and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase-2; TIMP-2) and angiogenesis (vascular endothelial growth factor; VEGF and VEGF receptor1; VEGFR1) in stomach tissue of experimental and control animals were measured by gelatin zymogram, immunohistochemical, Western blot and RT-PCR analysis.
Rats administered MNNG developed gastric carcinomas that displayed apoptosis avoidance coupled to upregulation of pro-invasive and angiogenic factors. Administration of eugenol induced apoptosis via the mitochondrial pathway by modulating the Bcl-2 family proteins, Apaf-1, cytochrome C, and caspases and inhibiting invasion, and angiogenesis as evidenced by changes in the activities of MMPs and the expression of MMP-2 and -9, VEGF, VEGFR1, TIMP-2 and RECK.
Phytochemicals such as eugenol that are capable of manipulating the equilibrium between pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins as well as the delicate balance between stimulators and inhibitors of invasion and angiogenesis are attractive candidates for preventing tumour progression.
We report the safety and tolerability of 87 infusions of lentiviral vector–modified autologous CD4 T cells (VRX496-T; trade name, Lexgenleucel-T) in 17 HIV patients with well-controlled viremia. Antiviral effects were studied during analytic treatment interruption in a subset of 13 patients. VRX496-T was associated with a decrease in viral load set points in 6 of 8 subjects (P = .08). In addition, A → G transitions were enriched in HIV sequences after infusion, which is consistent with a model in which transduced CD4 T cells exert antisense-mediated genetic pressure on HIV during infection. Engraftment of vector-modified CD4 T cells was measured in gut-associated lymphoid tissue and was correlated with engraftment in blood. The engraftment half-life in the blood was approximately 5 weeks, with stable persistence in some patients for up to 5 years. Conditional replication of VRX496 was detected periodically through 1 year after infusion. No evidence of clonal selection of lentiviral vector–transduced T cells or integration enrichment near oncogenes was detected. This is the first demonstration that gene-modified cells can exert genetic pressure on HIV. We conclude that gene-modified T cells have the potential to decrease the fitness of HIV-1 and conditionally replicative lentiviral vectors have a promising safety profile in T cells.
This is a case study in managing refractory status epilepticus under long-term usage of secobarbital (SB). The patient is a 26-year-old woman with viral encephalitis. Fifteen days after the onset of the disease, status epilepticus with complex partial seizures began. The seizures were so refractory to conventional anti-epileptic drugs, such as valproate, carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, clonazepam, lorazepam and lidocaine, that we had to put her on anesthesia with SB for approximately 10 months. Finally, we stopped the administration of SB and support for ventilation; we reduced the dose of SB extremely slowly, using zonisamide at the same time. After trial and error, we found that a reduction of the dosage after long-term anesthesia with high-dose administrations of barbiturate should be made very slowly.
Excess manganese (Mn) is potentially toxic resulting in a permanent neurodegenerative disorder, clinically known as "manganism" that is distinctive for hepaticencephalopathy. The present study was designed to explore the toxic impacts of subacute Mn exposure on brain and liver tissues, and the relative abilities of lycopene in averting such neurohepatic damage. Rats were daily injected with MnCl(2) (0 or 6mg/kg, i.p.) 20 days after lycopene administration (0 or 10mg/kg, p.o.), and killed 4 weeks after MnCl(2) exposure. MnCl(2)-induced lipid peroxidation and perturbation in antioxidant system, increase of acetylcholinesterase, aminotransferases, and decrease alkaline phosphatase, and lactate dehydrogenase activities with hyperglycemia as demonstrated by Alzheimer type II astrocytosis, and periportal hepatic necrosis and apoptosis were prevented by lycopene. However, lycopene did not prevent the increased body burden of Mn and the altered Fe and Cu homeostasis induced by MnCl(2). Glutathione S-transferase and catalase activities, and glutathione content were reduced in MnCl(2)-challenged rats, and sustained by lycopene. Our results indicate that although lycopene failed to reduce Mn concentration or retain disturbed elemental status; it appears to be a highly effective in alleviating its neurohepatic deleterious effects by preventing lipid peroxidation, hyperglycemia and changes in the activity of acetylcholinesterase and hepatobiliary enzymes, and antioxidant pathways.
Valproic acid (VPA), an established antiepileptic and antimanic drug, has recently emerged as a promising neuroprotective agent. Among its many cellular targets, VPA has been recently demonstrated to be an effective inhibitor of histone deacetylases. Accordingly, we have adopted a schedule of dietary administration (2% VPA added to the chow) that results in a significant inhibition of histone deacetylase activity and in an increase of histone H3 acetylation in brain tissues of 4 weeks-treated rats. We have tested this schedule of VPA treatment in an animal model of Parkinson's disease (PD), in which degeneration of nigro-striatal dopaminergic neurons is obtained through sub-chronic administration of the mitochondrial toxin, rotenone, via osmotic mini pumps implanted to rats. The decrease of the dopaminergic marker tyrosine hydroxylase in substantia nigra and striatum caused by 7 days toxin administration was prevented in VPA-fed rats. VPA treatment also significantly counteracted the death of nigral neurons and the 50% drop of striatal dopamine levels caused by rotenone administration. The PD-marker protein alpha-synuclein decreased, in its native form, in substantia nigra and striatum of rotenone-treated rats, while monoubiquitinated alpha-synuclein increased in the same regions. VPA treatment counteracted both these alpha-synuclein alterations. Furthermore, monoubiquitinated alpha-synuclein increased its localization in nuclei isolated from substantia nigra of rotenone-treated rats, an effect also prevented by VPA treatment. Nuclear localization of alpha-synuclein has been recently described in some models of PD and its neurodegenerative effect has been ascribed to histone acetylation inhibition. Thus, the ability of VPA to increase histone acetylation is a novel candidate mechanism for its neuroprotective action.
We demonstrated previously that amlodipine, a dihydropyridine Ca(2+) channel blocker, exhibits antitumor effects on human epidermoid carcinoma A431 cells both in vitro and in vivo, in part through inhibition of capacitative Ca(2+) entry. In this study, we examined the effects of amlodipine on cell cycle distribution and cell cycle regulatory molecules in A431 cells, since a rise in intracellular Ca(2+) is required at several points during cell cycle progression. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that treatment with amlodipine (20-30muM, for 24h) induced G1 phase cell accumulation. The amlodipine-induced G1 arrest was associated with a decrease in phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein (pRB), a regulator of G1 to S phase transition, reduction of protein levels of cyclin D1 and cyclin dependent kinase 4 (CDK4), G1 specific cell cycle proteins, and increased expression of p21(Waf1/Cip1), an inhibitory protein of CDK/cyclin complexes. In vitro kinase assay revealed that amlodipine significantly decreased CDK2-, CDK4-, and their partners cyclin E- and cyclin D1-associated kinase activities. The amlodipine-induced reductions in cyclin D1 protein expression and in CDK2 kinase activity were reproduced by a dihydropyridine derivative, nicardipine, having an inhibitory effect on A431 cell growth, but not by nifedipine, lacking the antiproliferative activity. Our results demonstrate that amlodipine caused G1 cell cycle arrest and growth inhibition in A431 cells through induction of p21(Waf1/Cip1) expression, inhibition of CDK/cyclin-associated kinase activities, and reduced phosphorylation of pRB.
The kindred described is the only known instance of a germ line loss of function mutation of estrogen receptor (ER)-alpha.
Our objective was to assess the impact of a loss of function mutation in the ER-alpha gene on histomorphometry, bone volumetric density, bone geometry and skeletal growth, and ER-alpha heterozygosity on spine density and adult height in an extended pedigree.
A longitudinal follow-up of the propositus with homozygous loss of function mutation of ER-alpha and single contact evaluation of the kindred were performed.
Iliac crest bone biopsy and peripheral quantitative computed tomography of propositus with serial measures of areal spine bone mineral density (aBMD) by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry and bone age were performed. Members of pedigree were evaluated for ER-alpha mutation carrier status and spine aBMD.
Bone biopsy revealed marked osteopenia (cortex: 641 microm), low trabecular volume (10.6%), decreased thickness (76.2 microm), normal trabecular number, and low activation frequency (0.099/yr). Radial periosteal circumference was similar, endosteal circumference larger, and trabecular and cortical volumetric bone mineral density markedly lower (158 and 1092 mg/cm(3), respectively) than controls. Spine aBMD at age 28.5 yr (0.745 g/cm(2)) decreased to 0.684 g/cm(2) (Z score -3.85) in 3.5 yr. Bone age advanced from 15-17.5 yr. Kindred analysis revealed that gene carriers had spine aBMD Z scores less than zero (P = 0.003), but carriers and nonmutant members were similar (-0.84 +/- 0.26 vs. -0.64 +/- 0.16).
Homozygous ER-alpha disruption markedly affects bone growth, mineral content, and structure but not periosteal circumference. ER-alpha heterozygosity appears to not impair spine aBMD.
Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a poorly understood disease, both in terms of its pathogenesis and the mechanism of action of its most common treatment, ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA). We used gene expression profiling to compare liver tissue from treatment-naïve and UDCA-treated patients in order to outline some of the molecular changes associated with PBC and its treatment. PATIENTS AND EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Liver biopsy specimens from non-cirrhotic, treatment-naïve (n=11) patients were compared with biopsies from UDCA-treated patients (n=20) and with 10 normal, healthy female controls. Gene expression was determined using a 19K cDNA microarray. In order to determine whether the observed changes in gene expression levels were specific to PBC or generic to liver damage overall, PBC samples were also compared with chronically diseased [48 hepatitis C virus (HCV), 18 hepatitis B virus (HBV)] and acutely stressed liver tissue (25 liver biopsies taken after reperfusion of liver transplant grafts).
We found a gene signature specific to PBC (P<or=0.012), containing biologically plausible genes (221 genes with adjusted P</=0.05). Differences in the expression of selected genes were confirmed using real-time polymerase chain reaction. When gene expression from non-cirrhotic UDCA-treated (n=20) and UDCA-naïve liver tissue was compared, we found a striking downregulation of a number of genes involved in protein biosynthetic pathways.
These studies highlight the genes associated with both treatment-naïve and UDCA-treated PBC, and suggest that the effects of UDCA are mediated, at least in part, via a modulation of protein biosynthesic pathways.
The intraocular pressure response to timolol ophthalmic solution, a beta-adrenergic blocking agent, was tested in two groups of open angle glaucoma patients using the 0,1% and the 0,5% solution. The 0.5% concentration gave a mean IOP reduction of 13 mm Hg in 39 glaucomatous eyes, corresponding to 46% of the pretreatment pressure level. The 0,1% concentration resulted in an average pressure decrease of 11,5 mm Hg in 22 glaucomatous eyes, corresponding to 40% of the pretreatment pressure levels. With both solutions a reduction of the first day's response was noted after repeated administration of timolol. In all patients tested timolol was tolerated well subjectively and objectively without any side effects. Timolol did not affect blood pressure or pulse rate. Tear production was not reduced after topical application of timolol. Pupillary diameter and facility of outflow were not changed significantly under therapy. It is concluded, that timolol acts primarily by reduction of aqueous inflow. The advantages of timolol as antiglaucomatous drug not affecting visual functions like miotics are discussed.
A 40-year old white female who was a heavy smoker and who was on oral contraceptives presented at the Maine Medical Center Emergency Room with widespread vascular thrombosis in the forearm and hand six days after injury. Brachial, ulnar and radial arteriotomies were performed and blood flow was restored to all of the hand except the distal ring finger. The patient was forbidden to smoke but resumed smoking on the 8th postoperative day. Thrombosis rapidly progressed and 4 weeks later she underwent amputation of the ring and little fingers. The widespread thrombosis on the patient's hand was attributed to nicotine which increases peripheral vasoconstriction. Smoking has been associated with increased platelet adhesions and subsequent coagulation. It has also been implicated in occlusive vascular disease of the hand and is said to have a mark effect on both digital perfusion and digital wound healing in a patient with ulnar artery thrombosis. Pills also increase coagulability and contributes to widespread thrombotic disease. Early diagnosis of patient's thrombosis and aggressive management including arteriography would have prevented our patient's thrombosis with its sequelae of loss of 2 digits and cold sensitive hand.
