Transcriptomic evaluations may improve toxicity prediction of in vitro-based developmental models. In this study, transcriptomics was used to identify VPA-induced gene expression changes in rat whole embryo culture (WEC). Furthermore, VPA-induced responses were compared across in vitro-based developmental models, such as the cardiac and neural embryonic stem cells (ESTc and ESTn, respectively) and the zebrafish embryotoxicity model. VPA-induced gene regulation in WEC corresponded with observed morphological effects and previously suggested mechanisms of toxicity. Gene Ontology term-directed analysis showed conservation of VPA-induced gene expression changes across in vitro-based developmental models, with ESTc and ESTn exhibiting complementary responses. Furthermore, comparison of in vitro-based developmental and non-developmental models revealed that more generalized VPA-induced effects can be detected using non-developmental models whereas developmental models provide added value when assessing developmental-specific effects. These analyses can be used to optimize test batteries for the detection of developmental toxicants in vitro.
Zafirlukast, a competitive cysteinyl leukotriene receptor antagonist, is a new class of asthma medications. It has shown an adverse event profile similar to that of placebo. Herein, we present a 69-year-old female patient who suffered from general malaise, poor appetite, nausea and jaundice after 3 months of zafirlukast therapy for asthma. She had no past history of liver disease, nor history of alcoholism, herb medication, blood transfusion, acupuncture, tattoo or recent traveling history. Liver biochemistries revealed elevated serum alanine aminotransferase and aspartase aminotransferase levels up to 481 U/L and 212 U/L, respectively. Moreover, peak serum total bilirubin level was elevated to 34.8 mg/dL during admission. Serum viral hepatitis marker, antinuclear antibody, anti-mitochondrial antibody and anti-smooth muscle antibody were all negative. Her general condition and liver biochemistries improved gradually after zafirlukast was discontinued. Roussel Uclaf causality assessment for adverse drug reaction confirmed the diagnosis of drug-induced liver injury. This case reminds us that zafirlukast is a potentially hepato-toxic drug. If clinical manifestations of hepatitis develop, patients should be managed cautiously and closely monitored for liver biochemistries. If drug-induced hepatitis is suspected, medication should be discontinued immediately to prevent further liver injury.
Human preterm birth (PTB) is a complex medical outcome influenced by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Research on the causative factors of PTB has mostly focused on demographic, socio-behavioral and environmental risk factors. Recent studies turn the spotlight on the effects of heavy metals exposure on adverse pregnancy outcomes. Here we present and evaluate the hypothesis that heavy metals may cause PTB through oxidative stress, and that this effect may be modified by polymorphisms in genes related to oxidative stress. Indeed, accumulating data suggest that the risk of PTB is correlated with polymorphisms in genes involved in detoxification, oxidative stress and lipid metabolism. These and other polymorphisms have independently been associated with susceptibility to the adverse effects of heavy metals.
Sulfasalazine, a commonly prescribed drug for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, can cause an allergic reaction with hepatotoxicity, lymphadenopathy, and rash. In addition, many hematologic complications have been observed with sulfasalazine, including aplastic anemia, thrombocytopenia, and erythroid hypoplasia. However, thrombocytopenia in association with sulfasalazine hypersensitivity has not been previously reported. We report a child who developed severe thrombocytopenia and anemia during a hypersensitivity reaction to sulfasalazine.
Both organophosphate (OP) and carbamate pesticides may produce seizures and death commonly attributed to the inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and subsequent excess of acetylcholine (ACh). The anticonvulsant and neuroprotective properties of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists in animals encouraged us to investigate their effects on the toxic and convulsant properties of OP and carbamate pesticides. Adult Swiss mice were systemically injected with the OP pesticide, chlorfenvinphos (CVP), or the carbamate pesticide, methomyl (MET). Both CVP and MET induced dose-dependent seizure activity and death in mice. Pretreatment with the muscarinic antagonist, atropine (ATR), at a dose of 1.8 mg/kg did not prevent seizures but decreased the lethal effects of CVP and MET. Pretreatment with the NMDA antagonists, dizocilpine (MK-801) at a dose of 1 mg/kg or 3-((R,S)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) at a dose of 10 mg/kg, influenced neither MET-induced seizures nor CVP- or MET-induced death. However, both MK-801 and CPP blocked CVP-induced seizures. Concurrent administration of ATR and the NMDA antagonists prevented seizures produced by CVP, but not those produced by MET. Nevertheless, both MK801 and CPP coadministered with ATR markedly enhanced its antilethal effects in CVP- and MET-intoxicated mice. The antidotes had no influence upon brain AChE activities in mice treated with saline or CVP or MET. It seems that combined treatment with ATR and NMDA receptor antagonists might be of clinical relevance.
Aging is associated with increased risk of anemia, poor nutrition, chronic illness, and impaired folate status. We aimed to investigate and compare folate status in long-term care psychogeriatric patients (LTCPP) and in post-acute care psychogeriatric patients (PACPP). This is a cross-sectional study conducted in a psychogeriatric medical center with long-term care and post-acute care wards. A total number of 553 LTCPP and 373 PACPP were studied. Low serum folic acid levels were found in 10% of LTCPP and in 13% of PACPP. Folic acid anemia (FAA) was found in 67% of LTCPP and 87% of PACPP (P = 0.046) with low serum folate levels. Mean levels of serum folate were similar but red blood cells folate (RBC-folate) was higher in PACPP (P = 0.025) and in males compared with women (P = 0.009). 56% of PACPP and 68% of LTCPP who had folic acid anemia presented with another type of anemia. Anemia of chronic disease was the most frequent coexisting anemia and was found in 65% of LTCPP and 52% of PACPP, followed by B12 deficiency anemia and iron deficiency anemia. We conclude that PACPP represent only a slightly different group, compared with LTCPP, with regard to the folate status. These high rates of folate and RBC-folate deficiencies, as well as of FAA and coexisting anemia, call for a routine evaluation of folate status in all psychogeriatric patients, whether LTCPP or PACPP.
A 13-year-old girl with nephrotic syndrome (NS) developed acute leucoencephalopathy during combination therapy with cyclosporin A (CyA) and prednisolone (PSL). The patient had a generalized motor seizure followed by coma at 19 days after CyA administration. Magnetic resonance scanning performed on the 1st hospital day revealed white matter lesions in the subcortices of the parietal and occipital lobes, brain stem and cerebellum. These lesions had completely resolved on the 10th hospital day. This episode might be caused by CyA because the clinical course and laboratory data revealed neither inflammation nor other causative factors. To our knowledge, this is the first report of acute leucoencephalopathy during combination therapy with CyA and PSL in a patient with NS.
Hypotension induced by nifedipine and chlorpromazine is discussed, together with the role of noradrenaline in the correction of this problem, which was resistant to other forms of therapy.
Two children who developed acute renal failure in the immediate post-renal transplantation period are presented. Each was immunosuppressed with cyclosporin and was also receiving oral acyclovir for prophylaxis against cytomegalovirus infection. Renal biopsy findings suggested drug toxicity. Discontinuation of acyclovir coincided with reversal of renal impairment. As cyclosporin levels were at the lower end of the therapeutic range, we believe acyclovir to be the likely causative agent.
We reviewed the charts of 84 patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) whom we had followed over the past 12 years, and identified 51 treated with acetazolamide (AZM) either because of a poor response to conventional antiepileptic drugs or to avoid valproate-associated adverse effects. Among the 51 we could isolate the effect of AZM on the generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS) of JME in thirty-one. Chronic AZM monotherapy controlled GTCS in 14 of 31 patients. Most tolerated AZM very well; 5, however, developed renal calculi. Chronic AZM monotherapy controls GTCS in some patients with JME, but the development of renal calculi may limit its usefulness.
Disulfiram is a drug used since 1940 in the treatment of alcohol dependence. However, it is not a completely safe drug; there are in the literature some case reports of more severe reaction than the usual "acetaldehyde syndrome" secondary to ingestion of disulfiram and alcohol. We describe a case of a 45-year-old, chronic alcoholic man in treatment with disulfiram, who suffered an acute anterior myocardial infarction, successfully treated with thrombolysis. The possible factors precipitating acute myocardial infarction in this patient are discussed.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) can relieve dyskinesias effectively and safely. This modality is applied most commonly in the treatment of dyskinesias associated with levodopa therapy for Parkinson disease. The subthalamic nucleus (STN) and globus pallidus internus (GPi) are the most common surgical targets. Deep brain stimulation of the GP has a direct antidyskinetic effect, whereas relief of dyskinesias by DBS of the STN depends on postoperative reduction of dopaminergic medications. Outcomes are similar for DBS in these two sites despite the different mechanisms by which the stimulation relieves dyskinesias. Deep brain stimulation of the STN has become the surgical treatment of choice in many movement disorders programs but this modality has not been compared with DBS of the GPi in randomized controlled trials, and the superiority of one site over the other remains unproven. In the absence of data demonstrating superiority, selection of the stimulation target should be individualized to meet the needs of each patient. Selection of the target should be based on the patient's most disabling symptoms, response to medications (including side effects), and the goals of therapy, with consideration given to the different antidyskinetic effects of DBS of the STN and GPi.
Conazoles are a class of azole fungicides used to prevent fungal growth in agriculture, for treatment of fungal infections, and are found to be tumorigenic in rats and/or mice. In this study, cultured primary rat hepatocytes were treated to two different concentrations (0.3 and 0.15 mM) of triadimefon, which is a tumorigenic conazole in rat and mouse liver, on a temporal basis with daily media change. Following treatment, cells were harvested for microarray data ranging from 6 to 72 h. Supernatant was collected daily for three days, and the concentrations of various metabolites in the media and supernatant were quantified. Gene expression changes were most significant following exposure to 0.3 mM triadimefon and were characterized mainly by metabolic pathways related to carbohydrate, lipid and amino acid metabolism. Correspondingly, metabolic network flexibility analysis demonstrated a switch from fatty acid synthesis to fatty acid oxidation in cells exposed to triadimefon. It is likely that fatty acid oxidation is active in order to supply energy required for triadimefon detoxification. In 0.15 mM triadimefon treatment, the hepatocytes are able to detoxify the relatively low concentration of triadimefon with less pronounced changes in hepatic metabolism.
Neurological involvement occurs in 10 to 28% of patients with Behçet's disease.
We report a case of neurological pseudotumoral presentation of Behçet's in a patient with a long standing disease treated with low dose of prednisone and colchicine (1 mg/day), 2 months after withdrawal of colchicine.
Neurological manifestations during Behçet disease can be secondary to direct central nervous system involvement (encephalitis, encephalomyelitis) or vascular angitis (essentially cerebral venous thrombosis and, rarely, intracranial aneurysms). Neurological pseudotumoral presentation is rarely reported.
To describe a patient with ifosfamide-induced nonconvulsive status epilepticus.
A 71-year-old woman with a history of malignant mixed mesodermal tumor involving the uterus, cervix, and vagina was admitted because of local recurrence. After receiving 3 doses of ifosfamide/mesna, she was found to be unresponsive. Physical examination and laboratory data revealed no significant changes. An electroencephalogram was consistent with the diagnosis of nonconvulsive status epilepticus. The patient's mental status returned to baseline after treatment with intravenous phenytoin and discontinuation of ifosfamide therapy.
Central nervous system (CNS) toxicity has been described with ifosfamide, with most cases reported in the pediatric population. Among CNS toxicities, generalized tonic-clonic seizures have been reported in both children and adults. This represents the first report of nonconvulsive status epilepticus induced by ifosfamide.
There was a temporal relationship between the onset of nonconvulsive status epilepticus and initiation of ifosfamide infusion. No other identifiable factor contributed to the unresponsiveness.
The main abnormalities associated with the increased risk of venous thrombosis are the inherited deficiencies of antithrombin, protein C, protein S, the point mutations known as factor V Leiden and factor II G20210A. The association of other specific genes with thrombotic risk is less known. G-308A polymorphism in the promoter area of the gene coding for tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) is associated with an increased transcription activity of this gene, increased TNF-α production and subsequent predisposition to some illnesses. The aim of this work was to study the link between this polymorphism and predisposition to deep venous thrombosis (DVT). The research determined the frequency of the variant allele -308A in the gene for TNF-α in a group of 67 patients diagnosed with DVT and in a group of 62 healthy volunteers. We confirmed statistically significant link between the occurrence of the variant allele -308A and DVT (P = 0.02). This mutation was associated with a 2.64-fold greater risk of venous thrombosis, 95% confidence interval (1.19-5.87). When excluding heterozygous and homozygous carriers of the Leiden mutation from both groups, the difference between the occurrence of the variant allele -308A in the groups of ill and healthy individuals remained statistically significant (P = 0.04). The statistical significance was also confirmed after the exclusion of patients with mutation in the gene for prothrombin (P = 0.02). The results of this work imply possible association between the variant allele -308A and the development of DVT.
The normal cardiovascular response to hydralazine in urethane-anesthetized rats, i.e. hypotension and tachycardia, was changed to hypotension and bradycardia if the body temperature of the animals was not maintained constant by external heating, but was allowed to decrease spontaneously throughout the experiment. A similar phenomenon was observed with diazoxide. In rats maintained at a rectal temperature of 31 degrees C, hydralazine bradycardia was partially blocked by a low dose of atropine and was reversed to tachycardia by a high dose of this agent; mecamylamine failed to influence heart rate lowering in this condition. Heart rate responses in unheated animals to acetylcholine and isopropylarterenol were respectively potentiated and depressed when compared to responses in heated rats. These findings suggest that cold-induced reciprocal changes in reactivity of cardiac muscarinic and beta-adrenoceptors may be responsible for reversal of hydralazine or diazoxide tachycardia in urethane-anesthetized hypothermic rats. As a result, cardiac stimulation by the sympatho-adrenal discharge induced by hypotension is inhibited, while cardiac depression which is apparently also induced by hypotension, is facilitated. It is speculated that vasopressin, released as a consequence of the blood pressure fall, could be this negative chronotropic factor.
Eleven psychotic patients treated with neuroleptics for 1 month showed a relatively poor response, more side effects, and a no-tolerance pattern with respect to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) homovanillic acid (HVA). Within this group the severity of neuroleptic catatonia and Parkinsonian side effects was positively associated with an increase in CSF HVA turnover during the treatment period.
A leiomyosarcoma of the urinary bladder occurred in a 17-year-old boy who was treated with a total dose of 67 g cyclophosphamide over a period of 5 years for Hodgkin's disease diagnosed at the age of 4. Cyclophosphamide was discontinued at the age of 9 because of gross hematuria, and intermittent hematuria recurred 8 years after (at the age of 17) the cessation of this drug. A large exophytic tumor found in the urinary bladder was diagnosed as leiomyosarcoma by light and electron microscopic studies. In addition, there were microscopic features of long-term cyclophosphamide toxicity throughout the bladder wall.
The authors demonstrate that high-frequency electrical stimulation dorsal to the subthalamic nucleus (STN) can directly suppress levodopa-induced dyskinesias. This 63-year-old woman with idiopathic Parkinson disease underwent surgery for placement of bilateral subthalamic deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrodes to control progressive rigidity, motor fluctuations, and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The model 3389 DBS leads were implanted with microelectrode guidance. Magnetic resonance imaging confirmed proper placement of the leads. Postoperatively the patient exhibited improvement in all of her parkinsonian symptoms; however, her right leg dyskinesias had not improved. Based on their previous experiences treating levodopa-induced dyskinesias with subthalamic stimulation through the more dorsally located contacts of the model 3387 lead, the authors withdrew the implanted 3389 lead 3 mm. Following relocation of the lead they were able to suppress the right leg dyskinesias by using the most dorsal contacts. The patient's dopaminergic medication intake increased slightly. These findings indicate that electrical stimulation dorsal to the STN can directly suppress levodopa-induced dyskinesias independent of dopaminergic medication changes. The 3389 lead may provide inadequate coverage of the subthalamic region for some patients.
12-Methoxyethanol (2-ME), also known as Methyl Cellosolve, was applied on the backs of Sprague-Dawley male rats at dose levels of 0, 625, 1250, or 2500 mg/kg/day on occluded (covered) sites, and 0, 1250, 2500, or 5000 mg/kg/day on nonoccluded (uncovered) sites for 7 consecutive days. Because deaths occurred at a dose level of 2500 mg/kg/day among rats with occluded test sites, dosing of this group was discontinued after 5 days. The number and morphology of caudal epididymal sperm, number of testicular spermatids, and weights of reproductive organs were determined on Weeks 4, 7, 10, and 15; fertility was assessed on Weeks--1, 4, 7, 10, and 14. The effects of treatment were dose-related and included a decline in epididymal sperm count and testicular spermatid count, a reduction in weights of testes and epididymides, an increase in the number of sperm with abnormal morphology, and a reduction in fertility in rats exposed to 2-ME. The above effects were seen with or without occlusion, but they were more severe and recovery proceeded at a slower rate when the skin sites were covered.
Cocaine causes coronary artery constriction and may cause acute myocardial infarction (AMI). The role of traditional coronary risk factors in cocaine-associated myocardial infarction is unclear.
We hypothesized that traditional risk factors play a major role in predicting AMI in patients admitted with cocaine-associated chest pain
After reviewing 165 admissions for chest pain in patients with a history of recent cocaine use and/or a positive drug screen from January 2001 to December 2004, we identified 151 patients with information available on at least 6 of the following 7 risk factors: gender, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, smoking, family history of coronary artery disease (CAD) and known CAD. AMI was diagnosed using WHO criteria. A risk score was calculated on the basis of the number of risk factors, gender and age. Association of AMI was evaluated with the individual risk factors and with the risk score.
AMI was identified in 21 patients (14%). All patients diagnosed with AMI were smokers. Continuous risk score (p < 0.0001), highest vs. lowest quartile of risk score (p = 0.007), known CAD, age, hyperlipidemia and family history of CAD were individually associated with the diagnosis of AMI (p>or=0.05). Each quartile of risk score was associated with increased odds of the diagnosis of AMI and score of 8 or higher was statistically significant.
Several traditional risk factors are associated with the diagnosis of AMI among patients hospitalized with cocaine-associated chest pain and increasing risk factor score was associated with increasing odds of AMI diagnosis.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is teratogenic in mice, inducing cleft palate and hydronephrosis. After exposure in vivo, TCDD specifically alters differentiation of embryonic palatal medial epithelial cells. In this study, the palatal epithelial cell response to TCDD is determined in vitro. C57BL/6N palatal shelves were placed in organ culture on gestation day (GD) 12 in Richter's improved modified Eagle's medium:Ham's F12 medium (1:1) with 1% fetal bovine serum for 3 or 4 days. Medium contained 0.1% dimethylsulfoxide and TCDD at 0, 10(-13), 10(-12), 10(-11), 10(-10), and 10(-9) M, with some doses at 5 x 10(-11), 7.5 x 10(-11), and 5 x 10(-12) M. Epithelial cell responses to TCDD occurred over a narrow range of concentrations, with maximal response at 5 x 10(-11) M. Cytotoxicity was detected at 1 x 10(-10) M. At a stage when control medial cells ceased proliferation and EGF receptors were not detected immunohistochemically. TCDD-exposed medial cells incorporated [3H]thymidine and high levels of epidermal growth factor receptors were detected. TCDD prevented programmed cell death of medial peridermal cells, and induced a shift in the differentiation of medial cells toward an oral-like phenotype. The responses to TCDD observed after exposure in vitro were indistinguishable from previously reported effects observed after exposure in vivo. In the present study, the distribution of TCDD in the fetus after exposure in vivo was examined. The levels of exposure to TCDD are similar for in vitro and in vivo exposure routes. The levels of TCDD in 1 x 10(-11) to 1 x 10(-10) M solutions (3 to 32 pg/ml) were comparable to levels observed in fetal tissues after in vivo exposure on GD 11 to 30 microns/kg [3H]TCDD, where the palatal shelf contained 1.4 to 3.5. pg TCDD, representing 0.0003% of the total dose. In vivo, TCDD was detected in the GD 11 embryo 3 hr postexposure and the TCDD was equally distributed between the embryonic head and body. At 72 hr postexposure, 0.035% of the total dose was in fetal tissues, and 1% of the TCDD in the fetus was found in the palatal shelf. The present study shows that the palatal epithelium responds to TCDD in vitro in a manner comparable to that observed after in vivo exposure, and that the response occurs at a concentration comparable to in vivo levels in the fetus. The availability of an in vitro system will facilitate studies of TCDD toxicity that are difficult or impossible to perform in vivo, such as comparisons of TCDD effects between species, including human tissues.
