Isorhythmic atrioventricular dissociation occurs in a substantial number of patients undergoing enflurane anesthesia. It causes a decrease in the systemic blood pressure that may be detrimental especially in patients with poor cardiac reserve. The most satisfactory method treating this arrhythmia is to discontinue enflurane and substitute another anesthetic agent.
This study describes the natural course of vincristine-induced peripheral neuropathy in patients with lymphoma (n = 114) receiving vincristine in two different dose intensities. Neuropathic changes were observed in both dose intensity groups, but the higher dose intensity group reported significantly more symptoms during therapy, whereas neurologic signs were significantly more prominent after a cumulative dose of 12 mg vincristine. Furthermore, off-therapy worsening of symptoms (24%) and signs (30%) occurred unexpectedly.
Hexavalent chromium (CrVI) is a highly toxic metal and a major environmental pollutant. Several studies indicate that CrVI exposure adversely affects reproductive function. We reported that maternal Cr exposure resulted in Cr accumulation in the reproductive organs of female offsprings. CrVI can cross the placental barrier and also can be passed through breastfeeding. The present investigation aimed to determine the persistent (in utero through puberal period) CrVI exposure-induced toxic effects on the reproductive functions of mother and the offspring. Induction of oxidative stress is one of the plausible mechanisms behind Cr-induced cellular deteriorations. Mother rats exposed to CrVI showed reduced reproductive outcome, while the offsprings showed higher accumulation of Cr in ovary, altered steroid, and peptide hormones. Specific activities of antioxidant enzymes were decreased and associated with increased levels of H2 O2 , and lipid peroxidation. CrVI exposure also damaged the ovarian histoarchitecture in various age groups studied. CrVI exposure also delayed the sexual maturation. Results from the present investigation suggest that CrVI exposure from in utero through puberal period significantly damaged the pubertal development through altered antioxidants, anemia, and altered hormone levels. These changes were associated with damaged ovarian histoarchitecture and extended estrous cycle in developing Wistar rats.
To evaluate the effects of cyclophosphamide on the bowel mucosa of the rat and to determine whether urothelium can be protected from the effects of haemorrhagic cystitis which can occur after treatment with cyclophosphamide.
Thirty Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups, 10 undergoing a control (sham) operation, 10 an ileal bladder augmentation and 10 a colonic bladder augmentation. Each rat underwent the appropriate surgical procedure and after a recovery period of 2 weeks, was injected with cyclophosphamide. Urine specimens were collected 24 h after the injection and analysed for gross and microscopic haematuria. The rats were killed humanely 48 h after injection and the bladders examined for haemorrhage, oedema, attenuation, inflammation and erosion.
None of the 20 augmented rats developed gross haematuria and only four developed microscopic haematuria, compared with the control rats where six of 10 developed gross haematuria and nine developed microscopic haematuria. In addition, the control rats had moderate to severe haemorrhage, oedema and attenuation compared with only mild changes in the augmented rats. This protection was significant for both the bowel mucosa and urothelium.
It is possible that the administration of cyclophosphamide in patients with urinary diversion carries little risk of haemorrhagic cystitis. We propose that this protective mechanism is secondary to a substance secreted by the intestinal mucosa that may bind acrolein and render it inactive. Alternatively, this may be secondary to the production of mucus and its ability to coat and protect the epithelium.
The exposure to endocrine disruptor (ED) induces functional and behavioral abnormalities associated with reproduction. Humans are ubiquitously exposed to Bisphenol A (BPA), an ED, as it leaches from polycarbonate plastics into their contents. The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of perinatal exposure of male rats to BPA on fertility parameters and perturbations in the expression of testicular steroid receptors (SRs) in adult F(1) offspring. These effects were studied in adult males of the F(2) and F(3) generations to determine the vertical transmission of BPA exposure.
Pregnant female rats (F(0)) were gavaged with either BPA (1.2 and 2.4 microg/kg bw), a vehicle control or positive control with Diethylstilbestrol (10 microg/kg bw) during the perinatal period. Adult F(1) males were subjected to fertility assessment by mating with unexposed females. The reproductive functions of the subsequent F(2) and F(3) litters were investigated in a similar manner. Immunohistochemical localization of SRs was carried out in the testes of F(1), F(2) and F(3) generation adult rats.
A significant increase in post implantation loss and a decrease in litter size and sperm count and motility were observed in the F(1) male offspring. A reduction in the testicular expression profile of SRs was observed. These effects were very prominent in the subsequent F(2) and F(3) generations.
Perinatal exposure to environmentally relevant doses of BPA affects the male germ line, leading to impairments in the fertility of F(1) male offspring and their subsequent F(2) and F(3) generations.
We report a case of an acute allergic reaction to rectal diclofenac following elective caesarean section in a patient taking ibuprofen. The reaction presented as severe angio-oedema affecting the face and tongue. Serial blood samples failed to show the rise in tryptase levels characteristic of an anaphylactic or anaphylactoid reaction. Diclofenac is widely used for postoperative pain relief in women undergoing caesarean section. To our knowledge this is the first time that an adverse reaction to diclofenac given via this route has been reported in an obstetric patient.
A 24-year-old Caucasian female was voluntarily admitted to an inpatient psyciatric unit after starting varenicline (Chantix). She reported feelings of paranoia, anxiety and suicidal ideation. She had no known history of psychiatric illness and was on no other medications prior to starting varenicline. This was her first attempt at smoking cessation, and she decided to use varenicline at the recommendation of her primary care provider and the South Dakota QuitLine program. We report this case to inform health care providers that the potential for psychiatric effects is possible, even in those individuals who do not have a history of psychiatric illnesses.
We present the results obtained using low doses of clozapine (mean dose 26.4 mg at bedtime) in the treatment of nocturnal akathisia in nine patients with Parkinson's disease for a mean period of 12.5 months. The results were excellent in all the patients. Furthermore, three patients experienced a remarkable improvement in rest tremor and in five patients the confusional state that accompanied the akathisia also disappeared. No serious side-effects were observed. We believe that clozapine is a very useful drug for the relief of nocturnal akathisia in parkinsonian subjects.
Prenatal lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure causes reproductive, behavioral and neurochemical injuries in both the mother and pups. Previous investigations by our group showed that prenatal LPS administration (100 microg/kg, i.p.) on gestational day 9.5 impaired the male offspring's social behavior in infancy and adulthood. In the present study, we investigated whether these social behavioral changes were associated with motor activity impairment. Male rat pups treated prenatally with LPS or not were tested for reflexological development and open field general activity during infancy. In adulthood, animals were tested for open field general activity, haloperidol-induced catalepsy and apomorphine-induced stereotypy; striatal dopamine levels and turnover were also measured. Moreover, LPS-treated or untreated control pups were challenged with LPS in adulthood and observed for general activity in the open field. In relation to the control group, the motor behavior of prenatally treated male pups was unaffected at basal levels, both in infancy and in adulthood, but decreased general activity was observed in adulthood after an immune challenge. Also, striatal dopamine and metabolite levels were decreased in adulthood. In conclusion, prenatal LPS exposure disrupted the dopaminergic system involved with motor function, but this neurochemical effect was not accompanied by behavioral impairment, probably due to adaptive plasticity processes. Notwithstanding, behavioral impairment was revealed when animals were challenged with LPS, resulting in enhanced sickness behavior.
3-Nitropropionic acid (3-NP) induces hearing loss by impairing mitochondrial energy generation. Geranylgeranylacetone (GGA) is known to protect the cochlea from various injuries. The present study was designed to investigate the protective effect of GGA against acute 3-NP-induced damage to the cochlear mitochondria. Female Hartley guinea pigs were divided into 4 groups. The 3-NP vehicle was injected to control animals and in animals receiving GGA alone, only GGA was administered for 7 days. 3-NP (500 mM, 4 microl) was administered with (animals receiving both GGA and 3-NP) or without (animals receiving 3-NP alone) GGA pretreatment (800 mg/kg, 7 days). The auditory brainstem response (ABR) was recorded at click and at 8, 16 and 32 kHz before and after injection, respectively. After cochlear harvest, hematoxylin/eosin staining and immunohistochemistry for anti-HSP70 antibody were done. 3-NP exposure resulted in elevated ABR thresholds that exceeded the maximum recording limit, while GGA pretreatment before 3-NP exposure led to a significant decrease in hearing threshold shift. Histological analysis of above former group revealed loss of type II fibrocytes in the spiral ligament, hair cells in the organ of Corti, stellate fibrocytes in the spiral limbus and spiral ganglion cells, while in above latter group, these cells were preserved. Control animals revealed weak HSP70 expression in the nuclei of some supporting cells (pillar cells, Deiters' cells and Hensen's cells) and interdental cells. Animals receiving GGA alone showed strong HSP70 expression in the same area as in control animals, while animals receiving both GGA and 3-NP demonstrated slightly decreased HSP70 expression in that area. These results suggest that GGA may protect the cochlea against acute injury resulting from mitochondrial dysfunction.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) peptides are expressed in micturition pathways, and PACAP expression is regulated by urinary bladder inflammation. Previous physiological studies have demonstrated roles for PACAP27 and PACAP38 in detrusor smooth muscle (DSM) contraction and a PAC1 receptor antagonist reduced cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced bladder hyperreflexia. To gain insight into PACAP signaling in micturition and regulation with cystitis, receptor characterization by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and physiological assays were performed. PACAP receptors were identified in tissues of rat micturition pathway, including DSM, urothelium (U), and dorsal root ganglia (DRG) after acute (4 h), intermediate (48 h) or chronic (8 days) CYP-induced cystitis. PAC1 messenger RNA expression significantly (p < or = 0.05) increased in U and DSM after 48 h and chronic CYP-induced cystitis after an initial decrease at 4 h. VPAC1 and VPAC2 transcripts increased in U and DSM after acute and intermediate CYP-induced cystitis followed by a decrease in VPAC2 expression with chronic cystitis. Application of PACAP27 (100 nM) to cultured urothelial cells evoked adenosine triphosphate (ATP) release that was blocked by the PAC1 specific antagonist, M65 (1 microM). PACAP38 (100 nM) also evoked ATP release from cultured urothelial cells, but ATP release was less than that observed with PACAP27. PACAP transcripts were increased in the U with intermediate and chronic cystitis, whereas vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) expression in both tissues was very low and showed no regulation with cystitis. Regulation of PACAP, galanin, and substance P transcripts expression was observed in lumbosacral DRG, but no regulation for VIP was observed. The current data demonstrate PACAP and PAC1 regulation in micturition pathways with inflammation and PACAP-mediated ATP release from urothelium.
Epidemiological studies have implicated ochratoxin A (OTA), a fungal metabolic-contaminant of animal and human food sources, in Balkan Endemic Nephropathy and renal tumors. Many environmental toxicants operate through nongenotoxic mechanisms that epigenetically control gene expression leading to a diseased state. Gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) plays a central role in the epigenetic control of genes in which alteration of normal GJIC has been implicated in many human pathologies, including cancer, teratogenesis, reproductive dysfunction and peripheral neuropathies. The cell proliferative stages of human diseases, such as cancer, also involves the induction of signal transduction pathways controlling the mitogenic steps, in which the mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPK), such as extracellular receptor kinase (ERK) and p38, are central to mitogenesis. We therefore determined the effects of OTA on GJIC and MAPK in a human kidney and rat liver epithelial cell line. OTA reversibly inhibited GJIC at noncytotoxic doses in the rat liver but not the human kidney cell line. Similarly, OTA was also a strong activator of MAPK, ERK and p38, in the rat liver cells but only weakly activated ERK and had no affect on p38 in the human kidney cell line. Another hallmark of human diseases is an abnormal alteration of apoptosis, also known as programmed cell death. We used our myc-transfected cell line, which exhibits higher levels of apoptosis, to test the effects of OTA on apoptosis. OTA greatly induced apoptosis in this cell line, which is contrary to the effects of most tumor promoters. In summary, OTA exhibits tumor promoting properties in the liver, but the effects of OTA on the human kidney epithelial cells suggested a lack of tumorigenic activity assuming that these epithelial cells, like the rat liver epithelial cells, are a primary target for carcinogens. These results also indicate that the nephrotoxicity of OTA either does not involve GJIC, assuming these epithelial cells play a vital role in kidney physiology, or that a more differentiated kidney cell type is the target for OTA toxicity, of which the role of GJIC remains unknown.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are longstanding targets for a next generation of pain therapeutics, but the nAChR subtypes that govern analgesia remain unknown. We tested a series of nicotinic agonists, including many molecules used or tried clinically, on a panel of cloned neuronal nAChRs for potency and selectivity using patch-clamp electrophysiology and a live cell-based fluorescence assay. Nonselective nicotinic agonists as well as compounds selective either for alpha4beta2 or for alpha7 nAChRs were then tested in the formalin and complete Freund's adjuvant models of pain. Nonselective nAChR agonists ABT-594 and varenicline were effective analgesics. By contrast, the selective alpha4beta2 agonist ispronicline and a novel alpha4beta2-selective potentiator did not appear to produce analgesia in either model. alpha7-selective agonists reduced the pain-related endpoint, but the effect could be ascribed to nonspecific reduction of movement rather than to analgesia. Neither selective nor nonselective alpha7 nicotinic agonists affected the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to antigen challenge. Electrophysiological recordings from spinal cord slice showed a strong nicotine-induced increase in inhibitory synaptic transmission that was mediated partially by alpha4beta2 and only minimally by alpha7 subtypes. Taken with previous studies, the results suggest that agonism of alpha4beta2 nAChRs is necessary but not sufficient to produce analgesia, and that the spinal cord is a key site where the molecular action of nAChRs produces analgesia.
Photodynamic therapy is an emerging, externally activatable, treatment modality for various diseases, especially for cancer therapy. The photodynamic activities of tumor targeting water-soluble C(60) derivatives (WSFD) were evaluated on HeLa cells. To overcome the poor solubility, biocompatibility and selectivity of C(60), we modified C(60) with l-phenylalanine, folic acid and l-arginine. Consistent with their photodynamic abilities, WSFD generated the reactive oxygen species after irradiation both in water and in vitro. No dark cytotoxicity was observed using 5μg/mL WSFD during long incubation time. Furthermore, the uptake of WSFD into HeLa cells was much more than normal cells, which indicated the WSFD had selectivity to tumor cells. Investigation of the possible photodynamic activities of WSFD demonstrated that they expressed photokilling activities by raising the level of (1)O(2)/O(2)(-) under visible light irradiation. In parallel, following exposure of cells to WSFD and irradiation, a marked decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential, cell viability, activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), as well as increased malondialdehyde (MDA) production were observed. Moreover, WSFD caused significant elevation in caspase-3 activity, and induced apoptotic death. Experiments demonstrated that both chemical properties, such as the chemical structure of adduct and addend numbers, and physical properties, such as degree of aggregation, influenced the ROS-generation abilities, cellular uptake and photodynamic activities of WSFD. The results suggest that WSFD have the potential application in cancer cell inactivation by photodynamic therapy.
Seizures may occur after orthotopic liver transplantation. Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are used to treat these seizures, but the immunosuppressant regimen also may be altered. Levetiracetam is an attractive treatment because of its efficacy, lack of hepatic enzyme induction, and its rapid attainment of serum levels. Treatment with levetiracetam is efficacious, and levetiracetam-treated patients require significantly lower doses of immunosuppressant medications to achieve an equivalent antirejection effect.
Oral and intrathecal baclofen (ITB) have been associated with epileptic seizures. The authors observed a higher incidence of epileptic seizures in 99 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) treated with ITB vs a matched control group (7% vs 1%, p < 0.05). Three patients with MS on ITB developed status epilepticus. Seizures were often associated with additional triggering factors.
The endogenous opioid system constitutes an attractive target in the treatment of GI disorders, including inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). The aim of our study was to characterize the anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive effect of P-317, a novel cyclic analog of opioid peptide morphiceptin, in animal models of IBD.
The anti-inflammatory effect of P-317 after intraperitoneal (ip) and oral (po) administration was assessed in two mouse models of IBD - Crohn's disease, induced by intracolonic instillation of trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) and ulcerative colitis, induced by addition of dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) into drinking water. The antinociceptive action of P-317 was characterized in mice with acute colitis using mustard oil-induced pain test. Real time RT PCR was used to assess semiquantitatively the expression of IL-1β and TNF-α mRNA in mouse colonic samples. To translate our results to clinical conditions, MOP and KOP mRNA were quantified in human colonic biopsies from IBD patients.
P-317 (0.1mg/kg, ip and 1mg/kg, po) alleviated colonic inflammation in TNBS- and DSS-treated mice in the opioid receptor-dependent manner. The anti-inflammatory effect of P-317 was associated with the decrease in mRNA expression of proinflammatory cytokines. The antinociceptive effect of P-317 was observed after ip and po administration in mice with acute colitis.
Our results show a potent anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive effect of P-317 in mouse models of colitis upon activation of opioid receptors. The unique bioavailability of P-317 after oral administration suggests that it is a promising drug candidate for future treatment of IBD.
Manufactured gas plant (MGP) residues, commonly known as coal tars, were generated several decades ago as a byproduct of residential and industrial gas production from the distillation of coal. Previous short-term exposure studies have shown MGP residues to be tumorigenic in mouse liver and lung. In order to gain further insight into carcinogenesis by complex mixtures of environmental chemicals containing known carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, we investigated mouse pulmonary tumors for loss of heterozygosity (LOH) as a result of multiple exposure to MGP residues. Twenty mouse lung adenomas produced in (C57BL/6 x C3H)F1 hybrid mice and manually microdissected were selected to examine genome-wide allelic losses at 58 microsatellite loci. Regions of chromosomes 1, 4, 5, 8, and 11 were affected in 30-40% of tumors. The elevated rates of allelic imbalance in these chromosomes may indicate the location of unknown tumor suppressor genes significant to neoplastic transformation in mouse lung tissues. Laser capture microdissection-based LOH analysis of pulmonary adenomas showed that contamination of nonneoplastic tissues was not masking the allelic losses in the manually microdissected tumor analysis. The low frequency of chromosome instability in these tumors, measured by means of inter-simple sequence repeat PCR, suggests the presence of discrete regions of LOH instead of extensive structural rearrangements.
Amiodarone is generally regarded to have a high safety profile with a low incidence of arrhythmias. However, there have been reports of torsades de pointes under certain conditions, such as electrolyte imbalance or concomitant antiarrhythmic therapy. We describe a case of amiodarone-induced torsade de pointes early after initiation of intravenous amiodarone in the setting of T-wave alternans.
Patients diagnosed with abdominal pain related to mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalopathy (MNGIE) may benefit from splanchnic nerve blockade. MNGIE, varying in age of onset and rate of progression, is caused by loss of function mutation in thymidine phosphorylase gene. Gastrointestinal dysmotility, pseudo-obstruction and demyelinating sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy (stocking-glove sensory loss, absent tendon reflexes, distal limb weakness, and wasting) are the most prominent manifestations. Patients usually die in early adulthood (mean 37.6 years; range 26-58 years). We report a case of an 18-year-old patient with MNGIE. Our patient's abdominal pain was relieved after splanchnic nerve blockade.
It has been demonstrated that tramadol is an effective analgesic. We aimed to compare postoperative analgesic effects of wound infiltration with tramadol (T) or bupivacaine (B) and intramuscular tramadol (I) after herniotomy in children.
In this study, 75 children were randomly assigned to group T, group B and group I. Wound infiltration was performed to the patients in group T (2 mg.kg-1 tramadol in 0.2 ml.kg-1 saline) and group B (0.2 ml.kg-1 0.25% bupivacaine) into the surgical incision. Twenty minutes before the end of the surgery 2 mg.kg-1 tramadol was injected i.m. in group I. Faces pain scale was used for assessing pain severity. Patients with pain score>2 were treated with paracetamol. The frequency of side effects and analgesic use were recorded. Patients were discharged on the next day.
No side effects were recorded in any group. The pain scores of the patients at the first, fourth and eighth hours were significantly higher in group B and group I than group T (P<0.05). The pain scores of the patients at the first hour were significantly higher in group I compared with group B (P<0.05). Average time to first analgesic requirement was significantly longer in group T (6.72+/-4.09 h after herniotomy than both group I (4.49+/-3.9 h) and group B (6.04+/-3.7 h) (P<0.05).
Wound infiltration with tramadol may be a good choice for postoperative analgesia in children having inguinal herniotomy.
Following a phase II trial in which pemetrexed-platinum demonstrated similar activity to that of historical etoposide-platinum controls, a phase III study was conducted to compare pemetrexed-carboplatin with etoposide-carboplatin for the treatment of extensive-stage small-cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC).
Chemotherapy-naive patients with ES-SCLC and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of zero to 2 were randomly assigned to receive pemetrexed-carboplatin (pemetrexed 500 mg/m(2) on day 1; carboplatin at area under the serum concentration-time curve [AUC] 5 on day 1) or etoposide-carboplatin (etoposide 100 mg/m(2) on days 1 through 3; carboplatin AUC 5 on day 1) every 3 weeks for up to six cycles. The primary objective of the study was noninferiority of pemetrexed-carboplatin overall survival with a 15% margin.
Accrual was terminated with 908 of 1,820 patients enrolled after results of a planned interim analysis. In the final analysis, pemetrexed-carboplatin was inferior to etoposide-carboplatin for overall survival (median, 8.1 v 10.6 months; hazard ratio [HR],1.56; 95% CI, 1.27 to 1.92; log-rank P < .01) and progression-free survival (median, 3.8 v 5.4 months; HR, 1.85; 95% CI, 1.58 to 2.17; log-rank P < .01). Objective response rates were also significantly lower for pemetrexed-carboplatin (31% v 52%; P < .001). Pemetrexed-carboplatin had lower grade 3 to 4 neutropenia, febrile neutropenia, and leukopenia than etoposide-carboplatin; grade 3 to 4 thrombocytopenia was comparable between arms and anemia was higher in the pemetrexed-carboplatin arm.
Pemetrexed-carboplatin is inferior for the treatment of ES-SCLC. Planned translational research and pharmacogenomic analyses of tumor and blood samples may help explain the study results and provide insight into new treatment strategies.
Ventricular fibrillation during coronary angiography with Renografin-76 (meglumine sodium diatrizoate) has been attributed to the calcium-binding additives sodium citrate and sodium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA), which may produce repolarization changes manifested as prolongation of the QT interval. Angiovist-370 is a newer form of meglumine sodium diatrizoate that contains calcium EDTA as its additive and thus has a decreased calcium-binding effect. Eight hundred sixteen patients were prospectively randomized to receive either Renografin-76 or Angiovist-370. Ventricular fibrillation occurred in 10 of 410 patients receiving Renografin-76 and in 0 of 406 patients given Angiovist-370 (p less than 0.0005). Clinical data were analyzed without knowledge of other data in the 10 patients treated with Renografin-76 who had ventricular fibrillation (Group I), 103 randomly selected patients who also received Renografin-76 but had no ventricular fibrillation (Group II) and 108 randomly selected patients given Angiovist-370 (Group III). Of several variables examined, only the QT interval differentiated patients receiving Renografin-76 and Angiovist-370. The mean corrected QT interval (QTc interval) before coronary angiography was slightly but not significantly (p = 0.7) higher in Group I than in Groups II and III. Ten seconds after the first left coronary artery injection it was more prolonged in Groups I and II (0.552 and 0.561 second, respectively) than in Group III (0.448 second) (p less than 0.00005). Similarly, 10 seconds after the first right coronary artery injection it was significantly longer in Groups I and II (0.545 and 0.544 second) than in Group III (0.477 second) (p less than 0.00005).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Activities of the lysosomal enzymes, cathepsin B1 (CBI), beta-glucuronidase, and beta-N-acetyl-D-glucosaminidase, as well as sialyl transferase, alkaline phosphatase, and placenta-like alkaline phosphatase, were determined on blind-coded serums from 99 women exposed to diethylstilbestrol (DES) in utero and 40 unexposed subjects of comparable age range. Cathepsin B1 averaged 100%, 1040% (P less than 0.001), 2720 % (P less than 0.001), and 4760% (P less than 0.001) of controls in DES-exposed women with no genital tract abnormalities (N = 11), adenosis (N = 68), adenosis with concomitant dysplasia (N = 15), and clear-cell adenocarcinoma (N = 5), respectively. The later two groups also exhibited 0.01). Activities of the other four enzymes in serums of DES-exposed women were unchanged from those controls, suggesting that alterations in CBI were not due to generalized increases in lysosomal membrane instability or other gross cellular damage. In 2 DES-exposed women with clear-cell adenocardinoma, from whom serial samples were available, preoperative levels of serum CBl fell from a mean of 4280% to values indistinguishable from controls by 7--12 days after tumor excision, concurrently with objective signs of remission. Recrudescence of serum CBI levels preceded by at least 3 months clinical evidence of persistent adenosis accompanied by vaginal dysplasia. Although the nature of the increments in CBI-like activity in the majority of subjects with DES-related pathology remains to be determined, the findings may complement present methods of physical diagnosis and prognosis.
Antitumor and immunosuppressant treatment-related neurotoxicity can determine nonspecific clinical syndromes. Exclusion of other possible causes, among which tumor progression, appearance of paraneoplastic disease, renal or hepatic failure, diabetes or hypertension, is relevant. We report clinical and neuroradiological features in five patients with neurotoxic syndromes due to chemotherapy/radiotherapy or immunosuppression in the context of neoplastic disease/organ transplantation. Acute neurological syndrome developed in three patients after methotrexate (MTX), cyclosporine A, and L-asparaginase therapy, respectively. MRI showed posterior reversible encephalopathy in two cases and venous thrombosis with intraparenchymal hematoma in the third patient. Late onset clinical syndrome occurred in the last two patients, treated with MTX or radiation therapy for breast cancer metastasis and pituitary adenoma. Neuroimaging showed brain diffuse abnormalities. Patients affected by tumors suffer from increased risk for treatment-related toxicities. Appearance or worsening of neurological signs and symptoms challenge the clinician to discriminate between CNS involvement by the tumor, toxicity of drugs, parane-oplastic disease and infections. MRI has a key role in differential diagnosis. Close interaction between the neurologist, the oncologist and the neuroradiologist leads to the optimal management of patients.
A forty-six year old man with chronic renal failure and a toxic chronic liver disease developed progressive muscle weakness after a long trial with colchicine. Physical exam revealed muscle weakness and proximal muscle atrophy with hyporeflexia. Serum levels of creatine kinase were high and signs of myopathy and axonal and demyelinating polyneuropathy was evidenced in electrophysiological studies. Muscle biopsy disclosed a vacuolar myopathy, disruption of myofibers and dilatation of sarcoplasmic reticulum. The clinical pictures was attributed to a toxic myopathy and polyneuropathy due to colchicine, thus this treatment was discontinued. Four week later, the patient was symptom free, the levels of seric creatine kinase were normal and a new muscle biopsy was normal, with disappearance of previous histological findings.
In 4 out of 11 cebus apella monkeys given haloperidol (0.05 - 1.0 mg/kg/d) orally for up to 35 months signs of tardive dyskinesia (TD) hav developed: 1) One monkey developed barely noticeable TD after 4 months, but showed marked and increasing symtpoms of both generalized choreic and buccolingual TD after 8 months. This animal died 3 months after discontinuation of haloperidol. At that time the signs of TD were still prominent. 2) In one monkey bucco-lingual TD appeared after 3 months and was still reversible on discontinuation of haloperidol at 5 months. After a further 12 months of haloperidol, the TD signs proved to be long lasting, possibly irreversible, in this animal. 3) A third monkey showed slight and transient signs of TD at 14 months, but following a further 20 months af haloperidol administration a choreiform syndrome became porminent after drug withdrawal. 4) After 34 months a similar syndrome of choreic movements has been noticed in another animal, increasing after withdrawal of haloperidol. The other 7 monkeys have received haloperidol for 3 - 15 months, without developing any signs of TD. Attacks of acute dystonia have been noticed in all animals, sometimes necessitating anticholinergic medication or decreases in the daily haloperidol dose.
Taiep rat is a myelin mutant rat with hypomyelination followed by progressive demyelination. This mutant presents cortical discharges with a spindle form, with an ascending and descending phases similar to absence epilepsy.
Taiep rats were maintained under standard animal room conditions with free access to balanced rodent pellets and tap water. Rats were anesthetized with chloral hydrate under aseptic conditions; three stainless steel screws and a bipolar electrode were implanted in the hippocampus. The signals were amplified, filtered and recorded using a video-EEG Harmonie system (Canada). All data were analyzed using Sensa and Luna modules.
Our results showed that taiep rats have spike-wave discharges (SWD) during wake, slow wake sleep (SWS) and rapid eye movement (REM), being statistically higher and longer during awake period than SWS or REM sleep. The systemic administration of pilocarpine, a cholinergic agonist, increased dramatically the cortical discharges with five characteristic seizures patterns and concomitantly decreased the frequency and duration of absence crisis. However, only 80% of the taiep rats tested showed this paroxysm. On the other hand, 100% of control Sprague-Dawley rats showed tonic clonic seizures, indicating some type of resistance to this muscarinic cholinergic drug in taiep rats.
These results showed that the taiep rat, a myelin mutant, is a good model for the electrophysiological and pharmacological study of absence epilepsy, particularly considering its resistance to pilocarpine-induced seizures.
