Heparin sodium-induced thrombosis is insidious and difficult to diagnose. If untreated, it results in death or major amputation. We have treated seven patients with thromboses resulting from platelet aggregation induced by heparin. Four patients had acute arterial ischemia of the lower extremity, venous gangrene developed in two, and one patient had an occluded autogenous vein femoral popliteal bypass in the immediate postoperative period. The platelet count was noticeably reduced in affected patients. White platelet thrombi were noted in four patients, three of whom had acute arterial occlusion. A white thrombus was the cause of immediate failure of a femoral popliteal graft. Electron microscopic examination of these thrombi demonstrated predominantly fibrin platelet aggregates with an occasional entrapped WBC and a rare RBC. All patients receiving heparin therapy must have platelet counts performed regularly. If thrombocytopenia is detected, platelet aggregation studies are indicated. When abnormal platelet aggregation is noted, heparin therapy should be reversed with protamine sulfate and the patient treated with low-molecular-weight dextran and warfarin sodium.
Erythropoietin (EPO) and Klotho expression have both been detected in the kidney. Since a recent study suggested that both EPO and Klotho mitigate kidney damage, we explored the relation between EPO and Klotho in a doxorubicin hydrochloride (DXR)-induced rat nephropathy model treated with recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO).
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to DXR-induced nephropathy. The rhEPO group was intracutaneously injected with rhEPO twice weekly at 4-16 weeks after the DXR injection. The rats were sacrificed at 16 weeks after the DXR administration. Expression of renal Klotho, HSP70, alpha-smooth-muscle actin and E-cadherin were assessed using real-time PCR or western blotting. The hematocrit, plasma creatinine and phosphate levels were also determined. Immunohistochemical studies and Masson-trichrome staining were performed.
The renal Klotho mRNA and Klotho protein expressions were significantly reduced in the DXR nephropathy group. Treatment with rhEPO improved the serum creatinine, phosphate level and histological changes observed in the DXR nephropathy group. The reduction in Klotho expression induced by DXR nephropathy was mitigated by rhEPO administration.
rhEPO is involved in the pathophysiology of DXR nephropathy. rhEPO mitigated elevated plasma phosphate concentrations in an experimental model of chronic kidney disease via the expression of Klotho.
Ocular thelaziosis caused by Thelazia callipaeda is a vector-borne disease affecting dogs and humans. We report a case of thelaziosis in a 10-year-old German Shepherd dog from Vila Real city (Portugal). Ophthalmological examination revealed bulbar and nictitating membrane conjunctival hyperemia with serous discharge noted at the left medial canthus and blepharitis. Schirmer tear test value and intraocular pressure were within the reference ranges in both eyes, and biomicroscopy showed a transparent cornea without lesions or edema and no inflammatory reaction in the anterior chamber. No funduscopic alterations were detected by direct and indirect ophthalmoscopic examination. When testing the nasolacrimal patency, two white worms were observed on the caruncle conjunctival surface with undulating movements that increased with light intensity. In total, eight worms were collected and morphologically identified as T. callipaeda (seven mature females and one male). PCR amplification of a 689 sequence of partial cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 target gene confirmed the nematodes were T. callipaeda, haplotype 1. The dog was treated with a single subcutaneous injection of ivermectin combined with additional topical application of ophthalmic fusidic acid drops and oral milbemycin oxime. One week after treatment, no worms were detected and the ocular clinical signs resolved. The most recent reports of canine thelaziosis in the Iberian Peninsula should alert local health authorities to the zoonotic potential of infestation with T. callipaeda, which should be included in the differential diagnosis of conjunctivitis in dogs and humans.
Previous studies suggesting different effects of diet on post-menopausal bone loss may have given conflicting results because they sometimes failed to exclude confounding conditions or used imprecise methodology.
To identify dietary determinants of bone loss from the lumbar spine after menopause in women not taking hormone replacement who developed no evidence of spondylotic or sclerotic degenerative disease, forty-three women were followed with repeated (mean = 12) measurements of bone mineral density (BMD) at L2-4 for 11-14 years. Eleven developed evidence suggestive of degenerative disease and were excluded. Diet was assessed at the beginning of the study and 2.5 years later using 3-day and 7-day periods of weighed intakes. Nutrients estimated were: carbohydrate, fat, protein, fibre, calcium, magnesium, iron, phosphorus, copper, zinc and six vitamins. We tested the ability of diet to predict post-menopausal bone loss using stepwise regression.
Each woman's BMD change was described by a single coefficient after log transformation of the BMD data. The best model for BMD loss including dietary factors alone had two significant determinants: daily energy or protein (p=0.0003) intake was adverse, while dietary iron (p=0.002) was predictive of bone maintenance, an effect that persisted if iron was expressed as a ratio to energy intake. Adding body mass index to the model increased the goodness of fit (R (2)adj rose from 0.33 to 0.42) without affecting the statistical significance of the dietary determinants.
Diet may influence bone loss after menopause, with dietary iron (or an associated factor) possibly having a protective effect on bone at the spine.
Megaloblastic anemias are basically caused by vitamin B(12) and/or folic acid deficiency. Childhood vitamin B(12) deficiency is extremely rare. There are congenital and acquired forms of vitamin B(12)-deficiency anemias. The article captures findings of 10 year observation of 3 patients with Imerslund-Gräsbeck Syndrome (congenital chronic megaloblastic anemia with proteinuria), in which the diagnosis was established by us in early childhood and due to correct treatment and prevention complete clinical-laboratory remission is kept so far. We have also observed rare case of acquired megaloblastic anemia - 14 years old vegetarian patient, who was diagnosed with vitamin B(12)-deficiency anemia based on history, clinical and para-clinical data. It was caused by strict vegetarianism of the patient. Therefore first of all the diet was corrected. In 5 days of specific treatment with vitamin B(12) "reticulocyte crisis" was manifested (proving the correctness of diagnosis and treatment) and complete clinical-hematological remission was achieved in 2 weeks. The given cases are interesting as megaloblastic anemias in childhood are both rare and difficult to diagnose. In such cases timely diagnosis, treatment and prevention tactics should be based on cause-and-effect relation of disease.
Telangiectasia, commonly called Rendu-Osler disease, in its uncomplicated state is a genetic trait, not a disease, which is transmitted as a dominant. It is difficult to diagnose because the identifying characteristics, which are collectively called telangiectases, are multiform. They often do not appear until adult life and frequently are secondary to extraneous or environmental factors such as alcohol, various drugs of which aspirin is an example, and, in a few subjects, exposure to sunlight. The tourniquet test is positive in a high percentage of cases. Eight patients have been selected for discussion to illustrate the application and helpfulness of this test in attaining a better evaluation of the clinical aspects of telangiectasia.
Simple goitre is defined as an enlargement of the thyroid gland that is not the result of an inflammatory or neoplastic process and is not associated with thyrotoxicosis or myxoedema; the cause is unknown in most cases. Structural or regulatory defects in the proteins involved in thyroid metabolism might be involved in the functional abnormality that brings about the disorder. We have found a mutation within exon 10 of the thyroglobulin gene in 25 of 56 members of three families affected by simple goitre; 14 of the gene carriers had the disorder. DNA sequencing showed a mis-sense mutation within thyroglobulin gene exon 10, resulting in a glutamine to histidine substitution. Thus, some cases of non-endemic simple goitre are associated with a mutation at the thyroglobulin locus.
The aim of the present work was comparative analyze of different type beta-adrenoblockers (nonselective beta-AB-Propranolol; cardio selective beta1-AB-Bisoprolol; nonselective beta-AB with additional vasodilatory effects - carvedilol) on functional state of liver at Paracetamol induced toxic hepatitis in experiment. Experiments were carried out on 42 laboratory white rats with the body mass 180-200 g. Model of acute toxic hepatitis was created using paracetamol (peroral administration with the dose of 1000 mg/kg, once a day). Beta-adrenoblockers (beta-AB) were used with following dozes: propranolol -1,4 mg/kg; bisoprolol - 0,7 mg/kg and carvedilol - 0,9 mg/kg; beta-AB were used during 9 days (perorally), immediately after paracetamol administration. Each group consisted of 7 rats. Functional state of the liver was estimated according to blood serum concentration of aspartat-transferase (AST) and alanin-transferase (ALT) using routine method of measurement on 5th and 9th days after administration of paracetamol. Results of experiments have shown that single administration of paracetamol with the dose of 1000 mg/kg impaired functional state of the liver that was confirmed by significantly increased activation of transaminases. It was stated that non-selective beta-AB Propranolol worsens-, cardio selective beta1-AB Bisoprolol - has no effect, while nonselective beta-AB carvedilol, with additional vasodilatory and antioxidant effects - slightly improves functional state of the liver at acute toxic hepatitis caused by paracetamol. Has been suggested that hepatotoxicity is not characteristic for all types of beta-AB. According to the obtained results, it has been recommended to estimate functional tests of the liver before propranolol administration, and carry out monitoring of the liver's functional state at treatment course, especially in individuals suffering with liver malfunction. It is important to investigate detailed mechanisms of hepatotoxicity of beta-AB also.
Adenoviruses can cause severe toxicity in immunocompromised individuals. Although clinical trials have confirmed the potency and safety of selectively oncolytic adenoviruses for treatment of advanced cancers, increasingly effective agents could result in more toxicity and therefore it would be useful if replication could be abrogated if necessary.
We analyzed the effect of chlorpromazine, an inhibitor of clathrin-dependent endocytosis and apigenin, a cell cycle regulator, on adenovirus replication and toxicity. First, we evaluated the in vitro replication of a tumor targeted Rb-p16 pathway selective oncolytic adenovirus (Ad5/3-Delta24) and a wild-type adenovirus in normal cells, fresh liver samples and in ovarian cancer cell lines. Further, we analyzed the in vitro cell killing efficacy of adenoviruses in the presence and absence of the substances. Moreover, the effect on in vivo efficacy, replication and liver toxicity of the adenoviruses was evaluated.
We demonstrate in vitro and in vivo reduction of adenovirus replication and associated toxicity with chlorpromazine and apigenin. Effective doses were well within what would be predicted safe in humans.
Chlorpromazine and apigenin might reduce the replication of adenovirus, which could provide a safety switch in case replication-associated side effects are encountered in patients. In addition, these substances could be useful for the treatment of systemic adenoviral infections in immunosuppressed patients.
The complications of D-penicillamine are rare. It generally consists of reversible cholestatic hepatitis which may, however, be fatal. The authors report a typical case with a benign outcome and with concomitant signs of cutaneous intolerance with eosinophilia. The definite role of D-penicillamine was confirmed by the re-introduction of the drug.
Methamphetamine (MAP) can reinforce intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) in rats, that is, reward-seeking behavior. However, the ICSS can be inhibited by the stereotyped behavior induced by MAP. This study was designed to observe the mutual information flow between prefrontal cortex (PFC) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) using directed coherence (DC) analysis during the hyperactivity and stereotyped behavior induced by administration of MAP (a derivative of amphetamine). The DC from PFC to VTA increased at 5-7 Hz in the hyperactivity as compared to the stereotypy. In contrast, enhanced information flow from VTA to PFC was observed in the stereotypy as compared to the hyperactivity. We found a reciprocal information flow between PFC and VTA corresponding to the hyperactivity and stereotyped behavior that was induced by administration of MAP.
The influence of food on release of drug from a modified release capsule of bromocriptine 5 mg (Parlodel SRO) and a conventional formulation of bromocriptine 5 mg has been studied in 8 healthy male volunteers. Both formulations produced objective and subjective effects, such as orthostatic reactions, nausea, dizziness, vomiting and nasal congestion. The modified release capsule caused fewer side-effects than the normal capsule. Both formulations had less cardiovascular effect in the fed than in the fasting state. There was no significant difference between the normal and the modified release capsules taken fasting or after a meal in terms of the AUC extrapolated to infinity. The relative bioavailability of the 5 mg modified release capsule was 84.6% of the normal capsule under fasting conditions and 107.5% after food. In contrast to the virtually unchanged extent of absorption, the rate of absorption was markedly affected by food, especially from the conventional capsule. The mean time of 50% absorption increased from 1.06 h (fasting) to 3.2 h (fed), whereas for the modified release capsule food mainly resulted in an increased lag time of absorption. The almost instantaneous dissolution of bromocriptine from the normal capsule in vitro (both in HCl and fasting human gastric juice) and the delay of absorption after a meal in vivo suggest that the rate limiting step in absorption of the normal capsules is delivery of released drug from the stomach to the small intestine, which is delayed by food. Both the modified release 5-mg capsule and the normal 5-mg capsule showed extended suppression of prolactin over 36 h, in all subjects, both fasted and after a meal.
Cervical epidural steroid injection treatment of radicular pain has become a common procedure.
To describe the clinical, radiologic, and autopsy findings of a 41-year-old patient treated with methylprednisolone acetate cervical epidural steroid injection, who developed a fatal hemorrhagic brainstem infarction and to discuss the possible mechanisms involved.
Case report.
Pain management center and tertiary care hospital.
Immediately following a seemingly uncomplicated epidural steroid injection at C5-6, the patient developed progressive symptoms of extensive brainstem and thalamic infarction (documented by magnetic resonance imaging and autopsy) with hemorrhagic conversion and hydrocephalus. Hemorrhage within the adventitia of the left vertebral artery, but no dissection, was found at the C5 vertebral level at necropsy.
This case report shows the possibility of serious intracranial pathology resulting from cervical epidural steroid injection despite use of fluoroscopic guidance. Vascular spasm distant to the site of injection is a possible mechanism.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is an age-related disease featuring progressive lung scarring. To elucidate the molecular basis of IPF, we performed exome sequencing of familial kindreds with pulmonary fibrosis. Gene burden analysis comparing 78 European cases and 2,816 controls implicated PARN, an exoribonuclease with no previous connection to telomere biology or disease, with five new heterozygous damaging mutations in unrelated cases and none in controls (P = 1.3 × 10(-8)); mutations were shared by all affected relatives (odds in favor of linkage = 4,096:1). RTEL1, an established locus for dyskeratosis congenita, harbored significantly more new damaging and missense variants at conserved residues in cases than in controls (P = 1.6 × 10(-6)). PARN and RTEL1 mutation carriers had shortened leukocyte telomere lengths, and we observed epigenetic inheritance of short telomeres in family members. Together, these genes explain ∼7% of familial pulmonary fibrosis and strengthen the link between lung fibrosis and telomere dysfunction.
Grade II and III gliomas are generally slowly progressing brain cancers, many of which eventually transform into more aggressive tumors. Despite recent findings of frequent mutations in IDH1 and other genes, knowledge about their pathogenesis is still incomplete. Here, combining two large sets of high-throughput sequencing data, we delineate the entire picture of genetic alterations and affected pathways in these glioma types, with sensitive detection of driver genes. Grade II and III gliomas comprise three distinct subtypes characterized by discrete sets of mutations and distinct clinical behaviors. Mutations showed significant positive and negative correlations and a chronological hierarchy, as inferred from different allelic burdens among coexisting mutations, suggesting that there is functional interplay between the mutations that drive clonal selection. Extensive serial and multi-regional sampling analyses further supported this finding and also identified a high degree of temporal and spatial heterogeneity generated during tumor expansion and relapse, which is likely shaped by the complex but ordered processes of multiple clonal selection and evolutionary events.
Studies in rodents' skin have indicated substance P to be the main inflammatory mediator involved in neurogenic inflammation, acting partly by release of histamine from skin mast cells. The mediators released in neurogenic inflammation in human skin remain to be determined.
To determine the effects of intradermally injected and topically applied capsaicin on the release of histamine and substance P and skin responses in intact human skin in vivo.
Extracellular skin levels of histamine and substance P were measured by microdialysis technique and assayed by enzyme and radio immunoassays. Two kinds of dialysis fibres (210 microm, 2 kDa, and 500 microm, 20 kDa) were inserted intradermally into forearm skin for studies of histamine release to topically administered capsaicin and intradermally injected capsaicin and substance P.
Baseline histamine skin levels were 8.0 +/- 0.7 nM. Intradermally injected capsaicin (0.3-30 microM, 7.5-750 pmol) caused significantly and dose-related flare and pain reactions, but no significant histamine release or weals. Intradermally injected substance P (1 and 3 microM, 25 and 75 pmol) released significant amounts of histamine (peak levels being 90 and 475 nM), evoked weal-and-flare reactions, but did not cause pain. Capsaicin 2% ointment, applied on the skin for 2.5 h, increased skin blood flow by 300-400% as measured by laser Doppler flowmetry, elicited a longstanding burning sensation, but did not release histamine. Substance P-like immunoreactivity (SP-LI) was below the 1.8 pM detection limit following insertion of 20 kDa dialysis fibre and after intradermal injection of capsaicin 3 microM. Intradermal injection of injection of 1 microM of substance P increased SP-LI levels to values greater than 4500 pM, confirming the ability of the dialysis fibre to recover this peptide.
Capsaicin-induced neurogenic activation does not involve the release of histamine from mast cells or detectable amounts of substance P release from sensory nerves in normal human skin in vivo.
The short-term dose effects of methylphenidate were examined on cardiovascular measures in 11 black male adolescents diagnosed as having attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). In a double-blind, cross-over design with randomized order, the subjects received placebo and each of three methylphenidate doses (0.15, 0.3, and 0.5 mg/kg) for a period of 2 weeks per medication dosage. Significant main effects were found for diastolic and systolic blood pressure; however, pairwise comparisons revealed a significant linear increase in diastolic blood pressure only. Because of the unexpected increase in diastolic blood pressure, careful monitoring of black adolescents who are receiving methylphenidate is recommended.
Pediatric-onset ataxias often present clinically as developmental delay and intellectual disability, with prominent cerebellar atrophy as a key neuroradiographic finding. Here we describe a new clinically distinguishable recessive syndrome in 12 families with cerebellar atrophy together with ataxia, coarsened facial features and intellectual disability, due to truncating mutations in the sorting nexin gene SNX14, encoding a ubiquitously expressed modular PX domain-containing sorting factor. We found SNX14 localized to lysosomes and associated with phosphatidylinositol (3,5)-bisphosphate, a key component of late endosomes/lysosomes. Patient-derived cells showed engorged lysosomes and a slower autophagosome clearance rate upon autophagy induction by starvation. Zebrafish morphants for snx14 showed dramatic loss of cerebellar parenchyma, accumulation of autophagosomes and activation of apoptosis. Our results characterize a unique ataxia syndrome due to biallelic SNX14 mutations leading to lysosome-autophagosome dysfunction.
Atropine-induced bradycardia is traditionally ascribed to central vagal stimulation, although bradycardia has also been observed after administration of quarternary amines. Pirezepine, a selective M1-antagonist, causes bradycardia in therapeutic doses for which a peripheral mechanism is postulated. This hypothesis has been investigated in healthy volunteers. Atropine 0.5 mg caused significant bradycardia from 210 min and pirenzepine 10 mg after 60 min. After prior beta-blockade, the bradycardic action of the anti-cholinergic drugs was more marked. Pirenzepine-induced bradycardia was reversed by higher doses of atropine. It is suggested that atropine- and pirenzepine-induced bradycardia results from M1-blockade of sympathetic ganglia. In addition, low concentrations of atropine and therapeutic doses of pirenzepine may cause an increase in acetylcholine, perhaps due to a presynaptic effect on nerve endings.
Suppression of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB)/inhibitor of nuclear factor-kappaB (IkappaB) signaling pathway is a potential property of thalidomide. This study was designed to investigate the effects of thalidomide on expressions of NF-kappaB, IkappaB and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM-1) in established rat liver cirrhosis.
Rat liver cirrhosis was achieved by IP injection of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) three times weekly for 8 weeks. CCl4 was then discontinued and thalidomide (100 mg/kg) or its vehicle was administered daily by gavage for 6 weeks. Hydroxyproline (HYP) content in liver was detected by biochemical assay. NF-kappaBp65, ICAM-1, VCAM-1 and alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) protein in the liver, IkappaBalpha protein in cytoplasm and NF-kappaBp65 protein in nucleus and ICAM-1, VCAM-1 mRNA levels in the liver were studied using immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, respectively.
Compared with the spontaneous recovery of cirrhosis, the histopathology of liver of rats given thalidomide was significantly improved. HYP content in liver, the expressions of ICAM-1, VCAM-1 mRNA and protein, NF-kappaBp65 and alpha-SMA protein were decreased significantly and IkappaBalpha protein in liver was elevated significantly in this group.
Thalidomide may exert its effect on downregulation of NF-kappaB-induced adhesion molecules and activation of hepatic stellate cell via inhibition of degradation of IkappaB to reverse established rat hepatic cirrhosis.
Rats were injected intravenously with 10 mg/kg of adriamycin (doxorubicin). All the treated animals developed severe posterior limb ataxia on days 11 and 12 following the injection. Mild ataxia of the forelimbs was noted later. The animals were killed between days 10 and 50. Light microscopy revealed changes in ganglion cells of the peripheral nervous system with sparing of neurons in the central nervous system. In the spinal, paravertebral and trigeminal ganglia, necrosis of neurons was followed by mild lymphocytic infiltration, and ultimate loss of ganglion cells, and a marked proliferation of nerve sheath cells. Electron microscopic study revealed increased numbers of neurofilaments and the presence of membrane-bound cisterns in the affected dorsal root ganglion cell bodies. It is concluded that adriamycin, an important anticancer therapeutic agent, has neurotoxic properties and that it selectively damages the ganglia of the peripheral nervous system.
A 34-year-old male presented with macroscopic haematuria, abdominal pain and dysuria while being treated with penicillin for bacterial endocarditis. All blood cultures yielded Streptococcus mutans. After four weeks of treatment he developed haemorrhagic cystitis, thrombophlebitis and eosinophilia. The symptoms disappeared when he was taken off penicillin. After change of medication to ceftriaxone, the patient developed reversible neutropenia and recovered completely.
Haemorrhagic cystitis caused by penicillin can be potentially fatal; two cases have earlier been described. Because of cross reaction this patient also developed reversible neutropenia. It is well known that beta-lactam antibiotics can induce severe neutropenia.
This study tested the hypothesis that concurrent ethanol administration attenuates the hypotensive effect of clonidine. Four groups of spontaneously hypertensive rats matched for baseline systolic pressure and body weight were randomly assigned the following treatments: (1) water (control), (2) ethanol, (3) clonidine, and (4) ethanol plus clonidine for 13 weeks. Ethanol was provided in the drinking water as 5% for 1 week, 10% for the next 2 weeks, and 20% from week 4 to 13. Starting from similar baseline systolic blood pressures, the blood pressure of the control group increased 10 to 15 mm Hg over the 13-week treatment period. A similar rise in systolic blood pressure occurred in ethanol-treated rats despite a drastic (40% to 50%, P < .05) reduction in fluid intake. Clonidine (300 micrograms/kg per day) caused a smaller and shorter reduction in fluid intake. The fluid intake of the combined treatment group was similar to that of the ethanol group. Either treatment caused a significant and additive reduction in body weight gain. Treatment-related mortality (20%) occurred only in the combined treatment group by the 12th week. Clonidine elicited a slowly developing hypotensive response (P < .05) that started 2 to 3 weeks after treatment was initiated and lasted throughout the treatment period. Ethanol abolished the hypotensive effect of clonidine and resulted in blood pressure values that were not significantly different from those of the control or the ethanol group. Blood ethanol concentration was similar in the presence or absence of clonidine (5.5 +/- 1.9 versus 6.5 +/- 3 mmol/L).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Damage of the blood-brain barrier and invasion of immunocompetent cells into the central nervous system represent key events in the immunopathogenesis of multiple sclerosis. Mitoxantrone hydrochloride reduces progression of disability and clinical exacerbations in patients with multiple sclerosis. Its precise mode of action is unclear.
To investigate the effects of mitoxantrone on the migratory capacity of immunocompetent cells ex vivo and in vitro.
Case-control study.
Department of Neurology, Heinrich Heine University, Düsseldorf, Germany.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were obtained from 11 patients with multiple sclerosis before and after intravenous mitoxantrone treatment; PBMCs from 5 healthy control donors were treated with mitoxantrone in vitro.
The migratory capacity was studied in an in vitro Boyden chamber assay; cells and their rates of migration were analyzed by light microscopy and flow cytometry. To determine the specificity of our findings, PBMCs were treated with perfosfamide in vitro.
Mitoxantrone decreased the migratory capacity of CD14(+) monocytes and (to a lesser degree) of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T lymphocytes. These observations were confirmed when control PBMCs were treated with an equivalent dose of mitoxantrone in vitro. Similar effects were seen when PBMCs were preincubated with perfosfamide. The inhibitory effects of mitoxantrone on the migratory capacity of PBMCs were mediated by reduced matrix metalloproteinase 9 activity, as demonstrated by zymography, polymerase chain reaction, and inhibitory studies.
Mitoxantrone may inhibit the migration of inflammatory cells into and within the central nervous system.
Immunization of cancer patients is most effective in tumor-free conditions or in the presence of minimal residual disease. In the attempt to develop new strategies able to control tumor recurrence while allowing the development of protective immunity, we have investigated the immunogenic potential of two distinct vaccine formulations when provided alone or upon single and repeated treatment with chemotherapeutics drugs. Vaccine-induced T cell responses were first investigated by tracing Ag-specific T cell responses in mice bearing detectable frequencies of Ag-specific TCR transgenic CD4 and CD8 T cells. These studies indicated that immunization with peptide-pulsed dendritic cells and soluble Ag plus adjuvant elicited a comparable expansion and differentiation of CD4 and CD8 effector cells in the peripheral lymphoid tissues when provided alone or shortly after Doxorubicin or Melphalan administration. We also analyzed the potency of the combined vaccination in transgenic adenocarcinoma mouse prostate mice, which develop spontaneous prostate cancer. Dendritic cell-based vaccination elicited potent tumor-specific cytotoxic responses in mice bearing prostate intraepithelial neoplasia both in the absence and in the presence of Doxorubicin. Together our results indicate that Doxorubicin- or Melphalan-based chemotherapy and Ag-specific vaccination can be combined for adjuvant treatments of cancer patients.
To determine the incidence, risk factors, and long-term sequelae of the purple glove syndrome (PGS) in hospital patients receiving IV phenytoin.
PGS is a poorly understood, potentially serious local complication of IV phenytoin administration characterized by progressive distal limb edema, discoloration, and pain.
The pharmacologic records of the Mayo Foundation hospitals were reviewed to identify 179 consecutive patients who had IV phenytoin ordered during a 3-month period. Their hospital records were then reviewed to confirm IV phenytoin treatment, the frequency of PGS (defined as the progressive development of edema, discoloration, and pain in the limb after administration of IV phenytoin), and the outcome of PGS.
A total of 152 patients received IV phenytoin, and nine (5.9%) developed PGS. PGS patients received a greater median initial dose of phenytoin, total 24-hour dose, and total number of doses (all p < 0.05). In addition, the median age of the PGS patients was older, their infusion was more often given for acute seizures, it was less likely to be administered in the operating room, and the length of their hospital stay was longer (all p < 0.05). One patient required surgical therapy, and all other patients resolved within 3 weeks with conservative management.
PGS is not rare and elderly patients and individuals receiving large, multiple doses are particularly at risk. This iatrogenic complication may be preventable by substituting fosphenytoin for IV phenytoin.
To evaluate the association of excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1) expression, using both mRNA and protein expression analysis, with clinical outcome in cervical cancer patients treated with radical radiation therapy (RT).
Patients (n=186) with locally advanced cervical cancer, treated with radical RT alone from a single institution were evaluated. Pre-treatment FFPE biopsy specimens were retrieved from 112 patients. ERCC1 mRNA level was determined by real-time PCR, and ERCC1 protein expression (FL297, 8F1) was measured using quantitative immunohistochemistry (AQUA®). The association of ERCC1 status with local response, 10-year disease-free (DFS) and overall survival (OS) was analyzed.
ERCC1 protein expression levels using both FL297 and 8F1 antibodies were determined for 112 patients; mRNA analysis was additionally performed in 32 patients. Clinical and outcome factors were comparable between the training and validation sets. Low ERCC1 mRNA expression status was associated with worse OS (17.9% vs 50.1%, p=0.046). ERCC1 protein expression using the FL297 antibody, but not the 8F1 antibody, was significantly associated with both OS (p=0.002) and DFS (p=0.010). After adjusting for pre-treatment hemoglobin in a multivariate analysis, ERCC1 FL297 expression status remained statistically significant for OS [HR 1.9 (1.1-3.3), p=0.031].
Pre-treatment tumoral ERCC1 mRNA and protein expression, using the FL297 antibody, are predictive factors for survival in cervical cancer patients treated with RT, with ERCC1 FL297 expression independently associated with survival. These results identify a subset of patients who may derive the greatest benefit from the addition of cisplatin chemotherapy.
Vomiting is one of the most distressing adverse effects of cancer chemotherapy. Metoclopramide by continuous infusion (400 micrograms/kg/h after a loading dose of 2.5 mg/kg) is a novel administration method for optimizing efficacy. A two-year-old boy developed urinary retention on three occasions, once accompanied by priapism and slurred speech, while receiving a continuous infusion. This was reversed by procyclidine, suggesting that it may have been a dystonic reaction.
We have shown that supplementation of proinflammatory agent with a high dose of morphine not only abolishes inflammation-related pain symptoms but also inhibits influx of leukocytes to the inflamed peritoneal cavity. Present investigations focused on effects of morphine on proopiomelanocortin and prodynorphin systems during zymosan-induced peritonitis. Males of SWISS mice were ip injected with zymosan (Z, 40 mg/kg) or zymosan with morphine (ZM, 20 mg/kg). At time 0 (controls) and 4 and 24h after stimulation, peritoneal leukocytes (PTLs) were counted, PTL levels of opioid peptides (beta-endorphin and dynorphin) measured by radioimmunoassays, while mRNAs coding their respective precursors (POMC and PDYN) and receptors (MOR and KOR) determined by QRT-PCR. Influx of inflammatory PTLs, mainly PMNs, was significantly delayed by morphine co-injection. Total levels of beta-endorphin and dynorphin corresponded with PTL numbers, while levels per cell were similar in all groups except of beta-endorphin, decreased in ZM at 4h. Levels of both peptides in peritoneal fluid were increased in Z and ZM groups at 4h, while at 24h only in case of beta-endorphin in Z group. POMC was increased only in ZM group at 4h of peritonitis, while PDYN in both Z and ZM groups at the same time. MOR mRNA was increased 24h after injection in Z and ZM groups, while KOR mRNA was similar in all groups except of decrease in Z at 24h. In conclusion, endogenous opioids and their receptors are involved in zymosan-induced peritonitis and affected in various ways by morphine co-injection.
