d-Amphetamine (AMPH) is a widely prescribed attention deficit hyperactivity disorder medication, but little is known about its effects on impulsive choice with escalated use.
The current study examined the effects of short and long access to AMPH self-administration on impulsive choice in a delay discounting task in which rats chose between a small immediate reward (one sucrose pellet immediately) and a larger delayed reward (three sucrose pellets after an adjusting delay).
Following choice stability in delay discounting, all rats received 15 1-h sessions of AMPH self-administration (0.1 or 0.03 mg/kg/infusion); self-administration sessions began 45 min after each delay discounting session. Rats were then either maintained on the short access (ShA) self-administration session or were switched to a long access (LgA) 6-h session for 21 days, followed by a 7-day withdrawal phase in which only the delay discounting task continued.
LgA rats in the 0.03 mg/kg/infusion dose group escalated in total number of infusions across sessions, although rats in the 0.1 mg/kg/infusion dose group did not. LgA groups at both unit doses showed decreased mean adjusted delays across sessions compared to the ShA groups, indicating that long access to AMPH increases impulsive choice. During the AMPH withdrawal phase, LgA groups returned back to baseline mean adjusted delays, indicating that the effect on impulsive choice was reversible.
These results show that extended AMPH self-administration produces a transient loss of inhibitory control, which may play a role in the escalating pattern of drug intake that characterizes the addiction process.
Galangin, an active flavonoid component extracted from the propolis and root of Alpinia officinarum Hance, has anti-tumor activity, but the mechanisms by which galangin affects various cancers, including human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remain unclear. In this study, we demonstrated for the first time that galangin suppressed the growth of HNSCC in vivo. With the cell culture system, galangin inhibited the proliferation and colony formation of HNSCC cells in a dose-dependent manner. Galangin induced significant cell cycle arrest of the tumor cells at the G0/G1 phase, which was accompanied by reduced AKT phosphorylation and mammalian target of rapamycin and S6 kinase activation. Decreased expression of cyclin D1, cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)4, CDK6 and phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein was observed in galangin-treated HNSCC cells. In addition, galangin induced apoptosis of HNSCC cells, downregulating antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL and upregulating proapoptotic protein Bax and cleaved caspase 3. Immunohistochemical analysis showed a dose-dependent reduction in cyclin-D1-positive cancer cells and an increase in TUNEL-positive cancer cells in galangin-administrated mouse tumor sections. Therefore, galangin may be a novel therapeutic option in human HNSCC treatment.
Glycyrrhizae radix (G. radix) has been demonstrated to have hepatoprotective properties. This study determined the therapeutic effects of isoliquiritigenin (isoLQ) in G. radix, against liver injury induced by CCl4 in rats. CCl4 (0.5 ml/kg/d, twice) or CCl4 plus buthionine sulfoximine exerted severe liver damage assessed by increased plasma levels of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase, in addition to hepatic degeneration and necrosis. These pathological changes were markedly protected by pretreatment with isoLQ (5, 20 mg/kg/d, p.o.) for 3 consecutive days. In addition, pretreatment with isoLQ inhibited CCl4-induced reduction of cytochrome P450 2E1 protein and mRNA expression as well as activity in the liver. Moreover, isoLQ pretreatment reversed the decrease in hepatic antioxidant capacity induced by CCl4 as well as suppressed expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and cyclooxigenase-2 in the liver. These results suggest that isoLQ has a protective effect against CCl4-induced liver damage through induction of antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities.
To test the hypothesis that beta blockers lower blood pressure more effectively than calcium entry blockers in obese hypertensive patients and that calcium entry blockers are more effective in lean patients.
Double blind, randomised controlled trial of treatment over six weeks.
Tertiary referral centre.
42 white men with uncomplicated mild to moderate essential hypertension (World Health Organisation stage I or II); 36 completed the study.
Patients were randomised to metoprolol 50-100 mg twice daily or isradipine 2.5-5.0 mg twice daily for six weeks after a two week run in phase.
Blood pressure after six weeks of treatment.
When stratified according to treatment and presence of obesity (body mass index < or = 27 kg/m2), the mean (SD) fall in blood pressure in the beta blocker group was 24 (13)/18 (10) mm Hg in obese patients and 18 (19)/12 (13) mm Hg in lean patients. In the calcium entry blocker group, the fall in blood pressure was 21 (15)/17 (6) mm Hg in lean patients and 18 (11)/8 (10) mm Hg in obese patients. After taking age and blood pressure before treatment into account there was a significant interaction between obesity and drug therapy (p = 0.019) with a better diastolic blood pressure response to calcium entry blockers in lean patients and to beta blockers in obese hypertensive patients.
Obesity affects the efficacy of metoprolol and isradipine in reducing blood pressure.
To report a case of delirium probably caused by the atypical antipsychotic olanzapine in a 74-year-old man with dementia.
A 74-year-old white man with a diagnosis of severe dementia of mixed etiology with behavioral disturbances was admitted to an urban teaching hospital for increasing agitation in the context of worsening dementia. Olanzapine 2.5 mg each evening was started for agitation, and the dose was titrated to 5 mg each evening with additional emergent doses. Memantine, an N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, was increased from the admission dose of 10 mg/day to 15 mg/day. The patient developed symptoms of delirium on hospital day 4. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome and other causes of delirium were ruled out. Discontinuation of olanzapine resulted in resolution of the delirium.
Antipsychotic medications are commonly used to treat symptoms of delirium. Atypical antipsychotics are better tolerated in the elderly because of their fewer adverse reactions compared with other antipsychotics. Olanzapine has been successfully used in the treatment of delirium. However, there have been case reports of delirium associated with olanzapine, probably related to its intrinsic anticholinergic effect. Application of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between the onset of delirium and the use of olanzapine in this patient. As of December 1, 2005, this was the second such report of a case in the elderly.
Although olanzapine is useful in the treatment of delirium, elderly patients treated with this drug can develop delirium and hence should be closely monitored.
Ifosfamide has been associated with proximal renal tubular dysfunction resembling Fanconi-like syndrome and leading to rickets in young children. The characteristic manifestations of this nephrotoxicity include phosphaturia and hypophosphatemia, glycosuria, aminoaciduria, renal tubular acidosis, and urinary loss of low molecular weight serum proteins. However, the relationship between acute ifosfamide nephrotoxicity, which is frequently subclinical, and long term renal damage is unclear. In this prospective study, the laboratory features of ifosfamide-induced acute nephrotoxicity were characterized further and correlated with the development of chronic nephropathy.
The renal function of newly diagnosed children and young adults with high risk sarcomas was followed during therapy with a high dose ifosfamide-containing regimen. Serum and urine were collected regularly immediately before and after 5-day cycles of ifosfamide throughout treatment for determination of the fractional excretion of electrolytes (sodium, potassium, phosphate, magnesium, calcium) and glucose and urinary excretion of amino acids and beta 2-microglobulin.
Significant changes in the renal threshold of phosphate excretion, the fractional excretion of calcium and glucose, and the urinary excretion of beta 2-microglobulin were observed when comparing pretreatment values with those at the end of a 5-day treatment cycle. The median renal threshold of phosphate excretion decreased from 1.22 to 0.82 mmol/L (P < 0.0001). The median fractional excretions of calcium and glucose increased from 1.05% to 1.68% (P < 0.0001) and 0.05% to 0.08% (P = 0.0006), respectively. Beta 2-microglobulin excretion increased by 70-fold from 0.02 to 1.42 mg/mmol (P < 0.0001). Except for glucose and beta 2-microglobulin excretion, renal parameters returned to baseline before the next ifosfamide treatment cycle. Acute aminoaciduria was observed in 21 of 23 patients. Chronic nephrotoxicity, as defined by the development of a Fanconi-like syndrome or chronic tubular electrolyte loss requiring oral supplementation, developed in the three patients with the highest urinary excretion of beta 2-microglobulin after ifosfamide therapy.
Prospectively, high dose ifosfamide was associated with a 4% incidence of Fanconi-like syndrome; however, evidence of acute reversible subclinical nephrotoxicity was observed for all patients. Severe beta 2-microglobulinuria appeared to be a prognostic laboratory indicator for the development of chronic nephrotoxicity.
This study was carried out to examine the effects of ethanol extract (EXPG) and saponin (SAP) from Platycodon grandiflorum on scopolamine-induced amnesia in mice. Fifty male ICR mice were assigned to five groups--normal (normal diet + saline), control (normal diet + scopolamine), EXPG 0.2% (normal diet + 0.2% EXPG + scopolamine), EXPG 0.5% (normal diet + 0.5% EXPG + scopolamine), and SAP 0.02% (normal diet + 0.02% SAP + scopolamine)--and fed each diet ad libitum. After 4 weeks of feeding the appropriate diet, scopolamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) was given to mice 45 minutes before the passive avoidance and Morris water maze tasks. Both the EXPG groups and the SAP group exhibited significant amelioration of scopolamine-induced amnesia as measured in both the passive avoidance task and the Morris water maze task. Moreover, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and the levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) in the serum and brain of the EXPG groups were lower than those of the control group. These results suggest that EXPG may improve the cognitive deficit caused by scopolamine and that these effects might be due to EXPG mediated by inhibition of AChE activity and inhibition of TBARS.
The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma is increasing in many countries. The estimated number of new cases annually is over 500,000, and the yearly incidence comprises between 2.5 and 7% of patients with liver cirrhosis. The incidence varies between different geographic areas, being higher in developing areas; males are predominantly affected, with a 2:3 male/female ratio
Experiments were designed to examine the effect of N-Nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) as cancer-inducer compound and to confirm the preventive effect of the flavonoid quercetin on hepatocellular carcinoma in rats. Briefly, thirty six male albino rats of Wistar strain were divided into 3 groups: the 1st group was administered NDEA alone (NDEA-treated), the 2nd group was treated simultaneously with NDEA and quercetin (NDEA+Q) and the 3rd group was used as control (CON). Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA polymerase chain reaction (RAPD-PCR) as well as p53-specifi PCR assays were employed to determine genomic difference between treated, and control animals. Histological confirmation as well as oxidant/antioxidant status of the liver tissue was done.
RAPD analysis of liver samples generated 8 monomorphic bands and 22 polymorphic bands in a total of 30-banded RAPD patterns. Cluster analysis and statistical analyses of RAPD data resulted in grouping control and NDEA+Q samples in the same group with 80% similarity cut-off value. NDEA-treated samples were clustered in a separate group. Specific PCR assay for polymorphism of P53 gene revealed a uniform pattern of allele separation in both control and NDEA+Q samples. Quercetin anticancer effect was exhibited in significant decrease of oxidative stress and significant decrease of antioxidant activity. Histopathological studies showed normal liver histology of the NDEA+Q samples. Meanwhile, several cancer-induced features were clearly observable in NDEA-treated samples.
This paper demonstrated that preventive effect of quercetin on hepatocarcinoma in rats by RAPD-PCR, tracing the effect on p53 gene and by histopathological evidence. Hereby, it was proved that quercetin exerted its preventive effect via decreased oxidative stress and decreased antioxidant activity.
This study was designed to investigate if the impairment of learning and memory induced by acute administration of scopolamine (1.4 mg/kg ip) in rats is associated with altered brain oxidative stress status. The passive avoidance paradigm was used to assess retrieval memory of rats after scopolamine treatment. Following retrieval testing, biochemical assessments of malondialdehyde (MDA), glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx), glutathione (GSH), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels/activities as oxidative stress indices were performed. This study also investigated the effect of acute administration of Hypericum perforatum extract (4.0, 8.0, 12.0, and 25.0 mg/kg ip), containing flavonoids with documented antioxidant activity, on brain oxidative status of nai;ve rats treated with amnestic dose of scopolamine. Results showed that administration of 1.4 mg/kg of scopolamine impaired retrieval memory of rats and that such amnesia was associated with elevated MDA and reduced GSH brain levels. In nai;ve rats, which have not been exposed to conditioned fear, scopolamine administration also increased MDA and reduced GSH levels, although with an increase in brain GSHPx activity. Pretreatment of the animals with Hypericum extract (4, 8, and 12 mg/kg) resulted in an antioxidant effect through altering brain MDA, GSHPx, and/or GSH level/activity. Since oxidative stress is implicated in the pathophysiology of dementia, the findings of this study may substantiate the value of scopolamine-induced amnesia in rats as a valid animal model to screen for drugs with potential therapeutic benefit in dementia. Exposure of animals to conditioned fear may be suggested to impair the balance between the rate of lipid peroxidation and the activation of GSHPx as a compensatory antioxidant protective mechanism. It is also concluded that low doses of Hypericum extract, demonstrating antioxidant activity, may be of value for demented patients exhibiting elevated brain oxidative status. Since depression commonly coexists with dementia, Hypericum extract as a drug with documented antidepressant action may also be a better alternative than several other antidepressant medications that have not been evaluated to test their effect on brain oxidative status during amnesia.
West Nile virus (WNV) poses a serious threat to public health, especially to the elderly and the immuno-compromised. Neither vaccines nor treatments are available for humans. Active hexose correlated compound (AHCC) is an extract of Lentinula edodes of the Basidiomycete family of fungi rich in alpha-glucans. In this study, we evaluated the effect of AHCC on host susceptibility in the murine model of WNV infection. Mice orally administered with AHCC (600 mg/kg) every other day for 1 wk before and at d 1 and 3 postinfection were assessed using viremia levels, survival rate, and protective immunity. AHCC administration in young (6- to 8-wk-old) mice attenuated viremia and mortality following lethal WNV infection. WNV-specific IgM and IgG production and gammadelta T cell expansion were also enhanced in these mice. Aged (21- to 22-mo-old) mice were more susceptible to WNV infection than young mice, partially due to the dysfunction of gammadelta T cell subsets. AHCC administration in aged mice enhanced the protective Vgamma1(+) T cell response as well as WNV-specific IgG but not IgM antibodies production. AHCC administration in aged mice attenuated viremia levels but led to no difference in mortality rate. Overall, our data suggests that AHCC enhances protective host immune responses against WNV infection in young and aged mice. Dietary supplementation with AHCC may be potentially immunotherapeutic for WNV-susceptible populations.
Abuse of ergotamine-containing suppositories was followed by generalized vessel stenoses in a pregnant 29-year-old migraine patient and led to a space-occupying great brain infarction in the area supplied by the right internal carotid artery. Impressive improvement of clinical, computed tomography and ultrasound findings was observed during treatment with nimodipine. The literature about cerebral symptoms of ergotism is reviewed.
A careful preoperative history can be helpful in detecting problems with previous anesthetic experiences. However, it has been found that in the patients who have developed a complete syndrome of malignant hyperthermia (MH), 30% had prior uneventful general anesthesia. It is therefore of extreme importance when delivering anesthesia to recognize the signs of MH early in order to initiate correct procedures to prevent the development of a fulminating crisis of MH.
The murine frontal bone derives entirely from the cranial neural crest (CNC) and consists of the calvarial (lateral) aspect that covers the frontal lobe of brain and the orbital aspect that forms the roof of bony orbit. TGFbeta and FGF signaling have important regulatory roles in postnatal calvarial development. Our previous study has demonstrated that conditional inactivation of Tgfbr2 in the neural crest results in severe defects in calvarial development, although the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which TGFbeta signaling regulates the fate of CNC cells during frontal bone development remain unknown. Here, we show that TGFbeta IIR is required for proliferation of osteoprogenitor cells in the CNC-derived frontal bone anlagen. FGF acts downstream of TGFbeta signaling in regulating CNC cell proliferation, and exogenous FGF2 rescues the cell proliferation defect in the frontal primordium of Tgfbr2 mutant. Furthermore, the CNC-derived frontal primordium requires TGFbeta IIR to undergo terminal differentiation. However, this requirement is restricted to the developing calvarial aspect of the frontal bone, whereas the orbital aspect forms despite the ablation of Tgfbr2 gene, implying a differential requirement for TGFbeta signaling during the development of various regions of the frontal bone. This study demonstrates the biological significance of TGFbeta-mediated FGF signaling cascade in regulating frontal bone development, suggests that TGFbeta functions as a morphogen in regulating the fate of the CNC-derived osteoblast and provides a model for investigating abnormal craniofacial development.
The neuropeptide substance-P (SP) is expressed from the TAC1 gene in sensory neurones where it acts as a key modulator of neurogenic inflammation. The promoter of TAC1 (TAC1prom) plays a central role in the regulation of the TAC1 gene but requires the presence of a second regulatory element; ECR2, to support TAC1 expression in sensory neurones and to respond appropriately to signalling pathways such as MAPkinases and noxious induction by capsaicin. We examined whether the effect of capsaicin on ECR2-TAC1prom activity in larger diameter neurones was cell autonomous or non- cell autonomous. We demonstrate that TRPV1 is not expressed in all the same cells as SP following capsaicin induction suggesting the presence of a non-cell autonomous mechanism for TAC1 up-regulation following capsaicin induction. In addition, we demonstrate that induction of SP and ECR1-TAC1prom activity in these larger diameter neurones can be induced by potassium depolarisation suggesting that, in addition to capsaicin induction, transgene activity may be modulated by voltage gated calcium channels. Furthermore, we show that NK1 is expressed in all SP- expressing cells after capsaicin induction and that an agonist of NK1 can activate both SP and the transgene in larger diameter neurones. These observations suggest the presence of an autocrine loop that controls the expression of the TAC1 promoter in sensory neurones. In contrast, induction of the TAC1 promoter by LPS was not dependent on ECR2 and did not occur in large diameter neurones. These studies demonstrate the diversity of mechanisms modulating the activity of the TAC1 promoter and provide novel directions for the development of new anti-inflammatory therapies.
Minocycline is an antibiotic widely used in the treatment of acne. Among the induced auto-immune disorders, cutaneous polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is very rare. A new case is reported below. A 23-year-old female patient treated with minocycline for acne for 24 months developed sub-cutaneous nodules, livedo reticularis and pigmented lesions of the lower limbs. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) were positive at 1/320. Skin biopsy showed vasculitis of a medium-sized artery. The role of minocycline was suspected using the imputability criteria. The diagnosis of minocycline-induced cutaneous PAN with ANCA was sustained. After withdrawal of the treatment, the nodular lesions decreased spontaneously, whereas livedo disappeared and inflammatory parameters were normalized after oral corticosteroid therapy. Minocycline is a tetracycline which is efficient for treating acne. Auto-immune disorders are frequently observed. Among them, it is very rare to observe cutaneous PAN associated with positive ANCA. The pathophysiological mechanisms are discussed.
A 14-year-old girl with palpitations was found to have idiopathic ventricular tachycardia of right bundle block morphology and superior axis. She was converted by intravenous verapamil but was not responsive to oral verapamil therapy. She was successfully treated by radiofrequency catheter ablation.
An in vivo mutation assay has been developed based on flow cytometric enumeration of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor-deficient rat erythrocytes. With this method, blood is incubated with anti-CD59-PE and SYTO 13 dye, and flow cytometry is used to score the frequency of CD59-negative erythrocytes. The experiments described herein were designed to define the kinetics of mutant erythrocyte appearance and disappearance from peripheral blood to support appropriate treatment and sampling designs for the assay. Wistar Han rats were treated with one of five prototypical mutagens: N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU); 7,12-dimethyl-1,2-benz[a]anthracene (DMBA); 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide; benzo[a]pyrene; and N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. ENU and DMBA were also evaluated in Sprague Dawley rats. Animals were treated on three consecutive days (days 1-3) via oral gavage, and blood specimens were obtained on days -1, 4, 15, 30, 45, and 90 (and day 180 for ENU). A second endpoint of genotoxicity, the frequency of peripheral blood micronucleated reticulocytes, was measured on day 4. Each chemical induced micronuclei and the GPI anchor-deficient phenotype. Increased mutant cell frequencies were evident at day 15. Mutant reticulocyte frequencies remained relatively stable for some chemicals, but others peaked and then dropped significantly. The differences in kinetics observed are presumably related to the degree to which mutation occurs in hematopoietic stem cells versus more committed cells with limited self-renewal capacity. Collectively, the results suggest that enumerating GPI anchor-deficient erythrocytes is an efficient means of evaluating the in vivo mutagenic potential of chemicals. The kinetics and ease of scoring this blood-based endpoint suggest that integration into routine toxicology studies will be feasible.
A 69-year-old man receiving monotherapy for lung cancer with dichloromethotrexate (DCM), and without exposure to other chemotherapeutic agents or known ototoxic drugs, developed profound cochleovestibular dysfunction. The initial presentation was vestibular. This resolved, but unilateral hearing loss ensued and continued to progress to a total of 80 db loss in the low frequency range and 40 db in the high range, despite discontinuation of the drug. Because DCM may be used in combination with the known ototoxin cisplatin, the potential of DCM as an ototoxin should also be considered in such patients.
We previously showed that S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) induces movement impairments similar to those observed in Parkinson's disease (PD) apparently by prenylated protein methylation; 5 kDa molecules being methylated and the symptoms being inhibited by prenylcysteine (PC) analogs. In the present study, we explore the biochemical mechanism of action of the PC analogs. N-acetylgeranylcysteine (AGC), N-acetylfarnesylcysteine (AFC), N-acetylgeranylgeranylcysteine (AGGC), farnesylthioacetic acid (FTA), farnesyl-2-ethanesulfonic acid (FTE) and farnesylsuccinic acid (FMS), but not farnesylthiotriazole (FTT) and farnesylthiolactic acid (FTL), inhibited the SAM-induced motor impairments. Incubation of the respective analogs with rat brain membranes containing prenylated protein methyltransferase (PPMTase) resulted in the methylation of AGC, AFC and AGGC. FTA, FTE, FMS and FTT, but not FTL, inhibited the enzyme activity. A single injection of the active analogs remained effective for at least 3 days against repeated injections of 1 micromol SAM. Amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in rats was inhibited by SAM but potentiated by FTE. During 60 min, the movement time for amphetamine-treated rats was 1477 s compared with 633 and 1664 s for amphetamine+SAM- and amphetamine+FTE-treated rats, respectively. The total distance for amphetamine+FTE-treated rats was 82% higher than for amphetamine. The horizontal activity was 30,728 (amphetamine), 15,430 (FTE), 18,526 (amphetamine+SAM), 41,736 (amphetamine+FTE) and 7004 (SAM) as compared to the PBS control (4726). The intricate relationship between the actions of SAM, which speeds up prenylated protein methylation and impairs movement, amphetamine, which increases synaptic dopamine levels and movement, and the PC analogs, which prevent the SAM-induced movement impairments, suggests a SAM-induced defect on dopamine signaling as the likely cause of the symptoms. The data reveal that interaction of PC analogs with PPMTase may not be an indicator of anti-PD-like activity.
Mulibrey nanism (MUL) is an autosomal recessive disease caused by mutations in the TRIM37 gene encoding the peroxisomal TRIM37 protein of unknown function. In this work, we analysed the clinical characteristics of 85 Finnish patients with MUL, most of whom were homozygous for the Finn major mutation of TRIM37. The patients' hospital records from birth to the time of the diagnosis at age 0.02-52 years (median 2.1 years) were retrospectively analysed. All except four of the patients (95%) had a prenatal onset growth failure without postnatal catch up growth. The mean length standard deviation score (SDS) was -3.1 and -4.0 at birth and at diagnosis, respectively. In infancy, feeding difficulties, and respiratory tract infections were the most common problems. Congestive heart failure and pericardial constriction were diagnosed during infancy in 12% and 6% of the patients, respectively. At the time of the diagnosis, characteristic craniofacial features of scaphocephaly, facial triangularity, high and broad forehead, and low nasal bridge were evident in over 90% of the patients. In addition, practically all patients were gracile and had thin extremities. Other findings included a peculiar high-pitched voice (96%), yellowish dots in ocular fundi (79%), cutaneous naevi flammei (65%), hepatomegaly (45%), and fibrous dysplasia of long bones (25%). Mild muscular hypotonicity (68%) was the only neurological abnormality. The clinical features of the Finnish patients with MUL formed a distinct entity. The most consistent findings were growth failure and characteristic craniofacial features. However, organ manifestations varied considerably in early childhood. Based on these findings, we propose new diagnostic criteria for MUL.
Members of the Spalt gene family encode putative transcription factors characterized by seven to nine C2H2 zinc finger motifs. Four genes have been identified in mice--Spalt1 to Spalt4 (Sall1 to Sall4). Spalt homologues are widely expressed in neural and mesodermal tissues during early embryogenesis. Sall3 is normally expressed in mice from embryonic day 7 (E7) in the neural ectoderm and primitive streak and subsequently in the brain, peripheral nerves, spinal cord, limb buds, palate, heart, and otic vesicles. We have generated a targeted disruption of Sall3 in mice. Homozygous mutant animals die on the first postnatal day and fail to feed. Examination of the oral structures of these animals revealed that abnormalities were present in the palate and epiglottis from E16.5. In E10.5 embryos, deficiencies in cranial nerves that normally innervate oral structures, particularly the glossopharyngeal nerve (IX), were observed. These studies indicate that Sall3 is required for the development of nerves that are derived from the hindbrain and for the formation of adjacent branchial arch derivatives.
Leptin has been consistently associated with angiogenesis and tumoral growth. A G/A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) at the -2548 site in leptin gene (LEP) is associated with overexpression of leptin (A-allele).
We evaluated DNA samples from 268 (536 alleles) unrelated individuals, 118 healthy controls (HCs) and 150 prostate cancer (PC) patients, for leptin gene (LEP) locus -2548 genotypes.
We found an overrepresentation of the A-allele in PC patients and that there is a significantly higher risk for PC among A carriers (OR = 1.60; confidence interval (CI), 1.13-2.28, P = 0.008). Linear trend analysis showed that quantitative increase of A-allele presence was associated with significantly higher risk for PC (P = 0.003) in heterozygous (OR = 2.11; CI, 1.20-3.71) and homozygous (OR = 2.93; CI, 1.27-6.75) genotypes. Furthermore, the AA and AG genotypes represent significantly higher risk (OR = 4.67; CI, 1.69-12.88 and OR = 2.58; CI, 1.19-5.58, respectively) for advanced disease.
According to our results we hypothesize that the polymorphism in LEP gene may be relevant to PC risk and progression, supporting the hypothesis for leptin involvement in cancer ethiopathogenesis.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with hypertension. An antihypertensive effect of the antioxidant glutathione has been recently demonstrated. It has been suggested that hyperglycemia may contribute to the pathophysiology of hypertension in diabetes by generating an oxidative stress. In this study, three different tests were performed in ten hypertensive and ten nonhypertensive diabetic subjects: (1) an oral glucose tolerance test, (2) glutathione i.v. administration (1 g/m2 bolus + 1 g/m2 in 2 h), and (3) oral glucose tolerance test + glutathione administration. At -15', 0', 30', 60', 90', 120', and 180' systolic and diastolic blood pressure, plasma glucose, and insulin were measured. Variations in plasma glucose and insulin levels were not different during each test in the two groups of patients and in test (1) compared to (3). Glutathione administration reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure in both hypertensive and nonhypertensive diabetic subjects from 30' to 120'. This phenomenon was abolished as glycemia increased after oral glucose loading. In hypertensive, but not in nonhypertensive diabetic subjects, a significant increase of systolic and diastolic blood pressure was observed at 90' and 120' of the oral glucose tolerance test (p < 0.01). These data show that hyperglycemia can counteract the hypotensive effects of the antioxidant glutathione, suggesting that glucose may impair arterial relaxation by producing free radicals. Also, it appears that hypertension in diabetic patients is aggravated by high glucose plasma levels.
The present study examined the role of cyclooxygenase-synthetized prostanoids in the pathogenesis of angiotensin-II-induced inflammatory response and vascular injury in transgenic rats harboring mouse renin-2 gene (mREN2 rats). Five- to six-week-old, heterozygous mREN2 rats received the following drug regimens for 8 weeks: (1) controls; (2) cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor (MF-tricyclic [3-(3,4-difluorophenyl)-4-(4-(methylsulfonyl) phenyl)-2(5H)-furanone], 14 mg kg(-1) p.o.); (3) cyclooxygenase-1/cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor (sulindac, 14 mg kg(-1) p.o.); (4) angiotensin II receptor antagonist (losartan 40 mg kg(-1) p.o.); (5) MF-tricyclic + losartan; (6) sulindac + losartan. Normotensive Sprague-Dawley rats served as controls. mREN2 rats developed pronounced hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy, and albuminuria as compared to normotensive Sprague-Dawley controls. mREN2 rats showed pronounced perivascular inflammation and morphological damage in the kidneys and the heart. Both MF-tricyclic and sulindac further increased blood pressure and albuminuria in mREN2 rats. Neither MF-tricyclic nor sulindac were able to prevent angiotensin-II-induced perivascular inflammation and morphological changes in the heart or in the kidneys. Myocardial and renal cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA expressions were decreased in mREN2 rats, whereas no difference was found in cyclooxygenase-1 mRNA expressions. Sulindac increased both cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2 gene expressions, whereas MF-tricyclic increased only cyclooxygenase-2 gene expressions. Losartan normalized blood pressure, cardiac hypertrophy, albuminuria, inflammatory response and morphological changes in mREN2 rats, both in the presence and absence of cyclooxygenase inhibitors. Our findings indicate that cyclooxygenase does not play a central role in the pathogenesis of angiotensin-II-induced inflammatory response and vascular injury in mREN2 rats.
