gamma-Vinyl GABA (GVG) irreversibly inhibits GABA-transaminase. This non-receptor mediated inhibition requires de novo synthesis for restoration of functional GABA catabolism.
Given its preclinical success for treating substance abuse and the increased risk of visual field defects (VFD) associated with cumulative lifetime exposure, we explored the effects of sub-chronic low dose GVG on cocaine-induced increases in nucleus accumbens (NAcc) dopamine (DA).
Using in vivo microdialysis, we compared acute exposure (450 mg/kg) to an identical sub-chronic exposure (150 mg/kg per day for 3 days), followed by 1- or 3-day washout. Finally, we examined the low dose of 150 mg/kg (50 mg/kg per day) using a similar washout period.
Sub-chronic GVG exposure inhibited the effect of cocaine for 3 days, which exceeded in magnitude and duration the identical acute dose.
Sub-chronic low dose GVG potentiates and extends the inhibition of cocaine-induced increases in dopamine, effectively reducing cumulative exposures and the risk for VFDS.
New phenoxyacetic acid antagonists of CRTH2 are described. Following the discovery of a hit compound by a focused screening, high protein binding was identified as its main weakness. Optimization aimed at reducing serum protein binding led to the identification of several compounds that showed not only excellent affinities for the receptor (41 compounds with K(i) < 10 nM) but also excellent potencies in a human whole blood assay (IC(50) < 100 nM; PGD2-induced eosinophil shape change). Additional optimization of the PK characteristics led to the identification of several compounds suitable for in vivo testing. Of these, 19k and 19s were tested in two different pharmacological models (acute FITC-mediated contact hypersensitivity and ovalbumin-induced eosinophilia models) and found to be active after oral dosing (10 and 30 mg/kg).
The purpose of this report is to describe the management and outcome of an unusual complication of a commonly used chemotherapeutic agent. Gemcitabine is a known risk factor for hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS), which can often have a rapidly fatal clinical course despite intervention with steroids, plasmapheresis and hemodialysis.
A retrospective report of the first case of gemcitabine-related HUS, in a patient with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma, treated with a variety of standard therapies in addition to rituximab is presented. The hematologic response parameters and clinical outcomes to each of the therapies given are described.
Chemotherapy-induced HUS was aggressively treated with plasmapheresis, high-dose steroids, vincristine and rituximab. Platelet recovery and clinical improvement coincided with administration of rituximab. In addition, aggressive supportive measures to manage renal failure (hemodialysis) and labile hypertension, allowed this patient to have an extended survival as a result of successful therapy for this complication despite an underlying rapidly fatal malignancy.
This case highlights the importance of timely application of aggressive measures even in patients with known diagnosis of a fatal malignancy as these interventions can prolong life and be of palliative benefit.
The present study was undertaken to determine if the antipsychotic drug clozapine (CLZ) in the concentration range 2-50 microM can rescue polymorphonuclear cells (PMNs) from undergoing apoptosis. Our results indicate that 20 microM CLZ can rescue PMNs both from UVB-accelerated (28.0% vs. 45.9% for control without CLZ; P < 0.05) and from spontaneous (35.8% vs. 57.6%; P < 0.05) apoptosis whereas 50 microM CLZ could rescue PMNs from spontaneous (34.3% vs. 57.6%; P < 0.05) apoptosis only. Furthermore, since apoptosis has been reported to involve the impairment of PMN function, we evaluated the effects of CLZ on respiratory burst in UVB-irradiated and in unirradiated PMNs. When 20 or 50 microM CLZ-pretreated PMNs were aged in a culture during 4 h, the luminol-dependent chemiluminescence (CL) response was 3-fold (P < 0.01) and 2.5-fold (P < 0.05) increased, respectively, by subsequent exposure to serum opsonized zymosan (OZ). When 50 microM-pretreated PMNs were either UVB-irradiated or unirradiated, the CL response was 2.6-fold (P < 0.05) and 3.3-fold (P < 0.05) increased, respectively, after subsequent exposure to formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (fMLP). In contrast, the degree of enhancement was negligible upon subsequent exposure to ionomycin or phorbol myristate acetate (PMA). When incubation times were extended up to 22 h, the CL response induced by OZ in 20 microM CLZ-treated PMNs had a 4.9-fold increase (P < 0.001). This priming effect could be reverted when 20 microM CLZ-treated PMNs (aged 4 h in culture) were coincubated for 5 min with the protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein as well as with the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) inhibitor wortmannin. These findings suggest that CLZ primes respiratory burst and prevents PMN apoptosis as a consequence of tyrosine phosphorylation- and PI3-K activation-dependent signal transduction pathways.
Liver fibrosis has been reported to be inhibited in vivo by oleanolic and ursolic acids. However, the mechanisms of the action of those triterpenoids are poorly understood. In this study, we aimed to determine the antifibrotic potential of other triterpenes, betulin and betulinic acid, and to characterize their influence on the signal transduction pathways involved in ethanol-activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs).
Investigated was the influence of preincubation of rat HSCs with betulin and betulinic acid, at non-toxic concentrations, on ethanol-induced toxicity, migration, and several markers of HSC activation such as smooth muscle α-actin (α-SMA) and procollagen I expression, release of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and cytokines: tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and tumor growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), and production of metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMP-1 and TIMP-2). To assess the mechanism of the action of those triterpenes, intracellular signals such as nuclear factor-κB (NFκB), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) induced by ethanol were examined.
In vitro, betulin, but not betulinic acid, protected HSCs against ethanol toxicity. However, both betulin and betulinic acid inhibited the production of ROS by HSCs treated with ethanol and inhibited their migration as well as ethanol-induced TNF-α, and TGF-β1, production. Betulin and betulinic acid down-regulated ethanol-induced production of TIMP-1 and TIMP-2. Betulin and betulinic acid, also decreased ethanol-induced activity of MMP-2. In ethanol-induced HSCs, betulin inhibited the activation of the p38 MAPK and the JNK transduction pathways, while betulinic acid inhibited the JNK transduction pathway only. They also significantly inhibited phosphorylation of IκB and Smad 3 and attenuated the activation of TGF-β1 and NFκB/IκB transduction signaling.
The results indicated that betulin and betulinic acid inhibited ethanol-induced activation of HSCs on different levels, acting as antioxidants, inhibitors of cytokine production, and inhibitors of TGF-β, and NFκB/IκB transduction signaling. Betulin was also inhibitor of both JNK and p38 MAPK signal transduction, while betulinic acid inhibited only JNK. The remarkable inhibition of several markers of HCS activation makes triterpenes, especially betulin, promising agents for anti-fibrotic combination therapies.
High-dose melphalan (HDM) with peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) is a common treatment for patients with multiple myeloma (MM) and more recently also with AL amyloidosis (ALA). We report two female patients with severe renal failure who underwent treatment with HDM for MM (patient 1) and ALA (patient 2). Both patients developed severe encephalopathy with generalised tonic-clonic seizures and a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) of 3/15. Causes for coma such as infections, metabolic disturbances, cerebral ischaemia or haemorrhage were excluded. Patient 1 died on day 25 post transplant while comatose. Patient 2 recovered from her comatose state 18 days after transplantation. To our knowledge this is the first report on a possible role of high-dose melphalan in the development of encephalopathy.
Phocomelia (absence of upper fore and/or hind limbs) was induced in mouse fetuses using cyclophosphamide. On day 11 of gestation, pregnant mice were injected intraperitoneally with 10 ml/kg of saline containing cyclophosphamide (CP) at a dosage of 20 mg/kg body weight. On day 18, the fetuses were removed by Caesarean section from dams given CP on day 11 and were examined for external anomalies. Of 22 fetuses from CP-treated dams, 13 were dead or absorbed, but the surviving 9 fetuses were found to have phocomelia with various other external anomalies. In order to examine the direct cytotoxic effect of CP on fetal limb buds, fetuses were removed at 8, 16, 24, and 48 h after CP administration on day 11, revealing the presence of frequent pyknotic nuclei and apoptotic bodies in hematoxylin and eosin (H & E) preparations. Cell-nuclei and apoptotic bodies were frequently observed by nick end-labeling in limb buds. Transmission electron microscopy demonstrated the typical changes of apoptosis. DNA extracted from the fetal limb buds submitted to CP was analysed by agarose gel electrophoresis, showing the ladder pattern characteristic of internucleosomal cleavage. These findings suggest that cyclophosphamide causes apoptosis in mouse fetal limb buds and that this process induces the external anomalies of phocomelia.
Two cases of rapid lethal intoxication with the herbicide glyphosate-trimesium (Touchdown) are presented. A 6-year-old boy who accidentally ingested a mouthful of glyphosate-trimesium died within minutes. The same happened to a 34-year-old woman who intentionally ingested approximately 150 ml of glyphosate-trimesium. The post-mortem examination revealed gastric content and oedema of the mucus membranes of the airways, erosion of the mucus membranes of the gastrointestinal tract, pulmonary oedema, cerebral oedema, and dilated right atrium and ventricle of the heart. The speed of which death occurs is much more rapid than lethal intoxications with the herbicide glyphosate (isoprophylamine), also known as 'Roundup'. It is suggested that the lethal mechanism between the two herbicides may be different. The component, trimethylsulfonium, of the glyphosate-trimesium may facilitate the absorption after oral ingestion. This difference can be crucial in the treatment of human intoxication. We propose that containers with glyphosate-trimesium must be labelled because of the apparent effect of lethal intoxication.
The threat of levodopa-induced dyskinesias often influences early treatment decisions in those with Parkinson disease.
To determine the long-term risks of levodopa-associated dyskinesias of any severity, dyskinesias sufficient to require medication adjustment, and dyskinesias failing medication adjustments.
The medical records linkage system of the Rochester Epidemiology Project was used to identify all incident Parkinson disease patients treated with levodopa (1976-1990). All records were independently reviewed by 2 neurologists who recorded demographic and drug data, dates when dyskinesias were initially identified, and dates when dyskinesias were sufficient to require medication changes; dyskinesias not controlled by drug adjustments were also tabulated.
We identified 126 incident Parkinson disease patients treated with levodopa for at least 2 months. By Kaplan-Meier analysis, the estimated rate of dyskinesias was 30% by 5 treatment years and 59% by 10 years. However, the rate of dyskinesias requiring medication adjustment was estimated to be only 17% by 5 years and 43% by 10 years. At 10 treatment years, the rate of dyskinesias that could not be controlled with medication adjustments was estimated at only 12%. An increased risk was associated with younger age and higher initial levodopa dose, but not with sex.
Levodopa-associated dyskinesias can be expected to develop in nearly 60% of patients in our community after 10 years, but these will be severe enough to require medication adjustments in only 43% of patients. At 10 treatment years, nearly 90% of these patients can expect to be spared dyskinesias that could not be controlled by drug adjustments. This population-based study suggests dyskinesia risk may not be a major concern for most Parkinson disease patients.
Motor fluctuations are a common complication in patients with Parkinson disease (PD) receiving long-term levodopa therapy. Slowed gastric emptying and poor solubility of levodopa in the gastrointestinal tract may delay the onset of drug benefit after dosing. Etilevodopa is an ethyl-ester prodrug of levodopa that has greater gastric solubility, passes quickly into the small intestine, is rapidly hydrolyzed to levodopa, and has a shortened time to maximum levodopa concentration.
To determine the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of etilevodopa in patients with PD who have motor fluctuations.
A double-blind, randomized, comparative clinical trial.
Forty-four sites in the United States and Canada.
Three hundred twenty-seven patients with PD who had a latency of at least 90 minutes total daily time to "on" (TTON) after levodopa dosing.
Treatment with either etilevodopa-carbidopa or levodopa-carbidopa for 18 weeks.
Change from baseline in total daily TTON as measured using home diaries.
The reduction in mean total daily TTON from baseline to treatment was 0.58 hour in the etilevodopa-carbidopa group and 0.79 hour in the levodopa-carbidopa group (P = .24). There was no significant difference between the etilevodopa-carbidopa and levodopa-carbidopa groups in the reduction of response failures (-6.82% vs -4.69%; P = .20). Total daily "off" time improved in the etilevodopa-carbidopa (-0.85 hour) and levodopa-carbidopa (-0.87 hour) groups without an increase in on time with troublesome dyskinesias.
Despite the theoretical pharmacokinetic advantage of etilevodopa, there was no improvement in TTON, response failures, or off time compared with levodopa.
Benzyl acetate was found to induce liver tumours and gastric squamous neoplasms in mice in a chronic bioassay conducted through the National Toxicology Program. An increased incidence of acinar cell adenomas of the pancreas of F344 rats was noted in the bioassay, but the significance of these lesions was confounded because the benzyl acetate was given by gavage in corn oil. The use of corn oil as a vehicle has been shown to enhance the growth of such lesions in the rat pancreas. The current studies were undertaken to evaluate benzyl acetate alone as an initiator and promoter of carcinogenesis in the pancreas. Alkaline elution analysis of acinar cell DNA showed no evidence of damage 1 hr after administration of benzyl acetate. Significant stimulation of growth of azaserine-induced foci was observed in a 6-month study, and a low but significant incidence of carcinoma in situ was observed in rats fed benzyl acetate in the diet for 2 yr. These experiments suggest that benzyl acetate is a weak promoter of the growth of carcinogen-induced and spontaneous pre-neoplastic foci in the pancreas.
Previous literature suggests an association between organochlorines and behavioral measures in childhood, including inattention.
This study was designed to assess whether prenatal organochlorine exposure is associated with measures of attention in early infancy.
We investigated an association between cord serum polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and p,p'-dichlorodiphenyl dichloroethene (DDE) levels and measures of attention from the Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale (NBAS) in a cohort of 788 infants born 1993-1998 to mothers residing near a PCB-contaminated harbor and Superfund site in New Bedford, Massachusetts.
Medians (ranges) for the sum of four prevalent PCB congeners and DDE levels were 0.19 (0.01-4.41) and 0.30 (0-10.29) ng/g serum, respectively. For the 542 subjects with an NBAS exam at 2 weeks, we observed consistent inverse associations between cord serum PCB and DDE levels and NBAS measures of alertness, quality of alert responsiveness, cost of attention, and other potential attention-associated measures including self-quieting and motor maturity. For example, the decrement in quality of alert responsiveness score was -0.51 (95% confidence interval, -0.99 to -0.03) for the highest quartile of exposure to the sum of four prevalent PCB congeners compared with the lowest quartile. We found little evidence for an association with infant orientation, habituation, and regulation of state, assessed as summary cluster measures.
Our findings provide evidence for an association between low-level prenatal PCB and DDE exposures and poor attention in early infancy. Further analyses will focus on whether organochlorine-associated decrements in attention and attention-related skills in infancy persist in later childhood.
A patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia is presented. During treatment with all-trans-retinoic acid, erythema nodosum developed. Treatment with all-trans-retinoic acid was continued, the erythema nodosum resolved with steroid treatment, and a complete remission was attained. This case is the first report of erythema nodosum associated with all-trans-retinoic acid.
Survey/case series.
To survey pain physicians about neurologic infarctions following cervical transforaminal epidural steroid injections (TF-ESIs).
Cervical TF-ESIs are commonly performed in patients with cervical radiculopathy, although there are no randomized controlled studies supporting their efficacy. Eight case reports of brain and spinal cord infarction have been published. In addition, one of the investigators (M.S.W.) has reviewed 4 cases of major cerebellum/brainstem infarction following cervical TF-ESIs with methylprednisolone.
To better characterize these complications, anonymous surveys were sent to all U.S. physician members of the American Pain Society. Respondents were asked about awareness of complications, year of occurrence, practice setting and specialty of the treating physician, use of fluoroscopy/contrast/local anesthetic/corticosteroid, doses administered, and CT/MRI/autopsy findings.
Overall response rate was 21.4% (287 of 1340). In all, 78 complications were reported, including 16 vertebrobasilar brain infarcts, 12 cervical spinal cord infarcts, and 2 combined brain/spinal cord infarcts. Brain infarcts invariably involved the cerebellum, brainstem, or posterior cerebral artery territory. Thirteen cases resulted in a fatal outcome: 5 with brain infarcts, 1 with combined brain/spinal cord infarcts, 1 following high spinal anesthesia, 1 associated with a seizure, and 5 with unspecified etiology. All 4 cases with corticosteroid alone involved methylprednisolone, resulting in 3 cerebellar infarcts and 1 posterior cerebral territory infarct. Of these, 3 had fatal outcomes and 2 autopsies revealed no vertebral artery trauma.
This study demonstrates a significant risk of serious neurologic injury after cervical TF-ESIs. A growing body of evidence supports an embolic mechanism, whereby inadvertent intra-arterial injection of particulate corticosteroid causes a distal infarct. Embolism to the distal basilar artery region can cause midbrain, pons, cerebellum, thalamus, temporal and occipital lobe infarctions. Other potential mechanisms of infarction include vertebral artery perforation causing dissection/thrombosis and needle-induced vasospasm.
Rebound pulmonary hypertension (PHT) can complicate the weaning of nitric oxide (NO), and is in part related to transient depletion of intrinsic cyclic guanosine monophosphate. Rebound is characterized by increased pulmonary arterial (PA) pressure, cardiopulmonary instability, and in some cases, the need to continue NO beyond the intended period of use. There is anecdotal evidence that sildenafil, a phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor, may prevent recurrence of rebound.
We investigated the role of sildenafil in preventing rebound (an increase in PA pressure of 20% or greater, or failure to discontinue NO) in patients in whom previous attempts had not been made to wean from NO.
Thirty ventilated infants and children, receiving 10 ppm or greater inhaled NO, were randomized to receive 0.4 mg/kg of sildenafil, or placebo, 1 h before discontinuing NO. Twenty-nine patients completed the study.
PA pressures and blood gases were measured before the study drug, and 1 and 4 h after stopping NO.
Rebound occurred in 10 of 14 placebo patients, and 0 of 15 sildenafil patients (p < 0.001). PA pressure increased by 25% (14-67) in placebo patients, and by 1%(-9-5) in sildenafil patients (p < 0.001). Four placebo patients could not be weaned from NO due to severe cardiovascular instability, whereas all sildenafil patients were weaned (p = 0.042). Duration of ventilation after study was 98.0 (47.0-223.5) h for placebo patients and 28.2 (15.7-54.6) h for sildenafil patients (p = 0.024).
A single dose of sildenafil prevented rebound after withdrawal of NO, and reduced the duration of mechanical ventilation. Prophylaxis with sildenafil should be considered when weaning patients from inhaled NO.
Telmisartan, a selective antagonist for angiotensin type1 receptor and a partial agonist for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma, decreases blood pressure and has been shown to improve glucose and lipid metabolism, suggesting potential cardiovascular protective effects. In this study, we investigated whether long-term treatment with telmisartan improved endothelial function in 35 hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Office and home early morning blood pressure levels and flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) were evaluated before and after 12 months of treatment with telmisartan. Blood samples were also obtained for measurement of several biochemical parameters and of adiponectin (AN) and highly sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) before and after treatment. After 12 months of treatment, office and morning blood pressure levels had significantly decreased, and levels of plasma glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin, total cholesterol, triglyceride and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol had also significantly decreased. Plasma AN and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels increased, but hs-CRP levels decreased. Furthermore, FMD significantly increased; changes in percent FMD showed a significant negative correlation with changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and a significant positive correlation with changes in AN. Stepwise multivariate regression analysis revealed that changes in plasma AN and office systolic blood pressure were both independent determinants for endothelial function after telmisartan treatment. In conclusion, this study shows that long-term treatment with telmisartan improves not only blood pressure and glucose and lipid metabolism but also endothelial function in hypertensive patients with T2DM, possibly by increased circulating AN and decreased blood pressure.
Since 1990, there have been seven reported cases of sudden death in children treated with tricyclic antidepressants. This case study describes the sudden death of an additional child (8 years 9 months old, 29 kg in weight) treated with a tricyclic antidepressant, imipramine (100 mg orally, twice daily), and dextroamphetamine (10 mg orally every morning). Prior to death, there were signs of possible cardiovascular abnormalities after treatment was begun with imipramine. The report adds to the concern over the use of tricyclics in children.
This report examined a broad range of cognitive functioning in a group of recently abstinent, cocaine-abusing schizophrenic patients (CA + SZ).
Measures of selective and sustained attention, learning and memory, and executive functioning were administered to CA + SZ patients within 72 h of last cocaine use. A comparison group of non-substance-abusing schizophrenic patients (SZ) presenting for inpatient psychiatric treatment were also examined in an identical time frame. We hypothesized that the neurobiological impact of cocaine abuse and acute abstinence would cause CA + SZ to manifest deficits in all domains of cognitive functioning relative to non-abusing SZ patients.
Results revealed that CA + SZ displayed significant memory impairment relative to their non-abuser SZ counterparts. No group differences, however, were detected on any other neurocognitive measure. CA + SZ were able to selectively process digit strings during the presence and absence of distracting stimuli, sustain attention, and perform executive functions at performance levels equal to their non-abuser SZ counterparts.
These results are consistent with many past studies that have found CA + SZ patients to manifest memory impairment but have relatively well preserved functioning in other cognitive domains. The results are discussed in terms of the biological concomitants of cocaine abuse and acute abstinence in schizophrenia.
Burkitt lymphoma is a mature aggressive B-cell lymphoma derived from germinal center B cells. Its cytogenetic hallmark is the Burkitt translocation t(8;14)(q24;q32) and its variants, which juxtapose the MYC oncogene with one of the three immunoglobulin loci. Consequently, MYC is deregulated, resulting in massive perturbation of gene expression. Nevertheless, MYC deregulation alone seems not to be sufficient to drive Burkitt lymphomagenesis. By whole-genome, whole-exome and transcriptome sequencing of four prototypical Burkitt lymphomas with immunoglobulin gene (IG)-MYC translocation, we identified seven recurrently mutated genes. One of these genes, ID3, mapped to a region of focal homozygous loss in Burkitt lymphoma. In an extended cohort, 36 of 53 molecularly defined Burkitt lymphomas (68%) carried potentially damaging mutations of ID3. These were strongly enriched at somatic hypermutation motifs. Only 6 of 47 other B-cell lymphomas with the IG-MYC translocation (13%) carried ID3 mutations. These findings suggest that cooperation between ID3 inactivation and IG-MYC translocation is a hallmark of Burkitt lymphomagenesis.
Using the Immunochip custom SNP array, which was designed for dense genotyping of 186 loci identified through genome-wide association studies (GWAS), we analyzed 11,475 individuals with rheumatoid arthritis (cases) of European ancestry and 15,870 controls for 129,464 markers. We combined these data in a meta-analysis with GWAS data from additional independent cases (n = 2,363) and controls (n = 17,872). We identified 14 new susceptibility loci, 9 of which were associated with rheumatoid arthritis overall and five of which were specifically associated with disease that was positive for anticitrullinated peptide antibodies, bringing the number of confirmed rheumatoid arthritis risk loci in individuals of European ancestry to 46. We refined the peak of association to a single gene for 19 loci, identified secondary independent effects at 6 loci and identified association to low-frequency variants at 4 loci. Bioinformatic analyses generated strong hypotheses for the causal SNP at seven loci. This study illustrates the advantages of dense SNP mapping analysis to inform subsequent functional investigations.
To gain further insight into the genetic architecture of psoriasis, we conducted a meta-analysis of 3 genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and 2 independent data sets genotyped on the Immunochip, including 10,588 cases and 22,806 controls. We identified 15 new susceptibility loci, increasing to 36 the number associated with psoriasis in European individuals. We also identified, using conditional analyses, five independent signals within previously known loci. The newly identified loci shared with other autoimmune diseases include candidate genes with roles in regulating T-cell function (such as RUNX3, TAGAP and STAT3). Notably, they included candidate genes whose products are involved in innate host defense, including interferon-mediated antiviral responses (DDX58), macrophage activation (ZC3H12C) and nuclear factor (NF)-κB signaling (CARD14 and CARM1). These results portend a better understanding of shared and distinctive genetic determinants of immune-mediated inflammatory disorders and emphasize the importance of the skin in innate and acquired host defense.
1 The effect of S 15535 (4-benzodioxan-5-yl)1-(indan-2-yl)piperazine), an agonist at presynaptic and antagonist at postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors, on the impairment of spatial learning caused by intrahippocampal scopolamine in a two-platform spatial discrimination task was studied. 2 Scopolamine (4.0 microg microl-1), injected bilaterally into the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus 10 min before each training session, impaired choice accuracy with no effect on choice latency and errors of omission. 3 Administered subcutaneously 30 min before each training session, S 15535 1.0 (but not 0.3) mg kg-1 did not modify choice accuracy but prevented its impairment by intrahippocampal scopolamine. 4 WAY 100635, a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, injected into the dorsal raphe at 1.0 microg 0.5 microl-1 5 min before scopolamine, had no effect on choice accuracy and latency or errors of omission and did not modify the effect of scopolamine but completely antagonized the effect of S 15535 (1.0 mg kg-1) on scopolamine-induced impairment of choice accuracy. 5 The results confirm a previous report (Carli et al., 1998) that stimulation of presynaptic 5-HT1A receptors in the dorsal raphe counteracts the deficit caused by intrahippocampal scopolamine, probably by facilitating the transfer of facilitatory information from the entorhinal cortex to the hippocampus. 6 Drugs that stimulate action on presynaptic 5-HT1A receptors, such as S 15535 and other partial 5-HT1A receptors agonists, may be useful in the symptomatic treatment of human memory disturbances associated with loss of cholinergic innervation to the hippocampus.
Burkitt lymphoma is characterized by deregulation of MYC, but the contribution of other genetic mutations to the disease is largely unknown. Here, we describe the first completely sequenced genome from a Burkitt lymphoma tumor and germline DNA from the same affected individual. We further sequenced the exomes of 59 Burkitt lymphoma tumors and compared them to sequenced exomes from 94 diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) tumors. We identified 70 genes that were recurrently mutated in Burkitt lymphomas, including ID3, GNA13, RET, PIK3R1 and the SWI/SNF genes ARID1A and SMARCA4. Our data implicate a number of genes in cancer for the first time, including CCT6B, SALL3, FTCD and PC. ID3 mutations occurred in 34% of Burkitt lymphomas and not in DLBCLs. We show experimentally that ID3 mutations promote cell cycle progression and proliferation. Our work thus elucidates commonly occurring gene-coding mutations in Burkitt lymphoma and implicates ID3 as a new tumor suppressor gene.
Congenital central hypothyroidism occurs either in isolation or in conjunction with other pituitary hormone deficits. Using exome and candidate gene sequencing, we identified 8 distinct mutations and 2 deletions in IGSF1 in males from 11 unrelated families with central hypothyroidism, testicular enlargement and variably low prolactin concentrations. IGSF1 is a membrane glycoprotein that is highly expressed in the anterior pituitary gland, and the identified mutations impair its trafficking to the cell surface in heterologous cells. Igsf1-deficient male mice show diminished pituitary and serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations, reduced pituitary thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) receptor expression, decreased triiodothyronine concentrations and increased body mass. Collectively, our observations delineate a new X-linked disorder in which loss-of-function mutations in IGSF1 cause central hypothyroidism, likely secondary to an associated impairment in pituitary TRH signaling.
