The brain is sensitive to hypertension, which causes a variety of vascular and neuronal cerebral changes. The present study was designed to assess the effect of long-term treatment with the Ca2+ channel blocker nicardipine on intracerebral (intraparenchymal) arteries in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) by using microanatomical techniques associated with image analysis. The effects of hypertension and treatment with nicardipine on nerve cells and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP)-immunoreactive glial cells were also evaluated.
In SHR a significant increase in systolic blood pressure in comparison with age-matched normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats was noticeable. Treatment with nicardipine significantly reduced systolic pressure in the SHR. The media: lumen ratio and the thickness of the tunica media were increased in medium (diameter between 150 and 50 microns and small (diameter < 50 microns intracerebral arteries. This phenomenon was accompanied by luminal narrowing. Treatment with nicardipine significantly reduced the thickness of the tunica media, the media: lumen ratio and increased the luminal area, primarily at the level of small pial arteries and of intracerebral arteries.
In control SHR, the number of neurones in the frontal and occipital cortex was reduced in comparison with normotensive WKY rats. GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes were increased in number (hyperplasia) and in size (hypertrophy), both in the frontal cortex and in the occipital cortex of control SHR. In the CA1, field of the hippocampus, the number of neurones and their size were decreased in SHR in comparison with normotensive WKY rats. Hyperplasia of GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes of white matter and hypertrophy of those of grey matter was also noticeable. No important changes were found in other portions of the hippocampus. Treatment with nicardipine increased the number of neurones in the frontal cortex and in the occipital cortex of SHR and countered hyperplasia and hypertrophy of GFAP-immunoreactive astrocytes. Moreover, it increased the number of neurones in the CA1 field of the hippocampus and decreased the number and the size of astrocytes of the white matter and grey matter, respectively.
These findings show that treatment of SHR with nicardipine significantly reduced systolic blood pressure and induced moderate vasodilation of both extracerebral and intracerebral arteries regulating cerebrovascular resistance. The compound also countered some microanatomical changes occurring in the hypertensive brain. The frontal and occipital (visual) cortex and the CA1 field of the hippocampus were the cerebral areas more sensitive to treatment with nicardipine. This suggests that nicardipine induces moderate cerebrovascular dilation and exerts neuroprotective effects on SHR neurones. The possible relevance of the neuroprotective actions of nicardipine in the hypertensive brain deserves to be evaluated in future studies.
Although hallucinations in Parkinson's disease (PD) are not unusual in the long-term treatment with anti-parkinsonian agents, their mechanism is not fully understood. We compared both the neuropsychiatric state and the results of 99mTc-labeled hexamethyl propyleneamine oxime single-photon emission computed tomography in 12 PD patients with medication-induced hallucinations and 21 PD patients without hallucinations. Hallucinatory patients showed significantly lower cerebral blood flow in left temporal regions than nonhallucinatory patients. The cerebral blood flow reduction in these regions may be related to the mechanism of medication-induced hallucinations in PD.
The incidence and outcome of gallbladder and urinary tract complications in children receiving ceftriaxone therapy were evaluated prospectively. The subjects were given intravenous ceftriaxone, 100 mg/kg/day, in two divided doses infused over 20-30-minute periods, for 5-14 days. Serial abdominal ultrasonography revealed gallbladder and urinary tract precipitations in five of 35 children, three of whom had gallbladder pseudolithiasis, one gallbladder sludge and one gallbladder pseudolithiasis and urinary bladder sludge. The children who had gallbladder sludge and gallbladder pseudolithiasis with urinary bladder sludge had abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting. Three children remained symptom-free. The gallbladder precipitations were found after 4-9 days of ceftriaxone therapy, and resolved completely 7-19 days after the end of treatment. The urinary tract precipitation was found on the 5th day after cessation of ceftriaxone therapy and resolved 7 days later. Ceftriaxone-associated gallbladder pseudolithiasis, gallbladder sludge and urinary bladder sludge usually resolve spontaneously and physicians should be aware of these complications so as to avoid unnecessary therapeutic procedures.
Because of their broad-spectrum coverage, fluoroquinolone antibiotics are widely used in the treatment of acute sinusitis and acute exacerbations of chronic sinusitis. Generally, they are well tolerated, and adverse effects are usually mild. In our experience with quinolones, patients have frequently complained of arthralgias and/or myalgias. Although tendon rupture has been described as one of the more severe side effects, there are few published reports of arthralgias and/or myalgias associated with these drugs.
A retrospective review of fluoroquinolone prescriptions in a tertiary rhinology clinic was completed. Patients treated with oral levofloxacin for sinusitis over a 12-month period were contacted by mail and asked to complete an anonymous survey regarding adverse effects. Of 81 patients identified, 36 responses were received.
Among respondents, the incidence of arthralgias and/or myalgias was 25%, which was more than twice the incidence of any other adverse effect reported. Occurrence of arthralgias and/or myalgias did not appear to be influenced by respondent age, course length, concurrent use of oral steroids, or a history of arthritis. Among those reporting arthralgia or myalgia, symptoms began after an average of 3 days of therapy and resolved an average of 7.5 days after cessation of treatment. Fourteen percent of respondents were unable to complete their course of therapy because of arthralgias and/or myalgias.
Although effective and generally well tolerated in the treatment of sinusitis, fluoroquinolone antibiotics may produce adverse effects of arthralgia and/or myalgia.
Long-term use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may delay or prevent the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A subset of NSAIDs, including flurbiprofen, has been shown to selectively inhibit the production of beta-amyloid(1-42) (Abeta42), independently from their cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibiting activity. We evaluated the in vitro and in vivo profiles of CHF5022 and CHF5074, two flurbiprofen analogues. The in vitro Abeta inhibiting activity was evaluated in a human neuroglioma cell line (H4) carrying the double Swedish mutation (K595N/M596L) of the human amyloid precursor protein (APPsw). The in vitro anti-COX activity was evaluated using human recombinant enzymes isolated from transfected Sf-9 cells. The in vivo pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles of the two compounds were evaluated in young APPsw transgenic mice (Tg2576) after oral gavage (100 or 300mgkg(-1) day(-1) for 4-5 days) and after medicated diet (375ppm for 4 weeks). R-Flurbiprofen was used as comparator. In vitro, CHF5022 and CHF5074 were found to be 3- and 7-fold more potent than R-flurbiprofen in inhibiting Abeta42 secretion (IC(50)s of 92, 40 and 268microM, respectively). Differently from R-flurbiprofen, CHF5022 and CHF5074 did not affect COX-1 (at 100microM) and COX-2 (at 300microM) activity. Similarly to R-flurbiprofen, no significant alteration in the expression profile of a subset of Notch intracellular domain-responsive genes was observed with either CHF5022 or CHF5074. In Tg2576 mice, CHF5022 was well tolerated when administered by oral gavage (100mgkg(-1) day(-1) for 5 days) or by medicated diet (56mg kg(-1) day(-1) for 4 weeks). R-Flurbiprofen was poorly tolerated in the diet (32mgkg(-1) day(-1)) with 55% of the animals dying during the first week of treatment. After 4-5 days of oral gavage, CHF5022 and CHF5074 plasma and brain levels at 3h were found to increase with the dose, leading to brain concentrations of about 10% and 5% of the corresponding plasma concentrations, respectively. In animals fed for 4 weeks with compound-supplemented diet, mean plasma (580microM) and brain (20microM) Cyrillic) concentrations of CHF5022 were 8 and 15 times higher than those of R-flurbiprofen. Plasma Abeta42 concentration was dose-dependently decreased by CHF5022 and CHF5074. Brain Abeta levels (formic acid-extractable) were not significantly affected by either compound, although Abeta42 levels tended to inversely correlate (P=0.105) with CHF5022 concentration in the brain. CHF5022 and CHF5074 thus appear to have a promising in vitro and in vivo profile. This warrants further evaluation of their long-term effects on Abeta brain pathology.
In an animal model of drug idiosyncrasy, rats cotreated with nonhepatotoxic doses of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and ranitidine (RAN) develop hepatocellular injury, whereas rats treated with LPS and famotidine (FAM) do not. The coagulation system and neutrophils (PMNs) are requisite mediators of LPS/RAN-induced liver injury. We tested the hypothesis that unique gene expression in LPS/RAN-treated rats requires coagulation system activation and that these changes are absent in rats given LPS and FAM. Rats were treated with a nonhepatotoxic dose of LPS (44.4 x 10(6) endotoxin units/kg i.v.) or its vehicle, and then 1 h later, they were treated with heparin (3000 U/kg) or its vehicle. One hour thereafter, they were given RAN (30 mg/kg), FAM (6 mg/kg, a pharmacologically equiefficacious dose, or 28.8 mg/kg, an equimolar dose), or vehicle (i.v.). They were killed 2 or 6 h after drug treatment for evaluation of hepatotoxicity, coagulation system activation, and liver gene expression (2 h only). Statistical filtering of gene array results and real-time polymerase chain reaction identified groups of genes expressed in LPS/RAN-treated rats but not LPS/FAM-treated rats that were either changed or unchanged by heparin administration. For example, LPS/RAN-induced mRNA expression of the inflammatory mediators interleukin-6, cyclooxygenase-2, and macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2) was reduced by anticoagulation. Enhancement of serum MIP-2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 concentrations in LPS/RAN-treated rats was prevented by anticoagulation. The results suggest cross-talk between hemostasis-induced gene expression and inflammation (e.g., PMN function) in the genesis of hepatocellular injury in LPS/RAN-treated rats. In contrast, neither the expression of such genes nor hepatocellular necrosis occurred in rats treated with LPS/FAM.
The present study examined human postmortem brains for changes consistent with the hypothesis of local brain TH deficiency in autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Brain levels of oxidative stress marker - 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT), iodothyronine deiodinase type 2(D2) and type 3 (D3), 3',3,5-triiodothyronine (T3) content, mercury content and gene expression levels were analyzed and compared in the several regions of postmortem brains derived from both male and female control and ASD cases, age 4-16 years. We report that some parameters measured, such as D2 are subject to rapid postmortem inactivation, while others that were analyzed showed both brain region- and sex-dependent changes. Levels of 3-NT were overall increased, T3 was decreased in the cortical regions of ASD brains, while mercury levels measured only in the extracortical regions were not different. The expression of several thyroid hormone (TH)-dependent genes was altered in ASD. Data reported here suggest the possibility of brain region-specific disruption of TH homeostasis and gene expression in autism.
The [4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazoyl] formamide (FANFT)-induced urothelial tumor in the rat is found to express the mdr gene. The resulting multidrug resistance (MDR) phenotype results in the expression of an outward transport system that prevents cellular accumulation of certain weakly cationic agents. Among the latter is a photosensitizer with known efficacy for the FANFT tumor, the copper benzochlorin iminium salt. FANFT cells are protected from direct cell kill mediated by this drug, suggesting that the substantial delay in tumor regrowth from this tumor/sensitizer combination can be attributed to vascular effects.
There are sparse data on genetic, epigenetic and vitamin D exposure in African Americans (AA) with colon polyp. Consequently, we evaluated serum 25(OH) D levels, vitamin D receptor (VDR) polymorphisms and the methylation status of the tumor suppressor gene dickkopf homolog 1 (DKK1) as risk factors for colon polyp in this population.
The case-control study consisted of 93 patients with colon polyp (cases) and 187 healthy individuals (controls) at Howard University Hospital. Serum levels of 25(OH)D (including D3, D2, and total) were measured by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. DNA analysis focused on 49 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the VDR gene. Promoter methylation analysis of DKK1 was also performed. The resulting data were processed in unadjusted and multivariable logistic regression analyses.
Cases and controls differed in vitamin D status (D(3)<50 nmol/L: Median of 35.5 in cases vs. 36.8 in controls nmol/L; P = 0.05). Low levels of 25(OH)D(3) (<50 nmol/L) were observed in 86% of cases and 68% of controls and it was associated with higher risks of colon polyp (odds ratio of 2.7, 95% confidence interval 1.3-3.4). The SNP analysis showed no association between 46 VDR polymorphisms and colon polyp. The promoter of the DKK1 gene was unmethylated in 96% of the samples.
We found an inverse association between serum 25(OH)D(3) and colon polyp in AAs. VDR SNPs and DKK1 methylation were not associated with colon polyp. Vitamin D levels may in part explain the higher incidence of polyp in AAs.
Milk κ-casein-derived bovine glycomacropeptide (GMP) has immunomodulatory and bacterial toxin-binding effects, and it has been shown to exert intestinal antiinflammatory activity in the trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid-induced model of colitis. However, its mechanism of action is not well characterized, and it is not known whether GMP is effective in other experimental models. The intestinal antiinflammatory activity of GMP was assessed in the dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced model of rat colitis. DSS was applied at a starting concentration of 5% (wt:v) in drinking water and adjusted when the disease activity index (DAI) increased substantially for 10 d. There were 3 experimental groups: control (no inflammation), DSS, and GMP (GMP-treated rats with DSS-induced colitis). GMP pretreatment (500 mg · kg(-1) · d(-1), starting 2 d before DSS treatment) reduced the DAI by 60% and lowered the colonic damage score by 44% (P < 0.05). GMP fully normalized the colonic expression of interleukin (IL) 1β, IL17, IL23, IL6, transforming growth factor β, IL10, and Foxp3 as assessed by quantitative RT-PCR. The production of interferon-γ by mesenteric lymph node cells ex vivo was also normalized by GMP treatment. In contrast, GMP did not change colonic thickening, myeloperoxidase, cyclooxygenase 2, or alkaline phosphatase. Histology analysis showed better preservation of the epithelium and attenuated infiltration and submucosal thickening in rats treated with GMP. We conclude that GMP exerts intestinal antiinflammatory activity in this model, which may be primarily related to actions on Th1 and Th17 lymphocytes and perhaps macrophages.
A reduction in cochlear blood flow plays an essential role in noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL). The timely regulation of cochlear perfusion determines the progression and prognosis of NIHL. Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) has attracted increasing interest as a vasodilator in cardiovascular systems. This study identified the role of H(2)S in cochlear blood flow regulation and noise protection.
The gene and protein expression of the H(2)S synthetase cystathionine-γ-lyase (CSE) in the rat cochlea was examined using immunofluorescence and real-time PCR. Cochlear CSE mRNA levels varied according to the duration of noise exposure. A chronic intracochlear infusion model was built and artificial perilymph (AP), NaHS or DL-propargylglycine (PPG) were locally administered. Local sodium hydrosulfide (NaHS) significantly increased cochlear perfusion post-noise exposure. Cochlear morphological damage and hearing loss were alleviated in the NaHS group as measured by conventional auditory brainstem response (ABR), cochlear scanning electron microscope (SEM) and outer hair cell (OHC) count. The highest percentage of OHC loss occurred in the PPG group.
Our results suggest that H(2)S plays an important role in the regulation of cochlear blood flow and the protection against noise. Further studies may identify a new preventive and therapeutic perspective on NIHL and other blood supply-related inner ear diseases.
Anthracyclines reduce myocardial repolarization reserve and might increase the risk for Torsades de Pointes a long time after treatment. We studied all the publications concerning Torsades de Pointes in patients previously treated with anthracyclines to investigate the clinical circumstances leading to this rare life-threatening complication. Our literature search yielded nine reports of 11 patients who had developed Torsades de Pointes anywhere from weeks to years following treatment with anthracyclines. One of the patients was hospitalized in our medical center. Risk factors and triggers for Torsades de Pointes, among other clinical aspects, were analyzed in each report. Most patients (n=10; 90.9%) were previously treated with anthracyclines owing to acute leukemias: acute myelogenous leukemia (n=5), acute lymphocytic leukemia (n=3) and acute promyelocytic leukemia (n=2). One patient was previously treated with anthracyclines owing to Hodgkin's lymphoma. Most patients were women (n=9; 81.8%). The most prevalent triggers for Torsades de Pointes were the administration of a QT-prolonging agent (n=10; 90.9%) and hypokalemia (n=9; 81.8%). Azole derivatives were the most prevalent of the QT-prolonging agents that triggered Torsades de Pointes (n=5; 45.5%). Although four patients suffered from anthracycline-induced left ventricular dysfunction and five other patients had only one or two questionable triggers for Torsades de Pointes, in only two of these cases the authors considered previous treatment with anthracyclines as a risk factor for Torsades de Pointes. Previous treatment with anthracycline is an underestimated risk factor for Torsades de Pointes. Possible triggers includes azole derivatives, other QT-prolonging agents and hypokalemia. Women patients are particularly at risk.
The effects of prolonged tobramycin administration (given in repeated injections over a 15-day period) on auditory and vestibular functions were studied in normal subjects, in patients with renal impairment, and in chronic nephritic patients undergoing hemodialysis. With the doses used in this study, the repeated administration of tobramycin resulted in blood accumulation only in the group of patients with renal impairment. In one single case, administration of tobramycin was followed by a transient aggravation of a pre-existing renal impairment. Cochlear and vestibular functions were evaluated before treatment and repeated during and after drug administration. In normal subjects, a dosage of 50 mg/8 h failed to produce cochlear and vestibular dysfunction; but with dosages of 75 mg/8 h and 100 mg/8 h, changes in vestibular reflectivity occurred frequently, mostly of the irritative type. Generally moderate, but quite often slight changes persisted (5 of 10 cases). They were not accompanied by auditory or vestibular clinical signs. In patients with impaired renal function and in those undergoing chronic hemodialysis, vestibular impairment is customary and most often of the deficiency type. Half of the cases still showed detectable changes on follow-up evaluation that was performed 10 days after discontinuation of the drug.
Toluene diisocyanate (TDI) is a highly reactive compound used in the production of, e.g., polyurethane foams and paints. TDI is known to cause respiratory symptoms and diseases. Because TDI causes symptoms in only a fraction of exposed workers, genetic factors may play a key role in disease susceptibility.
Workers (N = 132) exposed to TDI and a non-exposed group (N = 114) were analyzed for genotype (metabolising genes: CYP1A1*2A, CYP1A1*2B, GSTM1*O, GSTM3*B, GSTP1 I105V, GSTP1 A114V, GSTT1*O, MPO -463, NAT1*3, *4, *10, *11, *14, *15, NAT2*5, *6, *7, SULT1A1 R213H; immune-related genes: CCL5 -403, HLA-DQB1*05, TNF -308, TNF -863) and symptoms of the eyes, upper and lower airways (based on structured interviews).
For three polymorphisms: CYP1A1*2A, CYP1A1*2B, and TNF -308 there was a pattern consistent with interaction between genotype and TDI exposure status for the majority of symptoms investigated, although it did reach statistical significance only for some symptoms: among TDI-exposed workers, the CYP1A1 variant carriers had increased risk (CYP1A1*2A and eye symptoms: variant carriers OR 2.0 95% CI 0.68-6.1, p-value for interaction 0.048; CYP1A1*2B and wheeze: IV carriers OR = 12, 1.4-110, p-value for interaction 0.057). TDI-exposed individuals with TNF-308 A were protected against the majority of symptoms, but it did not reach statistical significance. In the non-exposed group, however, TNF -308 A carriers showed higher risk of the majority of symptoms (eye symptoms: variant carriers OR = 2.8, 1.1-7.1, p-value for interaction 0.12; dry cough OR = 2.2, 0.69-7.2, p-value for interaction 0.036). Individuals with SULT1A1 213H had reduced risk both in the exposed and non-exposed groups. Other polymorphisms, showed associations to certain symptoms: among TDI-exposed,NAT1*10 carriers had a higher risk of eye symptoms and CCL5 -403 AG+AA as well as HLA-DQB1 *05 carriers displayed increased risk of symptoms of the lower airways. GSTM1, GSTM3 and GSTP1 only displayed effects on symptoms of the lower airways in the non-exposed group.
Specific gene-TDI interactions for symptoms of the eyes and lower airways appear to exist. The results suggest different mechanisms for TDI- and non-TDI-related symptoms of the eyes and lower airways.
A case of neuroleptic-induced adult-onset tardive tourettism is presented with video documentation. After prolonged neuroleptic therapy, the patient developed motor and vocal tics at 36 years of age. The tics were identical to those seen in childhood-onset Tourette's syndrome. These cases are rare and have been considered by some to represent tardive akathisia. Previous reports of tourettism after neuroleptic therapy are reviewed.
In this paper, a hypothesis was assessed whether or not the intoxication with copper and supplementation with copper plus resveratrol would result in changes in the activities of catalase and glutathione peroxidase and moreover if the characteristic changes would appear in concentrations of copper, iron, calcium, magnesium, and zinc in the serum of rats with chemically induced carcinogenesis. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into study groups which, apart from the standard diet, were treated with copper (42.6 mg Cu/kg food as CuSO4·5H2O) or copper plus resveratrol (0.2 mg/kg body) via gavage for a period from 40 days until 20 weeks of age. In cancer groups, the rats were treated with a dose of 80 mg/body weight of 7,12-dimethyl-1,2-benz[a]anthracene (DMBA) given in rapeseed oil at 50 and 80 days of age to induce mammary carcinogenesis. The control groups included the rats kept in the same conditions and fed with the same diet as the animals from the study groups, but not DMBA-treated. The activity of catalase significantly decreased in groups of rats with mammary carcinogenesis that were supplemented with copper (p < 0.05) or copper plus resveratrol (p < 0.001) in comparison with the control groups that received the same diets. In cancer groups of nonsupplemented rats, the increase of glutathione peroxidase activity was observed. The process of carcinogenesis and the applied supplementation significantly altered the concentrations of trace elements in serum, in particular as concerns iron and copper. The mean serum iron levels in rats with breast cancer were significantly lower than those in the control groups (p < 0.001). The mean serum copper levels significantly decreased in the groups of rats with mammary carcinogenesis that were supplemented with copper or copper plus resveratrol in comparison with the control groups that received the same diets (p < 0.001). The characteristic changes in iron content and the zinc/copper and zinc/iron ratios in blood may be used as one of the prognostic factors in breast cancer research.
Syngeneic graft vs. host disease (SGVHD) was first described as a graft vs. host disease-like syndrome that developed in rats following syngeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) and cyclosporin A (CsA) treatment. SGVHD can be induced by reconstitution of lethally irradiated mice with syngeneic bone marrow cells followed by 21 days of treatment with the immunosuppressive agent CsA. Clinical symptoms of the disease appear 2-3 wk following cessation of CsA therapy, and disease-associated inflammation occurs primarily in the colon and liver. CD4(+) T cells have been shown to play an important role in the inflammatory response observed in the gut of SGVHD mice. Time-course studies revealed a significant increase in migration of CD4(+) T cells into the colon during CsA therapy, as well as significantly elevated mRNA levels of TNF-α, proinflammatory chemokines, and cell adhesion molecules in colonic tissue of CsA-treated animals compared with BMT controls, as early as day 14 post-BMT. Homing studies revealed a greater migration of labeled CD4(+) T cells into the gut of CsA-treated mice at day 21 post-BMT than control animals via CsA-induced upregulation of mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule. This study demonstrates that, during the 21 days of immunosuppressive therapy, functional mechanisms are in place that result in increased homing of CD4(+) T effector cells to colons of CsA-treated mice.
