Transient radiating back and leg pain defined as pain or dysesthesias in the buttocks, thighs, or calves within 24 to 48 hours after recovery from spinal anesthesia has been described with the use of 2% and 5% lidocaine. These symptoms have also been associated with other local anesthetics such as bupivacaine and tetracaine, although with a much lower incidence. A recent case report and prospective study have described transient radiating back and leg pain occurring following spinal anesthesia with 4% mepivacaine.
We describe a case of transient radiating back and leg pain following spinal anesthesia with 1.5% mepivacaine in a patient with unrecognized spinal stenosis who had had repeated episodes of transient radiating back and leg pain associated with lidocaine spinals.
Spinal anesthesia with 1.5% mepivacaine was associated with transient radiating back and leg pain, which was similar in quality and duration to prior episodes following spinal anesthesia with lidocaine.
Transient radiating back and leg pain may occur with lower concentrations (1.5%) of mepivacaine, as it does with lidocaine. The relationship between transient radiating back and leg pain and spinal stenosis is also discussed.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) has been shown to contribute to the production of seizures. Here, we aimed to investigate the effects of AVP on seizures induced by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of pilocarpine. Rats were treated with 0.2-2.4 mg/5 microl pilocarpine intracerebroventricularly, to obtain the dose-response relationship for behavioural seizures. 2.4 mg/5 microl pilocarpine induced status epilepticus in all rats and 0. 2 mg/5 microl pilocarpine did not produce any sign of seizure in any of the rats. In the second step, AVP (0.01-1000 ng/2 microl; i.c.v.) was injected 5 min before i.c.v. injection of a low dose pilocarpine (0.4 mg/5 microl) and rats were observed for percentage of status epilepticus, status epilepticus latency and behavioural seizure scores. None of the applied doses of AVP had any significant effect on seizures induced by 0.4 mg/5 microl i.c.v. pilocarpine. Subcutaneous injection of 1000 ng AVP 1h before 0.4 mg i.c.v. pilocarpine also did not produce significant difference with respect to the 0.4 mg pilocarpine group. Finally, pretreatment with neither an AVP V(1) receptor antagonist (25, 125, 250 ng/5 microl; i.c.v.) nor an AVP V(2) receptor antagonist (25, 125, 250 ng/5 microl; i.c.v.) prevented status epilepticus, induced by 2.4 mg/5 microl i.c.v. pilocarpine. We conclude that AVP does not act as a convulsant agent in centrally-induced pilocarpine seizures.
Aroclor-1254 (Ar-1254) and dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) were compared to phenobarbital (PB) for their ability to promote hepatocellular proliferative lesions to hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas and to hepatoblastomas in D2B6F1 male mice initiated with N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA). Hepatocellular neoplasms developed in all mice given NDEA and were more numerous in mice fed promoters. Multiplicities decreased in the order Ar-1254 > PB > DDT, indicating that Ar-1254 was more potent than either PB or DDT at the dosage levels used. PB was the most effective of the 3 agents in stimulating the evolution of hepatocellular neoplasms to hepatoblastoma. The incidence of hepatoblastomas in the NDEA.PB group was 72% but was only 27% in NDEA-initiated, DDT-promoted mice and 33% in low-dose and only 9% in high-dose Ar-1254-promoted mice. In contrast, lesions resembling benign and malignant cholangiocellular neoplasms were frequently found within hepatocellular tumors in Ar-1254-promoted mice but not in mice fed PB or DDT, either alone or after NDEA. Some cystic glandular structures in Ar-1254-promoted mice contained mucous cells, argentaffin cells, and Paneth cells and thus constituted intestinal metaplasia. Hepatoblastoma and intestinal metaplasia/cholangiocellular tumor morphology appear to constitute different patterns of genetic programming induced by certain promoters in expanding clones of initiated hepatocytes, on favorable genetic backgrounds such as that of D2B6F1 male mice.
Consumption of excess methionine by rats is known to cause membrane damage, liver enlargement and accumulation of iron in the spleen. In this study two groups (n = 5) of male, Wistar rats were pair-fed either a methionine supplemented (20.0 g/kg) or control (2.0 g/kg) diet for 7 weeks. Hepatic and erythrocyte copper-zinc superoxide dismutase activities were significantly reduced (P less than 0.05 and P less than 0.001 respectively) by methionine supplementation while the activities of catalase (P less than 0.01 and 0.05) and glutathione peroxidase (P less than 0.05) were significantly increased. Methionine supplementation also increased hepatic lipid peroxidation (P less than 0.01), as measured by the level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, and iron (P less than 0.001) concentrations. These changes are indicative of increased oxidative stress resulting from methionine toxicity.
Most patients with hepatic porphyria exhibit neuropsychiatric symptoms, including abdominal pain, peripheral neuropathy, confusion, insomnia and mental disturbances such as anxiety and depression. Although heme deficiency and accumulation of heme precursors are thought to be responsible for neuropsychiatric manifestations in patients with acute porphyria, the pathogenetic mechanisms remain poorly understood. In the present study, we observed psychiatric behaviors in mice with hepatic porphyria induced by the ingestion of a griseofulvin (GF)-containing diet over a period of 12 weeks. GF ingestion by the mice caused an accumulation of porphyrins in the feces and a decrease in heme in the liver; these effects were observed throughout the entire duration of the experiment, with maximum levels observed after circa 1 week of ingestion of this diet. In addition, the mice developed enlargement of the liver, hepatocyte injury, and cholestasis. Mice with hepatic porphyria manifested an anxiety-like behavior by the long-term treatment (over 5 weeks) in a GF-dose and duration dependent manner. The hepatic porphyria mice also manifested depression-like behaviors by the short-term treatment (3 weeks) of GF2.0, which was reversed by administration of anti-depressant, imipramine. In conclusion, this study for the first time demonstrated psychiatric manifestations in GF-induced hepatic porphyria mice. The present results suggest that model animals could be useful for elucidating the mechanisms underlying psychiatric manifestations in syndromes such as hepatic porphyria and hepatic encephalopathy that are associated with the impairment of hepatic function.
Phenethylisothiocyanate (PEITC) is produced by Brassica food plants. PEO is a PEITC Essential Oil containing >95% natural PEITC. PEITC is known to produce various health benefits but its effect in alleviation of ulcerative colitis signs is unknown.
In two efficacy studies (acute and chronic) oral administration of PEO was effective at remitting acute and chronic signs of ulcerative colitis (UC) in mice. Disease activity, histology and biochemical characteristics were measured in the treated animals and were compared with appropriate controls. PEO treatment significantly improved body weights and stool consistency as well as decreased intestinal bleeding. PEO treatment also reduced mucosal inflammation, depletion of goblet cells and infiltration of inflammatory cells. Attenuation of proinflammatory interleukin1beta production was observed in the colons of PEO-treated animals. Expression analyses were also carried out for immune function related genes, transcription factors and cytokines in lipopolysaccharide-activated mouse macrophage cells. PEO likely affects an intricate network of immune signaling genes including a novel concentration dependent reduction of total cellular Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 1 (STAT1) as well as nuclear phosphorylated-STAT1 (activated form of STAT1). A PEO-concentration dependent decrease of mRNA of C-X-C motif ligand 10 (a STAT1 responsive chemokine) and Interleukin 6 were also observed.
PEO might be a promising candidate to develop as a treatment for ulcerative colitis patients. The disease attenuation by PEO is likely associated with suppression of activation of STAT1 transcription and inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Oxytocin is synthesized and released in the heart and vasculature, tissues that also express oxytocin receptors. Although it has been established this intrinsic cardiovascular oxytocin system is important in normal homeostatic cardiac and vascular regulation, a role for this system in cardiovascular pathophysiology has not been investigated. The current study examined the influence of oxytocin on mechanisms in atherogenesis, oxidative stress, and inflammation in cultured human vascular cells, THP-1 monocytes, and macrophages. Oxytocin receptor protein and mRNA expression, NADPH-dependent superoxide activity, and interleukin-6 secretion were measured. Results demonstrated oxytocin receptor protein and mRNA in THP-1 monocytes and macrophages. Incubation of cells at physiological levels of oxytocin significantly decreased basal and stimulated NADPH-dependent superoxide activity in vascular cells, monocytes, and macrophages by 24-48%. Oxytocin also attenuated interleukin-6 secretion from stimulated THP-1 macrophages and endothelial cells by 56 and 26%, respectively. These findings suggest that oxytocin attenuates vascular oxidative stress and inflammation, two important pathophysiological processes in atherosclerosis. The fact that oxytocin receptors are found in monocytes and macrophages, and oxytocin decreases both superoxide production and release of a proinflammatory cytokine from these cells, suggests a potentially larger role for oxytocin in the attenuation of disease.
Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is a novel immunosuppressive drug. Several case reports have suggested that MMF has a beneficial effect in patients with psoriasis and autoimmune dermatoses.
To investigate the efficacy and safety of oral MMF in severe psoriasis.
Eleven patients with severe stable plaque-type psoriasis and a Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) between 12 and 53 (mean 30.5) were included in the study. They received oral MMF 1 g twice daily for 3 weeks and then 0.5 g twice daily for 3 weeks. The PASI were determined at baseline (week 0) and after 1, 2, 3 and 6 weeks of treatment.
Within 3 weeks of this therapy there was a reduction in PASI of between 40% and 70% in seven of 11 patients, and only one patient achieved a reduction in PASI of < 25% from baseline (mean PASI 15.6). Reducing MMF from 2 g daily to 1 g daily led to further, although only slight, improvement in six of 11 patients during the following 3 weeks. In four of 11 patients, the PASI increased at this lower dosage, and in one patient the drug was withdrawn because of muscle pain, which was possibly drug induced. This side-effect reversed within a few days after stopping the drug. Other side-effects, especially gastrointestinal and haematological toxicity, were not observed in any of the 11 patients treated. Overall, the mean PASI was 16.1 after 6 weeks.
We conclude that the immunosuppressant MMF 2 g daily is effective and safe in the treatment of severe psoriasis.
Levamisole is an antihelmintic drug that stimulates antibodies formation increasing both T response, and neutrophilic response, and quimiotaxis. It is used in dermatology for the treatment of plane warts, erythema multiforme, aphtous ulcers and, with prednisone, in lichen planus. With prolonged use this drug has been implicated in adverse dermatological reactions as lichenoid eruptions, ulcers and vasculitis. We present a 9-years old girl who developed a cutaneous eruption and a reverse leucoencephalopathy with a short treatment but high doses of the drug.
Humic acid (HA) has been implicated as one of the etiological factors in the peripheral vasculopathy of blackfoot disease (BFD) in Taiwan. However, the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of BFD are not well defined. In this study, we used an in vitro and in vivo model, in which HA (25-200μg/mL) activated macrophages to produce pro-inflammatory molecules by activating their transcriptional factors. HA exposure induced NO and PGE2 production followed by induction of iNOS and COX-2 through NF-κB/AP-1 transactivation in macrophages. In addition, the production of TNF-α and IL-1β was significantly increased by HA. Moreover, HA-induced iNOS and COX-2 expression were down-regulated by the NF-κB and AP-1 inhibitors pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) and Tanshinone, respectively. Furthermore, generations of ROS and nitrotyrosine, as well as activation of the AKT and MAPKs signaling cascades were observed after HA exposure. Specifically, HA-induced NF-κB activation was mediated by ROS and AKT, and that HA-induced AP-1 activation was mediated by JNK and ERK. Notably, HA-mediated AKT, JNK, and ERK activation was ROS-independent. The inflammatory potential of HA was correlated with increased expression of HO-1 and Nrf2. Furthermore, an in vivo study confirms that mice exposed to HA, the serum levels of TNF-α and IL-1β was significantly increased in a dose-dependent manner. This report marks the first confirmation that environmental exposure of HA induces inflammation in macrophages, which may be one of the main causes of early atherogenesis in blackfoot disease.
A wide variety of in utero insults are associated with an increased incidence of metabolic disorders in the offspring and in subsequent generations. We have shown that fetal and neonatal exposure to nicotine results in endocrine and metabolic changes in the offspring that are consistent with those observed in type 2 diabetes. This study examines whether fetal and neonatal exposure to nicotine has transgenerational effects in the F2 offspring. Female Wistar rats were given either saline or nicotine (1 mg/kg/d) during pregnancy and lactation to create saline- and nicotine-exposed female F1 progeny. These F1 females were then bred to produce F2 offspring. We examined glucose homeostasis, serum lipids and fat pad weights, mitochondrial enzyme activity in skeletal muscle and blood pressure in these F2 offspring between 13 and 15 weeks of age. Offspring of nicotine- versus saline-exposed mothers had elevated fasting serum insulin concentrations and an enhanced total insulin response to the glucose challenge. This apparent insulin resistance was unrelated to changes in skeletal muscle mitochondrial volume or activity. The offspring of nicotine-exposed mothers also had elevated blood pressure. These data demonstrate that adverse effects of fetal and neonatal exposure to nicotine can influence aspects of metabolic risk in subsequent generations.
This study was aimed to investigate the reproductive health in adult male rats exposed to di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP) during embryonic development. Pregnant rats were injected with DBP and F1 male rats were weaned and on postnatal day 100, used for mating with normal cycling females to assess reproductive performance. After completion of cohabitation period, rats were analyzed for other reproductive end points. Transplacental exposure to DBP significantly decreased fertility in adult male rats. Prenatal exposure to DBP significantly decreased sperm density, number of motile sperms, viable sperms, and hypoosmotic swelling tail coiled sperms with an increase in morphological abnormalities in sperms. Testicular steroidogenic enzyme activity levels and serum testosterone levels were significantly decreased in rats exposed to DBP during embryonic development. In conclusion, transplacental exposure to DBP impairs male reproductive performance by decreasing steroidogenesis and spermatogenesis.
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of pilocarpine and explore the underlying ionic mechanism, using both aconitine-induced rat and ouabain-induced guinea pig arrhythmia models. Confocal microscopy was used to measure intracellular free-calcium concentrations ([Ca(2+)](i)) in isolated myocytes. The current data showed that pilocarpine significantly delayed onset of arrhythmias, decreased the time course of ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation, reduced arrhythmia score, and increased the survival time of arrhythmic rats and guinea pigs. [Ca(2+)](i) overload induced by aconitine or ouabain was reduced in isolated myocytes pretreated with pilocarpine. Moreover, M(3)-muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) antagonist 4-DAMP (4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine-methiodide) partially abolished the beneficial effects of pilocarpine. These data suggest that pilocarpine produced antiarrhythmic actions on arrhythmic rat and guinea pig models induced by aconitine or ouabain via stimulating the cardiac M(3)-mAChR. The mechanism may be related to the improvement of Ca(2+) handling.
Dichlorvos (DDVP) and monocrotophos (MC) are systemic insecticides and known to produce cholinergic and non-cholinergic effects. Individual toxic effects of these chemicals are known but their combined effects have not been studied. We studied the effect of concomitant exposure to DDVP and MC on selected biochemical variables suggestive of liver damage, changes in whole brain biogenic amines levels, acetylcholinesterase (AchE) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) activities in rats. Female rats were exposed to DDVP (2.5 mg/kg subcutaneously) and MC (1.8 mg/kg oral) either individually or in combination for 4 weeks. We observed significant decrease in more pronounced depletion in norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) levels during co-exposure to DDVP and MC. Brain AChE activity increased and activity of MAO showed significant depletion on co-exposure to DDVP and MC. Brain glutathione (GSH) and oxidized glutathione (GSSG) ratio decreased significantly during exposure to DDVP or MC while co-exposure to these toxicants led to a more pronounced depletion of GSH: GSSG ratio. Serum aspartate amino transferase (AST) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activities increased significantly on exposure to MC suggesting liver injury, while DDVP alone had no effect on these variables. There were no effects of DDVP and MC exposure on haematological biochemical variables except for depletion in serum glucose level after MC exposure which was more pronounced DDVP + MC during co-exposure. It can be concluded that only moderate synergistic effects occur between MC and DDVP during co-exposure. A more detailed study with variable doses, prolonged exposure and alterations in different brain regions is recommended.
Increasing evidence suggests that astrocytes are the site of early dysfunction and damage in manganese neurotoxicity. Astrocytes accumulate manganese by a high affinity, high capacity, specific transport system. Chronic exposure to manganese leads to increased pallidal signal hyperintensities on T1-weighted magnetic resonance images and selective neuronal loss in basal ganglia structures together with characteristic astrocytic changes known as Alzheimer type II astrocytosis. Manganese is sequestered in mitochondria where it inhibits oxidative phosphorylation. Exposure of astrocytes to manganese results in important changes including (i) decreased uptake of glutamate; (ii) increased densities of binding sites for the "peripheral-type" benzodiazepine receptor (PTBR), a class of receptor localized to mitochondria of astrocytes and involved in oxidative metabolism, mitochondrial proliferation, and neurosteroid synthesis; (iii) increased gene expression and activity of the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), known to be associated with apoptosis; (iv) increased uptake of L-arginine, a precursor of nitric oxide, together with increased expression of the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Potential consequences of these alterations in astrocytic gene expression include failure of energy metabolism, production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), increased extracellular glutamate concentration and excitotoxicity which could play a key role in manganese-induced neuronal cell death as a direct result of impaired astrocytic-neuronal interactions.
Recently, hemodynamic instability including hypotension and its effect on the clinical outcome in patients treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) during coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) has been described. However, no analysis has examined the dose of ACEIs and its risk of hypotension. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that a higher dose of ACEIs could lead to increased episodes of hypotension.
A total of 300 patients scheduled for CABG were studied prospectively. They were divided into 3 groups according to their preoperative use of different doses of ACEIs. The demographic and medical characteristics were compared between these 3 groups. During CABG and throughout the intensive care unit (ICU), vasoconstrictors were infused in patients undergoing hypotension (mean arterial pressure [MAP] < 65 mm Hg or >30% below baseline). The predictive factors responsible for hypotension were investigated separately using univariate and multivariate logistic regression models.
The 3 groups were similar with regard to the patients' demographic and medical characteristics. The patients treated with ACEIs were more likely to develop hypotension (73% of high dose and 47% of low dose) in the operating room than those without ACEIs (30%). However, in the ICU, there was no significant association between hemodynamic changes and ACEIstreated patients. Other independent risk factors identified for hypotension were ejection fraction, history of myocardial infarction, coronary grafting count, and pump time during surgery and/or ICU admission.
Hemodynamic changes during CABG were observed to be directly proportional to the dosage of ACEIs prescribed preoperatively.
We report on a 74-year-old male patient with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who developed an invasive fungal disease of the facial bones after several teeth were extracted. He had recently suffered an exacerbation of COPD, treated with a course of corticosteroid therapy. Mucormycosis is an opportunistic fungal pathogen that has the ability to cause significant morbidity and frequently mortality in the susceptible patient. An overview of this class of pathogens and the history, examination findings (clinical and radiographic), pathogenesis and medical-surgical treatment of mucormycosis is presented.
Antithyroid drugs adverse effects are varied and rare. Autoimmune disorders (vasculitis, lupus erythematosus, polyarthritis...) are unusual and serious complications of antithyroid drugs. Since 1945, fewer than 100 cases of systemic manifestations related to antithyroid drugs have been reported in the literature, most frequently with propylthiouracil. The outcome is usually good after drug discontinuation, but some fatal cases have been reported. Because possible cross-sensitivity with other antithyroid drugs, the appropriate treatment for hyperthyroidism relapse if a patient has had an antithyroid drug adverse reaction, should be 131I-Iodine or surgery. We report four new cases of systemic manifestations during propylthiouracil therapy.
The time course of threshold increase in the VIII nerve compound action potential was studied in guinea pigs following amikacin administration at four different constant infusion rates. Despite the wide range of dosing durations required to achieve drug ototoxicity (2-24 days), the full development of both high and low frequency hearing loss was invariably found to be delayed with respect to the time of drug removal. The greatest degree of delayed hearing loss generally occurred within the first 7 days after drug removal, with smaller losses occurring during later time intervals. The delay showed a tendency to decrease as the ototoxic dose was increased. Using the data from the two highest dosing rates, it was estimated that a minimum of 4 days had to elapse before any hearing loss could be detected, once an ototoxic amount of drug had been administered. These data suggest that hearing loss is always substantially delayed with respect to the receipt of an ototoxic dose of amikacin, and that this must be taken into account when conducting animal experiments and when monitoring hearing in patients for the early detection of ototoxicity.
A long-term follow-up study was carried out to evaluate the tolerability and efficacy of long-term therapy (1 to 3 years) with high doses (150 or 300 mg daily) of lamivudine for chronic hepatitis B.
Thirty-two patients were studied, including those who were seronegative for hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg), as well as those with decompensated liver cirrhosis. Viral DNA clearance was monitored by using end-point dilution polymerase chain reaction (PCR), a highly sensitive method. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) polymerase gene mutations associated with resistance were determined by sequencing.
Response to lamivudine in the sixth month was observed in 19/32 (59.4%) patients. With one exception, viral DNA results observed at this time were maintained. The YMDD mutation was detected in 12 nonresponder patients (9 YVDD, 2 YIDD, and 1 mixed population Y(V/I)DD), generally associated with the L528M mutation. Re-takeover by the wild type was observed 6 to 18 months after lamivudine withdrawal. Lamivudine response rates in noncirrhotic and cirrhotic patients were 9/18 (50%) and 10/14 (71.4%), respectively. HBeAg to anti-HBe seroconversion was found after different periods in all responder patients. Hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) clearance and anti-HBs seroconversion were occasionally found.
In nonresponder patients, resistant mutants appeared up to the second year of lamivudine therapy. In spite of the presence of resistant mutants, maintenance of therapy was usually associated with a lower viral load. In responder patients, maintenance of therapy was associated with continued absence of detectable HBV DNA in serum, as monitored by highly sensitive methods. No significant side effects caused by lamivudine were observed in our patients, even in those with liver cirrhosis.
We have used limbic convulsions induced by systemic pilocarpine in rats combined with focal intracerebral injections concurrently to study the initiation and spread of seizure activity. Protection against pilocarpine-seizure development by antagonism of excitatory or facilitation of inhibitory neurotransmission at focal sites establishes the anatomical circuits involved in the propagation of seizures. The excitatory amino acid antagonist 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate (APH, selective for the NMDA preferring glutamate receptor subtype) is potently anticonvulsant after bilateral focal injections into the habenula or mediodorsal thalamus. The dose of APH required to give sustained protection against pilocarpine-induced convulsions is 10 pmol for lateral habenula and 50 pmol for mediodorsal thalamus. The GABA agonist muscimol produces a similar sustained protection following focal injections (100 pmol/side) into either the lateral habenula or the mediodorsal thalamus. An overall decrease in the efferent neurotransmission of these two brain regions results in a strong anticonvulsant effect indicating their importance in modulating limbic seizure activity.
A woman aged 60 years receiving anticoagulation treatment on account of artificial mitral and aortic valve prostheses developed severe thrombocytopenia three weeks after the commencement of quinidine treatment. The results of investigations suggested severe thrombocytopenia precipitated by quinidine. The severe thrombocytopenia persisted despite intensive treatment and the condition ended fatally on account of cerebral haemorrhage. The combination of quinidine and oral anticoagulation treatment is not unusual and it is important to bear in mind that both of these preparations may cause increased haemorrhagic tendencies.
Ifosfamide/mesna treatment of 50 patients with pediatric malignant solid tumors was associated with the development of neurotoxic signs and symptoms in 11 of these individuals who received 29 courses of treatment. Neurologic toxicity included changes in mental status, cerebellar function, cranial nerve, and cerebellar and motor system function, including seizures. All symptoms, signs, and EEG abnormalities were transient. Some of the affected individuals failed to develop acute neurotoxic signs of symptoms when retreated with ifosfamide. A grading system for scoring these neurologic abnormalities is presented for comparison of acute neurotoxic effects of other agents. Recommendations are made regarding early termination or delay of ifosfamide/mesna treatments in the presence of significant neurotoxicity.
In an initiation-promotion protocol, female weanling Sprague-Dawley rats were initiated with 10 mg/kg nitrosodiethylamine and promotion was started after 30 days. Promotion regimens were as follows: 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-para-dioxin (TCDD; 150 ppt in diet) continuously until day 450; phenobarbital (PB; 500 ppm in diet) until day 170; PB until day 170, followed by TCDD until day 240; and PB until day 170, followed by a basal diet (BD) until day 240 and subsequently TCDD from days 240 to 450. TCDD fed to initiated rats had a promoting effect on the development of adenosine triphosphatase-negative altered hepatocellular foci (AHF). At 450 days, the volume fraction of liver occupied by AHF was increased in initiated rats given TCDD continuously and in those given PB followed by TCDD, whereas the mean volume of AHF was significantly larger in initiated rats given TCDD continuously. PB and TCDD promoted similar phenotypes of AHF as seen in hemotoxylin and eosin-stained sections, but the eosinophilic phenotype most closely correlated with the development of hepatocellular neoplasms. The protooncogene product ras p21 protein was present in the majority of PB- and TCDD-promoted AHF, hepatocellular adenomas, and hepatocellular carcinomas. Eosinophilic AHF and ras p21 protein expression most closely correlated with neoplastic development, suggesting that these cell populations, when promoted, may be at greater risks for developing into neoplasms.
