To evaluate the age- and dose-dependence of the cardiotoxicity induced by minoxidil, histologic studies were made of the hearts of 3-, 6-, 15- and 24-month-old Sprague Dawley rats treated with either 10, 50 or 250 mg/kg of the drug p.o. daily for two consecutive days. The 10 mg/kg dose of minoxidil induced myocyte necrosis in each of the 24-month-old rats but only in one other animal (6-month-old). The 50 mg/kg dose produced necrosis in all the 15- and 24-month-old rats, but in only one of the other animals (6-month-old), while the 250 mg/kg dose induced necrosis in animals of all ages. Inflammation was present in all minoxidil-treated animals, but at each dose level it was most severe in the oldest rats. Interstitial hemorrhages were observed at all dose levels, but increased in frequency and severity with the dose of minoxidil, and at each dose level they were more severe in the oldest animals. Vascular lesions consisting of arteriolar damage and calcification were observed only in the 24-month-old animals. Thus, these data demonstrate that the cardiac lesions induced by minoxidil are more frequent and severe in older than in younger rats.
To review the association of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in individuals manifesting thalidomide embryopathy and Möbius sequence and compare them with three new studies in which ASD was also associated with ocular and systemic malformations: (1) a Swedish study of individuals with CHARGE association (Coloboma, Heart, choanal Atresia, developmental or growth Retardation, Genital anomaly, and Ear involvement); (2) a Swedish study of Goldenhar syndrome; and (3) Brazilian Möbius syndrome (sequence) study.
In the Swedish CHARGE study, 31 patients met the inclusion criteria (3+ or 4 of the common characteristics of the CHARGE syndrome). The same team of investigators also evaluated 20 Swedish patients with Goldenhar syndrome. In the Brazilian Möbius study, 28 children with a diagnosis of Möbius sequence were studied; some children had a history of exposure during their mother's pregnancy to the abortifacient drug misoprostol in an unsuccessful abortion attempt.
In the CHARGE study, five patients had the more severe autism disorder and five had autistic-like condition. In the Goldenhar study, two had autism disorder and one had autistic-like condition. In the Brazilian Möbius study, the systemic findings of the misoprostol-exposed and misoprostol-unexposed patients were almost undistinguishable, and ASD was present in both groups (autism disorder in five and autistic-like condition in three).
Autism spectrum disorder has been reported in two conditions with known early pregnancy exposure to the teratogenic agents thalidomide and misoprostol. In the Brazilian Möbius study, autism also occurred in both the misoprostol-exposed and misoprostol-unexposed groups. Autism also was present in patients with both CHARGE association and Goldenhar syndrome.
alpha-tocopherol is the major lipid-soluble radical-scavenging antioxidant in rat liver. It has long been used as a putative protective agent in CCl4 induced liver injury but with variable results. We have used alpha-tocopherol loaded rat liver microsomes to study the effect of this vitamin on CCl4 metabolism in vitro. As expected, alpha-tocopherol inhibits CCl4-dependent microsomal lipid peroxidation and, at a very high concentration, will inhibit the covalent binding of CCl3 to microsomal protein by up to 50%. No inhibitory effect was observed towards CCl3 production as measured by the electron spin resonance technique of spin-trapping but this apparent discrepancy may represent a limitation of the technique. The high levels required to inhibit covalent binding probably preclude the likelihood of alpha-tocopherol significantly affecting that phenomenon at endogenous concentrations but may be relevant to other experiments employing high doses of alpha-tocopherol as an experimental hepatoprotective agent.
Disseminated necrotizing leukoencephalopathy was found upon autopsy of a 32-year-old man with acute lymphocytic leukemia. He had been treated with intrathecal methotrexate for CNS involvement; no radiation therapy had been given. Autopsy findings revealed that in the white matter of the temporal lobe, there was widespread necrosis associated with numerous foam cells, demyelination, vacuolization and slight gliosis; in this lesion, leukemic cells infiltrated the Virchow-Robin space. In the white matter of other lesions we found discrete multifocal necroses of coagulative type associated with round or rod-shaped axonal swelling partly accompanied with calcification. However, in these lesions, there was no leukemic cell infiltration.
Sexual dysfunction is a major contributor to treatment discontinuation and nonadherence among patients treated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). The mechanisms by which depressive symptoms in general, as well as SSRI exposure in particular, may worsen sexual function are not known. We examined genetic polymorphisms, including those of the serotonin and glutamate systems, for association with erectile dysfunction, anorgasmia, and decreased libido during citalopram treatment. Clinical data were drawn from a nested case-control cohort derived from the STAR(*)D study, a multicenter, prospective, effectiveness trial in outpatients with nonpsychotic major depressive disorder (MDD). Self-reports of erectile dysfunction, decreased libido, or difficulty achieving orgasm based on the Patient-Rated Inventory of Side Effects were examined among Caucasian subjects (n=1473) for whom DNA and adverse effect measures were available, and who were treated openly with citalopram for up to 14 weeks. Of 1473 participants, 799 (54%) reported decreased libido; 525 (36%) reported difficulty achieving orgasm. Of 574 men, 211 (37%) reported erectile dysfunction. Using a set-based test for association, single nucleotide polymorphisms in glutamatergic genes were associated with decreased libido (GRIA3; GRIK2), difficulty achieving orgasm (GRIA1), and difficulty achieving erection (GRIN3A) (experiment-wide permuted p<0.05 for each). Evidence of association persisted after adjustment for baseline clinical and sociodemographic differences. Likewise, evidence of association was similar when the cohort was limited to those who did not report a given adverse event at the first post-baseline visit (ie, those whose adverse events were known to be treatment emergent). These hypothesis-generating analyses suggest the potential for glutamatergic treatment targets for sexual dysfunction during major depressive episodes.
Methamphetamine causes long-term toxicity to dopamine nerve endings of the striatum. Evidence is emerging that microglia can contribute to the neuronal damage associated with disease, injury, or inflammation, but their role in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity has received relatively little attention. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and the neurotoxic HIV Tat protein, which cause dopamine neuronal toxicity after direct infusion into brain, cause activation of cultured mouse microglial cells as evidenced by increased expression of intracellular cyclooxygenase-2 and elevated secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha. MK-801, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist that is known to protect against methamphetamine neurotoxicity, prevents microglial activation by LPS and HIV Tat. Dextromethorphan, an antitussive agent with NMDA receptor blocking properties, also prevents microglial activation. In vivo, MK-801 and dextromethorphan reduce methamphetamine-induced activation of microglia in striatum and they protect dopamine nerve endings against drug-induced nerve terminal damage. The present results indicate that the ability of MK-801 and dextromethorphan to protect against methamphetamine neurotoxicity is related to their common property as blockers of microglial activation.
Extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma (NKTL), nasal type, is a highly aggressive neoplasm and is strongly associated with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). In this study, we demonstrate that EBV-positive NKTL cell lines, namely, Hank-1, NK-YS, and NK-L, are resistant to Fas-mediated apoptosis induced by anti-Fas antibodies despite high levels of Fas surface expression and no mutation in the Fas gene. Fas stimulation of Hank-1 and NK-YS cells showed little processing of caspase 8, caspase 3, or bid, although the proximal signaling molecules of the death-inducing signaling complex, namely, Fas, Fas-associated protein with a death domain, caspase 8, and bid were present in these cells. Consistent with previous reports on the hypermethylation of death associated protein (DAP) kinase in NKTLs, the promoter of DAP kinase was methylated and its mRNA not detected in Hank-1 cells. However, the restoration of DAP kinase expression by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine did not sensitize Hank-1 to Fas-mediated apoptosis, indicating that DAP kinase deficiency does not contribute to resistance to Fas-mediated apoptosis. Since etoposide-induced apoptosis involved caspase 3 activation in Hank-1 and NK-YS cells, the caspase 3-dependent apoptotic machinery appears to be intact. Interestingly, cotreatment of Hank-1 with cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor, markedly sensitized cells to Fas-mediated apoptosis along with caspase 8 activation and c-FLIP(L) (cellular FLICE inhibitory protein long form) downregulation. Moreover, immunohistochemistry on paraffin-embedded tissue revealed c-FLIP expression in 39% (14 of 36) of NKTL patients. Taken together, these findings indicate that c-FLIP(L)-mediated resistance to Fas contributes to the development and progression of NKTLs. This study also suggests that agents capable of downregulating c-FLIP(L) could be used to treat NKTL.
The ability of the dietary methyl donors methionine and choline to inhibit the carcinogenic and tumor-promoting effects of phenobarbital (PB) in the livers of male weanling C3H mice was examined. The mice were fed a commercial rodent diet with or without 0.05% PB. Thirty animals from each set received the diet with either: (1) no dietary supplementation, (2) an additional 1.0% choline chloride, (3) 1.5% DL-methionine or (4) both 1.5% DL-methionine and 1.0% choline chloride. Additional groups of 30 animals with the same eight dietary and PB-treatment regimens described above were given a single initiating dose of 150 mg diethylnitrosamine (DENA)/kg body wt dissolved in saline, or the saline solution only, 1 week prior to the start of PB feeding. The 16 treatment groups were fed their respective diets for 12 months. Statistical trend analysis showed that increasing levels of supplemental methyl donors gave highly significant protection in PB-treated mice (P less than 0.01). The incidence of liver carcinomas in the four dietary groups not receiving PB or DENA varied from 0 to 7%. The PB-treated animals not receiving an initiating dose of DENA developed hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) at incidences of 79% in group 1 animals, 74% in group 2 animals, 60% in group 3 animals, and 31% in group 2 animals respectively. Thus, incidence of HCCs in group 4 was significantly lower than in groups 1, 2 or 3 (P less than 0.01). However, the total incidence of liver tumors (adenomas plus carcinomas) was about the same in all DENA or PB-treated groups. Thus, dietary supplementation with methyl donors increased the proportion of animals bearing liver adenomas as their most advanced hepatic lesion in PB-treated mice. In DENA-treated mice fed PB, dietary supplementation with methionine and choline protected against the formation of liver carcinomas (P less than 0.02); however, methionine and choline had no significant effect on liver tumor formation in mice fed the PB-free diets. Methionine and choline supplementation gave significant protection against HCC metastases in the lungs of the tumor-bearing mice in groups initiated with DENA followed by PB promotion. These results support the hypothesis that PB exerts it tumorigenic activity in mice at least in part through a physiological insufficiency of labile methyl groups.
The action of several dopamine agonists on blood pressure was investigated. In dogs, apomorphine induced a decrease in blood pressure and an increase in heart rate. These effects were suppressed by intravenous haloperidol or phentolamine. Intravenous but not intracisternal domperidone suppressed the hypotensive responses elicited by intravenous or intracisternal apomorphine. Furthermore, the hypotensive effect of bromocriptine or apomorphine was abolished in adrenal demedullated dogs. Apomorphine and bromocriptine decreased adrenal catecholamine levels. In men, the acute hypotensive property of apomorphine (but not the long term effect of bromocriptine) was suppressed by pretreatment with domperidone. In hypertensive Parkinsonians, bromocriptine reduced blood pressure, induced an increase in inulin clearance, a decrease in plasma creatinine concentration and in renal vascular resistances. These results suggest that dopamine agonists (like apomorphine or bromocriptine) reduce blood pressure through both a decrease in sympathetic tone and an improvement in renal function. However, the mechanism of the acute and long term hypotensive effects could be different only involving peripheral mechanisms after acute administration and both peripheral and central structure under chronic treatment. In addition, preliminary results suggesting the potential interest of dopamine antagonists in the management of orthostatic hypotension are discussed.
The effects of intraventricular administration of neurotensin (0.9, 3.75 and 15.0 micrograms) on hyperactivity and stereotypy induced by either amphetamine (1 mg/kg), nomifensine (20 mg/kg), apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) or N-n-propylnorapomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) were examined. Results indicate that for each drug treatment, the effects of neurotensin were identical: hyperactivity was significantly reduced while stereotypy remained unaffected. Results also revealed that neurotensin significantly increased the hypothermia induced by apomorphine and N-n-propylnorapomorphine. Possible mechanisms which could underly neurotensin's selective inhibitory action on hyperactivity produced by both pre and post synaptic dopaminergic stimulation are discussed.
In an open study of 50 patients with heroin addiction, clonidine was efficacious by mouth in the treatment of acute heroin-withdrawal syndrome. Mean administration of clonidine (on an "as-needed" basis) was 5 days (maximum 7 days), whilst the mean daily dosage ranged from 0.112 mg to 0.468 mg, the maximum requirement occurring on day 2 of withdrawal and sinking thereafter. Since insomnia was not influenced by clonidine, we offered 100 mg doxepine and/or 10 mg nitrazepam (the latter only until day 4 of treatment). Under this medication a sudden, dramatic decrease in blood pressure was not seen, mean blood pressure and pulse rate were not markedly altered; this may, perhaps, be a consequence of the blocking effect of doxepine on the peripheral hypotensive actions of clonidine. Of the 9 drop-outs from treatment, five (10% of the total 50) were certainly directly attributable to the lack of response to clonidine, representing a failure of therapy in 10% cases at least.
Isocyanate chemicals, including toluene diisocyanate (TDI), are currently the most common causes of occupational asthma. Although considerable controversy remains regarding its pathogenesis, TDI-induced asthma is characterized by hyperresponsiveness and inflammation of the airways. One of the histological hallmarks of inflammation is angiogenesis, but the possible role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a potent angiogenic cytokine, in TDI-induced asthma is unknown. We developed a murine model to investigate TDI-induced asthma by performing two courses of sensitization with 3% TDI and one challenge with 1% TDI using ultrasonic nebulization to examine the potential involvement of VEGF in that disease. These mice develop the following typical pathophysiological features: airway hyperresponsiveness, airway inflammation, and increased VEGF levels in the airway. Administration of VEGFR inhibitors reduced all these pathophysiological symptoms. These results suggest that VEGF is one of the major determinants of TDI-induced asthma and that the inhibition of VEGF may be a good therapeutic strategy.
30 female Wistar rats weighing between 70 and 90 g were fed for 8 months with 0,188% N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] Formamide (FANFT). After this period a papillary tumor of the urinary bladder was demonstrable in each animal. Histological examination always revealed a transitional cell carcinoma with prevailing medium tumor stages; no distant metastases were found. The grade of malignancy was classified as medium and high. No significant statistical relationship could be ascertained between tumor stage and grade or between grade and weight, but a correlation was established between tumor stage and weight. After 12 months, 36/60 kidneys were found to be normal, whereas in 20/60 dysplasias and in 2/60 transitional cell carcinomas of the renal pelvis were observed; secondary hydronephrosis due to bladder tumors occured 4 times. Other organ changes were not noticeable.
Mutations in NOTCH1 are frequently detected in patients with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) and in mouse T-ALL models. Treatment of mouse or human T-ALL cell lines in vitro with gamma-secretase inhibitors (GSIs) results in growth arrest and/or apoptosis. These studies suggest GSIs as potential therapeutic agents in the treatment of T-ALL. To determine whether GSIs have antileukemic activity in vivo, we treated near-end-stage Tal1/Ink4a/Arf+/- leukemic mice with vehicle or with a GSI developed by Merck (MRK-003). We found that GSI treatment significantly extended the survival of leukemic mice compared with vehicle-treated mice. Notch1 target gene expression was repressed and increased numbers of apoptotic cells were observed in the GSI-treated mice, demonstrating that Notch1 inhibition in vivo induces apoptosis. T-ALL cell lines also exhibit PI3K/mTOR pathway activation, indicating that rapamycin may also have therapeutic benefit. When GSIs are administered in combination with rapamycin, mTOR kinase activity is ablated and apoptosis induced. Moreover, GSI and rapamycin treatment inhibits human T-ALL growth and extends survival in a mouse xenograft model. This work supports the idea of targeting NOTCH1 in T-ALL and suggests that inhibition of the mTOR and NOTCH1 pathways may have added efficacy.
To observe the efficacy and safety of lamivudine and interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) therapy on decrease of serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) loading of HBV transgenic mice during pregnancy.
Thirty-five transgenic mice replicating high levels of hepatitis B virus were randomly allocated into 5 groups, each of seven. Pregnant HBV transgenic mice in experimental groups 1 and 2 were given orally lamivudine [100 mg/(kg x d)] from pregnancy day 5 or 10 to delivery, mice in experimental groups 3 and 4 were given intramuscular (im) injection of IFN-alpha [5MU/(m(2) x 2d)], and mice in experimental group 5 were given normal saline at the same times. The changes of serum HBsAg, HBV DNA before and after the treatment were detected. At the same time, eighteen C57BL/6J female mice (clean level) were randomly allocated into control groups 1, 2 and 3 (each group of six), which were given lamivudine, IFN-alpha and saline respectively (the dosage was the same as that of experimental groups). The safety indexes of pregnant mice, fetus and newborns in experimental groups and control groups were observed.
(1) The changes of serum HBsAg titers: The average serum HBsAg titers from mice in experimental group 1 were lowered significantly from (166 +/- 98) ng/ml to (82 +/- 59) ng/ml after drug treatment (P < 0.05). Those from mice in experimental group 2 were also reduced from (159 +/- 49) ng/ml to (82 +/- 60) ng/ml after drug treatment, but there was no significant difference between before and after the treatment (P > 0.05). There was no significant difference in serum HBsAg between before and after the treatment in other groups (P > 0.05). (2) The changes of HBV DNA titers: The serum HBV DNA titers from mice in experimental groups 1 and 2 were significantly decreased, from (5.50 +/- 0.86) copies/ml to (2.58 +/- 2.01) copies/ml, with significant difference between before and after the treatment (P < 0.01). Those from mice in experimental groups 3 and 4 were reduced from (5.55 +/- 0.24) copies/ml to (5.46 +/- 0.45) copies/ml, without significant difference between before and after the treatment (P > 0.05). The serum HBV DNA titer from mice in experimental group 5 was not different between before and after the treatment (P > 0.05). (3) Observation of safety indexes: no evidence in toxicity were observed in mice from experimental groups and control groups. No significant abnormalities of live fetus were observed. The postnatal survival and weight of live pups were not different between the groups (P > 0.05). (4) Comparison of the rate of dead fetus and the rate of maternal dead fetus: The rate of dead fetus and the rate of maternal dead fetus from mice in experimental groups 1 and 2 were 8.3% and 50.0% respectively, those from mice in experimental groups 3 and 4 were 8.2% and 66.7% respectively, and those from mice in experimental group 5 were 9.7% and 66.7%. There was no significant difference in the rate of dead fetus and the rate of maternal dead fetus from mice between the groups (P > 0.05).
Effective lamivudine treatment during gestation can reduce hepatitis B viremia in pregnant HBV transgenic mice, thus lowering the risk of intrauterine infection. It has no significant adverse effect on safety of pregnant mice and their offspring.
Rosiglitazone, a thiazolidinedione (TZD), increases insulin sensitivity by reducing levels of plasma NEFA, triglycerides (TG), glucose and serum insulin. Rosiglitazone treatment decreases insulin resistance in type 2 diabetic patients, but no data exist concerning rosiglitazone treatment of patients with syndromes of extreme insulin resistance.
To evaluate whether hyperglycaemia in two lean patients with primary severe insulin resistance due to insulin receptor (IR) mutations and diabetes mellitus could be reduced by supplement of rosiglitazone for 180 days and secondary, to evaluate the effects on plasma NEFA, TG, Apo B, PAI-1 and serum insulin.
Both patients (brothers) have known mutations in the IR gene localized to the tyrosine kinase domain and a deletion of exon 17 in part of their IR mRNA. Prior to the study the HbA1c values were higher than 10% in both patients for more than 12 months during treatment with insulin and metformin.
After 180 days of rosiglitazone supplement (8 mg day(-1)), no changes were observed in fasting plasma glucose and HbA1c. Incremental plasma glucose areas under the curves during a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) were unchanged. Likewise, no improvements were seen in either first or second phase insulin secretion during a 0.3 g kg(-1) intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT). Fasting plasma VLDL and HDL cholesterol, TG and Apo B levels were unchanged, whereas a small increase was seen in total and LDL cholesterol levels. Fasting plasma NEFA increased by 51% in KC after 90 days of treatment, and after 180 days plasma NEFA was still 26% higher, when compared with pretreatment levels. In BC an initial 16% decrease was seen in plasma NEFA after 90 days of treatment. Plasma NEFA was increased 14% after 180 days of treatment, when compared with pretreatment levels, but 35% when compared with day 90. Plasma PAI-1 decreased in both patients after 45 and 90 days of treatment but the decrease was only maintained in KC (47%).
Rosiglitazone treatment, in combination with insulin and metformin, of patients with severe primary insulin resistance due to IR mutations and diabetes mellitus, had no impact on the measured estimates of glucose and lipid metabolism. These findings may suggest that the effect of rosiglitazone on glucose and lipid metabolism are dependent on the presence of intact IR protein.
Previous studies investigating the exposure to metal(loid)s of populations living in the Panasqueira mine area of central Portugal found a higher internal dose of elements such as arsenic, chromium, lead, manganese, molybdenum and zinc in exposed individuals. The aims of the present study were to evaluate the extent of genotoxic damage caused by environmental and occupational exposure in individuals previously tested for metal(loid) levels in different biological matrices, and the possible modulating role of genetic polymorphisms involved in metabolism and DNA repair. T-cell receptor mutation assay, comet assay, micronucleus (MN) test and chromosomal aberrations (CA) were performed in a group of 122 subjects working in the Panasqueira mine or living in the same region. The modifying effect of polymorphisms in GSTA2, GSTM1, GSTP1, GSTT1, XRCC1, APEX1, MPG, MUTYH, OGG1, PARP1, PARP4, ERCC1, ERCC4, and ERCC5 genes was investigated. Significant increases in the frequency of all biomarkers investigated were found in exposed groups, however those environmentally exposed were generally higher. Significant influences of polymorphisms were observed for GSTM1 deletion and OGG1 rs1052133 on CA frequencies, APEX1 rs1130409 on DNA damage, ERCC1 rs3212986 on DNA damage and CA frequency, and ERCC4 rs1800067 on MN and CA frequencies. Our results show that the metal(loid) contamination in the Panasqueira mine area induced genotoxic damage both in individuals working in the mine or living in the area. The observed effects are closely associated to the internal exposure dose, and are more evident in susceptible genotypes. The urgent intervention of authorities is required to protect exposed populations.
The case is presented of an elderly woman in whom megaloblastic anaemia due to folate deficiency was diagnosed. It is speculated that this disorder was induced by treatment with triamterene.
Numerous studies have shown that selenium provides beneficial effects as a cancer chemoprevention agent. Although long-term intervention trials failed to confirm selenium protection against breast cancer in humans because of insufficient cases, the evidence of effective selenium chemoprevention in animal mammary tumor models or human breast cancer cells is substantial and convincing. The present study demonstrates that the selenium compound methylseleninic acid (MSA) inhibits estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) signaling in ER-positive MCF-7 breast cancer cells as evidenced by decreased estradiol-dependent cell growth and gene expression. MSA diminishes estradiol induction of endogenous ER-regulated pS2 and c-myc genes as well as the expression of an ER-regulated reporter gene. A major mode of MSA action on ER signaling is through a downregulation of ERalpha gene expression that precedes a decrease in ERalpha protein level. This study provides a mechanism driven rationale for using selenium as a chemopreventive agent for women at high risk for developing breast cancer or as a therapeutic strategy for ER-positive breast cancer.
Haemorrhagic myocarditis is a rare but important complication of cyclophosphamide therapy. Echocardiographic identification of the disorder can be made. We believe that the ultrasound features of this disorder have not been previously reported.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) could differentiate into cardiomyocytes. In this study, we wished to determine whether we could improve ventricular function in a dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) model in the rabbit by injecting stem cells directly into the ventricular wall.
Japanese rabbits were treated with doxorubicin to induce dilated cardiomyopathy. BMSCs were isolated from isogenic adult rabbits and expanded ex vivo. DCM-model animals received an injection directly into the ventricular wall with either BMSCs or saline (sham-operated control; a third control group underwent no operation). Heart function in all three groups was evaluated by echocardiography and cardiac catheterization. Hearts were later excised for histological and immunostaining analysis. Left ventricular function was significantly better in BMSC-transplanted animals than in controls. Cellular staining of BrdU and N-cadherin, indicating the presence of bone-marrow-derived cells, was found in BMSC-transplanted animals but not in control and sham-operated animals.
BMSC transplantation can improve left ventricular function in DCM. Direct injection into the ventricular wall is an effective approach for stem cell delivery.
We describe the development of nonsusceptibility to daptomycin and vancomycin during treatment for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) bacteremia associated with infective endocarditis and probable septic thrombophlebitis in a uremic patient. MRSA bacteremia persisted during glycopeptide and subsequent daptomycin treatment but cleared after 5 days' treatment with linezolid and fusidic acid.
Two patients with skin necrosis in the injection points after subcutaneous prophylactic porcine calcium heparin administration are reported. In addition, both patients had thrombopenia, deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary thromboembolism. The review of similar cases suggests that skin necrosis is another feature of the thrombopenia and multiple vascular thrombosis syndrome associated with heparin administration. Data from the literature suggest that there is a common immunologically-mediated pathogenetic mechanism responsible for these phenomena through the production of platelet aggregates and immune reaction in endothelial cells. Paradoxically, the continuation of therapy with intravenous sodium heparin was not followed in our patients by new complications despite the theoretical risk.
SIRT1 is an NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase that is implicated in prevention of many age-related diseases including metabolic disorders. As SIRT1 deacetylase activity is dependent on NAD(+) levels and the development of compounds that directly activate SIRT1 has been controversial, indirectly activating SIRT1 through enhancing NAD(+) bioavailability has received increasing attention. NAD(+) levels are reduced in obesity and the aged, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We recently showed that hepatic microRNA-34a (miR-34a), which is elevated in obesity, directly targets and decreases SIRT1 expression. Here, we further show that miR-34a reduces NAD(+) levels and SIRT1 activity by targeting NAMPT, the rate-limiting enzyme for NAD(+) biosynthesis. A functional binding site for miR-34a is present in the 3' UTR of NAMPT mRNA. Hepatic overexpression of miR-34a reduced NAMPT/NAD(+) levels, increased acetylation of the SIRT1 target transcriptional regulators, PGC-1α, SREBP-1c, FXR, and NF-κB, and resulted in obesity-mimetic outcomes. The decreased NAMPT/NAD(+) levels were independent of miR-34a effects on SIRT1 levels as they were also observed in SIRT1 liver-specific knockout mice. Further, the miR-34a-mediated decreases were reversed by treatment with the NAD(+) intermediate, nicotinamide mononucleotide. Conversely, antagonism of miR-34a in diet-induced obese mice restored NAMPT/NAD(+) levels and alleviated steatosis, inflammation, and glucose intolerance. Anti-miR-34a-mediated increases in NAD(+) levels were attenuated when NAMPT was downregulated. Our findings reveal a novel function of miR-34a in reducing both SIRT1 expression and activity in obesity. The miR-34a/NAMPT axis presents a potential target for treating obesity- and aging-related diseases involving SIRT1 dysfunction like steatosis and type 2 diabetes.
Adiponectin (ACRP30), an adipocyte-secreted protein encoded by the APM1 gene, is known to modulate insulin sensitivity and glucose homeostasis, those effects protecting obese mice from diabetes. Plasma adiponectin levels correlate well with insulin sensitivity in humans, and are decreased in both type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity. We screened for single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) the APM1 gene coding and 5' sequences in 40 French Caucasians: 12 SNPs and 4 rare non-synonymous mutations of exon 3 were detected. The 10 most frequent SNPs were genotyped in 1373 T2D and obese French Caucasian subjects and in all subjects available from 148 T2D multiplex families. The screening for rare mutations of exon 3 was extended to 1246 T2D and obese French subjects and to the members of the 148 T2D multiplex families. A haplotype including SNPs -11391 and -11377, both located in the 5' sequences, was associated with adiponectin levels (P<0.0001) and with T2D (P=0.004). The presence of at least one non-synonymous mutation in exon 3 showed evidence of association with adiponectin levels (P=0.0009) and with T2D (P=0.005). We failed to detect an association with insulin resistance indexes. Although family-based association analysis with T2D did not reach significance, our results suggest that an at-risk haplotype of common variants located in the promoter and rare mutations in exon 3 contribute to the variation of the adipocyte-secreted adiponectin hormone level, and may be part of the genetic determinants for T2D in the French Caucasian population.
Opiate users (n = 135) from southern England, Glasgow and Edinburgh were interviewed about opiate overdose (lifetime). Fifty-six percent had overdosed. The majority (66%) reported mixing opiates with at least one other drug (mainly alcohol and/or benzodiazepines) at their last overdose. Patients identified misjudgements of purity, mixing drugs and misjudgements of tolerance as causes of overdose. The sample was divided into groups: (1) 'no prescription', (2) prescribed 'diazepam only', (3) prescribed 'methadone only' and (4) prescribed 'methadone + diazepam'. The 'methadone + diazepam' group reported more lifetime and deliberate overdoses, the 'methadone only' group were more likely to have used several drugs at the time of their last overdose and the 'no prescription' group to have used only heroin. Drug users' overdose risk may vary as a result of their prescribed and non-prescribed drug use. Interventions should be developed and tailored according to clients' needs and current use patterns.
The chronic administration of theophylline was studied in twenty patients with essential tremor in a double-blind cross-over trial. The tremor was improved significantly after four weeks of treatment. In mice the chronic administration of theophylline was compared with propranolol on the modulation by adenosine, 5-HT, (-)isoprenaline or GABA of NMDA-induced depolarisation of neocortical slices. Adenosine depolarisation was abolished by two-weeks treatment with theophylline but not propranolol. Potentiation by (-)isoprenaline of NMDA responses was reduced by theophylline (100 mg/kg/day) and propranolol treatment (25 mg/kg/day), but a lower dose of propranolol further increased it. The enhancement by 5-HT of NMDA-induced depolarisation was unaffected by the pretreatment with theophylline, while the higher dose of propranolol blocked it. GABA caused no significant change of NMDA depolarisation in control slices, but after theophylline treatment (100 mg/kg/day) and propranolol administration at both doses it significantly potentiated NMDA depolarisation. The enhancement of GABA sensitivity might be an important common factor in decreasing the essential tremor after propranolol and theophylline treatment.
