We studied the oncogenic action of neonatal streptozotocin (STZ) treatment in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY) for 12 months. Two-day-old male neonates were intraperitoneally injected with STZ of which doses were 37.5-75.0 mg/kg for SHR and 100.0-150.0 mg/kg for WKY. The 12-month survival rate was 16 of 22 (73%) in SHR and 10 of 14 (71%) in WKY, respectively. The incidence of tumors in STZ-treated SHR was 27% in liver, 14% in kidney and 5% in liver and kidney, being related to the dose of STZ given, namely, 25% in 37.5 mg/kg, 50% in 50.0 or 62.5 mg/kg and 75% in 75.0 mg/kg. In STZ-treated WKY which survived 12 months, all had tumors, namely, 70% in liver, 20% in kidney and 10% in liver and kidney. Histological features of liver and kidney tumors were characteristic of hepatoma and nephroblastoma, respectively. Islet cell tumor was evident in 4 of 10 (40%) in SHR treated with lower doses of STZ (less than or equal to 50 mg/kg) but not in SHR and WKY treated with higher doses (62.5-150.0 mg/kg). The present study indicates that neonatal STZ treatment has the oncogenic action on liver, kidney and pancreatic islet.
Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by familial mutations in some of the genes responsible for DNA mismatch repair. Mutations in the MLH1, MSH2, and MSH6 genes have been documented in this disorder, but there have been limited and conflicting data about the role of another mismatch repair gene, PMS2. It has recently been suggested that mutations in the PMS2 gene do not cause an autosomal dominant disorder. In addition, mutations in each of these 4 mismatch repair genes have been shown to cause an autosomal recessive cancer syndrome in children that is distinct from hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. We reviewed a cohort of patients for evidence of an autosomal dominant disorder caused by a mutation in the PMS2 gene.
A cohort of tumor samples from patients with features suggestive of HNPCC was tested for microsatellite instability, the molecular hallmark of HNPCC, and exclusive loss of expression of the PMS2 gene in tumor tissue.
A kindred was identified with autosomal dominant HNPCC due to a familial loss-of-function mutation in the PMS2 gene. This is the first description of such a kindred.
Mutations in the PMS2 gene can, like mutations in other mismatch repair genes, cause both autosomal dominant HNPCC in adults and an autosomal recessive cancer syndrome in children.
Catalepsy of animals represents a condition of akinesia and high rigidity of muscles. Catalepsy is a model for Parkinson's disease. The activity of spiny projection neurons in the striatum is correlated with different groups of muscles in rats or primates. Burst activity is a typical characteristic of spiny projection neurons in the state of Parkinson's disease. Rats were treated with 0.5 mg/kg haloperidol to induce a cataleptic state for 180 s. Spiny projection neuronal activity in striatum was measured to detect changes in spike frequency. Triggers were set manually when the rats increased their muscle tone superimposed on the already existing tetanus of the forelimb muscles. The results showed a clear correlation of the occurring triggers and the burst activity in the striatum. During such a burst event, rats did not move but showed this typical superimposed muscle tetanus. A possible explanation is that the intention to move is encoded in the burst activity of spiny projection neurons in the striatum while the execution of the movement is blocked. But also bursts that are not correlated with the short-term superimposed muscle tetanus occurred.
In humans, the aldehyde dehydrogenase superfamily consists of 19 isoenzymes which mostly catalyze the NAD(P)(+)-dependent oxidation of aldehydes. Many of these isoenzymes have overlapping substrate specificities and therefore their potential physiological functions may overlap. Thus the development of new isoenzyme-selective probes would be able to better delineate the function of a single isoenzyme and its individual contribution to the metabolism of a particular substrate. This specific study was designed to find a novel modulator of ALDH2, a mitochondrial ALDH isoenzyme most well-known for its role in acetaldehyde oxidation. 53 compounds were initially identified to modulate the activity of ALDH2 by a high-throughput esterase screen from a library of 63,000 compounds. Of these initial 53 compounds, 12 were found to also modulate the oxidation of propionaldehyde by ALDH2. Single concentration measurements at 10μM compound were performed using ALDH1A1, ALDH1A2, ALDH1A3, ALDH2, ALDH1B1, ALDH3A1, ALDH4A1, and/or ALDH5A1 to determine the selectivity of these 12 compounds toward ALDH2. Four of the twelve compounds shared an aromatic lactone structure and were found to be potent inhibitors of the ALDH1/2 isoenzymes, but have no inhibitory effect on ALDH3A1, ALDH4A1 or ALDH5A1. Two of the aromatic lactones show selectivity within the ALDH1/2 class, and one appears to be selective for ALDH2 compared to all other isoenzymes tested.
The present study was designed to evaluate the effects of tyrosol, a phenolic compound, on the activities of key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism in the control and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Diabetes mellitus was induced in rats by a single intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (40 mg/kg body weight). Experimental rats were administered tyrosol 1 ml intra gastrically at the doses of 5, 10 and 20mg/kg body weight and glibenclamide 1 ml at a dose of 600 μg/kg body weight once a day for 45 days. At the end of the experimental period, diabetic control rats exhibited significant (p<0.05) increase in plasma glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin with significant (p<0.05) decrease in plasma insulin, total hemoglobin and body weight. The activities of key enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism such as phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and glucose-6-phosphatase were significantly (p<0.05) increased and the activities of hexokinase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase were significantly (p<0.05) decreased in the liver and kidney of diabetic control rats. Further, antioxidants were lowered in diabetic control rats. A significant (p<0.05) decline in glycogen level in the liver and muscle and glycogen synthase activity in the liver and a significant (p<0.05) increase in the activity of liver glycogen phosphorylase were observed in diabetic control rats compared to normal control rats. Oral administration of tyrosol to diabetic rats reversed all the above mentioned biochemical parameters to near normal in a dose dependent manner. Tyrosol at a dose of 20mg/kg body weight showed the highest significant effect than the other two doses. Immunohistochemical staining of pancreas revealed that tyrosol treated diabetic rats showed increased insulin immunoreactive β-cells, which confirmed the biochemical findings. The observed results were compared with glibenclamide, a standard oral hypoglycemic drug. The results of the present study suggest that tyrosol decreases hyperglycemia, by its antioxidant effect.
The chemical warfare agent analog, 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide, known as 'half-mustard gas' (HMG), is less toxic and less of an environmental hazard than the full molecule and has been shown to produce an acute lung injury in rats when instilled via intrapulmonary injection. This injury is characterized by massive, localized hemorrhage and edema into the alveolar compartment and can be quantitated by measuring extravasation of (125)I-bovine serum albumin into the extravascular compartment. Employing this rat model of HMG-induced lung injury, we observed significant attenuation of the pulmonary injury when experimental animals were complement or neutrophil depleted prior to HMG challenge. Significant protection also was provided by the use of antioxidants such as catalase, dimethyl sulfoxide, dimethyl thiourea, resveratrol and N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC). The last compound showed protection from lung injury as high as 70% and was still effective even when given up to 90 min after exposure of the lungs to HMG. These data suggest that acute lung injury caused by exposure to HMG may be related partially to complement mediated pathways and the generation by neutrophils of toxic oxygen species The data indicate that NAC is an effective antidote against HMG-induced acute lung injury in the rat.
Convulsions induced by the combination of enoxacin, a new antimicrobial, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs including nimesulide, ketoprofen, pranoprofen and loxoprofen sodium, were investigated in mice. The oral administration of nimesulide alone induced clonic convulsions at more than 300 mg/kg. The oral administration of ketoprofen, pranoprofen or loxoprofen sodium induced no convulsion up to 1000 mg/kg, 500 mg/kg and 600 mg/kg, respectively, and that of enoxacin induced no convulsion at more than 5000 mg/kg. The combination of nimesulide at 200 mg/kg and enoxacin at 400 mg/kg induced no convulsion. In contrast, the combination of enoxacin at 100 mg/kg and either ketoprofen at 125 mg/kg or pranoprofen at 500 mg/kg induced clonic convulsions, while that of enoxacin at 400 mg/kg and loxoprofen sodium at 600 mg/kg induced no convulsion. These results suggest that the combination of nimesulide and enoxacin may possibly induce few or less convulsions in the clinical setting.
A patient who developed acute catatonia during benzodiazepine withdrawal is discussed. The case prompted us to review the literature on the role of benzodiazepines in the treatment of acute catatonia. Only retrospective and open studies were found which indicate that benzodiazepines do have a beneficial effect. Lorazepam is the most widely studied benzodiazepine and at present is the best treatment option. In the specific case of acute catatonia brought on by benzodiazepine withdrawal the recommended dosage is the same as for acute catatonia caused by something other than benzodiazepine withdrawal.
Peptide YY (PYY) has been implicated in the control of food intake through functional studies in rodents and humans. To investigate whether genetic alterations within this gene result in abnormal weight in humans, we sequenced its coding exons and splice sites in a large cohort of extremely obese [n = 379; average body mass index (BMI), 49.0 kg/m2] and lean (n = 378; average BMI, 19.5 kg/m2) individuals. In total, three rare non-synonymous variants were identified, only one of which, PYY Q62P, exhibited familial segregation with body mass. Through serendipity, previous studies based on cell culture revealed this precise variant to have altered receptor-binding selectivity in vitro. We further show, using mouse peptide injection experiments, that while the wild-type PYY peptide reduces food intake, the mutant PYY 62P had an insignificant effect in reducing food intake in vivo. Taken together, these results are the first to support that rare sequence variants within PYY can influence human susceptibility to obesity.
We previously reported that melatonin prevents neuronal cell death in ischemic brain injury through the activation of Akt and the inhibition of apoptotic cell death. We investigated whether melatonin inhibits the apoptotic signal through the activation of a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and p70S6 kinase and its downstream target, S6 phosphorylation. It is known that mTOR is a downstream target of Akt and a central regulator of protein synthesis, cell growth, and cell cycle progression. Adult male rats were treated with melatonin (5mg/kg) or vehicle prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Brains were collected at 24h after MCAO and infarct volumes were analyzed. We confirmed that melatonin significantly reduces infarct volume and decreases the number of TUNEL-positive cells in the cerebral cortex. Brain injury induced a decrease in phospho-mTOR and phospho-p70S6 kinase. Melatonin prevented the injury-induced decrease in Akt activation and phosphorylation of mTOR and p70S6 kinases, and the subsequent decrease in S6 phosphorylation. Our results suggest that melatonin prevents cell death resulting from ischemic brain injury and that its neuroprotective effects are mediated by preventing the injury-induced decrease of mTOR and p70S6 kinase phosphorylation.
We report a case of cranial dystonia related to the administration of ranitidine. The symptoms started shortly after institution of treatment, resolved after discontinuation, and recurred upon repeat administration of the drug. Although there have been a few reports of abnormal involuntary movements related to other histamine2 antagonists, this is only the second reported instance due to ranitidine and the first reported instance of dystonia related to the drug. The pathophysiology of this effect is unclear, but a central cholinergic effect of this agent may be a contributing factor.
This is to present reversible inferior colliculus lesions in metronidazole-induced encephalopathy, to focus on the diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) imaging.
From November 2005 to September 2007, 8 patients (5 men and 3 women) were diagnosed as having metronidazole-induced encephalopathy (age range; 43-78 years). They had been taking metronidazole (total dosage, 45-120 g; duration, 30 days to 2 months) to treat the infection in various organs. Initial brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were obtained after the hospitalization, including DWI (8/8), apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) map (4/8), FLAIR (7/8), and T2-weighted image (8/8). Follow-up MRIs were performed on 5 patients from third to 14th days after discontinuation of metronidazole administration. Findings of initial and follow-up MRIs were retrospectively evaluated by 2 neuroradiologists by consensus, to analyze the presence of abnormal signal intensities, their locations, and signal changes on follow-up images.
Initial MRIs showed abnormal high signal intensities on DWI and FLAIR (or T2-weighted image) at the dentate nucleus (8/8), inferior colliculus (6/8), corpus callosum (2/8), pons (2/8), medulla (1/8), and bilateral cerebral white matter (1/8). High-signal intensity lesions on DWI tended to show low signal intensity on ADC map (3/4), but in one patient, high signal intensity was shown at bilateral dentate nuclei on not only DWI but also ADC map. All the lesions in dentate, inferior colliculus, pons, and medullas had been resolved completely on follow-up MRIs in 5 patients, but in 1 patient of them, corpus callosal lesion persisted.
Reversible inferior colliculus lesions could be considered as the characteristic for metronidazole-induced encephalopathy, next to the dentate nucleus involvement.
The possible effectiveness of resveratrol, a polyphenol present in different plants comprising berries, grapes and peanuts, on the prevention of doxorubicin-induced cardiac toxicity and fibrosis was investigated. Forty adult male Wistar albino rats were divided into four groups. Group I received normal saline, group II gavaged with resveratrol (20 mg/kg, daily for 4 weeks), group III received doxorubicin (2.5 mg/kg i.p. in six injections for 2 weeks; accumulative dose of 15 mg/kg), and group IV received doxorubicin + resveratrol (starting resveratrol intake 2 weeks before doxorubicin administration). Resveratrol significantly alleviated the increase in left ventricular lipid peroxidation, hydroxyproline, and tumor necrosis factor alpha levels as well as serum creatine kinase-myocardial band (CK-MB) activity and prevented the decrease in body and heart weights in doxorubicin-treated group. However, a marked protection against reduced glutathione content depletion and superoxide dismutase activity reduction was observed in the left ventricles of rats pretreated with resveratrol in combination with doxorubicin. Resveratrol also ameliorated the up-regulation of left ventricular caspase-3 and transforming growth factor-beta1 gene expression as well as left ventricular histopathological changes including necrosis and fibrosis induced by doxorubicin. Collectively, our results suggest that resveratrol provides a significant protection against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity and fibrosis in rats. Therefore, it may be used as a promising cardioprotective agent in patients treated with doxorubicin due to malignant diseases. So, further clinical trials are required to confirm these findings.
Brugada syndrome is one of the important causes of sudden cardiac death in young adults. The condition is associated with typical ECG changes in anteroseptal leads V1 and V2 that can be unmasked by various medications, electrolyte disturbances, and even by the febrile state in susceptible individuals. The case history is reported of a patient with atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation who developed Brugada-like ECG changes when treated with propafenone. He was mistakenly diagnosed as having acute myocardial infarction when he presented to the emergency room with acute precordial chest pain. Cardiac catheterisation revealed normal coronary arteries and normal left ventricular systolic function. A review of previous ECGs showed the temporal relationship of ECG changes to initiation of propafenone a few years earlier. The ECG changes resolved with discontinuation of propafenone and re-emerged when he was rechallenged with oral propafenone. This case highlights the importance of recognising the characteristic ECG changes of Brugada syndrome and being able to differentiate them from those of acute myocardial infarction and other conditions manifesting with similar changes.
Clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most prevalent kidney cancer and its molecular pathogenesis is incompletely understood. Here we report an integrated molecular study of ccRCC in which ≥100 ccRCC cases were fully analyzed by whole-genome and/or whole-exome and RNA sequencing as well as by array-based gene expression, copy number and/or methylation analyses. We identified a full spectrum of genetic lesions and analyzed gene expression and DNA methylation signatures and determined their impact on tumor behavior. Defective VHL-mediated proteolysis was a common feature of ccRCC, which was caused not only by VHL inactivation but also by new hotspot TCEB1 mutations, which abolished Elongin C-VHL binding, leading to HIF accumulation. Other newly identified pathways and components recurrently mutated in ccRCC included PI3K-AKT-mTOR signaling, the KEAP1-NRF2-CUL3 apparatus, DNA methylation, p53-related pathways and mRNA processing. This integrated molecular analysis unmasked new correlations between DNA methylation, gene mutation and/or gene expression and copy number profiles, enabling the stratification of clinical risks for patients with ccRCC.
Concern about the risks of cardiovascular illness in women using combined oral contraceptives (OC) containing the progestagens desogestrel and gestodene prompted two studies of data from the UK General Practice Research Database. We compared the risks of certain cardiovascular illnesses in otherwise healthy women exposed to one of three OCs containing < 35 micrograms oestrogen plus levonorgestrel, desogestrel, or gestodene. In the first study, based on some 470 general practices, there were 15 cases of unexpected idiopathic cardiovascular death among 303,470 women who were current users of one of the study OCs. The estimated incidence rates were 8/184,536 (4.3 per 100,000) woman-years at risk for users of combined OCs containing levonorgestrel, 2/135,567 (1.5 per 100,000) for desogestrel users, and 5/105,201 (4.8 per 100,000) for gestodene users. The relative risk (RR) estimates were 0.4 (95% CI 0.1-2.1) and 1.4 (CI 0.5-4.5) for desogestrel and gestodene, respectively, compared with levonorgestrel. In the second study, derived from some 370 general practices, there were 80 cases of nonfatal venous thromboembolism (VTE) in a cohort of 238,130 otherwise healthy women. The incidence rates of VTE per 100,000 woman-years at risk were 16.1 for levonorgestrel users, 29.3 for desogestrel, and 28.1 for gestodene. The adjusted RR estimates from the cohort analysis were 1.9 (1.1-3.2) and 1.8 (1.0-3.2) for desogestrel and gestodene users, respectively, compared with users of levonorgestrel. In a nested case-control analysis the adjusted matched RR estimates were 2.2 (1.1-4.4) and 2.1 (1.0-4.4) for desogestrel and gestodene users, respectively, compared with users of levonorgestrel. The excess risk for nonfatal VTE associated with the new generation of combined OCs containing low-dose oestrogen and the progestagens desogestrel or gestodene compared with levonorgestrel is estimated to be 16 per 100,000 woman-years.
In two separate studies, researchers analyzed data from the UK General Practice Research Database to compare the cardiovascular risks in healthy women using one of three oral contraceptives (OCs) containing less than 35 mcg estrogen and levonorgestrel, desogestrel, or gestodene. The first study examined unexpected idiopathic cardiovascular deaths; 15 such deaths occurred. The mortality incidence rates were 4.3/100,000 for levonorgestrel OCs, 1.5/100,000 for desogestrel OCs, and 4.8/100,000 for gestodene OCs. When compared with levonorgestrel OCs (the older generation OCs), the relative risk adjusted (ARR) for age and calendar period was 0.4 for desogestrel OCs and 1.4 for gestodene OCs. The second study (cohort and case control analyses) looked at nonfatal venous thromboembolism (VTE). The crude incidence rate for nonfatal VTE was 16.1 for levonorgestrel OCs, 29.3 for desogestrel OCs, and 28.1 for gestodene OCs. When compared with levonorgestrel OCs, the ARR was 1.9 for desogestrel OCs and 1.8 for gestodene OCs. The case control analysis found that use of desogestrel OCs and gestodene OCs increased the risk of developing nonfatal VTE (all cases and controls, ARR = 2.2 and 2.1, respectively). The researchers estimated the excess risk for nonfatal VTE linked to the new generation of OCs to be 16/100,000 woman-years.
Peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) is a potentially devastating cause of heart failure that affects women late in pregnancy or in early puerperium. Recent findings showed that a 16 kDa fragment of prolactin may induce myocardial damage, and this offered a new option of treating PPCM by blocking prolactin with bromocriptine. We report on a 35-year-old woman with a twin gravidity who gave birth to two healthy boys at day 36/6 and developed a potentially fatal PPCM. Within 3 days since delivery she suffered from severe symptoms of heart failure (orthopnoea, pleural and pericardial effusion, reduced systolic function LVEF 15%). Bromocriptine 2.5 mg bid was added to standard heart failure therapy at day 6 after delivery, and within a week the patient recovered to NYHA functional class II. 2 months later she presented in a good state, NYHA class I, and MRI confirmed an LVEF of 60%. Balancing the potential side effects of bromocriptine against the very poor prognosis in severe PPCM our case supports the use of bromocriptine as a specific novel therapy.
Recent concern about the safety of combined oral contraceptives (OCs) with third-generation progestagens prompted an examination of data from a population-based case-control study (Leiden Thrombophilia Study). We compared the risk of deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) during use of the newest OCs, containing a third-generation progestagen, with the risk of "older" products. We also investigated the influence of family history of thrombosis, previous pregnancy, age, and the thrombogenic factor V Leiden mutation. We selected 126 women with DVT and 159 controls aged 15-49 (mean age 34.9) and premenopausal and found, as compared with non-users, the highest age-adjusted relative risks to be that for an OC containing desogestrel and 30 micrograms ethinyloestradiol (relative risk [RR] 8.7, 95% CI 3.9-19.3). We found lower relative risks for all other types of OC, ranging from 2.2 to 3.8. In a direct comparison, users of the desogestrel-containing oral contraceptive had a 2.5-fold higher risk (95% CI 1.2-5.2) than users of all other OC types combined. The relative risk for the desogestrel-containing OC was similar among women with and without a family history--ie, preferential prescription because of family history cannot explain our findings. Nor could the excess risk be explained by previous pregnancy, and it was highest in the youngest age categories, where we would expect most new users. The age-adjusted RR for the desogestrel-containing contraceptive was 9.2 (3.9-21.4) among non-carriers of the factor V Leiden mutation and 6.0 (1.9-19.0) among carriers of the mutation. This latter risk is superimposed on the 8-fold increased risk of venous thrombosis for carriers of the factor V Leiden mutation. The risk of carriers using the desogestrel-containing OC as compared with noncarrier non-users will therefore be increased almost 50-fold. Use of low-dose OCs with a third-generation progestagen carries a higher risk of DVT than the previous generation of OCs. The absolute risk of DVT associated with these OCs seems to be especially high among carriers of the factor V Leiden mutation and among women with a family history of thrombosis. However, the higher risk associated with OC with a third-generation progestagen compared with previous generations was also present in women without factor V Leiden and with no family history.
In the Netherlands, researchers compared data on 126 women with deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) with data on 159 premenopausal women aged 15-49 to examine the risk of DVT during use of oral contraceptives (OCs) containing a third generation progestogen as well as the influence of the thrombogenic factor V Leiden mutation, family history of thrombosis, age, and previous pregnancy. The desogestrel-containing monophasic OC had the highest relative risk for DVT (8.7 vs. 2.2-3.8). There were too few women using OCs containing gestodene or norgestimate to draw substantial conclusions. The OC with 30 mcg ethinyl estradiol (E2) and desogestrel increased the risk of DVT 2.2 times when compared with the levonorgestrel-containing OC with the same amount of E2. When compared with all other OCs, desogestrel-containing OCs had a 2.5 higher risk. When the researchers compared carriers of the factor V Leiden mutation with non-carriers, the risk of DVT increased about 50 times among women using desogestrel-containing OCs. The age-adjusted relative risk of DVT for desogestrel-containing OCs was 7.2. Even though a positive family history of DVT and factor V Leiden mutation enhanced the effect of desogestrel-containing Ocs, neither could account for all the excess risk of the desogestrel-containing OC since the risk of DVT increased in women with and without a family history of DVT and those with and without factor V Leiden. These findings suggest that the OCs containing a third-generation progestogen (i.e., desogestrel) contribute to a reverse of the gains achieved in reducing the thrombotic risk by decreasing the dose of E2.
Previous studies have indicated that the hyperlipidemia and gene expression changes induced by a short-term high-fat diet (HFD) are mediated through the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator (PGC)-1beta, and that in vitro both PGC-1beta and PGC -1alpha increase PPARalpha-mediated transcriptional activities. Here, we examined the in vivo effects of these two coactivators in potentiating the lipid lowering properties of the PPARalpha agonist Wy14,643 (Wy).
C57BL/6 mice were fed chow or HFD and transduced with adenoviruses encoding PGC-1alpha or PGC-1beta. On chow, hepatic PGC-1beta overexpression caused severe combined hyperlipidemia including elevated plasma apolipoprotein B levels. Hepatic triglyceride secretion, DGAT1, and FAT/CD36 expression were increased whereas PPARalpha and hepatic lipase mRNA levels were reduced. PGC-1beta overexpression blunted Wy-mediated changes in expression levels of PPARalpha and downstream genes. Furthermore, PGC-1beta did not potentiate Wy-stimulated fatty acid oxidation in primary hepatocytes. PGC-1beta and PGC-1alpha overexpression did not alter SREBP-1c, SREBP-1c target gene expression, nor hepatic triglyceride content. On HFD, PGC-1beta overexpression decreased hepatic SREBP-1c, yet increased FAS and ACCalpha mRNA and plasma triglyceride levels.
Hepatic PGC-1beta overexpression caused combined hyperlipidemia independent of SREBP-1c activation. Hepatic PGC-1beta overexpression reduced the potentially beneficial effects of PPARalpha activation on gene expression. Thus, inhibition of hepatic PGC-1beta may provide a therapy for treating combined hyperlipidemia.
Recurrent pancreatitis is a common complication of severe hypertriglyceridaemia in patients with various gene mutations in lipoprotein lipase (LPL) or apolipoprotein CII. However, the exact pathogenetic mechanism has not yet been defined.
Susceptibility to pancreatitis in LPL-deficient mice was compared with that of wild-type mice after intraperitoneal injections of caerulein by determination of amylase release and pancreatic pathological scores. The effect of chylomicrons and fatty acids on enzyme release, Ca(2+) signalling and cell injury in isolated pancreatic acinar cells from wild-type and LPL-deficient mice was investigated.
Caerulein induced higher levels of serum amylase and more severe inflammation in the pancreas of LPL-deficient mice than in wild-type mice. Addition of free fatty acids or chylomicrons to isolated pancreatic acinar cells led to the release of amylase and caused cell injury at higher concentrations. The effect of chylomicrons was partially blocked by orlistat, an inhibitor of pancreatic lipase. These results suggest that increased concentrations of free fatty acids from chylomicron hydrolysis by pancreatic lipase can induce acinar cell injury. Surprisingly, pancreatic lipase, whether in its active or inactive state could act like an agonist by inducing amylase secretion without cell injury. It caused an increase in cGMP levels and conversion of cell-damaging sustained elevations of [Ca(2+)] to normal Ca(2+) oscillations.
LPL-deficient mice with severe hypertriglyceridaemia display enhanced susceptibility to acute pancreatitis. High levels of chylomicrons and free fatty acids result in pancreatic cell injury. Pancreatic lipase has a dual effect: generating free fatty acids from chylomicrons and preventing Ca(2+) overload in pancreatic acinar cells.
The detrimental impact of opioid agonist on the clinical management of inflammatory diseases remains elusive. Given the anti-inflammatory properties of the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) agonists at the intestinal barrier, we hypothesised that MOR activation might also dampen acute hepatic inflammation and cell death-major determinants in the pathogenesis of liver diseases.
The expression of MOR in liver biopsy specimens and peripheral blood mononuclear cells of untreated patients with chronic hepatitis C virus infection and controls, primary hepatocytes and cell lines was determined by quantitative PCR, immunoblotting and/or immunohistochemistry. The effects of peripheral MOR agonist (d-Ala2,NMe-Phe4,Gly5-ol (DAMGO)) and/or antagonist (naloxone methiodide) were explored in two models of acute hepatitis in mice. MOR-deficient mice were used to evaluate the essential regulatory role of MOR during carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced hepatitis. The role of DAMGO in cell death was investigated using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labelling (TUNEL) analysis and quantification of lactate dehydrogenase release.
The key role of MOR in the prevention of acute hepatic inflammation and cell death in vivo and in vitro is reported. Whereas MOR gene expression increased transiently in the model of acute liver injury and TNFalpha-treated HepG2 cells, an impaired expression of MOR mRNA in human chronic hepatitis C samples was found. Furthermore, preventive administration of the selective MOR agonist DAMGO enhanced hepatoprotective-signalling pathways in vivo that were blocked by using naloxone methiodide. Consistently, genetic and pharmacological inhibition of MOR enhanced the severity associated with experimental hepatotoxin-induced hepatitis. Finally, treatment with DAMGO was shown to prevent cell death in vitro in HepG2 cells in a MOR-dependent manner and to prevent concanavalin A- and CCl(4)-induced cell death in vivo, providing a possible explanation for the anti-inflammatory role of MOR activation in the liver.
The results indicate that MOR agonists may prevent acute hepatitis and hold promising therapeutic use to maintain remission in both chronic inflammatory bowel and liver diseases.
It is hypothesized that ligand-independent activation of the androgen receptor is one of the mechanisms implicated in tumour progression. However, supportive evidence is limited to the effect of HER-2/neu that stimulates prostate cancer progression through activation of the androgen receptor. In the present study, we have asked whether the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6), which is known to stimulate androgen receptor activity and expression of its downstream target genes, may also induce growth of androgen-sensitive cells. We have found that IL-6 differentially regulates proliferation of LAPC-4 and MDA PCa 2b cells. In MDA PCa 2b cells, growth stimulation by IL-6 was reversed by administration of either the non-steroidal anti-androgen bicalutamide or the inhibitor of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway PD98059. Neither cell line was found to express endogenous IL-6. Interestingly, the treatment of those prostate cancer cells did not increase phosphorylation of STAT3. The effect of IL-6 on stimulation of androgen receptor activity in MDA PCa 2b cells was lower than that of androgen, comparable with findings reported by other researchers. However, growth of MDA PCa 2b xenografts in castrated animals treated with IL-6 was similar to that in non-castrated animals. In addition, bicalutamide showed an inhibitory effect on IL-6-regulated growth in vivo. Taken together, data in the present study demonstrate that IL-6 may cause growth of androgen receptor-positive tumours in vitro and in vivo through activation of the androgen receptor.
A molecule, 6-methyl-6,11-dihydro-11-[(N,N-dimethylamino) acetyl]dibenzo[c,fl-[1,2,5]thiadiazepine 5,5-dioxide, (IM/P/3/4, CAS 128377-70-8), was identified in a screening program, which had the scope of finding compounds with antidepressive potential without the common sideeffects of existing antidepressive medication. IM/P/3/4 was found active a) in antagonizing apomorphine (16 mg/kg) and reserpine-induced hypothermia in mice; b) in potentiating yohimbine-induced lethality in mice; c) in reducing immobility of rats forced to swim and of mice suspended by the tail. IM/P/3/4 does not affect a) apomorphine-induced stereotypy; b) amphetamine-induced hypermotility; c) haloperidol-induced catalepsy and water-induced grooming and d) does not induce stereotypy or alter motor activity. The compound also a) reduced the beating of rat right heart atria only at a concentration of 3 x 10-4 mol/l; b) had weak anticholinergic activity; c) antagonized electroshock-induced convulsions and d) prevented indometacin-induced duodenal ulcers. IM/P/3/4 does not have good affinity for noradrenergic, serotonergic, dopaminergic, histaminergic or muscarinic receptors and does not displace imipramine, desipramine and mianserine from their binding sites. IM/P/3/4 increases 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid content and 3H-serotonin uptake in the hypothalamus. The present results suggest that IM/P/3/4 is a potential antidepressant with reduced side effects and with a mechanism of action which is different from that of other antidepressants.
To examine how the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) affects baroreflex regulation, reflex heart rate and renal nerve responses were recorded in anesthetized rats after bilateral injections of muscimol or bicuculline into the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). Blood pressure, heart rate, and renal nerve activity were increased by the GABA agonist muscimol and decreased by the GABA antagonist bicuculline. Control injections of the vehicle alone were ineffective. More importantly, all reflex responses later induced by infusing phenylephrine or sodium nitroprusside intravenously were reduced by muscimol. The magnitude of the reflex bradycardia and sympathoinhibition caused by phenylephrine, as well as that of the reflex tachycardia and sympathoexcitation caused by sodium nitroprusside, diminished after NTS injections of muscimol. By contrast, the same reflex responses tended to be enhanced after NTS injections of bicuculline, but most changes were not significant. If GABA acts on receptors located on second-order neurons in the NTS, then muscimol would inhibit those neurons, whereas bicuculline would prevent endogenous GABA from reaching them. Thus muscimol would reduce reflex responsiveness by inhibiting all second-order neurons, whereas bicuculline would enhance it by protecting the same neurons from inhibition by endogenous GABA.
Vascular access failure is a major cause of morbidity, and increased costs in patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis. Stenosis, the most common underlying cause of loss of patency in failed grafts, appears to be caused by an obstructing mass of tissue containing proliferating smooth muscle cells and their associated extracellular matrix.
To determine whether this process was amenable to pharmacologic intervention and/or prevention, we obtained samples of the material occluding vascular accesses from 7 patients undergoing revision surgery in order to characterize the cells contributing to the stenosis. In all 7 patients the outgrowth contained predominantly smooth muscle-like cells admixed with fibroblasts, which produced a large amount of type IV and type I collagen.
Treatment with pentosan polysulfate inhibited cell proliferation and significantly reduced the accumulation of types I and type IV collagens. This was associated with increase in metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and a shift of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3 (TIMP-3) from the cell layer into the medium.
These data suggest that pentosan polysulfate (PPS) may have a favorable effect in patients with a polytetrafluoroethylene (PFTE) graft by decreasing cell proliferation and collagen deposition.
