A 34-year-old woman presented to the out-patient clinic with angioedema and type II hereditary angioedema was confirmed immunologically. She also volunteered she had never had a menstrual period and physical examination identified several features of Turner's syndrome. A mosaic karyotype with XY and XO was found on chromosomal analysis and gonadectomy was performed in view of the high risk of gonadoblastoma. After commencing oestrogen at physiological replacement doses, the patient experienced a marked deterioration in both the severity and frequency of angioedema attacks. Coexistence of hereditary angioedema and Turner's syndrome has not previously been reported and this case highlights the detrimental C1 inhibitor level lowering effect of oestrogen in hereditary angioedema.
Acute self-limited liver disease has been associated with tetracycline use. However, severe prolonged cholestatic hepatitis and bile duct paucity have not been previously attributed to tetracyclines. Hepatitis, characterized by prolonged jaundice, severe pruritus, and moderate increased transaminase values, occurred within 2 months of ingesting tetracyclines in two female patients. Serum bilirubin levels normalized 12 and 34 months after tetracycline ingestion. Liver histology revealed bile duct paucity, severe cholestasis, and minimal necrosis and inflammation. Tetracyclines may infrequently induce bile duct paucity and prolonged, severe, and reversible cholestasis.
Although peripheral nerve function is strongly dependent on energy stores, the role of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, which drives ATP synthesis, in peripheral pain mechanisms, has not been examined. In models of HIV/AIDS therapy (dideoxycytidine), cancer chemotherapy (vincristine), and diabetes (streptozotocin)-induced neuropathy, inhibitors of mitochondrial electron transport chain complexes I, II, III, IV, and V significantly attenuated neuropathic pain-related behavior in rats. While inhibitors of all five complexes also attenuated tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced hyperalgesia, they had no effect on hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2 and epinephrine. Two competitive inhibitors of ATP-dependent mechanisms, adenosine 5'-(beta,gamma-imido) triphosphate and P1,P4-di(adenosine-5') tetraphosphate, attenuated dideoxycytidine, vincristine, and streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia. Neither of these inhibitors, however, affected tumor necrosis factor alpha, prostaglandin E2 or epinephrine hyperalgesia. These experiments demonstrate a role of the mitochondrial electron transport chain in neuropathic and some forms of inflammatory pain. The contribution of the mitochondrial electron transport chain in neuropathic pain is ATP dependent.
A woman had cutaneous, mucosal, and possible visceral leishmaniasis simultaneously. Many of her cutaneous lesions consisted of boggy indurations rather than customary papules, nodules, or ulcers. This unusual case was finally cured after four courses of miltefosine, one course of antimony, and two courses of Ambisome.
Antiviral prophylaxis is recommended for the control of institutional influenza A outbreaks. In long-term-care institutions other than nursing homes, neither the seriousness of influenza nor the risks and benefits of antiviral prophylaxis is clearly understood. We studied the severity of illness due to influenza among adults residing in a center for the developmentally disabled and assessed adverse reactions to amantadine and oseltamivir prophylaxis.
Data were collected from the charts of consenting residents. Complications of upper respiratory tract illness were recorded. Potential adverse events were documented during amantadine and oseltamivir therapy, and during a baseline period with neither medication.
The median age of the 287 participants was 46.4 years. Only 15 (5%) were older than 65 years, and 69 (24%) had chronic underlying medical illness placing them at high risk for influenza. Of the 122 residents with an upper respiratory tract infection, 16 (13%) developed pneumonia, 12 (9.8%) were hospitalized, and 5 (4%) died. Twenty-eight (25%) of 112 residents had an adverse neurologic event while receiving amantadine prophylaxis, compared with 3 (2.7%) receiving no antiviral medication and 5 (4.5%) receiving oseltamivir (P < .001). Sixteen percent of the residents discontinued amantadine due to adverse events; in contrast, adverse events were identified in 2.9% of the residents prescribed oseltamivir, and none discontinued therapy.
Viral respiratory tract infections are associated with a high risk of complications in this population. The rate of adverse neurologic events associated with amantadine was significantly higher than that associated with oseltamivir.
We used two strains of streptomycin-susceptible enterococci (MIC, 64 and 128 micrograms of streptomycin per ml, respectively) isolated from patients with infective endocarditis. When combined with penicillin, 20 micrograms of streptomycin per ml killed both strains synergistically in vitro whereas combinations of 5 and 10 micrograms of streptomycin per ml did not act synergistically against either strain. By using the rabbit model of enterococcal experimental endocarditis, animals were treated for 3 days with procaine penicillin (1.2 X 10(6) U intramuscularly three times daily) together with low-dose streptomycin (3.5 mg/kg) or high-dose streptomycin (10 mg/kg) intramuscularly three times daily. The peak concentrations of streptomycin in serum at 0.5 h were 9.2 and 26.8 micrograms/ml in the low- or high-dose group, respectively. When combined with procaine penicillin, both dosages of streptomycin were more effective (P less than 0.01) than procaine penicillin alone for the treatment of enterococcal experimental endocarditis. There was no significant difference in the efficacy of procaine penicillin plus low-dose streptomycin versus procaine penicillin plus high-dose streptomycin therapy of enterococcal experimental endocarditis.
Cyproterone acetate combined with ethinyl estradiol (CPA/EE) is licensed in the UK for the treatment of women with acne and hirsutism and is also a treatment option for polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Previous studies have demonstrated an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) associated with CPA/EE compared with conventional combined oral contraceptives (COCs). We believe the results of those studies may have been affected by residual confounding.
Using the General Practice Research Database we conducted a cohort analysis and case-control study nested within a population of women aged between 15 and 39 years with acne, hirsutism or PCOS to estimate the risk of VTE associated with CPA/EE.
The age-adjusted incidence rate ratio for CPA/EE versus conventional COCs was 2.20 [95% confidence interval (CI) 1.35-3.58]. Using as the reference group women who were not using oral contraception, had no recent pregnancy or menopausal symptoms, the case-control analysis gave an adjusted odds ratio (OR(adj)) of 7.44 (95% CI 3.67-15.08) for CPA/EE use compared with an OR(adj) of 2.58 (95% CI 1.60-4.18) for use of conventional COCs.
We have demonstrated an increased risk of VTE associated with the use of CPA/EE in women with acne, hirsutism or PCOS although residual confounding by indication cannot be excluded.
We tested an aminophylline loading-dose protocol in which asthmatic patients presenting to an emergency department were given a half (3 mg/kg) IV loading dose based on total body weight (TBW) if they had taken a short-acting or sustained-release theophylline preparation within 12 or 24 hours, respectively, prior to arrival: otherwise, a full (6 mg/kg) loading dose was administered. Of the 28 patients given a full loading dose, 20 (71.4%) achieved a postload therapeutic level (10 to 20 micrograms/mL), and none developed a toxic level (greater than 20 micrograms/mL). Although 34 (60.7%) of 56 patients given a half loading dose attained a postload therapeutic level, 13 patients (23.2%) entered the toxic range. We were able to predict that loading doses of 7.6 mg/kg and 3.8 mg/kg based on ideal body weight (IBW) would have yielded very similar results. The mean change in theophylline level per mg/kg TBW of administered aminophylline was 2.01 micrograms/mL. When calculated on the basis of IBW, the mean change in theophylline level was 1.58 micrograms/mL. Evaluation of the change in theophylline level resulting from aminophylline loading doses based on either TBW or IBW revealed that each dosing method produced changes in blood level with similar variability that were not independent of obesity, indicating that neither dosing method is superior to the other. Thus, patients who report not having taken a theophylline preparation within the above time limits can be given a full aminophylline loading dose of either 6 mg/kg based on TBW or 7.6 mg/kg based on IBW. Other patients, however, require a preload blood level determination to optimize therapy and avoid toxic levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
There exists a close relationship between ulcerative colitis and various hepatic disorders. The present study was aimed to evaluate the hepatocellular damage in experimental colitis model. Ulcerative colitis was induced in Swiss mice by cyclic treatment with 3% w/v dextran sulfate sodium in drinking water. The severity of colitis was assessed on the basis of disease activity index and colon histology. The effect of ulcerative colitis on the liver was assessed using various biochemical parameters, histological evaluation, sirius red staining, immunohistochemical staining with peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ, 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine and placental glutathione S-transferase, comet assay (alkaline and modified), Terminal Deoxynucleotidyl Transferase-mediated dUTP Nick End Labeling assay and western blot analysis to detect the protein expression of nuclear factor kappa B, cyclooxygenase-2, nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 and NADPH: quinone oxidoreductase-1. Dextran sulfate sodium induced severe colitis in mice as evident from an elevated disease activity index and histological abnormalities. Ulcerative colitis increased the permeability of colon as apparent from a significant reduction in the expression of tight junction protein, occludin. Further, the bacterial translocation assay as well as the analysis of lipopolysaccharide level revealed the existence of various bacterial species in the liver of ulcerative colitis-induced mice. There was a significant increase in the plasma alanine and aspartate transaminases and liver triglyceride levels, expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ, inflammatory markers, oxidative stress, fibrosis, oxidative DNA damage and apoptosis in the liver of mice. Moreover, there was an increase in the expression of nuclear factor kappa B and cyclooxygenase-2 and a reduction in the expression of nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 and NADPH: quinone oxidoreductase-1 in the liver of severe ulcerative colitis-induced mice. The results of the present study provide evidence that ulcerative colitis is accompanied with hepatic damage in mice.
The case report of the corticosteroid complication in an eight-year-old girl with immune thrombocytopenic purpura is presented. She was treated with high dosage corticosteroids and incurred severe side effects, including bone marrow depression, renal magnesium stones, osteoporosis, depression of affect, convulsions with cerebral damage and adrenal suppression.
A case of milk-alkali syndrome is described in a 34-year-old man taking an over-the-counter antacid preparation for gastroesophageal reflux. A Tc-99m MDP bone scan performed in the initial investigation of the hypercalcemia was markedly abnormal with a "metabolic" pattern of tracer uptake similar to that seen in hyperparathyroidism and humoral hypercalcemia. Following withdrawal of the antacid and calcium, the bone scan appearance returned to normal, as did the biochemical markers of his disease.
A previous report from this institution demonstrated significant improvement of caloric intake and survival in patients with alcoholic hepatitis and hepatic encephalopathy given prednisolone when compared with placebo. The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of prednisolone with a regimen of 1600 calories per day without prednisolone. Fourteen patients with alcoholic hepatitis and encephalopathy were studied. All 7 on caloric supplementation and 2 of 7 given prednisolone died (p less than 0.01). These results suggest that prednisolone therapy reduces the mortality of those patients with alcoholic hepatitis and hepatic encephalopathy. This effect does not appear to be related to total caloric intake.
Evaluation of relationships between serum antipsychotic drug concentrations and clinical response may provide valuable information for rational dosage adjustments. For risperidone, this relationship has been little investigated to date.
To assess the relationship between plasma concentrations of risperidone and its active 9-hydroxy-metabolite (9-OH-risperidone) and clinical response in schizophrenic patients who experienced an acute exacerbation of the disorder.
Forty-two patients (30 males, 12 females, age 24-60 years) were given risperidone at dosages ranging from 4 to 9 mg/day for 6 weeks. The design of the study was open and risperidone dosage could be adjusted individually according to clinical response. Steady-state plasma concentrations of risperidone and its 9-hydroxymetabolite were measured after 4 and 6 weeks using a specific HPLC assay. Psychopathological state was assessed at baseline and at weeks 2, 4, and 6 by means of the positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS), and patients were considered responders if they showed a greater than 20% reduction in total PANSS score at final evaluation compared with baseline.
Mean plasma concentrations of risperidone, 9-OH-risperidone, and active moiety (sum of risperidone and 9-OH-risperidone concentrations) did not differ between responders (n = 28) and non-responders (n = 14). No correlation between plasma levels and percent decrease in total PANSS score was found for risperidone (rs = -0.187, NS), 9-OH-risperidone (rs = 0.246, NS), and active moiety (rs = 0.249, NS). Active moiety concentrations in plasma were higher (P < 0.001) in patients developing clinically significant parkinsonian symptoms (n = 7) than in those with minimal (n = 7) or no drug-induced parkinsonism (n = 28).
In chronic schizophrenic patients experiencing an acute exacerbation of the disorder, plasma levels of risperidone and its active metabolite correlate with the occurrence of parkinsonian side effects, whereas no significant correlation appears to exist with the degree of clinical improvement.
Hepatic Sinusoidal Obstruction Syndrome (HSOS), the new name given to veno-occlusive disease (VOD) of the liver, is a well-known complication of high-dose chemotherapy employed with hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, but it has rarely been observed in children who receive conventional chemotherapy. HSOS following standard chemotherapy has been reported in patients receiving vincristine, actinomycin D, and cyclophosphamide for the treatment of Wilms tumor and more rarely rhabdomyosarcoma. We report a 14-year-old boy with high risk medulloblastoma treated with craniospinal radiation followed by chemotherapy, who experienced severe HSOS after only one course of chemotherapy including carboplatin, vincristine, and cyclophosphamide. To our knowledge, this is the second report of HSOS after standard dose chemotherapy for brain tumor in childhood.
Intravenous administration of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) prevented in a dose-dependent manner reserpine-induced gastric mucosal damage, but failed to affect the lesions produced by ethanol administration. In pylorus-ligated rats, CGRP significantly reduced gastric volume, total acid and peptic activity output as well as ulcer formation. These protective effects of CGRP were not present when rats were pretreated with cysteamine. Our data suggest that CGRP exerts its antisecretory and antiulcer activity, at least in part, by interfering with somatostatin transmission.
Hepatic arterial chemotherapy for liver metastases of colorectal cancer is still under discussion. Mainly because of the technical complications of this mode of treatment and the lack of a survival benefit in randomized studies. We performed an analysis of hepatic arterial 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) chemotherapy in 145 consecutive patients treated at a single institution.
One hundred forty-five patients with inoperable liver metastases from colorectal cancer were included. 5-FU, 1000 mg/m2/day continuous infusion for five days every three weeks, was delivered in the hepatic artery by percutaneous catheter or arterial access device.
The response rate was 34% for all patients, 40% in patients with extrahepatic disease, and 15% in patients with i.v. 5-FU-based pretreatment. TTP and OS for all patients were 7.5 and 14.3 months, respectively. In patients with extrahepatic disease or i.v. 5-FU-based pretreatment, OS was significantly shorter compared to patients without extrahepatic disease or 5-FU-based pretreatment (9.7 vs. 19.3 months and 10.1 vs. 17.4 months, respectively), forty-seven percent of patients stopped treatment because of a complication. Complications most often seen in patients with arterial ports were hepatic artery thrombosis (48%) and dislocation of the catheter (22%).
The results of our analysis are in line with previous phase III studies. Extrahepatic disease and i.v. 5-FU-based pretreatment were prognostic for reduced OS. The complication rate of hepatic arterial delivery was worrisome. although, no negative impact on survival could be established. There is a strong need for improvement of hepatic arterial delivery methods before further evaluation of hepatic arterial
To compare olanzapine and risperidone in the treatment of nonpsychotic acute manic or mixed episodes.
This 3-week, randomized, controlled, double-blind, parallel multicenter study compared olanzapine (5-20 mg/day; N = 165) and risperidone (1-6 mg/day; N = 164) among hospital inpatients who met DSM-IV criteria for bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed episode, without psychotic features. The study was conducted at 30 sites in the United States between July 2001 and June 2002. The primary outcome measure was the mean change in the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) total score. Secondary measures included the 21-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D-21), the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), the Clinical Global Impressions-Bipolar Version (CGI-BP) severity of illness scale, and the Cognitive Test for Delirium (CTD). Quality of life (Short Form Health Survey [SF-12]), psychological well-being (Psychological General Well-Being [PGWB] inventory), and sexual functioning were also compared.
Mean modal doses for olanzapine and risperidone were 14.7 mg/day and 3.9 mg/day, respectively. Between treatments, there was no difference in mean change in the YMRS, MADRS, CTD, PGWB, or SF-12 measures or in remission or response rates. Significantly more olanzapine-treated patients completed the study compared with risperidone patients (78.7% vs. 67.0%; p = .019). Olanzapine-treated patients had greater HAM-D-21 (p = .040) and CGI-BP (p = .026) score improvement across the study. Olanzapine-treated patients experienced greater elevations in liver function enzymes (p < .05) and increase in weight (2.5 kg vs. 1.6 kg; p = .004), while risperidone-treated patients were more likely to experience prolactin elevation (51.73 ng/mL vs. 8.23 ng/mL; p < .001) and sexual dysfunction (total score increase of 1.75 vs. 0.64; p = .049).
Both olanzapine and risperidone treatment yielded similar improvements in mania. The olanzapine group had significantly greater improvements in secondary measures of severity and depressive symptoms and better study completion rates but experienced more weight gain.
Clinical observations led to the assumption that there is an antihypertensive effect of bromazepam in patients suffering from mild benign hypertension. Because of this observation we studied the antihypertensive effect of bromazepam by means of a standardized simple submaximal ergometric load performed weekly over a 4-week period of observation. A control group of 68 hypertensive patients without any drug therapy but under active physical training combined with physiotherapy and medicinal baths showed only a slight decrease in systolic and diastolic blood pressure at rest (about 4%). Furthermore, the pulse frequency did not change. In contrast, there was a distinct and significant decrease in blood pressure at rest and during exercise after a 3-week period of additional treatment with bromazepam, especially in hypertensive patients. One group of 68 hypertensive patients receiving 9 mg bromazepam daily showed a mean reduction in blood pressure by 14.4% systolic and 12.7% diastolic at rest, and during exercise by 7.5% systolic and 6.8% diastolic. The heart remained practically unchanged. A somewhat slighter decrease of the blood pressure values was seen in an additional group of 31 hypertensive patients receiving 6 mg bromazepam per day and in a group of 30 normotensive patients receiving 9 mg bromazepam daily. The calculated indices such as the product of heart rate and mean systolic pressure and the tension time index in the groups receiving bromazepam pointed to a better economic work performance under reduced myocardial pressure effort and reduced oxygen demand on the myocardium. The possible action of bromazepam in reducing blood pressure will be discussed.
This study was designed to investigate the effects of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) inhibition with S-methylisothiourea (SMT) and L-N-(1-iminoethyl)-lysine (L-Nil) on the endotoxemia induced by intravenous lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 10 mg/kg) in conscious rats. Arterial pressure (AP), heart rate (HR), WBC, platelets, plasma nitrite/nitrate, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha), and biochemical factors were measured for 24 hours after LPS with or without iNOS inhibitors. RT-PCR was employed to determine the iNOS and endothelial NOS (eNOS) mRNA. Pathologic examinations of the liver and heart were performed. SMT and L-Nil improved the systemic hypotension and increased the HR after LPS. These agents attenuated the LPS-induced leukocytopenia and thrombocytopenia and the increase in nitrite/nitrate. However, iNOS inhibition aggravated the LPS-induced changes in TNF alpha, all biochemical factors, and the hepatic and cardiac tissue damage. The iNOS mRNA, but not the eNOS, was reduced. Our results in conscious rats indicate that iNOS inhibition enhances the organ dysfunction and tissue damage in sepsis. The discrepancy may be attributed to the method for evaluating the sepsis and the effects of anesthesia. Further investigation is required to ensure the effects of iNOS inhibition on sepsis before iNOS inhibitors can be applied in clinical cases with sepsis.
The function of glomerular podocytes is closely associated with the actin cytoskeleton. In this study, we studied the role of the small Rho-GTPase, Rac1, in actin organization in podocytes.
Conditionally immortalized mouse podocytes (MP) stably expressing nephrin or control plasmid were used.
In MP, Rac1 activity increased significantly at 1 week of differentiation. MP stably expressing nephrin showed Rac1 activity significantly higher and more sustained than vector-expressing control cells. Antibody-mediated cross-linking of nephrin also activated Rac1. Differentiated MP showed more distinct lamellipodia/cellular processes, as compared with undifferentiated cells, which was further augmented by nephrin expression. Transient transfection of constitutively active Rac1 markedly increased the number of lamellipodia/cellular processes in undifferentiated MP, while the Rac1 inhibitor caused actin cytoskeleton derangement in differentiating MP. In the rat model of puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis, RhoA activity was increased at Day 7 (at the peak of proteinuria), while Rac1 activity increased significantly only at Day 14, when the recovery process had started.
Rac1 is activated in differentiating MP and nephrin potentiates Rac1 activation. Rac1 likely contributes to lamellipodia formation in differentiating MP and may contribute to process formation in podocytes recovering from injuries.
Patients with the Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) have an increased risk of developing Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas (NHL). It is estimated that 8-27% of newly diagnosed NHL are associated with AIDS. The majority of these lymphomas are of intermediate or high grade histology. We retrospectively analyzed the clinical manifestations and response to different chemotherapy regimens in patients with AIDS NHL in the San Juan City and San Juan Veterans Administration Hospitals from 1990-1993. Eleven patients (10 M/1F) with an average age of 46 (range 31-68) were analyzed. 64% (7/11) of patients had a prior diagnosis of AIDS before the diagnosis of NHL. Pathology was diffuse large cell in 6, Burkitt's in 4 and immunoblastic in 1.73% of patients presented with Stage III/IV. Sites included gastrointestinal tract (2), skin/soft tissue (2), paranasal sinus (1), kidneys (1). The most common treatment regimen was the modified m-BACOD (64%). Complete response (CR) occurred in 46% (5/11) and partial response (PR) in 27% (3/11). 36% of patients developed opportunistic or bacterial infections during treatment. Median survival was 8 months. Two patients are long-time survivors at 24+, 29+ without evidence of NHL at present. This group of patients demonstrate the usual characteristics of NHL in AIDS patients and corroborate that conventional chemotherapy programs are only moderately effective in these patients. It is clear from this data and from other reports that further work will be required to ascertain optimal therapy for the patient with AIDS-related Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma.
Mycophenolic acid (MPA) is an immunosuppressive agent, more and more extensively used in transplantation, rheumatology and nephrology. In this review, we will analyze the molecular mechanisms of its action, including the newest insights, in particular the inhibition of lymphocytes and the induction of tolerogenic dendritic cells (DCs) and its direct effects on non-immune cells (fibroblasts and myofibroblasts, mesangial cells, vascular smooth muscle cells [VSMC], endothelial cells). The latters suggest new therapeutic indications, specifically fibrosis (i.e. glomerulosclerosis and interstitial lung diseases), vascular damage and pulmonary hypertension, which represent key pathogenic features in connective tissue diseases. Given the differences in sensitivity to MPA among the various cell types and the great inter-individual variability in MPA pharmacokinetics, adequate daily doses and therapeutic drug monitoring may be decisive to ensure those MPA concentrations needed to switch off inflammation and restore peripheral tolerance in autoimmune disease (AID) patients. A warning on the severe adverse events strictly linked to immune suppression (i.e. progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy [PML]) will be stressed.
Depression is common in hepatitis C, exacerbated by interferon, and is a major reason for discontinuing interferon therapy. We aimed to determine (1) whether patients with a history of major depression could complete a course of peginterferon alpha-2a and ribavirin if pretreated with escitalopram and (2) the relapse rate of depression during the course of therapy in these subjects. Ten patients were enrolled in the study and treated with escitalopram. The Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (Ham-D) and other psychiatric scales were administered throughout the study. There were no statistically significant increases in mean Ham-D scores. No subjects were discontinued from the study due to depression relapse. Nine of 10 subjects maintained remission of depression throughout the study. We conclude that pretreatment with escitalopram in subjects with major depressive disorder in remission may prevent recurrence of major depression during a course of interferon and ribavirin therapy for hepatitis C.
