To study influence of lanthanum chloride (LaCl(3)) on the expression of immediate early genes (IEGs) including c-jun, early growth response gene 1 (Egr1) and activity-regulated cytoskeletal gene (Arc) in the hippocampus of rats, and discuss the mechanism of LaCl(3) undermining learning and memory capability.
Forty female Wistar adult rats were divided into control group, low LaCl(3)-contaminated group (0.25%), medium LaCl(3)-contaminated group (0.50%), and high LaCl(3)-contaminated group (1.00%) by randomized design. Each group had ten female rats along with five male rats and mated by the ratio of 2:1. The amounts of pups in the above four groups were 80, 83, 78 and 75 separately. The pups in respective group were La-dyed by lactation, and then the pups in LaCl(3)-contaminated groups drank 0.25%, 0.50% and 1.00% LaCl(3) separately for one month. Learning and memory capability of pups were measured in jumping stairs experiment. Hippocampal lanthanum content was determined by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Hippocampal c-jun, Egr1 and Arc mRNA expression was detected by RT-PCR, and corresponding protein expression was measured by Western blotting method.
In the jumping stairs experiment, pups in 0.25%, 0.50% and 1.00% LaCl(3)-contaminated groups respectively made (1.75 ± 0.71), (2.38 ± 0.92) and (3.00 ± 0.76) mistakes; significantly higher than control group (1.25 ± 0.46) (q values were 4.386, 6.793, P < 0.05). However, the incubation period of 0.25%, 0.50% and 1.00% LaCl(3)-contaminated groups were (174.13 ± 33.72), (139.25 ± 45.83) and (75.50 ± 18.56) respectively, which were all significantly lower than that of control group (206.75 ± 20.47) (q values were 2.958, 6.121, 11.902, P < 0.05). Hippocampal c-jun mRNA expression were (0.89 ± 0.08), (0.77 ± 0.12), (0.58 ± 0.14) and (0.29 ± 0.10); while the c-jun protein expression were (0.72 ± 0.13), (0.64 ± 0.11), (0.43 ± 0.11) and (0.31 ± 0.14), and the Egr1 mRNA expression were (0.78 ± 0.09), (0.61 ± 0.13), (0.53 ± 0.10) and (0.22 ± 0.08), Egr1 protein expression were (0.65 ± 0.18), (0.40 ± 0.15), (0.32 ± 0.13) and (0.14 ± 0.09) in 0.25%, 0.50% and 1.00% LaCl(3)-contaminated groups; and all of which presented a dose-effect relationship that the correlation coefficients of these parameters with dose were -0.900 (t = 11.309, P = 0.000), -0.969 (t = 7.058, P = 0.000), -0.898 (t = 11.179, P = 0.000) and -0.962 (t = 6.739, P = 0.000).
LaCl(3) undermines the learning and memory capability of rats, which is possibly related to lower expression of c-jun and Egr1 gene and protein induced by lanthanum in hippocampus.
This study was carried out to highlight the role of PPARγ in the paraquat (PQ)-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Forty-two male Wistar rats were exposed either against saline as a control group or PQ (3.5mg/kg, i.p.) as test groups. The test groups were nominated as PQ (PQ-exposed non-treated animals), pioglitazone (PGT, 10mg/kg, orally), atorvastatin (STN, 10mg/kg, orally), PGT+STN, PGT+GW9662 (1mg/kg, i.p.) and STN+GW9662 (1mg/kg). Atorvastatin but not PGT was able to reverse significantly (P<0.05) the PQ-increased ratio of lung to body weight. STN was successfully able to recover the PQ-reduced antioxidant potency and the GW9662 administration resulted in antagonizing the protective effect of both PGT and STN. Although both PGT and STN were able to reduce the hydrxoproline content of the lungs, GW9662, however, could reverse only STN-related effect. Histochemical studies revealed that PQ exposure resulted in a remarkable increase of fibroblasts and collagen fibers in the interstitial tissue and around vessels and bronchioles, which was improved by the STN administration. Only STN-received animals showed the down-regulation of the TGF-β1 expression and GW9662 was able to antagonize this down-regulation. Co-administration of PGT and STN could not exert any synergistic protective effect. These data suggest that the PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis could be more effectively reversed by STN rather than PGT. Moreover, STN-induced protective effects might attribute to the regulation of TGF-β1 expression, which is antagonized by PPARγ antagonist, suggesting that STN may improve the PQ-induced damages via PPARγ.
Doxorubicin and anthracycline antineoplastic agents are well known for their myocardial toxicity. This effect, however, is thought to be a direct one on the myocardium as a result of free radical formation and oxidative stress. We present the case of a patient who suffered an acute myocardial infarction during her first infusion of a liposomal formulation of doxorubicin as part of chemotherapy for recurrent breast cancer. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an angiographically proven infarction temporally related to exposure to this chemotherapeutic agent.
We compared the inhibitory action of gabapentin, which is used to treat neuropathic pain, on mechanical allodynia induced by chemotherapeutic agents, paclitaxel, oxaliplatin, and vincristine, in mice. Single injections of paclitaxel, oxaliplatin, and vincristine at the doses corresponding to doses clinically used caused mechanical allodynia of similar intensity. Oral administration of gabapentin (30, 100 mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent inhibition of allodynia caused by paclitaxel and oxaliplatin, but not vincristine. Intrathecal injection of gabapentin (30, 100microg/site) significantly inhibited allodynia induced by paclitaxel, but not oxaliplatin and vincristine. Intraplantar injection of gabapentin (30, 100 microg/site) did not significantly inhibit allodynia induced by paclitaxel and oxaliplatin. Paclitaxel increased the expression of mRNA of voltage-dependent calcium channel alpha(2)delta-1 subunit, an action site of gabapentin, in the dorsal spinal cord, and oxaliplatin increased it in the dorsal root ganglia. Vincristine was without effects on alpha(2)delta-1 subunit mRNA in these regions. These results suggest that the efficacy of gabapentin in the treatment of mechanical allodynia is dependent on chemotherapy agent used. It may be partly due to the distinct effects of chemotherapy agents on the expression of alpha(2)delta-1 subunit of voltage-dependent calcium channel.
As in humans, theophylline intoxication in rabbits causes seizures and death. We studied whether the administration of phenobarbital or phenytoin following a toxic dose of theophylline would improve survival in rabbits. New Zealand white rabbits were infused intravenously with theophylline, 115 mg/kg over 50 minutes. Upon completion of the infusion, rabbits were randomized to receive either saline (control) (N = 60) or saline containing phenobarbital 20 mg/kg (N = 60), or phenytoin 12 mg/kg (N = 30), infused over 30 minutes. The number (and percentage) of rabbits surviving 24 hours in each group was: control 12 (20%), phenobarbital 30 (50%), and phenytoin 7 (23%) [X2; p less than 0.005; two-tailed]. In all fatal cases, death was preceded by a seizure; rabbits that survived did not seize. These results show that phenobarbital administered intravenously to theophylline-intoxicated rabbits prevented seizures and improved survival whereas phenytoin administration had no significant effect.
We report a case of benign intracranial hypertension (BIH) caused by all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia. A 21-year-old male was admitted to our hospital with pancytopenia. He was diagnosed as having acute promyelocytic leukemia due to increased promyelocytes, and PML-RAR alpha chimeric mRNA was detected. The administration of ATRA and idarubicin was started immediately. After 26 days of the chemotherapy, he complained of diplopia. Ophthalmologic examination revealed bilateral papilledema and hemorrhage. The cerebrospinal fluid showed an increase in pressure, but no other abnormalities. Computed tomography showed no intracranial abnormalities. The orbital MR imaging showed distension of the perioptic subarachnoid space and flattening of the posterior sclera. A diagnosis of BIH was made. After the discontinuation of ATRA, the symptoms improved and the MR abnormalities disappeared. As far as we know, there have been no reports illustrating MR abnormalities of BIH caused by ATRA, for the diagnosis and monitoring of which orbital MR imaging can provide important clues.
Doppler echocardiography was performed during dobutamine stress test in 133 patients who had myocardial infarction. This investigation focused on the changes in the Doppler-derived left ventricular filling profile and hemodynamic measurements during ischemia. Patients were classified into two major groups on the basis of left ventricular ejection fraction (group 1, left ventricular ejection fraction > or = 40%, n = 66; group 2, left ventricular ejection fraction < 40%, n = 67) and then divided into the ischemic subgroup (1 A [n = 36] and 2A [n = 30]) and the scar subgroup (1 B [n = 36] and 2B [n = 31]) according to the presence or absence of dobutamine-induced myocardial ischemia. In group 1, the only Doppler echocardiographic measurement sensitive enough to differentiate ischemia was the corrected isovolumic relaxation time, which was significantly prolonged in group 1 A compared with group 1 B at peak stress (108 +/- 29 vs 82 +/- 30 msec, p = 0.005). The patients in group 2A had lower increases in stroke volume (-2% +/- 27% vs 22% +/- 33%, p = 0.002) and cardiac output (45% +/- 51 % vs 72% +/- 50%, p = 0.04) than those in group 2B, but larger increases in mitral peak early filling velocity (24% +/- 56% vs 0.9% +/- 37%, p = 0.02) and peak early to atrial velocity ratio (39% +/- 127% vs -24% +/- 38%, p = 0.01) than those in group 2B. The analysis of the changes that occurred in these parameters provides better insight into left ventricular diastolic and systolic function during dobutamine stress tests in patients after myocardial infarction.
Renal toxicity of long-term lithium therapy is a common problem. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is the most frequently encountered complication, but often remains unrecognised because of the rather benign symptoms. We present a patient with long-term lithium therapy who developed life-threatening hypernatraemia due to insufficient oral fluid intake after elective spinal surgery. Careful daily substitution of up to 25 l of hypotonic fluids led to full recovery within 9 days. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus should always be considered in lithium-treated patients undergoing elective surgery in order to avoid severe hypernatraemia.
Activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) is a stress-activated immediate early gene suggested to have both detrimental and cardioprotective role in the heart. Here we studied the mechanisms of ATF3 activation by hypertrophic stimuli and ATF3 downstream targets in rat cardiomyocytes.
When neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were exposed to endothelin-1 (ET-1, 100 nM) and mechanical stretching in vitro, maximal increase in ATF3 expression occurred at 1 hour. Inhibition of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) by PD98059 decreased ET-1- and stretch-induced increase of ATF3 protein but not ATF3 mRNA levels, whereas protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H89 attenuated both ATF3 mRNA transcription and protein expression in response to ET-1 and stretch. To characterize further the regulatory mechanisms upstream of ATF3, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling was investigated using a gain-of-function approach. Adenoviral overexpression of p38α, but not p38β, increased ATF3 mRNA and protein levels as well as DNA binding activity. To investigate the role of ATF3 in hypertrophic process, we overexpressed ATF3 by adenovirus-mediated gene transfer. In vitro, ATF3 gene delivery attenuated the mRNA transcription of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), and enhanced nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) and Nkx-2.5 DNA binding activities. Reduced PAI-1 expression was also detected in vivo in adult rat heart by direct intramyocardial adenovirus-mediated ATF3 gene delivery.
These data demonstrate that ATF3 activation by ET-1 and mechanical stretch is partly mediated through ERK and cAMP-PKA pathways, whereas p38 MAPK pathway is involved in ATF3 activation exclusively through p38α isoform. ATF3 activation caused induction of modulators of the inflammatory response NF-κB and Nkx-2.5, as well as attenuation of pro-fibrotic and pro-inflammatory proteins IL-6 and PAI-1, suggesting cardioprotective role for ATF3 in the heart.
A proteasome inhibitor with a new molecular target (PS-341: bortezomib) was recently developed, and its efficacy in the treatment of refractory multiple myeloma has been reported in the United States. Here, we present a 54-year-old Japanese male patient with refractory multiple myeloma resistant to thalidomide. In 1998, the patient was diagnosed as having multiple myeloma (IgG-kappa) and underwent chemotherapy, autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation and interferon therapy, but the disease recurred. In December 2002, thalidomide and high-dose dexamethasone therapy was initiated, and while this combination therapy was effective at first, the multiple myeloma became unresponsive. On 23 June 2003, bortezomib therapy with the following regime was therefore started: 2.2 mg (1.3 mg/m2) of bortezomib was injected intravenously on days 1, 4, 8 and 11, and after a one-week break, another cycle was performed. Starting on day 8 of the administration, the serum total protein, IgG, serum calcium and LDH levels decreased rapidly, and after day 45 of the administration, blood transfusion was no longer needed. Since this is the first report of the use of bortezomib in the treatment of refractory multiple myeloma in Japan, further monitoring of this patient will provide extremely valuable information for developing a therapy against this disease.
Dopamine D1 receptor partial agonists have been proposed as candidate medications for the treatment of cocaine dependence. However, there currently is scant information regarding how chronic exposure to D1 agonists may modify behavioral effects of cocaine and, especially, whether tolerance develops to their effects on cocaine self-administration.
The present studies were conducted to evaluate the effects of chronic treatment with the D1 receptor partial agonist SKF 77434 on IV cocaine self-administration in rhesus monkeys.
A protocol was developed to rapidly evaluate the effects of chronic drug exposure on extinction behavior, threshold dose of self-administered cocaine, and the dose-effect function for cocaine self-administration behavior. Monkeys performed in daily sessions of IV cocaine self-administration under a fixed-ratio schedule of reinforcement and food presentation under either a fixed-ratio or fixed-interval schedule of reinforcement. When both types of performance were stable, chronic exposure to SKF 77434 followed with month-long regimens of IV treatment with each of two or three dosages.
The effects of SKF 77434 were dose-related. Exposure to 1.0 mg/kg per day of SKF 77434 yielded a moderate and persistent rightward shift in the descending portion of the dose-effect function for cocaine self-administration but did not alter the threshold dose and did not disrupt either extinction behavior or food-maintained performance. An increase in dosage to 3.2-5.6 mg/kg per day displaced the dose-effect function for cocaine self-administration downward from its prechronic position, altered threshold dose values, and disrupted food-maintained performance.
Chronic treatment with D1 receptor partial agonists produced dose-dependent effects on cocaine self-administration that may be relevant to their further evaluation as candidate medications for the treatment of cocaine dependence.
Sexual impotence developed in four patients who were receiving carbonic anhydrase inhibitor therapy for glaucoma. Whereas decreased libido has been reported as a side effect of carbonic anhydrase inhibitor therapy, organic impotence has not been documented as an isolated finding.
Signal transduction pathways associated with cancer progression and chemotherapeutic resistance are being investigated as molecular targets for chemotherapy. The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) pathway has been found to be frequently amplified and have increased activity in ovarian cancer. The current study investigates the efficacy of an antagonist of PI3K, LY294002, in inhibiting ovarian cancer cell growth and survival both in vitro and in vivo. The hypothesis tested is that inhibition of PI3K signaling makes ovarian cancer cells susceptible to the effects of platinum-based chemotherapy. Observations show that LY294002 is an effective inhibitor of ovarian cancer cell growth and survival in vitro. Inhibition of PI3K/Akt signaling increased the sensitivity of ovarian cell cultures to the cytotoxic effects of carboplatin. The combined treatment of LY294002 and carboplatin was needed to optimally promote cellular apoptosis and decrease ovarian cancer cell survival in vitro. To extend these observations, a model involving in vivo i.p. growth of human ovarian tumors in a nude mouse was used. LY294002 in combination with carboplatin was more effective in inhibiting ovarian cancer cell xenograft growth than either agent alone. The results of this study suggest that the combined treatment of carboplatin and LY294002 can effectively decrease ovarian tumor progression and support the use of a PI3K inhibitor (e.g., LY294002) as an adjunct platinum-based drug therapy for treatment of ovarian cancer.
Use of periconceptional folic acid supplementation has been promoted in Western Australia since late 1992, and voluntary fortification of some foods with folic acid has been permitted in Australia since 1996. Reduced rates of neural tube defects (NTDs) have been observed since 1995. Aboriginal infants have a higher rate of NTDs, but no fall in rates has been documented. Encephaloceles have not been examined separately.
Data on anencephaly, spina bifida, and encephalocele were obtained from the Western Australian Birth Defects Registry. The prevalence ratio for each type of NTD was calculated, comparing 1993 to 1995 (promotion of supplements, no fortification) and 1996 to 2006 (promotion of supplements and voluntary fortification) with 1980 to 1992 (no promotion or fortification).
From 1996 to 2006, there was a 32% reduction in anencephaly, 23% in spina bifida, and 34% in encephalocele compared with 1980 to 1992. There were no differences seen from 1993 to 1995 compared with 1980 to 1992. For Aboriginal infants, the rates were higher than for non-Aboriginal infants, for each type of NTD. The prevalence ratios, comparing 1996 to 2006 with 1980 to 1995, were 0.70 (CI, 0.61-0.79) for non-Aboriginal infants and 0.90 (CI, 0.61-1.32) for Aboriginal infants.
Overall, the rates of encephalocele, anencephaly, and spina bifida have fallen to a similar extent in association with promotion of folic acid supplements and voluntary fortification. No such falls were seen for Aboriginal infants. These data will provide a useful baseline against which to monitor the effects of mandatory fortification on NTDs when it is introduced in Australia in September 2009.
Interactions between the novel histone deacetylase inhibitor LAQ824 and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor roscovitine were examined in human leukemia cells. Pretreatment (24 hours) with a subtoxic concentration of LAQ824 (30 nmol/L) followed by a minimally toxic concentration of roscovitine (10 micromol/L; 24 hours) resulted in greater than additive effects on apoptosis in U937, Jurkat, and HL-60 human leukemia cells and blasts from three patients with acute myelogenous leukemia. These events were associated with enhanced conformational changes in Bax; mitochondrial release of cytochrome c, Smac/DIABLO, and apoptosis-inducing factor; and a marked increase in caspase activation. LAQ824/roscovitine-treated cells displayed caspase-dependent down-regulation of p21(CIP1) and Mcl-1 and a pronounced caspase-independent reduction in X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis (XIAP) expression. The lethality of this regimen was significantly attenuated by ectopic expression of XIAP, a nuclear localization signal-defective p21(CIP1) mutant, Mcl-1, and Bcl-2. Combined exposure to LAQ824 and roscovitine resulted in a significant reduction in XIAP mRNA levels and diminished phosphorylation of the carboxyl-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II. Notably, roscovitine blocked LAQ824-mediated differentiation. Finally, LAQ824 and roscovitine individually and in combination triggered an increase in generation of reactive oxygen species; moreover, coadministration of the free radical scavenger N-acetylcysteine prevented LAQ824/roscovitine-mediated mitochondrial injury and apoptosis. Collectively, these findings suggest that combined treatment of human leukemia cells with LAQ824 and roscovitine disrupts maturation and synergistically induces apoptosis, lending further support for an antileukemic strategy combining novel histone deacetylase and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors.
Migraine is one of the most frequent disabling neurological conditions with a major impact on the patients' quality of life.
To give evidence-based or expert recommendations for the different drug treatment procedures in the particular migraine syndromes based on a literature search and the consensus of an expert panel.
All available medical reference systems were screened for the range of clinical studies on migraine with and without aura and on migraine-like syndromes. The findings in these studies were evaluated according to the recommendations of the European Federation of Neurological Societies (EFNS) resulting in level A, B, or C recommendations and good practice points.
For the acute treatment of migraine attacks, oral non-steroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and triptans are recommended. The administration should follow the concept of stratified treatment. Before intake of NSAID and triptans, oral metoclopramide or domperidone is recommended. In very severe attacks, intravenous acetylsalicylic acid or subcutaneous sumatriptan are drugs of first choice. Status migrainosus can be treated by cortoicosteroids, although this is not universally held to be helpful, or dihydroergotamine. For the prophylaxis of migraine, betablockers (propranolol and metoprolol) flunarizine, valproic acid, and topiramate are drugs of first choice. Drugs of second choice for migraine prophylaxis include amitriptyline, naproxen, petasites, and bisoprolol.
A growing body of evidence indicates a role for D(3) receptors in l-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. This involvement could be amenable to non-invasive in vivo analysis using functional neuroimaging. With this goal, we examined the hemodynamic response to the dopamine D(3)-preferring agonist 7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2 aminotetralin (7-OHDPAT) in naïve, parkinsonian and l-DOPA-treated, dyskinetic rodents and primates using pharmacological MRI (phMRI) and relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) mapping. Administration of 7-OHDPAT induced minor negative changes of rCBV in the basal ganglia in naïve and parkinsonian animals. Remarkably, the hemodynamic response was reversed (increased rCBV) in the striatum of parkinsonian animals rendered dyskinetic by repeated l-DOPA treatment. Such increase in rCBV is consistent with D(1) receptor-like signaling occurring in response to D(3) stimulation, demonstrates a dysregulation of dopamine receptor function in dyskinesia and provides a potentially novel means for the characterization and treatment of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in patients.
We describe an 8 year-old girl with established diabetes insipidus who developed cyclophosphamide-associated antidiuresis. The patient had received cyclophosphamide as part of a high-dose chemotherapy regimen for recurrent suprasellar dysgerminoma prior to autologous bone marrow transplantation. Urinary output decreased and specific gravity increased shortly after a 1 hour i.v. infusion of 50 mg/kg cyclophosphamide and the effect lasted some 5 hours. No other drug could be implicated. This response, occurring in a patient with no ability to secrete vasopressin, suggests a direct tubular effect of one or more cyclophosphamide metabolites. Administering i.v. cyclophosphamide requires careful monitoring of fluid balance in order to avoid water intoxication. Further research is warranted both into the mechanism of this effect and the metabolite responsible for it.
We report a case of peliosis hepatis in a 47-year old male patient with dermatomyositis treated with azathioprine and corticosteroids. Three months after the combined treatment was initiated, the patient developed right thoracic herpes zoster, agranulocytosis and liver enlargement with signs of portal hypertension. Needle biopsy of the liver revealed peliosis. Azathioprine was withdrawn. The clinical and laboratory abnormalities disappeared progressively. The main causes of peliosis hepatis are considered. Up to now, azathioprine had been held responsible for peliosis hepatis only in renal transplant recipients.
Although autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) have a substantial genetic basis, most of the known genetic risk has been traced to rare variants, principally copy number variants (CNVs). To identify common risk variation, the Autism Genome Project (AGP) Consortium genotyped 1558 rigorously defined ASD families for 1 million single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and analyzed these SNP genotypes for association with ASD. In one of four primary association analyses, the association signal for marker rs4141463, located within MACROD2, crossed the genome-wide association significance threshold of P < 5 × 10(-8). When a smaller replication sample was analyzed, the risk allele at rs4141463 was again over-transmitted; yet, consistent with the winner's curse, its effect size in the replication sample was much smaller; and, for the combined samples, the association signal barely fell below the P < 5 × 10(-8) threshold. Exploratory analyses of phenotypic subtypes yielded no significant associations after correction for multiple testing. They did, however, yield strong signals within several genes, KIAA0564, PLD5, POU6F2, ST8SIA2 and TAF1C.
78 patients were treated with dobutamine for a severe episode of heart failure at a mean dose of 9.51 micrograms . kg-1 . min-1 for an average of 5 days. 59 of these patients had ischaemic heart disease, including 34 with recent infarcts. The monitoring of treatment was essentially clinical, consisting of repeated measurement of the heart rate, the systolic and diastolic blood pressure and the diuresis. A haemodynamic survey was performed in only 25 cases. 48 patients were improved. 24 of these patients had no clinical or radiological signs of heart failure at the end of the treatment. Dobutamine significantly increases the blood pressure (97.7 +/- 24.9 to 105.8 +/- 21 mm Hg), the diuresis and the cardiac index (2.02 +/- 0.51 to 2.52 +/- 0.54 l . min-1 . m-2) and it significantly decreases the mean capillary pressure (25.36 +/- 6.20 to 21.03 +/- 6.94 mm Hg). The tolerance was very satisfactory, particularly in terms of the heart rate, ventricular excitability and the progression of the coronary disease. This clinical study confirms the value of dobutamine in the treatment of severe heart failure, either alone or in combination with vasodilators. The authors do not believe tha haemodynamic monitoring is essential at the doses used, which means that dobutamine could be used more widely in these indications.
Immune haemolytic anaemia may be induced by high doses of benzylpenicillin. A small number of cases have also followed the administration of semisynthetic penicillins in addition to benzylpenicillin. We have observed immune haemolytic anemia consequent on ticarcillin administration in a patient who had previously received benzylpenicillin. Although the antibody agglutinated penicillin-treated and ticarcillin-treated cells it was demonstrated by serum fractionation to be IgG.
Severe intrahepatic cholestasis occurred 13 months following renal homotransplantation in a patient treated with azathioprine and prednisone. The patient had not received other drugs, surgery, anesthesia, or blood transfusions since transplantation. Extrahepatic biliary obstruction was excluded by laparotomy and operative cholangiography. Histologically, marked cholestasis was present with minimal necrosis and inflammation terminally. An awareness of this possible complication is important in the treatment of chronic liver disease with azathioprine.
We investigated whether addition of a balanced electrolyte supplement and oxygen to the nonionic contrast medium iohexol reduces the risk of ventricular fibrillation (VF), and studied regional electrophysiology prior to the VF event. Twenty ml of each test solution were infused at a rate of 0.5 ml/s into the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) in 8 anesthetized dogs. LAD was externally occluded during infusion, to simulate a wedged catheter situation. ECG, hemodynamics, regional epicardial monophasic action potential duration (MAPD) and ventricular activation times (VAT) were calculated. All infusions with iohexol caused VF within 27 s. Five of 12 infusions with iohexol + 30 mmol NaCl, 3 of 11 infusions with iohexol+electrolytes (IPE) NaCl, KCl, CaCl2 and MgCl2) and 4 of 11 infusions with IPE with oxygen addition (IPE+O2) caused VF after 45 s. Iohexol did not change MAPD prior to the VF event. Iohexol + 30 mmol NaCl and the IPE solutions lengthened MAPD initially, but at the time of the VF event MAPD were normalized or shortened. We conclude that electrolyte supplement to iohexol may prevent VF, probably by lengthening MAPD.
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of dobutamine, a new cardioselective beta adrenergic agonist, on cardiac performance and myocardial injury in patients with evolving myocardial infarction. Results in 16 patients given dobutamine (1 to 40 microng/kg per min for 24 hours) were compared with those in two groups of control patients: one of 16 patients matched for predicted infarct size, and the other of 16 patients matched for early ventricular dysrhythmia, analyzed by computer. Infarct size was predicted from plasma creatine kinase (CK) values during the first 7 hours after the initial elevation, before infusion of dobutamine. Overall observed infarct size was estimated from hourly CK values for 48 hours (including those before and after administration of dobutamine). In all patients technetium-99m (stannous) pyrophosphate scans were positive for myocardial infarction. Dobutamine increased cardiac output (assessed by thermodilution) from 4.9 +/- 0.37 (mean +/- standard error) to 6.0 +/- 0.38 liters/min (P less than 0.05) and decreased pulmonary arterial occlusive pressure from 21.5 +/- 2.7 to 16.7 +/- 1.6 mmHg (P less than 0.01) without significantly altering heart rate or systemic arterial blood pressure. The ratio of observed to predicted infarct size, the frequency of independently detected reinfarction or extension of infarction and the frequency of premature ventricular complexes were similar in control and treated patients. Thus administration of dobutamine in doses sufficient to improve ventricular performance after myocardial infarction does not exacerbate myocardial injury or ventricular dysrhythmia.
Thirty-three chronic psychiatric patients with tardive dyskinesia (TD) were included in a video-controlled multicenter study of the effect of chlorprothixene, perphenazine, haloperidol and haloperidol + biperiden in TD and parkinsonism. The drugs were given in a cross-over design in randomized order in dosages equipotent to the earlier neuroleptic treatment and administered for periods of 6 months with 6-week placebo periods before and after. A total of 55 treatment periods were completed; only seven patients were able to go through all three treatment phases (= 96 weeks). Perphenazine (20.5 mg/day), haloperidol (5.5 mg/day), and haloperidol (11 mg/day) + biperiden (7 mg/day) induced a moderate suppression of TD and at the same time produced a corresponding aggravation in parkinsonism. Chlorprothixene (142 mg/day) had only a slight TD reducing effect and did not change parkinsonism. Thus the TD suppressing effect was inversely related to the parkinsonian-inducing effect of the neuroleptics. Following withdrawal of the drugs, TD increased in some cases and decreased in others compared to the pretreatment level. No significant correlation was found between the intensity of the withdrawal TD and either drugs or preceding parkinsonism or TD suppression. Only in a subgroup of seven patients who consecutively received all three neuroleptics, perphenazine, but not haloperidol and chlorprothixene, produced a post-treatment aggravation which was correlated to the parkinsonsim and TD suppression during treatment. Independent of the neuroleptic given, the TD intensity increased significantly from the first to the third placebo period. This suggests that drug holidays are inappropriate to prevent TD induction/aggravation.
