Animal models are useful for the study of status epilepticus (SE)-induced epileptogenesis and neurological sequelae, especially during early brain development. Here, we show several permanent abnormalities in animals subjected to multiple SE during early development.
Wistar pup rats (7 to 9 days old) were subjected to three consecutive episodes of SE induced by systemic pilocarpine injections. To study the long-lasting consequences of early-induced SE. chronic electroencephalographic recordings were made from the hippocampus and cortex and several behavioral tests (inhibitory step-down avoidance, rota-rod, open field, elevated plus-maze, and Skinner box) were performed at postnatal days 30 to 90. We also investigated in vitro electrophysiological responses of the CA1 area using extracellular recordings in hippocampal slices. A histological analysis was done using cresyl violet staining 24 hours and several months after SE induction. Apoptotic cell death was evaluated by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL staining) 24 hours after the last SE episode.
Electroencephalographic recordings from 30- to 90-day-old rats that had been subjected to multiple SE episodes in early life showed marked changes compared with those from nontreated controls. These included frequent episodes of continuous complex spiking activity and high-voltage ictal discharges, with a small percentage of these rats presenting spontaneous behavioral seizures. These animals also presented evidence of severe cognitive deficit in adulthood. In vitro, a persistent hyperexcitability of the CA1 area was detected in experimental animals. Histological analysis of the brains did not reveal any major long-term pathological changes. Nevertheless, an increased number of TUNEL-positive nuclei were present in some animals in both the hippocampus and the thalamus.
These data show persistent abnormalities in animals subjected to multiple SE episodes during early postnatal development. SE may result in important plastic changes in critical periods of brain maturation leading to long-lasting epileptogenesis, as manifested by electrographic epileptiform discharges, behavioral deficits, and in vitro hyperexcitability of hippocampal networks.
A 49-year-old man had for 30 years suffered from severe recurrent thromboembolism with leg-vein thrombosis, pulmonary emboli, mesenteric infarction, cerebrovascular accident, cerebral vein thrombosis, portal vein thrombosis and femoral artery occlusion requiring leg amputation. In addition to moderately increased clotting activation with single-fold positive demonstration of fibrin monomers and a D-dimer concentration of 1 mg/l platelet aggregation was increased and could not be influenced by aspirin, 300 mg daily. Despite aspirin there were recurrent transitory attacks of cerebral ischaemia. Fibrin monomers were threefold positive and D-dimer concentration was increased to 4 mg/l (elevated clotting activation). Ticlopidine administration (250 mg daily) reduced adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation by 30% without effect on collagen-induced platelet aggregation. In parallel to these changes the patient's general condition clearly improved: fibrin monomers were no longer demonstrated and the D-dimer level fell to 0.5 mg/l.
Heart failure (HF), a long term outcome of chronic methamphetamine use (MU), occurs more frequently in racial and ethnic minority populations at high risk for cardiovascular disparities. This study examined the association of socio-demographic and clinical risk factors with MU among heart failure patients who are Native Hawaiians (NH) or other Pacific Island peoples (PIP). DESIGN/SETTING/PATIENT POPULATION: Cross-sectional study of NHs and PIPs with advanced heart failure enrolled in the Malama Pu'uwai Study, a randomized control trial to test an educational intervention to reduce re-hospitalization and/or death. A total of 82 participants were enrolled between 6/1/06 to 12/31/07 and met the following eligibility criteria: 1) self-identified NH or PIP, 2) Left ventricular systolic ejection fraction <or=45%, 3) Age of 21 years or older. Data were analyzed by odds ratios (OR), 95% confidence intervals (CI), and multiple logistic regression analysis.
Methamphetamine use.
Twenty-two percent of HF participants were identified as being current or prior methamphetamine users. Younger age and non-married status (combined never married or divorced/separated) were independently associated with MU after adjustment for sex, education, and other co-morbidities associated with HF (ie, age >50 years, OR = 0.16, 95% CI, 0.03-0.84; non-married status combined as never married OR = 8.5, CI, 1.5-47; divorced/separated OR = 11, CI 1.8-75).
RISK FACTORS ASSOCIATED WITH MU IN NH AND PIPS WITH HEART FAILURE INCLUDE: younger age and being divorced/separated or never married. Health care providers should be aware of MU as a contributing factor in the approach and treatment of HF in NHs and PIPs.
Exposure to heterocyclic amines may increase prostate cancer risk. Human sulfotransferase 1A1 (SULT1A1) is involved in the bioactivation of some dietary procarcinogens, including the N-hydroxy metabolite of the food-borne heterocyclic amine, 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo(4,5-b) pyridine. This study compares a polymorphism in the SULT1A1 gene, SULT1A1 enzyme activity, meat consumption, and the risk of prostate cancer in a population based case-control study. Prostate cancer patients (n = 464) and control individuals (n = 459), frequency matched on age and ethnicity, provided informed consent, answered a survey, and provided a blood sample. Platelets were isolated for phenotype analysis, and DNA was isolated from lymphocytes for genotype determination. Meat consumption was assessed using a dietary questionnaire. Caucasians homozygous for the SULT1A1*1 high activity allele were at increased risk for prostate cancer [odds ratio (OR), 1.68; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.05-2.68] compared with individuals homozygous for the low-activity allele. The association between SULT1A1 genotype and prostate cancer risk in African-Americans did not reach significance (OR, 1.60; 95% CI, 0.46-5.62). When SULT1A1 activity was considered, there was a strong association between increased SULT1A1 activity and prostate cancer risk in Caucasians (OR, 3.04; 95% CI, 1.8-5.1 and OR, 4.96; 95% CI, 3.0-8.3, for the second and third tertiles of SULT1A1 activity, respectively) compared with individuals in the low enzyme activity tertile. A similar association was also found in African-American patients, with ORs of 6.7 and 9.6 for the second and third tertiles of SULT1A1 activity (95% CI, 2.1-21.3 and 2.9-31.3, respectively). When consumption of well-done meat was considered, there was increased risk of prostate cancer (OR, 1.42; 95% CI, 1.01-1.99 and OR, 1.68; 95% CI, 1.20-2.36 for the second and third tertiles, respectively). When SULT1A1 activity was stratified by tertiles of meat consumption, there was greater risk of prostate cancer in the highest tertile of meat consumption. These results indicate that variations in SULT1A1 activity contributes to prostate cancer risk and the magnitude of the association may differ by ethnicity and be modified by meat consumption.
This study examined the frequency of atrioventricular (AV) dissociation and accelerated junctional rhythms in 59 patients receiving oral verapamil. Accelerated junctional rhythms and AV dissociation were frequent in patients with supraventricular tachyarrhythmias, particularly AV nodal reentry. Verapamil administration to these patients led to an asymptomatic increase in activity of these junctional pacemakers. In patients with various chest pain syndromes, verapamil neither increased the frequency of junctional rhythms nor suppressed their role as escape rhythms under physiologically appropriate circumstances.
We performed a mail solicitation and obtained the records of 31 patients with documented torsade de pointes (TDP) due to quinidine. All 31 patients had heart disease: ischemic = 11 patients (36%), rheumatic = five patients (16%), hypertensive = four patients (13%), cardiomyopathic = four patients (13%), other = seven patients (22%). Quinidine was administered to these patients for the following reasons: atrial fibrillation or flutter = 22 patients (71%), ventricular premature beats = six patients (19%), ventricular or supraventricular tachycardia = three patients (10%). The 31 patients were receiving quinidine, 650 to 2400 (mean 1097) mg/day, and 14 patients had serum quinidine levels of 1.4 to 10.6 (mean 3.7) micrograms/ml. TDP occurred within 1 week of initiation of quinidine therapy in 23 (74%) of the patients. Twenty-eight (90%) of the 31 patients were receiving digoxin, and 5 (24%) of 21 patients had hypokalemia at the time of TDP. Off of quinidine therapy, corrected QT (QTc) intervals in 24 patients ranged from 390 to 580 (mean 470) msec and were prolonged in 17 patients (71%). On quinidine therapy, QTc intervals in 23 patients ranged from 390 to 630 (mean 510) msec and were prolonged in 21 patients (91%). In summary, patients with TDP due to quinidine usually had heart disease complicated by atrial fibrillation, were receiving digoxin, and were receiving moderate dosages of quinidine for less than 1 week prior to TDP. Approximately two thirds of patients with TDP due to quinidine had long QT intervals while off of quinidine.
Left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is accompanied by progressive accumulations of extracellular matrix proteins. They are produced predominantly by cardiac fibroblasts that surround the cardiac myocytes. The aim of this study was to emphasize the role of a combined approach using both in vivo and in vitro studies to elucidate the effects of carvedilol on cardiac remodeling. We therefore used an established model of supravalvular aortic banding and cardiac fibroblasts. LVH was induced by banding of the ascending aorta. Male Wistar rats were allocated to four groups: sham-operated, sham+carvedilol, aortic stenosis (AS), and AS+carvedilol. Treatment time was four weeks. Fibroblasts were isolated from the entire left ventricle of sham and AS rats. Carvedilol/metoprolol/prazosin were added (0.1, 1.0 and 10 microM; 24 h). In addition, interferon- gamma was applied for 24 h (10, 100 and 1000 IU). AS rats revealed increased LV weights (+27%) and cardiomyocyte widths as compared to sham-operated rats (1.6-fold, P<0.01). Carvedilol reduced LVH by 20%. This finding was accompanied by a decrease of laminin, fibronectin, collagen I and III in vivo. Collagen I/III and fibronectin were increased in fibroblasts of AS v sham rats (P<0.0001, each). Carvedilol reduced collagen I, III and fibronectin by 40/60/35% (0.1 microM; P<0.001) irrespective of LVH. Carvedilol had no effects on collagen IV and laminin. Carvedilol dose-dependently reduced the proliferation rate by 20% at 0.1 microM(P<0.0001). Metoprolol and prazosin had no effect on the expression of extracellular matrix proteins and on the proliferation of the cells of either origin. Interferon- gamma blunted the proliferation rate of cultured fibroblasts and lead to a significant decrease in extracellular matrix deposits. These results indicate that the effects of carvedilol may be due to the antiproliferative or antioxidative properties of this unselective beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist. These changes of the extracellular matrix represent a new mechanism of carvedilol that may contribute to the observed beneficial effects in congestive heart failure.
SMS 201-995 was administered to 40 acromegalic patients, in a multicentric study. Some of the results have been analyzed from 37 patients who remained under a long term treatment. Clinical improvement was noted in most patients, especially as concerns soft tissue swelling, sweating, headache. Digestive adverse effects were noted, leading to the drop-out from the protocol (in 4 patients) or in most patients to a slight discomfort related to increasing doses. There was an effect for all the doses used (300, 600, 900, 1500 micrograms in 3 subcutaneous injections per day), compared with pretreatment values, if we consider the mean GH value of each cycle obtained under the different dosages. The highest dose was most effective than the lowest in some cases. However in most patients the 300 micrograms dose was efficient. We could not obtain normalization of GH secretion. However 22/37 patients could reach a good score as concerns the number of GH values less than 5 micrograms/l, during circadian evaluations. In 5/37 patients, the antisecretory effect was insufficient (mean GH above 50% of the pretreatment level). Reduction in tumor volume was highly significant (more than 50%) in 2/11 patients. In conclusion, this study shows the efficacy of SMS 201-995 in improving clinical signs and symptoms of acromegaly, and GH hypersecretion in approximately 80% of the patients. General and metabolic tolerance are rather good. Some points concerning tolerance remain to be investigated.
We describe three patients who developed small fibre neuropathy after 1 month of statin therapy with clinical resolution upon prompt drug withdrawal. All patients showed abnormal sympathetic skin responses (SSR) in comparison with controls. SSRs returned to normal in tandem with clinical improvement. One patient redeveloped small and large fibre neuropathy when the similar drug was readministered. The SSR is of value in the electrophysiological assessment and follow-up of statin-related small fibre neuropathy.
In Korea, lung disease of children and pregnant women associated with humidifier disinfectant use has become a major concern. A common sterilizer is polyhexamethylene guanidine (PHMG), a member of the guanidine family of antiseptics. This study was done to elucidate the putative cytotoxic effect of PHMG and the PHMG-mediated altered gene expression in human alveolar epithelial A549 cells in vitro. Cell viability analyses revealed the potent cytotoxicity of PHMG, with cell death evident at as low as 5 μg/mL. Death was dose- and time-dependent, and was associated with formation of intracellular reactive oxygen species, and apoptosis significantly, at even 2 μg/mL concentration. The gene expression profile in A549 cells following 24 h exposure to 5 μg/mL of PHMG was investigated using DNA microarray analysis. Changes in gene expression relevant to the progression of cell death included induction of genes related to apoptosis, autophagy, fibrosis, and cell cycle. However, the expressions of genes encoding antioxidant and detoxifying enzymes were down-regulated or not affected. The altered expression of selected genes was confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analyses. The collective data suggest that PHMG confers cellular toxicity through the generation of intracellular reactive oxygen species and alteration of gene expression.
This report describes a patient with lipoatrophic diabetes mellitus (LDM), which is a rare clinical syndrome characterized by lipoatrophy and severe insulin resistance. Although a genetic abnormality is suspected in the development of LDM, no functional mutations in key domains of the insulin receptor gene were detected. Therapy was directed primarily at decreasing the availability of non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA), and thereby improving glucose tolerance (Randle's cycle), by the administration of a lipid-lowering drug, bezafibrate. Serial changes in fasting levels of the hormones of glucose homeostasis and lipids were measured, as well as glucose and insulin responses to a 75-g oral glucose challenge at onset and following 3 and 6 months of fibrate therapy. Progressive reductions in the patient's levels of triglycerides and NEFA were paralleled by an improvement in beta-cell function, a decrease in insulin resistance, and the attainment of normal glucose homeostasis. We conclude that the pathogenesis of LDM may be related primarily to abnormal regulation of lipid, rather than glucose, metabolism.
Onchocerciasis, or river blindness, is a neglected tropical disease that affects more than 37 million people worldwide, primarily in Africa and Central and South America. We have disclosed evidence that the larval-stage-specific chitinase, OvCHT1, may be a potential biological target for affecting nematode development. On the basis of screening efforts, closantel, a known anthelmintic drug, was discovered as a potent and highly specific OvCHT1 inhibitor. Originally, closantel's anthelmintic mode of action was believed to rely solely on its role as a proton ionophore; thus, the impact of each of its biological activities on O. volvulus L3 molting was investigated. Structure-activity relationship studies on an active closantel fragment are detailed, and remarkably, by use of a simple salicylanilide scaffold, compounds acting only as protonophores or chitinase inhibitors were identified. From these data, unexpected synergistic protonophore and chitinase inhibition activities have also been found to be critical for molting in O. volvulus L3 larvae.
A structure-guided molecular design approach was used to optimize quercetin diacylglycoside analogues that inhibit bacterial DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV and show potent antibacterial activity against a wide spectrum of relevant pathogens responsible for hospital- and community-acquired infections. In this paper, such novel 3,7-diacylquercetin, quercetin 6''-acylgalactoside, and quercetin 2'',6''-diacylgalactoside analogues of lead compound 1 were prepared to assess their target specificities and preferences in bacteria. The significant enzymatic inhibition of both Escherichia coli DNA gyrase and Staphylococcus aureus topoIV suggest that these compounds are dual inhibitors. Most of the investigated compounds exhibited pronounced inhibition with MIC values ranging from 0.13 to 128 μg/mL toward the growth of multidrug-resistant Gram-positive methicillin-resistant S. aureus, methicillin sensitive S. aureus, vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE), vancomycin intermediate S. aureus, and Streptococcus pneumoniae bacterial strains. Structure-activity relationship studies revealed that the acyl moiety was absolutely essential for activity against Gram-positive organisms. The most active compound 5i was 512-fold more potent than vancomycin and 16-32-fold more potent than 1 against VRE strains. It also has realistic in situ intestinal absorption in rats and showed very low acute toxicity in mice. So far, this compound can be regarded as a leading antibacterial agent.
The use of cocaine has been increasingly associated with cerebrovascular disease specially in young adults. We review the cases of stroke related to cocaine abuse in this group.
We performed a retrospective study between 1989-1998. Data were obtained from the Young Adults Stroke Registry. To investigate the etiology of stroke all patients underwent cardiologic examination, coagulation and neuroimaging tests.
We identified 13 patients under 45 years of age with stroke related to cocaine abuse (0.39% of all strokes and 7.60% of the ones in young adults). Mean age in this group was 28.30 years. Eight developed ischemic manifestations (5 infarcts, 2 TIAs and 1 encephalopathy with multiple ischemic lesions), 4 had intraparenchymal hemorrhages and 1 had a subarachnoid hemorrhage. The principal route of administration was intranasal and the time course from cocaine use to stroke ranged from several hours to several years. 61.53% had history of other drug abuse and in 84.61% other risk factors were identified. Angiographic studies demonstrated: arterial occlusions (3 cases), changes consistent with vasospasm (1), segmental narrowing (1) and arterial wall irregularities (1). No aneurysms or arterio-venous malformations were found. The frequency of cocaine-related stroke in young adults has decreased from 8.33% in 1989 to 5% in 1998.
Cocaine is a well known cause of stroke, specially in young adults. In most cases other risk factors can be identified. Multiple overlapping mechanisms may be involved (vasospasm-thrombosis, high blood pressure, embolism.
A 67 year old man with longstanding rheumatoid disease was referred to the regional spinal surgery unit with acute onset of paraparesis due to an extensive spinal epidural abscess of the lumbar spine. Ten months previously, he had started antibiotic treatment at another hospital for an epidural abscess arising at the level of the L2-3 disc space. Despite completing seven months of medical treatment with appropriate antibiotics, he had a recrudescence of acute back pain shortly after restarting methotrexate treatment. Urgent anterior spinal decompression with excision of the necrotic vertebral bodies of L1-3 was performed. The indications for the surgical management of spinal epidural abscess are reviewed.
Extracellular superoxide dismutase (EC-SOD) is primarily a tissue enzyme and has been implicated in the modulation of inflammatory response. The biological role of EC-SOD in skin, however, has rarely been investigated. In this study, we aim to explore the effects of EC-SOD on the inflammatory response in skin by evaluating the contact hypersensitivity response (CHS) in EC-SOD transgenic mice. Transgenic mice with skin-specific expression of EC-SOD were sensitized and challenged with 2,4,6-trinitro-1-chlorobenzene (TNCB), followed by measurement of ear swelling. EC-SOD transgenic mice showed significantly reduced CHS responses compared with wild-type mice. Histological evaluation of the challenged ears of EC-SOD transgenic mice revealed diminished infiltration of inflammatory cells with a failure to induce expression of inflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha and IFN-gamma, on sensitization and challenge with TNCB. Furthermore, Langerhans cell migration to lymph nodes was impaired in EC-SOD transgenic mice. These results indicate that EC-SOD downregulates CHS through inhibition of the inflammatory response, suggesting a possible therapeutic regimen in inflammatory skin diseases.
The high incidence of fibrotic cardiac valvulopathies reported in association with the 8beta-ergoline dopamine (DA) agonist, pergolide, and also case reports for cabergoline and bromocriptine have made it necessary to review the theoretical basis and actual findings in the case of another DA agonist, the 8alpha-ergoline lisuride (used since the 1970s for migraine prophylaxis as well as since the 1980s for its prolactin-lowering and anti-Parkinson activity).
We have reviewed the pharmacology of lisuride in relation to other DA agonists, and we have performed a throughout literature search as well as a search of our own and other adverse drug reaction databases for a possible relationship of lisuride with cardiac valvulopathy or for any reports of fibrosis in other locations.
Our review of the pharmacology and the literature strongly suggests that drug-induced cardiac valvulopathies are always related to a stimulatory drug effect on trophic 5-HT(2B) receptors. As lisuride is devoid of such an effect, but on the contrary is an extremely potent 5-HT(2B) antagonist, an association of lisuride therapy with cardiac valvulopathies seems to be highly unlikely. In agreement with this hypothesis, not a single report of a cardiac valvulopathy associated with lisuride therapy has been identified in any database so far.Furthermore, against a background of an estimated 360,000 patient years, we have found only a very small number of cases of any other form of fibrosis (1x retroperitoneal, 2x pleural, 2x pulmonary, 1x interstitial pulmonary changes), in part combined with other risk factors and confounding variables. This closely matches 4 reports available from WHO (1x retroperitoneal, 3x pleural fibrosis). In addition, only 5 other possibly related conditions (3x pleural effusion, 1x pleuritis, 1x pericarditis) were identified in the lisuride adverse drug reaction database of Schering, Berlin.
No link has been found between lisuride use and fibrotic cardiac valvulopathy, in agreement with the 5-HT(2B) receptor antagonist effect of this drug. The very low incidence of spontaneous reports of any other fibrosis could be even compatible with an association by chance in the population exposed to lisuride. Although close monitoring for this kind of side effects is still to be recommended in the therapy with lisuride, our data do not support the concept of a class effect suggesting that all ergot-derived drugs and especially DA receptor agonists with some chemical similarity to the ergot structure will cause or facilitate cardiac valvulopathies as observed with pergolide.
Atropine, pirenzepine, and himbacine prevent form-deprivation myopia (FDM) when administered intravitreously. The mechanisms and sites of action of these drugs against myopia are not clear. To shed further light on whether this mechanism is muscarinic, several other muscarinic antagonists were tested.
Various concentrations of atropine, pirenzepine, dexetimide, scopolamine, tropicamide, benztropine, dicyclomine, gallamine, mepenzolate, oxyphenonium, propantheline, procyclidine, 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine (4-DAMP), hexahydro-sila-difenidol (HHSiD), p-fluorohexahydro-sila-difenidol (pf-HHSiD), methoctramine, AFDX-116, and quinuclidinyl benzilate (QNB) were injected into goggled eyes of Leghorn cockerels three times at 48-hour intervals. Fellow control eyes received saline. Control animals received saline in both eyes. Twenty-four hours after final injections, refraction, eye weight, and axial length were measured, and eyes were prepared for microscopy.
Other than atropine and pirenzepine, only oxyphenonium caused full rescue from FDM (goggled versus control; mean +/- SD; refraction differences: -9.50 +/- 0.22 D vs. 0.83 +/- 0.31 D, P < 0.001; wet weight differences: 75.67 +/- 3.84 mg vs. 2.33 +/- 6.14 mg, P < 0.001; axial length differences: 0.80 +/- 0.05 mm vs. 0.03 +/- 0.04 mm, P < 0.001). Oxyphenonium-treated retinas showed no damage. Of the other compounds, several elicited partial rescue and/or damaged the retina, whereas others had no effect.
Oxyphenonium prevents FDM in chicks. The ineffectiveness or partial effectiveness of other compounds, coupled with the high concentrations of effective compounds required to prevent FDM, suggests that muscarinic antagonists act to prevent FDM, either at sites distant from the retina, or through a nonmuscarinic mechanism, on which only some of these drugs act.
More than 30% of cases of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) arise in patients aged > or =70 years. The efficacy and safety of carboplatin-paclitaxel combination chemotherapy in elderly patients with advanced NSCLC were evaluated in a phase II trial.
Twenty-five patients aged > or =70 years (median, 76; range, 70-83) with chemotherapy-naive advanced NSCLC were enrolled between January 2001 and July 2003. Additional criteria included the presence of measurable lesions, an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0 or 1, and adequate organ function. Patients received carboplatin at an area under the curve of 5 mg/ml/min and paclitaxel at 180 mg/m(2) on the first day of consecutive 3 week periods.
The patients included four with stage IIIB, 19 with stage IV and two with recurrent disease. The median number of treatment cycles was three (range, 1-4). One complete response and six partial responses, yielding an objective response rate of 28%, were obtained. The median survival time was 12.3 months and the 1-year survival rate was 52%. Hematological toxicities of grade 3 or 4 included leukopenia (40%), neutropenia (68%) and anemia (4%). Non-hematological toxicities of grade 3 included arthralgia-myalgia (16%) and neuropathy (12%). The objective response rate for patients aged > or =75 years (n = 15) was 26%, and no evidence of excessive toxicity in these patients was apparent compared with those aged <75 years.
The combination carboplatin-paclitaxel at these doses is a feasible treatment option with a favorable toxicity profile for fit elderly patients with advanced NSCLC.
To report a case of acute self-limiting ischemic colitis in a patient who was self-medicating with a proprietary over-the-counter oral decongestant containing pseudoephedrine.
A 46-year-old white man developed clinical, endoscopic, and histologic features of acute ischemic colitis after taking a proprietary oral decongestant containing pseudoephedrine 240 mg/day for one week. The total daily dose was at the upper limit of recommended doses for pseudoephedrine (as a single drug or in combination products). The patient was also taking tramadol 150 mg/day for chronic back pain. He made a complete recovery. There were no other explanations for the episode of ischemic colitis.
An objective causality assessment based on the Naranjo probability scale revealed pseudoephedrine to be a probable cause of ischemic colitis in our patient. Pseudoephedrine occasionally causes vascular insufficiency due to intense vasoconstriction, even at standard doses. Although our patient was not taking an excessive dose of pseudoephedrine, it is possible that the concurrent use of pseudoephedrine and tramadol may have increased adrenergic vasoconstriction, predisposing to ischemic colitis.
Prolonged or intensive use of medications containing pseudoephedrine should be avoided, and the package information should contain advice that the medication should be ceased if abdominal pain or other ischemic symptoms occur.
Chemoprevention of colorectal cancer using aspirin has been demonstrated in rodents and has been suggested by data from epidemiological studies. The mechanism that accounts for this prevention is unknown, but it is thought to relate to an irreversible inhibition of cyclooxygenase and, subsequently, prostaglandin production. The effect of aspirin on the growth of human colonic tumor cells was determined in an effort to gain insight into a possible mechanism of action. In the two cell lines studied, SW 620 and HT-29, we observed a significant dose- and time-dependent increase in aspirin toxicity in a concentration range of 1.25-10 mM. This result was independent of prostaglandin production, because there was no measurable prostaglandin E2 in cell culture medium. As compared with controls, cells in cultures that contained aspirin were not detached, which suggests that the mechanism of cell death was not apoptosis. Flow cytometric analysis revealed an increase in S phase and G2-M populations as well as the number of subdiploid nuclei in cultures treated with high-dose aspirin. Confirmation that cells were undergoing necrosis in response to aspirin was evident from the presence of cells that bound annexin V and accumulated propidium iodide in the absence of a population that bound annexin alone. The results suggest that aspirin induces cell cycle arrest and causes necrosis at high concentrations in vitro, but does not induce apoptosis. Collectively, these two events, necrosis and cell cycle arrest, may contribute to the chemopreventive effect that seems to result from long-term administration of aspirin in vivo.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the orofacial manifestations in patients with Mobius syndrome (MS), establish an early adequate dental treatment and discuss the possible etiology of all cases examined based on information about the gestational intercurrences.
Prospective study.
Special Care Dentistry Center, School of Dentistry, University of Sao Paulo, Brazil. Subject(s) and methods: Twenty-nine patients with MS aged 0 to 4 underwent prospective dental examination as well as early orthodontic treatment.
All patients presented micrognathia, lack of lip seal, high arched palate and weak soft palate. The use of orthopedic appliances was recommended to all 29 patients, but only 13 adhered to treatment and were monitored for at least 24 months. We observed that, after 24 months of treatment, the palate was expanded and micrognathia became less severe in the majority of the cases. Pregnancy-related complications were reported by 27 (97%) of the 29 mothers.
The early use of orthopedic appliances was important to prevent malocclusion and glossoptosis. Attempted abortion with misoprostol is associated with an increased risk of MS in infants.
Transient receptor potential ion channels (TRPs) expressed in the periphery sense and electrically transduce noxious stimuli to transmit the signals to the brain. Many natural and synthetic ligands for the sensory TRPs have been found, but little is known about endogenous inhibitors of these TRP channels. Recently, we reported that farnesyl pyrophosphate, an endogenous substance produced in the mevalonate pathway, is a specific activator for TRPV3. Here, we show that isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP), an upstream metabolite in the same pathway, is a dual inhibitor for TRPA1 and TRPV3. By using Ca(2+) imaging and voltage clamp experiments with human embryo kidney cell heterologous expression system, cultured sensory neurons, and epidermal keratinocytes, we demonstrate that micromolar IPP suppressed responses to specific agonists of TRPA1 and TRPV3. Consistently, peripheral IPP administration attenuated TRPA1 and TRPV3 agonist-specific acute pain behaviors. Furthermore, local IPP pretreatment significantly reversed mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity of inflamed animals. Taken together, the present study suggests that IPP is a novel endogenous TRPA1 and TRPV3 inhibitor that causes local antinociception. Our results may provide useful chemical information to elucidate TRP physiology in peripheral pain sensation.
