Studies in mice and guinea pigs have shown that albumin is a new biomarker of organophosphorus toxicant (OP) and nerve agent exposure. Our goal was to determine whether OP-labeled albumin could be detected in the blood of humans exposed to OP. Blood from four OP-exposed patients was prepared for mass spectrometry analysis by digesting 0.010 ml of serum with pepsin and purifying the labeled albumin peptide by offline high performance liquid chromatography. Dimethoxyphosphate-labeled tyrosine 411 was identified in albumin peptides VRY(411)TKKVPQVSTPTL and LVRY(411)TKKVPQVSTPTL from two patients who had attempted suicide with dichlorvos. The butyrylcholinesterase activity in these serum samples was inhibited 80%. A third patient whose serum BChE activity was inhibited 8% by accidental inhalation of dichlorvos had undetectable levels of adduct on albumin. A fourth patient whose BChE activity was inhibited 60% by exposure to chlorpyrifos had no detectable adduct on albumin. This is the first report to demonstrate the presence of OP-labeled albumin in human patients. It is concluded that tyrosine 411 of human albumin is covalently modified in the serum of humans poisoned by dichlorvos and that the modification is detectable by mass spectrometry. The special reactivity of tyrosine 411 with OP suggests that other proteins may also be modified on tyrosine. Identification of other OP-modified proteins may lead to an understanding of neurotoxic symptoms that appear long after the initial OP exposure.
In order to assess the effects of age on blood pressure, pulse, and neurohumoral responses to hypotensive stress, we infused nitroprusside into healthy young and old men until mean arterial blood pressure was reduced 20% from basal. Elderly subjects were much more sensitive to nitroprusside. Pulse increases in response to this hypotensive stress were markedly reduced in the elderly, but renin, vasopressin, and norepinephrine responses were not different between young and old. We conclude that cardioacceleration, one of the primary defenses against hypotension, is impaired with age. However, neurohumoral responses to hypotension are intact in the elderly.
To report that iopamidol myelography can induce status epilepticus (SE) in patients carrying the diagnosis of symptomatic epilepsy and to estimate the incidence of seizures in patients undergoing iopamidol myelography.
We retrospectively identified all patients with seizures/SE associated with 1350 iopamidol myelographies during the last 5 years at our institution. The impact of cervical versus lumbar myelography was analysed.
Induced by iopamidol myelography two non-epileptic patients suffered from first generalised tonic-clonic seizures and a 67-year-old women with symptomatic epilepsy after a remote ischemic stroke developed a generalised tonic-clonic seizure evolving into a dialeptic and right nystagmus SE (i.e. complex focal status) of 5-hour duration. The incidence of seizures in non-epileptic patients was 0.15%. The incidence of seizure induction for lumbar myelography was lower than for myelographies that included the cervical subarachnoid space.
Iopamidol myelography (especially if cervical) is associated with a risk of seizures in non-epileptic individuals and can induce SE in patients with epilepsy. Patients should be informed about the risk of seizure induction.
NADPH oxidase, catalysing superoxide radical (O₂(.-)) formation, is considered as a main source of reactive oxygen species in kidneys and its increased activity is supposed to be involved in the development of diabetic nephropathy. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of NADPH oxidase inhibitor, apocynin, on renal gluconeogenesis, which is an important source of endogenous glucose under diabetic conditions. The following observations were made during the experiments performed on isolated renal proximal tubules of control and alloxan diabetic rabbits: (1) apocynin (200 μM) inhibited the rate of glucose synthesis by 45-80%, depending on the substrate applied; (2) the rate of glucose production was also significantly diminished in the presence of TEMPOL (5mM), a superoxide radical scavenger, suggesting that the decrease in O₂(.-) formation might be involved in apocynin-evoked gluconeogenesis inhibition; (3) the activities of phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and/or aldolase were lowered in the presence of either apocynin or TEMPOL, as concluded from the intracellular levels of gluconeogenic intermediates. The data from in vivo experiments indicated that apocynin treatment (2g/l of drinking water): (1) significantly (by about 30%) attenuated serum glucose concentration in diabetic rabbits and did not affect glycaemia in control animals; (2) normalized diabetes-stimulated rate of glucose synthesis and slightly inhibited gluconeogenesis in control rabbits; (3) normalized diabetes-increased activity of mitochondrial PEPCK and lowered cytosolic PEPCK activity by about 20% below the value for untreated control animals; (4) slightly decreased the activity of mitochondrial PEPCK and did not change the activity of cytosolic one in control rabbits. Thus, it is concluded that: (1) the inhibition of NADPH oxidase might contribute to lowered rate of renal gluconeogenesis, probably due to decreasing PEPCK activity; (2) inhibition of renal gluconeogenesis is involved in apocynin hypoglycaemic action in vivo; (3) apocynin might be beneficial for diabetes treatment.
Five patients with carcinoma developed thrombotic microangiopathy (characterized by renal insufficiency, microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, and usually thrombocytopenia) after treatment with cisplatin, bleomycin, and a vinca alkaloid. One patient had thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, three the hemolytic-uremic syndrome, and one an apparent forme fruste of one of these disorders. Histologic examination of the renal tissue showed evidence of intravascular coagulation, primarily affecting the small arteries, arterioles, and glomeruli. Because each patient was tumor-free or had only a small tumor at the onset of this syndrome, the thrombotic microangiopathy may have been induced by chemotherapy. Diagnosis of this potentially fatal complication may be delayed or missed if renal tissue or the peripheral blood smear is not examined, because renal failure may be ascribed to cisplatin nephrotoxicity and the anemia and thrombocytopenia to drug-induced bone marrow suppression.
Citrus lemon (CL) belongs to Rutaceae family and is popularly known in Brazil as limão siciliano. The phytochemical analysis of CL fruit bark essential oil showed two majority components, limonene (LIM) and β-pinene (PIN). This study aimed to evaluate the gastroprotective mechanism of action from CL, LIM and PIN in ethanol- and indomethacin-induced gastric ulcers and its in vitro anti-Helicobacter pylori activity. After ethanol-induced gastric ulcer, the ulcer area was measured and the stomachs were destined to histology (HE and PAS), immunohistochemistry for HSP-70 and VIP and glutathione (GSH) measurement. The involvement of nitric oxide (NO) and sulfhydryl (SH) compounds was determined. The ulcer area for indomethacin-induced gastric ulcers was measured. PGE₂ concentration was biochemically measured. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) against H. pylori was determined in vitro. In ethanol model, CL and LIM demonstrated 100% of gastroprotection, while PIN did not exert effective gastroprotection (53.26%). In the indomethacin model, CL and LIM offered effective gastroprotection but PIN did not show gastroprotective effect. The gastric ulcer area of rats pretreated with NO-synthase inhibitor or SH-blocker was decreased in comparison to the control group. The MIC obtained for CL was 125 μg/mL, for LIM was 75 μg/mL and for PIN was 500 μg/mL. The gastroprotective effect of CL and LIM was involved with increasing in mucus secretion, HSP-70 and VIP, but not with GSH, NO or SH compounds. CL gastroprotective mechanism is involved with PGE₂. PIN did not present gastroprotective activity.
Groups of broiler chicks of one day and three weeks of age were given feeds containing 0, 400, 800 and 1000 mg furazolidone (Fz)/kg for three weeks. The age of the birds and the dose and duration of Fz treatment significantly (P < or = 0.05) influenced the parameters studied. Clinical signs of Fz toxicosis included ascites, leg weakness and nervous derangement like convulsions and torticollis. The body weight also decreased. Ascites and nervous derangement was not observed in birds fed 400 mg Fz from one day of age. Fz-fed birds developed anaemia and had lower plasma total protein and albumin levels than those fed no Fz. The decrease in body weight was related to reduced feed intake. Decreases found in the haematological parameters and plasma proteins showed no correlation with the chicks' age but were related to the dose and duration of Fz treatment.
Egg injection studies were performed to confirm a proposed model of relative sensitivity of birds to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). In this model, species are classified as belonging to one of three categories of sensitivity based on amino acid substitutions in the ligand-binding domain of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor. Embryo lethality and relative potencies of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzofuran (TCDF) and 2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran (PeCDF) were compared with TCDD for Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica; least sensitive), Common pheasant (Phasianus colchicus; moderately sensitive), and White Leghorn chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus; most sensitive). Doses ranging from 0.044 to 37 pmol/g egg (0.015-12 ng/g egg) were injected into the air cell of eggs prior to incubation. LD(50) (95% confidence intervals) values, based on rate of hatching for TCDD, PeCDF, and TCDF, were 30 (25-36), 4.9 (2.3-9.2), and 15 (11-24) pmol/g egg for the quail, 3.5 (2.3-6.3), 0.61 (0.28-1.2), and 1.2 (0.62-2.2) pmol/g egg for pheasant, and 0.66 (0.47-0.90), 0.75 (0.64-0.87), and 0.33 (0.23-0.45) pmol/g egg for chicken, respectively. LD(50)-based relative potencies of PeCDF and TCDF were 6.1 and 2.0 for quail, 5.7 and 2.9 for pheasant, and 0.88 and 2.0 for chicken, respectively. TCDD was not the most potent compound among the species tested, with PeCDF and TCDF being more potent than TCDD in the quail and pheasant. TCDF was the most potent in chicken. Species sensitivity was as expected for TCDD and TCDF, whereas for PeCDF, the chicken and pheasant were similar in sensitivity and both were more sensitive than the quail. Results from companion in vitro studies are generally similar to those reported here with a few exceptions.
We report three patients with serious clinical valproate (VPA) toxicity induced by interaction with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). Two patients had a documented rise in VPA free level, and the third showed only clinical signs of toxicity. Symptoms resolved in all three when the ASA was stopped. This interaction has been previously documented under experimental conditions, and is due to displacement of VPA from plasma protein binding sites and a probable interference in metabolism. This is the first report of the clinical significance of this interaction.
Encoded by the peptidase D (PEPD) gene located at 19q12-q13.11, prolidase is a ubiquitous cytosolic enzyme that catalyzes hydrolysis of oligopeptides with a C-terminal proline or hydroxyproline. We describe here four Amish children with a severe phenotype of prolidase deficiency in the Geauga settlements of Ohio as the first report of prolidase deficiency in the Amish population as well as in the United States. The patients presented with infection, hepatosplenomegaly, or thrombocytopenia, in contrast to most cases previously reported in the literature, presenting with skin ulcers. All four patients had typical facial features, classic skin ulcers, and multisystem involvement. Recurrent infections, asthma-like chronic reactive airway disease, hyperimmunoglobulins, hepatosplenomegaly with mildly elevated aspartate transaminase (AST), anemia, and thrombocytopenia were common and massive imidodipeptiduria was universal. Prolidase activity in our patients is nearly undetectable. Direct sequencing of PCR-amplified genomic DNA for all of the exons from the four patients revealed the same homozygous single nucleotide mutation c.793 T > C in exon 11, resulting in a premature stop-codon at amino acid residue 265 (p.R265X). It is speculated that the severe phenotype in these patients might be associated with the type of the PEPD gene mutation.
Thirty patients with leukemia and lymphoma have been treated at our institution with high doses of cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C). Gastrointestinal symptoms were frequent after therapy, and 6 of the 30 patients had severe abdominal pain. Of the six, two had pancreatitis; two had normal amylase and lipase determinations; and in two, neither amylase nor lipase levels were determined. The two patients with pancreatitis are presented because this complication of high-dose Ara-C therapy has not been described. The authors conclude that pancreatitis can follow high-dose Ara-C chemotherapy and that patients with abdominal pain following this treatment be evaluated for pancreatitis.
Differential access to cocaine self-administration produced two patterns of drug intake in rats. With 1 hour of access per session, drug intake remained low and stable. In contrast, with 6 hours of access, drug intake gradually escalated over days. After escalation, drug consumption was characterized by an increased early drug loading and an upward shift in the cocaine dose-response function, suggesting an increase in hedonic set point. After 1 month of abstinence, escalation of cocaine intake was reinstated to a higher level than before. These findings may provide an animal model for studying the development of excessive drug intake and the basis of addiction.
We investigated the effect of benzhydramine, thenalidine, mepyramine (H1 receptor antagonists) and cimetidine (H2 receptor antagonist) on cataleptogenic action of morphine, codeine, fentanyl, and haloperidol. Benzhydramine antagonized the catalepsy induced by analgesics (particularly by codeine). The antagonistic effect of thenalidine was weaker (but also very prominent for codeine catalepsy). Mepyramine did not affect the catalepsy induced by analgesics. All three H1 receptor antagonists attenuated the catalepsy induced by haloperidol. Cimetidine, injected intraventricularly, did not affect the catalepsy induced either by analgesics or by haloperidol. It is suggested that the antagonistic action of benzhydramine and thenalidine against analgesic catalepsy is related rather to their antiserotonin properties, while the anticataleptic activity of all three H1 receptor antagonists against haloperidol catalepsy is caused by their anticholinergic and antiserotonin properties.
The pathological findings of 13 patients with immunoglobulin A (IgA) nephropathy or Henoch-Schönlein purpura nephritis before and after urokinase (UK) administration were investigated retrospectively. The mean activity index value decreased significantly at the time of the second biopsy compared with that of the biopsy before UK treatment. The mean chronicity index value, which was considered to reflect the renal outcome, before and after UK treatment did not change significantly, although it improved significantly in six patients. Immunofluorescence microscopy showed that the immune deposition of C3 decreased, but that of IgA and fibrin-related antigen were unchanged, by UK therapy. These results suggest that UK may prevent the mesangial proliferation associated with IgA nephropathy and Henoch-Schönlein purpura nephritis not only by its fibrinolytic action, but also by other mechanisms, such as digestion of the mesangial matrices.
Baclofen, a GABAB receptor agonist can induce catatonia in rats. This catatonia may serve as a tool for the study of GABAB receptor function. Reciprocal interactions between serotonin (5-HT) and GABAB receptors in the CNS are known to occur. In the present study we examined the effect of various agents that influence serotonergic neurotransmission on baclofen-induced catatonia in rats. The catatonia was rated by means of a scoring method, according to the severity of motor symptoms produced by baclofen (10-15 mg/kg, i.p.). All serotonergic drugs were injected intraperitoneally 30 min prior to baclofen, except the 5-HT synthesis inhibitor p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA), which was injected 72 and 48 hr prior to baclofen. The 5-HT releaser fenfluramine (10 mg/kg) and the uptake inhibitor fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) reversed, whereas the 5-HT1A agonist buspirone (3 mg/kg) potentiated baclofen-induced catatonia. The 5-HT synthesis inhibitor PCPA (150 x 2 mg/kg), the non-specific 5-HT antagonist cyproheptadine (5 mg/kg), the 5-HT1A/1B antagonist pindolol (3 mg/kg) and the 5-HT2 antagonist sulpiride (20 mg/kg) enhanced baclofen-induced catatonia. It is concluded that the manipulations of central serotonergic mechanisms modulate baclofen-induced catatonia.
The carcinogens, urethane (URTH), 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA) and dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) given to pregnant mice enhanced permanently the activities of pyruvate kinase (PK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in the lungs of offspring even well before the appearance of lung tumours. The noncarcinogenic analogues phenylurethane (PHUR) and pyrene (PYR), had no effect on PK or LDH activity. The non-carcinogenic pulmonary toxicant Paraquat (PAR) elicited only a temporary elevation in the activities of the enzymes tested. The H:M ratio of LDH sub-units in the lung tissue was permanently decreased by URTH administered transplacentally. PAR caused only a temporary decrease in the H:M ratio, while PHUR had no effect on the isozymic pattern of LDH.
Several studies indicate that repeated administration of cocaine can alter GABA(A) receptor function, particularly in the mesolimbic pathway. The purpose of the present study was to assess the effect of cocaine self-administration on GABA(A) receptor activity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), measured by bicuculline-induced rotational behavior. In order to test whether the hypothesized alteration in GABA(A) receptor function persisted during withdrawal, rats were tested when drug-nai;ve and at two time points after cocaine self-administration. Eighteen rats were implanted with intrajugular catheters and unilateral guide shafts aimed at the VTA. Microinjection of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (10, 25 and 50 ng) produced a dose-dependent turning behavior in a direction ipsilateral to the side of the injection. A subset of six rats was given up to 2 weeks exposure to intravenous cocaine by self-administration and was tested for bicuculline-induced rotations early in withdrawal (24 h) and again at a late withdrawal time point (between 11 and 14 days after the last cocaine session). Cocaine self-administration reduced sensitivity to bicuculline-induced rotations at the early but not at the late withdrawal point, when compared to sensitivity in drug-naive animals. A separate control study that was conducted in seven rats determined that repeated injections of bicuculline in the cocaine self-administration animals was not the cause of the decrease in behavioral response to bicuculline at the early withdrawal time point. These results suggest that exposure to cocaine via self-administration reduces the function of GABA(A) receptors in the ventral midbrain, but this reduction in receptor sensitivity did not persist beyond 10 days of withdrawal from cocaine.
The effects of hot water extract of garlic (WEG) and high hydrostatic pressure extract of garlic (HEG) on obesity were investigated in rats fed a high-fat (HF) diet. Supplementation with HEG significantly reduced body weight gain and adipose tissue mass compared to those in the HF group, whereas WEG did not. Serum levels of triglycerides, total cholesterol, and LDL-cholesterol were also decreased in the HEG supplemented group compared to those in the HF group. The level of fecal triglyceride in the HEG group was higher compared to that in the HF group. The mRNA levels of adipogenic genes, such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ), sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c), and fatty acid-binding protein (aP2) were significantly decreased in both the WEG and HEG groups. Additionally, uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2) mRNA were increased clearly in the HEG group compared to that in the HF group. These results suggested that HEG more efficiently reduced body weight gain than WEG, at least partially mediated by increase of the fecal triglyceride and downregulation of adipogenic genes expression together with upregulation of UCP2 gene expression in rats fed a high-fat diet.
The generation of reactive oxygen species and mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated in doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiotoxicity. The aim of the present study was to determine whether Spirulina, a blue-green algae, could serve as a cardioprotective agent during DOX treatment in a mouse model. Mice were treated with DOX (4 mg/kg bw, intraperitoneally), weekly, for 4 weeks. Spirulina was administered orally for 3 days twice daily, then for 7 weeks along with the four equal injections of DOX. Cardiotoxicity was assessed, at 3 weeks after the end of the DOX-treatment period, by mortality, volume of ascites, liver congestion, oxidative stress and ultrastructural changes of heart tissue. The DOX-treated animals showed higher mortality (53%) and more ascites. Myocardial damage, as assessed by ultrastructural changes, showed loss of myofibrils, cytoplasmic vacuolization and mitochondrial swelling. Myocardial superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activities were decreased and lipid peroxidation was increased. Pretreatment with Spirulina significantly protected the mice from DOX-induced cardiotoxic effects as evidenced from lower mortality (26%), less ascites, lower levels of lipid peroxidation, normalization of antioxidant enzymes and ultrastructural studies showing minimal damage to the heart. In vitro cytotoxic studies using ovarian cancer cells demonstrated that Spirulina did not compromise the anti-tumor activity of doxorubicin. These results suggest that Spirulina has a protective effect against cardiotoxicity induced by DOX and it may, therefore, improve the therapeutic index of DOX.
Nitrosoperoxycarbonate derived from the combination of carbon dioxide and peroxynitrite is an important chemical mediator of inflammation. In aqueous solutions, it rapidly decomposes to the reactive species CO(3)(•-) and (•)NO(2) radicals that are known to initiate the selective oxidation and nitration of guanine in DNA. We have previously demonstrated that the reactions of carbonate radical anions with guanine in 2'-deoxyoligoribonucleotides generate a previously unknown intrastrand cross-linked guanine-thymine product G*-T* with a covalent bond between the C8 (G*) and the thymine N3 (T*) atoms (Crean Nucleic Acids Res. 2008, 36, 742-755). In this work, we demonstrate that G*-T* cross-linked products are also formed when peroxynitrite (0.1 mM) reacts with native DNA in aqueous solutions (pH 7.5-7.7) containing 25 mM carbon dioxide/bicarbonate, in addition to the well-known nitration/oxidation products of guanine such as 8-nitroguanine (8-nitro-G), 5-guanidino-4-nitroimidazole (NIm), 8-oxo-7,8-dehydroguanine (8-oxo-G), and spiroiminodihydantoin (Sp). The yields of these products, after enzymatic digestion with P1 nuclease and alkaline phosphatase to the nucleotide level and reversed phase HPLC separation, were compared with those obtained with the uniformly, isotopically labeled (15)N,(13)C-labeled 2'-deoxy oligoribonucleotides 5'-dGpT and 5'-dGpCpT. The d(G*pT*) and d(G*-T*) cross-linked products derived from the di- and trioligonucleotides, respectively, were used as standards for identifying the analogous lesions in calf thymus DNA by isotope dilution LC-MS/MS methods in the selected reaction monitoring mode. The NIm and 8-nitro-G are the major products formed (∼0.05% each), and lesser amounts of 8-oxo-G (∼0.02%) and d(G*pT*) and d(G*-T*) enzymatic digestion products (∼0.002% each) were found. It is shown that the formation of d(G*pT*) enzyme digestion product can arise only from intrastrand cross-links, whereas d(G*-T*) can arise from both interstrand and intrastrand cross-linked products.
The present study was designed to explore the alternative mechanism (other than AChE inhibition) for chronic, low-level exposure to dichlorvos, an organophosphate, in vivo. Dichlorvos, at a dose of 1.0 and 6.0 mg/kg body weight (b.wt.) for 12 weeks, showed impairment in neurobehavioral indices viz. rota rod, passive avoidance and water maze tests. Though high dose of dichlorvos had a detrimental effect on acetylcholinesterase activity, no significant inhibition was seen with low dose of dichlorvos. Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence studies showed a significant reduction in the expression of M(1), M(2) and M(3) muscarinic receptor subtypes in high dose group animals, whereas in low dose group animals only the M(2) receptor subtype was reduced significantly. Further, the signal transduction cascade linked to these receptor subtypes was affected in high dose group animals whereas in low dose group only adenylyl cyclase-linked signaling pathway was impaired. Finally, the phosphorylation of CREB, a memory enhancing transcription factor, was significantly reduced in both low dose and high dose group animals. Thus, the present study reveals the significance of M(2) muscarinic receptor linked adenylyl cyclase signaling pathway and phosphorylation of CREB in the development of neurobehavioral impairments after chronic low-level exposure to dichlorvos.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the protective effects of Panax ginseng on adriamycin-induced heart failure. Wistar rats were divided into four groups: control, adriamycin, ginseng and adriamycin with ginseng. Adriamycin (cumulative dose, 15 mg/kg) was administered to rats in six equal intraperitoneal injections over a period of 2 weeks. Ginseng was administered via an oral feeding tube once a day for 30 days (cumulative dose, 150 g/kg). At the end of the 5 week post-treatment period, the hearts of the rats were used to study the synthesis rates of DNA, RNA and protein, myocardial antioxidants and lipid peroxidation. At the end of 3 weeks treatment, heart failure was characterized by ascites, congested liver and depressed cardiac function. Nucleic acid as well as protein synthesis was inhibited, lipid peroxidation was increased and myocardial glutathione peroxidase activity was decreased indicating adriamycin-induced heart failure. In contrast, the administration of ginseng, before and concurrent with adriamycin, significantly attenuated the myocardial effects, lowered the mortality as well as the amount of ascites, increased in myocardial glutathione peroxidase, macromolecular biosynthesis and superoxide dismutase activities, with a concomitant decrease in lipid peroxidation. These findings indicated that ginseng may be partially protective against adriamycin-induced heart failure.
Social/aggressive behavior in adult rat offspring (beginning at postnatal Day 180) prenatally exposed to saline, cocaine, or amfonelic acid (AFA) was examined. Pregnant rats received injections of 15 mg/kg of cocaine, or 0.9% saline twice daily, s.c., or on 2 consecutive days at 4-day intervals, or 1.5 mg/kg amfonelic acid daily throughout gestational Days 1-20. Frequency, duration, and latency of 11 social/aggressive behaviors were recorded for two 15-min sessions during which a smaller male intruder replaced an ovariectomized female in the resident's home cage. Subjects received a s.c. saline injection before Session 1 and 2.0 mg/kg of gepirone, a 5HT1a partial agonist, prior to Session 2. Prenatal cocaine treatment resulted in alterations of aggressive behavior. Aggressive behavior was reduced by gepirone in all groups but to a lesser extent in the AFA group.
The role of E-cadherin in carcinogenesis is of great interest, but few studies have examined its relevance to pancreatic carcinoma.
We evaluated E-cadherin protein expression by immunohistochemistry in pancreatobiliary cancers having a noncohesive histologic phenotype (21 undifferentiated adenocarcinomas and 7 signet ring carcinomas), comparing the results with pancreatic cancers having a cohesive phenotype (25 moderately differentiated and 14 poorly differentiated adenocarcinomas).
Twenty of 21 undifferentiated cancers had complete absence of E-cadherin expression, as did two signet ring carcinomas. In contrast, cohesive cancers (n = 39) had E-cadherin labeling at the plasma membrane (P < 0.001). Subsets of cancers were also evaluated for beta-catenin expression. All of the cohesive lesions (n = 28) showed a membranous beta-catenin expression pattern, whereas noncohesive foci (n = 7) were characterized by either cytoplasmic labeling or complete absence of beta-catenin protein expression, suggestive of a deficient zonula adherens in noncohesive cancers. E-cadherin promoter hypermethylation was observed in an undifferentiated pancreatic cancer cell line, MiaPaCa-2, whereas two pancreatic cancer cell lines derived from differentiated lesions lacked any evidence of E-cadherin promoter methylation. No pattern of E-cadherin promoter methylation could be determined in three primary cancers having mixed histologic patterns (contained both cohesive and noncohesive foci). No somatic mutations in E-cadherin were identified in noncohesive pancreatic cancers having inactivated E-cadherin.
Noncohesive pancreatic cancers were characterized by the loss of E-cadherin protein expression. Promoter hypermethylation is a possible mechanism of E-cadherin gene silencing in a subset of these cancers.
Tubular response, including phenotypic changes against a variety of injuries, is an initial event that promotes tubulointerstitial injuries. Using the progressive kidney disease model of rat adriamycin (ADR) nephrosis, the present study focused on the cell cycle activation and phenotypic changes that occur in the tubuli in early tubulointerstitial injury in ADR nephrosis. At 12 weeks, experimental animals developed overt nephrosis with tubulointerstitial injury, which correlated well with the degree of proteinuria and incidence of glomerulosclerosis. Initial pathology of the tubuli showed a slight dilatation of tubuli, which tended to occur in individual nephrons. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that vimentin-positive tubuli and osteopontin (OPN)-positive tubuli were associated mostly with proliferating cell nuclear antigen expression. Protein levels of OPN in the renal cortex were correlated with the level of proteinuria by western blotting. Vimentin- and OPN-expressing tubuli were tightly associated with a peritubular influx of alpha-smooth muscle actin (SMA)-positive cells or ED-1-positive cells. In addition, we found thrombomodulin+/ TUNEL+ (dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling) peritubular endothelial cells and ED-1+/alpha-SMA+ cells at an early stage among interstitial inflammatory cells. These results suggest that cell cycle activation in tubular cells forms the background for the phenotypic tubular changes that are involved in chronic tubulointerstitial injury in ADR nephrosis.
Amiodarone hydrochloride is increasingly being used in the treatment of ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias. Although a highly effective anti-arrhythmic agent, its use is restricted by the high incidence of side effects. To elucidate the value of monitoring serum level of both the parent drug and its active metabolite in predicting the occurrence of side effects, the investigators examined 109 patients from a register of patients treated with amiodarone for the prevalence of known side effects of the drug. The register contained over 90% of patients treated with amiodarone at the Leicester General Hospital during the period of the study. The findings suggest cutaneous side effects and abnormal thyroid function tests (without overt gland dysfunction) are more likely to occur with increasing duration of treatment and cumulative dosage. However, neither the serum amiodarone level nor the serum metabolite level had any predictive power for the occurrence of side effects. In view of this finding, it is recommended that close attention be paid to the continued clinical monitoring of side effects and that there is utility in measuring the serum amiodarone level in each patient to avoid the prescription of unnecessarily high doses. This is necessary not only to lessen the occurrence of cumulative dose-related side effects, but also because the variable but very long half-life of the drug leads to difficulties in relating spot drug levels to long-term effects.
300 mg/day phenylbutazone, 210 mg/day indomethacin, and 600 mg/day pyrasanone were administered for 14 days to three randomised groups of patients respectively, consisting of a total of 76 subjects with various forms of non-infectious inflammation (osteoarthritis, fibrositis, rheumatoid arthritis, gout, phlebitis), in a double-blind trila designed to determine the activity of the three drugs and their tolerance. In 36 cases, gastroscopy was performed before and after the treatment. On the basis of doses that were equivalent as far as their anti-inflammatory effect was concerned, epigastric pain and pyrosis were noted in about 31% of the series, though no significant difference could be made out between the three drugs. Gastroscopic evidence of erythema (8 cases), multiple erosion (2 cases), pomphoid gastritis (1 case), and duodenal ulcer (1 case) was obtained in subjects treated with phenylbutazone or indomethacin, and of erythema only (1 case) after pyrasanone. No relation could be established between the clinical symptoms and the gastroscopic findings.
The purpose of this study was to determine if patients with high vancomycin (VAN) serum levels experience more toxicity than underdosed patients with lower (VAN) levels, and whether low VAN serum levels cause therapeutic failures in patients with gram-positive bacteremia. In 198 cancer patients trough and peak serum levels of VAN were measured. Acute toxicity (Red Man syndrome) appeared in 3 patients (1.5%). Patients previously or currently treated with other nephrotoxic compounds (134 patients) presented the same incidence of nephrotoxicity as those receiving VAN for the first time in monotherapy (64 patients). VAN did not increase the toxicity when patients were dosed simultaneously or previously with aminoglycosides or amphotericin B. Our second observation, when studying serum levels in our 198 patients was that high VAN trough serum levels (trough > 15 microg/mL) were associated with significantly more nephrotoxicity (33.3% vs. 11.1%, P < 0.03) than low levels in the subgroups of either pretreated patients or unpretreated with other nephrotoxic drugs. None of 198 patients who had trough levels below 15 microg/mL had peak levels exceeding 40 microg/mL. This suggests that only serum monitoring of trough levels may predict nephrotoxicity. A case control study was conducted to compare a group of 22 VAN failures with 22 successfully treated patients matched in underlying disease and neutropenia who were treated in the same period, under the same antibiotic policy, at the same cancer center, for gram-positive bacteremia. Persisting, enterococcal, or mixed enterococcal plus staphylococcal bacteremia were the only statistically significant risk factors which predicted therapy failure in cancer patients. Neither peak nor trough VAN serum levels predicted failure or cure of gram-positive bacteremia in cancer patients.
