Experimental evidence supporting 1,1'-dimethyl-4,4'-bipyridinium [paraquat (PQ)] as a risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD) is equivocal. Other agricultural chemicals, including dithiocarbamate fungicides such as manganese ethylenebisdithiocarbamate [maneb (MB)], are widely used in the same geographical regions as paraquat and also impact dopamine systems, suggesting that mixtures may be more relevant etiological models. This study therefore proposed that combined PQ and MB exposures would produce greater effects on dopamine (DA) systems than would either compound administered alone. Male C57BL/6 mice were treated twice a week for 6 weeks with intraperitoneal saline, 10 mg/kg paraquat, 30 mg/kg maneb, or their combination (PQ + MB). MB, but not PQ, reduced motor activity immediately after treatment, and this effect was potentiated by combined PQ + MB treatment. As treatments progressed, only the combined PQ + MB group evidenced a failure of motor activity levels to recover within 24 hr. Striatal DA and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid increased 1-3 d and decreased 7 d after injections. Only PQ + MB reduced tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and DA transporter immunoreactivity and did so in dorsal striatum but not nucleus accumbens. Correspondingly, striatal TH protein levels were decreased only by combined PQ + MB 5 d after injection. Reactive gliosis occurred only in response to combined PQ + MB in dorsal-medial but not ventral striatum. TH immunoreactivity and cell counts were reduced only by PQ + MB and in the substantia nigra but not ventral tegmental area. These synergistic effects of combined PQ + MB, preferentially expressed in the nigrostriatal DA system, suggest that such mixtures could play a role in the etiology of PD.
Sonophoresis is an ultrasound transdermal drugs delivery system. The eutectic mixture of local anesthetics (EMLA) has been used clinically for anesthesia but requires at least one hour to take effect and lacks of analgesia's objective assessment. We proposed that sonophoresis could reduce the duration of EMLA analgesia effect onset and be assessed by sensory conduction studies. Thirty Wistar adult rats were randomized into normal, control, ultrasound-, and heat-treatment groups. Normal group was received no EMLA cream or ultrasound and heat treatment. The control group received the EMLA cream on the rat tail at 3.5 cm distal to the rat tail base for local anesthesia of tail nerve. Ultrasound- and heat-treatment groups were received ultrasound with different parameters and heat treatment, respectively, before EMLA cream applied. Sensory conduction studies of tail nerve were made before and after treatment every 5 min at least for 60 min in all rats. There was no significant difference between the EMLA control group and heat treatment group. All rats in ultrasound-treatment group exhibit significant difference with EMLA control group and heat-treatment group in time for decreased 20% SNCV except for the 2 W/cm(2), 25 min, 20% in ultrasound-treatment group having no significant difference with heat-treatment group. There was no significant difference between ultrasound-treatment subgroups. In the decrease of amplitude, only the 2 W/cm(2), 5 min, 100% and the 2 W/cm(2), 10 min, 50% in ultrasound-treatment group had significant difference between EMLA control and heat-treatment groups. We have objectively examined the sonophoresis effect of ultrasound by investigating the effects of EMLA. Applying ultrasound for 5 min reduces the onset time of EMLA analgesia from 60 min to less than 20 min. Ultrasound sonophoresis of analgesic drugs is potentially useful in the treatment of carpal tunnel syndrome, tooth extraction, and other applications of analgesia.
Muscle weakness, neuropathy, and transient rises in hepatic enzyme activity have been reported with the use of the antiarrhythmic agent amiodarone. A 68 year old teetotaller with normal liver function was given amiodarone for resistant supraventricular arrhythmias. He presented 19 months later with vomiting, muscle weakness and wasting, sensory neuropathy, and hepatomegaly. Liver biopsy showed fibrosis and the presence of hyaline. The amiodarone was withdrawn. Three months later he developed ascites. Oesophageal varices were found and he later died. The liver showed micronodular cirrhosis. The large volume of distribution and long half life of amiodarone may explain the persistence of toxicity, which may have been aggravated by simultaneously administered doxepin in this case. Amiodarone should be withdrawn if abnormal liver function or neuropathy develops.
Zolpidem (Stilnox), an imidazopyridine derivative, is a strong sedative with minor myorelaxant and anticonvulsant properties which exhibits high-affinity binding at a benzodiazepine-receptor subtype. Although the structure of zolpidem differs from the benzodiazepines, the acute toxicity of zolpidem has generally been compared to triazolam (Halcion) and midazolam (Dormicum). 5 years after introduction of zolpidem to the Swiss market we have therefore retrospectively analyzed 91 well documented cases of acute zolpidem intoxication reported to the Swiss Toxicological Information Center. Furthermore, 54 single-drug poisonings with zolpidem were compared with 53 triazolam and 55 midazolam intoxications observed over the same time period. 0.01-0.02 g of zolpidem is the recommended therapeutic dose. But only mild symptoms were observed in acute single-drug poisonings with zolpidem up to 0.6 g. Patients mainly suffered from somnolence. Only one anorectic patient became comatose after ingestion of 0.6 g zolpidem. The acute toxicity of zolpidem was markedly less pronounced than that of the short-acting benzodiazepines triazolam and midazolam. With forty-fold the therapeutic dose no severe symptoms occurred in patients with zolpidem single-drug poisonings, while coma was encountered in 4 cases with triazolam (11% of patients) and 4 cases with midazolam (10%). While only the patient mentioned above was reported to be comatose after overdosing with zolpidem, 6 (11%) and 8 (15%) comatose patients were observed in triazolam and midazolam single-drug poisonings, respectively. On the other hand, in combined intoxications with other CNS active drugs or ethanol a zolpidem dose as low as 0.1-0.15 s induced coma in some patients, even if the amount of the additionally ingested drugs in itself would not have caused a comatose state. Flumazenil (Anexate) was an effective antidote in mono- and combined intoxications involving zolpidem. In conclusion, our results indicate that zolpidem single-drug poisonings are generally benign and require no specific therapeutic measures. In combined intoxications, however, patients may develop coma at relatively low zolpidem doses and should therefore be monitored for approximately 24 hours. If necessary, disturbances of consciousness can be successfully treated with flumazenil.
Individuals with HIV can now live long lives with drug therapy that often includes protease inhibitors such as ritonavir. Many patients, however, develop negative long-term side effects such as premature atherosclerosis. We have previously demonstrated that ritonavir treatment increases atherosclerotic lesion formation in male mice to a greater extent than in female mice. Furthermore, peripheral blood monocytes isolated from ritonavir-treated females had less cholesteryl ester accumulation. In the present study, we have investigated the molecular mechanisms by which female hormones influence cholesterol metabolism in macrophages in response to the HIV protease inhibitor ritonavir. We have utilized the human monocyte cell line, THP-1 as a model to address this question. Briefly, cells were differentiated for 72 h with 100 nM PMA to obtain a macrophage-like phenotype in the presence or absence of 1 nM 17beta-estradiol (E2), 100 nM progesterone or vehicle (0.01% ethanol). Cells were then treated with 30 ng/ml ritonavir or vehicle in the presence of aggregated LDL for 24 h. Cell extracts were harvested, and lipid or total RNA was isolated. E2 decreased the accumulation of cholesteryl esters in macrophages following ritonavir treatment. Ritonavir increased the expression of the scavenger receptor, CD36 mRNA, responsible for the uptake of LDL. Additionally, ritonavir treatment selectively increased the relative levels of PPARgamma mRNA, a transcription factor responsible for the regulation of CD36 mRNA expression. Treatment with E2, however, failed to prevent these increases at the mRNA level. E2 did, however, significantly suppress CD36 protein levels as measured by fluorescent immunocytochemistry. This data suggests that E2 modifies the expression of CD36 at the level of protein expression in monocyte-derived macrophages resulting in reduced cholesteryl ester accumulation following ritonavir treatment.
Morphine can be used to treat pain in preterm neonates with CPAP because of its analgetic potency; however, it is known to induce apnoea.
To evaluate this risk of apnoea.
We retrospectively analysed 91 preterm neonates with CPAP who received morphine intravenously. The incidence of apnoea 4 h before and after morphine administration was compared. The data were analysed for three dosage groups (<0.01, 0.01-0.03 and 0.03 mg/kg) and according to the incidence of apnoea before morphine application.
In the whole group (gestational age 29.1+/-2.9 wk, morphine dosage 0.017+/-0.01 mg/kg) we did not find differences in apnoea before and after morphine (0.9+/-1.8 vs 1.1+/-1.8 apnoea). The only significant increase in apnoea was seen in the subgroup of patients receiving > 0.03 mg/kg (0.3+/-0.67 vs 1.5+/-2.5 apnoea). Interestingly, we found a significantly delayed increase in apnoea in the fourth hour.
Morphine in preterm infants with CPAP is not widely accepted practice until further randomized studies evaluate efficacy and safety. Morphine in a low dosage (<or=0.03 mg/kg) did not significantly increase the apnoea rate in CPAP-treated preterm infants. For clinical work, it is very important to note that morphine-related apnoea may appear with a delay of approximately 4 h.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of a combination of folinic acid, 5-fluorouracil (5FU) and irinotecan (FOLFIRI 1) administered every 2 weeks in a population of elderly subjects with advanced colorectal cancer.
Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer included in this study were aged at least 70 years, with a performance status of 0/1, without geriatric syndrome and without previous palliative chemotherapy. They received irinotecan [180 mg/m(2) intravenous (iv) infusion over 90 min] followed by folinic acid (400 mg/m(2) iv over 2 h), then 5FU (400 mg/m(2) iv bolus) and 5FU (2,400 mg/m(2) continuous iv infusion for 46 h) every 2 weeks.
Forty eligible patients were included. The median age was 77.3 years (range 70-84.7). The objective response rate was 40% and the stabilisation rate was 45%. Median progression-free survival was 8 months, overall survival was 17.2 months and cancer-related specific survival was 20.2 months. In total, 300 cycles of chemotherapy were administered with a median number of eight cycles per patient (range 1-18). Tolerance was good; grade 3/4 toxicities included diarrhoea (15%), asthenia (15%), nausea/vomiting (7.5%) and neutropenia (7.5%). One toxic death was observed due to grade 4 diarrhoea.
The FOLFIRI 1 regimen is a valid therapeutic option for elderly patients in good clinical condition.
Nitroglycerin and the long-acting nitrates are effective antianginal agents that have been used in clinical medicine for over 100 years. These drugs are reliable, safe, familiar to clinicians, inexpensive, and easy to use. Side effects are limited to headache and postural hypotensive symptoms. Nitrate tolerance or attenuation, -ie, loss of, or decrease in, nitrate efficacy with repeated dosing-is common and represents the major drawback to chronic therapy. Carefully designed dosing regimens and/or appropriate use of nitrate formulations (to include a nitrate-free period each day) will decrease or eliminate the problem of nitrate tolerance. In head-on comparative studies, nitrates appear to be as effective as beta-blockers or calcium channel blockers in the monotherapy of chronic angina. Ideal patient characteristics for nitrate therapy include: predictably favourable response of chest pain to sublingual nitroglycerin; angina episodes suggestive of coronary vaso-constriction or spasm; left ventricular systolic dysfunction; symptoms of congestive heart failure (systolic or diastolic dysfunction).
Paroxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) may be given in severe cases of maternal depression and panic disorders during pregnancy. However, it may lead to severe withdrawal symptoms: respiratory distress, jitteriness, convulsions, hypoglycaemia, an impaired muscle tone and necrotising enterocolitis. These symptoms, also called neonatal withdrawal syndrome, may last up to one month. We report a girl born at 37 weeks of gestation presenting 12 hours after birth with hypopnea, bradycardia and a decreased muscular tone of unknown origin. The child was transferred to the NICU and was intubated and ventilated mechanically. Within the first days the patient also developed cerebral seizures. The EEG showed severe abnormalities. Later we learned that the patient's mother had been treated with Paroxetine during pregnancy. The patient recovered after two days of ventilation and anticonvulsive medication with phenobarbital. The EEG result showed a siginificant improvement. At day 10 she was discharged in good condition. Recognition and treatment of the presented neonatal problems could have been more effective and faster, if the attending pediatricians had been informed earlier about the maternal medication with SSRIs. Neonates of mothers who were treated with SSRIs during pregnancy should be monitored. Paroxetine withdrawal syndrome should be considered as one of the differential diagnosis of neonatal encephalopathy.
This paper reports on 2 hemolytic serious reactions in 2 Arabian patients because of the use of primaquine as presumptive antimalarial treatment given in Cuba to all travellers from countries where malaria is endemic. Taking into account the non-existence of imported malaria cases in travellers from the Arab-world since more then 15 years and the frequency of individuals presenting with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency it is recommended not to use this therapeutic procedure, and to maintain the rest of surveillance measures to all travellers from such region.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HC) is characterized by impaired diastolic function, and left ventricular (LV) outflow tract obstruction in about one-fourth of patients. Verapamil improves diastolic properties, but may have dangerous adverse effects. This study investigates the effects of diltiazem on hemodynamics and LV function in 16 patients with HC who were studied with cardiac catheterization and simultaneous radionuclide angiography. Studies were performed during atrial pacing (15 beats above spontaneous rhythm) at baseline and during intravenous diltiazem administration (0.25 mg x kg(-1) over 2 minutes, and 0.014 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1). Diltiazem induced a systemic vasodilation (cardiac index: 3.4 +/- 1.0 to 4.0 +/- 1.0 L x min(-1) x m(-2), p = 0.003; aortic systolic pressure: 116 +/- 16 to 107 +/- 19 mm Hg, p = 0.007; systemic resistance index: 676 +/- 235 to 532 +/- 193 dynes x s x cm(-5) x m(-2), p = 0.006), not associated with changes in the LV outflow tract gradient. The end-systolic pressure/volume ratio decreased (30 +/- 42 to 21 +/- 29 mm Hg x ml(-1) x m(-2); p = 0.044). Pulmonary artery wedge pressure (11 +/- 5 to 15 +/- 6 mm Hg, p = 0.006), and peak filling rate increased (4.1 +/- 1.3 to 6.0 +/- 2.4 stroke counts x s(-1), p = 0.004). The time constant of isovolumetric relaxation tau decreased (74 +/- 40 to 59 +/- 38 ms, p = 0.045). The constant of LV chamber stiffness did not change. Thus, active diastolic function is improved by the acute administration of diltiazem by both direct action and changes in hemodynamics and loading conditions. LV outflow tract gradient does not increase despite systemic vasodilation. In some patients, however, a marked increase in obstruction and a potentially harmful elevation in pulmonary artery wedge pressure do occur. Passive diastolic function is not affected.
To investigate visual function in the central 10 degrees in patients who have undergone vigabatrin (VGB) antiepileptic drug (AED) therapy with the aim of identifying a clinical regimen for assessing central visual function.
The sample comprised 12 epilepsy patients (mean age, 38.6 +/- 11.7 years) who had been treated with VGB (either as monotherapy or polytherapy). A number of central visual-function tests were carried out for each eye, including high-contrast LogMAR visual acuity, short-wavelength automated perimetry (SWAP 10-2), spatial contrast sensitivity (CSV-1000), and Farnsworth-Munsell (FM) 100-hue colour discrimination.
The group mean cumulative VGB dose was 5,086 +/- 3,245 g. The average SWAP 10-2 mean deviation (MD) for the group was -3.24 +/- 3.23 dB; 14 eyes of eight patients showed defects (range, -1.62 to -9.46 dB). The square root of the group mean total error score for FM 100-hue was 7.42 +/- 3.84; nine eyes of five patients were classified as abnormal with an unsolved colour axis suggestive of complex drug interactions. For contrast sensitivity, 15 eyes of eight patients yielded abnormal results in one or more spatial frequencies. Defects were more prominent at higher spatial frequencies. Overall, four patients had defects in all three visual-function tests, six patients had mixed defects, and two patients were normal.
Visual-function deficits in epilepsy patients treated with VGB are present in the central 10 degrees of the retina. We recommend a battery of investigations, including SWAP 10-2 and spatial contrast sensitivity testing, to assess central visual function.
The pharmacokinetic and dynamic interactions among 3 antimalarials, ie quinine, doxycycline and mefloquine was observed in a 26-year-old Thai male patient with falciparum malaria. During the acute episode of the infection, the patient was treated with an intravenous dose of quinine hydrochloride at 600 mg qid, together with an oral dose of doxycycline 100 mg bid. Due to nausea, tinnitus and the persistence of parasitemia in peripheral blood smears, the dose of quinine was reduced 2 days after the first treatment to 300 mg; concurrently oral mefloquine 750 mg was given as 2 divided doses at 24 hours apart. During the course of treatment, the patient developed hearing loss; deafness of the right ear lasted for one week after stopping quinine administration. Higher plasma quinine and lower whole blood mefloquine concentrations than would be expected from the simulation profiles were detected 4 days after the first treatment. However, the concentration of mefloquine was increased upon the cessation of quinine treatment.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is a member of a family of perfluorinated chemicals that have a variety of applications. PFOA persists in the environment and is found in wildlife and humans. In mice, PFOA is developmentally toxic producing mortality, delayed eye opening, growth deficits, and altered pubertal maturation. PFOA activates peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha), a pathway critical to the mode of induction of liver tumors in rodents. The present study uses 129S1/SvlmJ wild-type (WT) and PPARalpha knockout (KO) mice to determine if PPARalpha mediates PFOA-induced developmental toxicity. Pregnant mice were dosed orally from gestation days 1-17 with water or 0.1, 0.3, 0.6, 1, 3, 5, 10, or 20 mg PFOA/kg. PFOA did not affect maternal weight, embryonic implantation, number, or weight of pups at birth. At 5 mg/kg, the incidence of full litter resorptions increased in both WT and KO mice. In WT, but not KO, neonatal survival was reduced (0.6 mg/kg) and eye opening was delayed (1 mg/kg). There was a trend across dose for reduced pup weight (WT and KO) on several postnatal days (PND), but only WT exposed to 1 mg/kg were significantly different from control (PND7-10 and 22). Maternal factors (e.g., background genetics) did not contribute to differences in postnatal mortality, as PFOA induced postnatal mortality in heterozygous pups born to WT or KO dams. In conclusion, early pregnancy loss was independent of PPARalpha expression. Delayed eye opening and deficits in postnatal weight gain appeared to depend on PPARalpha expression, although other mechanisms may contribute. PPARalpha was required for PFOA-induced postnatal lethality and expression of one copy of the gene was sufficient to mediate this effect.
Fluoxetine is a selective serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) commonly used to treat depression. Some uncontrolled clinical studies have reported that SSRIs increase seizures, but animal experiments with evoked-seizure models have suggested that SSRIs at therapeutic doses decrease seizure susceptibility. We tested the hypothesis that fluoxetine and trifluoromethylphenylpiperazine (TFMPP, a nonselective 5-HT-receptor agonist) reduce the frequency of spontaneous motor seizures in pilocarpine-treated rats.
Fluoxetine (20 mg/kg) and TFMPP (5 mg/kg) were administered to rats with pilocarpine-induced epilepsy. Phenobarbital (PB; 10 mg/kg) was a positive control, and saline (i.e., 0.5 ml) controlled for the injection protocol. Each rat received each treatment (intraperitoneally) once per day for 5 consecutive days with 1 week between treatments. Rats were continuously video-monitored for the last 72 h of each treatment.
When compared with saline over the entire 72-h observation period, PB and fluoxetine treatment, but not TFMPP, reduced the spontaneous-seizure rate. Plots of magnitude of the drug effect as a function of seizure frequency after saline treatment revealed larger drug effects for fluoxetine and PB in the rats with the highest control seizure rate. When the data from the five rats with the highest seizure frequency in saline were analyzed for the first 6 h after treatment, TFMPP also significantly reduced seizure frequency.
Animal models with spontaneous seizures can be used to screen potential antiepileptic drugs, and fluoxetine and TFMPP reduce spontaneous seizures in the pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy.
Otitis media is one of the most common and intractable ear diseases, and is the major cause of hearing loss, especially in children. Multiple factors affect the onset or development of otitis media. Prostaglandin D₂ is the major prostanoid involved in infection and allergy. However, the role of prostaglandin D₂ and prostaglandin D2 receptors on the pathogenesis of otitis media remains to be determined. Recent studies show that D prostanoid receptor (DP) and chemoattractant receptor-homologous molecule expressed on T helper type 2 (Th2) cells (CRTH2) are major prostaglandin D₂ receptors. In this study, homozygous DP single gene-deficient (DP⁻(/)⁻) mice, CRTH2 single gene-deficient (CRTH2⁻(/)⁻) mice and DP/CRTH2 double gene-deficient (DP⁻(/)⁻ CRTH2⁻(/)⁻) mice were used to investigate the role of prostaglandin D₂ and its receptors in otitis media. We demonstrate that prostaglandin D₂ is induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a major component of Gram-negative bacteria, and that transtympanic injection of prostaglandin D₂ up-regulates macrophage inflammatory protein 2 (MIP-2), interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-6 in the middle ear. We also show that middle ear inflammatory reactions, including infiltration of inflammatory cells and expression of MIP-2, IL-1β and IL-6 induced by LPS, are reduced significantly in DP⁻(/)⁻ mice and DP⁻(/)⁻ CRTH2⁻(/)⁻ mice. CRTH2⁻(/)⁻ mice display inflammatory reactions similar to wild-type mice. These findings indicate that prostaglandin D₂ may play significant roles in LPS-induced experimental otitis media via DP.
The plant, Erigeron multiradiatus (Wall.) Benth(Family: Compositae), is a perennial herb distributed abundantly in the mountainous area of the southwestern part in China. It is used in folk medicine for the treatment of common cold, panting cough, rheumatic, enteritis and toothache. In this paper, we report a new glycoside named as 6'-O-caffeylerigeroside isolated from Erigeron Multiradiatus (Family: Compositae) together with four known compounds. The known compounds were identified as pyromeconic acid(I), scopoletin(II), 4-hydroxybenzoic acid(III) and vanillic acid(IV). The structure of 6'-O-caffeylerigeroside was elucidated as gamma-pyrone-3-O-[6"-(3',4'-dihydroxy-cinnamoyl)]-beta-D-glucoside(V) on the basis of chemical evidence and spectral data.
Experimental models of autoimmunity in the rat may feature selective activation of either the Th1 or Th2 subset of helper T cells. Interleukin-12 (IL-12) is a key cytokine in the development of Th1 responses. In order to study IL-12 in the rat we used polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers based on murine IL-12 to amplify a partial cDNA from rat tissue. The product was cloned and sequenced: it shows 94% nucleotide identity with the murine gene and 94% identity of predicted amino acid sequence. Primers based on the rat IL-12 sequence were used to analyse IL-12 expression in vivo using semi-quantitative PCR. We studied RNA from lymphoid tissues of two rat strains which differ in their response to mercuric chloride (HgCl2): Brown Norway (BN) rats develop autoimmunity with a predominant Th2 response; Lewis rats are resistant. Interleukin-12 expression was higher in Lewis than BN, and higher in spleen than lymph node. After HgCl2, IL-12 expression increased in BN towards the time when the autoimmune response autoregulates. Variation in baseline levels of IL-12 expression may account for the Th2 predisposition of BN rats compared to Lewis rats; IL-12 may play a role in the autoregulation of the Th2 response induced by HgCl2.
1. Three histamine H1-receptor antagonists (tripelennamine, diphenhydramine and cyclizine) and two H2-receptor antagonists (ranitidine and cimetidine)--1 and 10 mg/kg--were tested alone or in combination with the opioid partial agonist buprenorphine (1 mg/kg), the opioid antagonist naloxone (1 mg/kg) or dextroamphetamine (3 mg/kg) on locomotor activity in mice. 2. All three H1-antihistaminics tested and the H2-antihistaminic, cimetidine, enhance locomotor activity in a dose-dependent manner. 3. Furthermore, tripelennamine, diphenhydramine, cyclizine, ranitidine and cimetidine potentiate the buprenorphine-induced hyperactivity. 4. Previous administration of naloxone blocks the tripelennamine- and diphenhydramine-induced hyperactivity. 5. On the other hand, none of antihistaminics tested modifies the amphetamine-induced locomotor stimulation. 6. These results suggest that H1- and H2-receptor antagonists effects on locomotor behavior in mice may be related with opioid mechanisms, but not with amphetamine mechanisms.
The active morphine metabolite, morphine-6-glucuronide (M-6-G), may contribute to both the analgesia and the adverse effects observed during morphine (MOR) therapy. To evaluate the relationship between M-6-G and adverse effects, we measured steady-state plasma concentrations of MOR and M-6-G and concurrently noted the presence or absence of moderate to severe cognitive impairment or myoclonus in 109 cancer patients who were receiving either oral (n = 71) or parenteral (n = 38) morphine. MOR and M-6-G plasma concentrations were determined by HPLC with electrochemical detection. The presence of cognitive impairment or myoclonus was analyzed in relation to molar M-6-G/MOR ratio, age, morphine dose, the use of other centrally acting drugs, renal function (blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine), hepatic function (serum bilirubin, serum glutamic oxalacetic transaminase (SGOT), and alkaline phosphotase) and serum lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). The patient population consisted of 60 women and 49 men. The mean age was 51.5 years (range: 10-85 years). The mean morphine dose (total dose-prior 48 h) was 486 mg (range: 40-4800 mg) for the oral group and 931 mg (range: (10-9062 mg) for the parenteral group. The mean molar M-6-G/MOR ratios were 6.1 (SD: 18.2; range: 0.01-153.3) for the oral treatment group and 2.7 (SD: 4.16; range: 0.05-23.8) for the parenteral treatment group. Overall, the M-6-G/MOR ratio demonstrated a moderate but significant correlation with BUN (r = 0.4; P < 0.001) and creatinine (r = 0.45; P < 0.001) levels, but not with the other clinical variables examined.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Caspases are important in the life and death of immune cells and therefore influence immune surveillance of malignancies. We tested whether genetic variants in CASP8, CASP10 and CFLAR, three genes important for death receptor-induced cell killing residing in tandem order on chromosome 2q33, are associated with cancer susceptibility. Using a haplotype-tagging SNP approach, we identified a six-nucleotide deletion (-652 6N del) variant in the CASP8 promoter associated with decreased risk of lung cancer. The deletion destroys a stimulatory protein 1 binding site and decreases CASP8 transcription. Biochemical analyses showed that T lymphocytes with the deletion variant had lower caspase-8 activity and activation-induced cell death upon stimulation with cancer cell antigens. Case-control analyses of 4,995 individuals with cancer and 4,972 controls in a Chinese population showed that this genetic variant is associated with reduced susceptibility to multiple cancers, including lung, esophageal, gastric, colorectal, cervical and breast cancers, acting in an allele dose-dependent manner. These results support the hypothesis that genetic variants influencing immune status modify cancer susceptibility.
Continued elevations in Intracranial Pressure (ICP) following traumatic or ischemic compromise are known to cause markedly increased morbidity and mortality. Because of the side effects of barbiturates including hypotension and prolonged recovery time, the use of shorter-acting anesthetic agents to control ICP has been considered. Etomidate, when administered by continuous infusion, has been shown to decrease cerebral metabolism resulting in a secondary decrease in cerebral blood flow with minimal changes in cerebral perfusion pressure. We initially intended to randomize 20 patients prospectively into a study protocol that would assess the effects of either pentobarbital or the cardioprotective agent etomidate on ICP and cardiac performance. Given the sequelae of the therapy, we were only able to randomize seven patients with cerebral edema refractory to medical management to receive either etomidate or pentobarbital in a blinded fashion. Three patients who received etomidate developed renal compromise (mean low creatinine clearance 41 ml/min, range 37-44 ml/min) which was initially noted at 24 hours. We believed that this represented an adverse effect that was probably related to the study drug and the study was stopped. Each patient received a 0.30 mg/kg IV induction of etomidate and then 0.02 mg/kg/min continuous infusion for 24-72 hours titrated burst suppression. All patients also received dexamethasone 2 mg IV every six hours to prevent the adrenocortical insufficiency that might occur as a consequence of etomidate-induced suppression of cortisol synthesis. Intracranial pressure decreased (mean = 12mmHg) following the initiation of etomidate. Cardiac parameters remained unchanged (cardiac output 4.8 +/- .6 liters/min).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of diazepam has been watched and studied by continuing monitoring of the heart rate of the mother, the fetus and the newborn, as well as by studying the acid-base balance of the mother and the fetus and the newborn after doses of 20 mg of diazepam had been given to 40 normal labouring women. A good calming effect was found in 87 p. % of women and the remainder had an acceptable result. Both in the mother and in the fetus tachycardia resulted from injection of diazepam as well as a lessening in the frequency of changes in the heart rate. These two alterations were statistically significant (p less than 0.01) and appeared very soon after the administration of the diazepam. Later, no other effects could be found in the mother, the fetus or the newborn.
An important issue regarding the long-term use of antiarrhythmic drugs concerns the safety of these agents, particularly with regard to cardiac toxicity. Propafenone is an effective drug for preventing supraventricular tachyarrhythmia, but the incidence of side effects during longterm therapy in patients with such arrhythmias has not been adequately reported. A total of 480 patients received oral propafenone as therapy for symptomatic atrial fibrillation, atrial flutter, or supraventricular tachycardia. During the follow-up (mean 14.4 months), 290 patients (60%) discontinued propafenone therapy, but in only 70 patients (15%) was the reason for discontinuation an adverse drug reaction. Overall, 284 patients (59%) experienced at least 1 adverse reaction, and the incidence was related to dose and age >65 years. The overall incidence of side effects was not related to structural heart disease; however, cardiovascular toxicity including arrhythmia aggravation, congestive heart failure, and serious conduction disturbances occurred more often in those with heart disease (20% vs 13%). Sixteen patients died during drug therapy, but in only 1 case was the drug considered contributory. For patients with a supraventricular arrhythmia, propafenone was well tolerated and was infrequently discontinued because of side effects. The incidence of serious cardiac toxicity when propafenone was used to treat supraventricular arrhythmia was low, and these side effects were more frequent in patients with structural heart disease.
