Our objective was to elaborate a functional map of the globus pallidus by correlating the intrapallidal localization of quadripolar electrodes implanted in parkinsonian patients with the clinical effect of the stimulation of each contact. Five patients with L-DOPA-responsive Parkinson's disease presenting severe motor fluctuations and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias were treated by continuous bilateral high-frequency stimulation of the globus pallidus. The effects of stimulation on parkinsonian disability were tested through each of the four stimulating contacts of each electrode. The anatomical localization of each of the stimulating contacts was determined by confronting the pre- and post-operative magnetic resonance imaging with the anatomical atlas of Schaltenbrand and Wharen.(34) The registration procedure comprised digitization of the atlas, the use of deformation tools to fit atlas sections with magnetic resonance imaging sections, and three-dimensional reconstruction of both the atlas and the magnetic resonance imaging sections. Analysis of the 32 stimulating contacts tested did not reveal a somatotopic organization in the pallidal region investigated but demonstrated that high-frequency stimulation had contrasting effects depending on whether it was applied to the external or the internal pallidum. Akinesia was improved by stimulation of the external pallidum but worsened by stimulation of the internal pallidum. In contrast, parkinsonian rigidity was improved by stimulation of either part of the pallidum. The areas in the internal pallidum where stimulation worsened akinesia were those in which stimulation reduced or suppressed L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. Conversely, stimulation applied to the external pallidum induced dyskinesias. The fact that rigidity was improved by stimulation of the internal and external pallidum suggests that the neuronal bases of parkinsonian rigidity are different from those of akinesia and dyskinesias. The effect on akinesia and dyskinesias is in agreement with the current model of basal ganglia circuitry(10) if high-frequency stimulation activates rather than inhibits pallidal neurons, a possibility which is very likely since there are marked anatomical, biochemical and electrophysiological differences between the globus pallidus and the subthalamic nucleus. This study demonstrates that high-frequency stimulation of the globus pallidus in parkinsonian patients has contrasting effects depending on whether it is applied to the external or the internal part of this nucleus. The effect on akinesia and dyskinesias suggests that stimulation activates pallidal neurons, a result which challenges the generally accepted concept that high-frequency stimulation inactivates neurons in the region stimulated.
A high-throughput screening campaign identified 4-((E)-styryl)-pyrimidin-2-ylamine (11) as a positive allosteric modulator of the metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor subtype 4. An evaluation of the structure-activity relationships (SAR) of 11 is described and the efficacy of this compound in a haloperidol-induced catalepsy rat model following oral administration is presented.
Between April 2006 and June 2009, 34 newly diagnosed patients with multiple myeloma received one to three courses of bortezomib 1.3 mg/m(2) i.v. four times, lenalidomide 25 mg p.o. daily for 21 days and dexamethasone 20 mg/m(2) p.o. for 4 days beginning on days 1, 9 and 17 (BLD). There was rapid onset of remission in 30 patients (88%) similar to the frequency of 87% induced by a previous combination of bortezomib-thalidomide-dexamethasone (BTD). After a median of 3.6 months, 28 patients received intensive therapy with high-dose melphalan supported by autologous blood stem cells, so that the overall frequency of complete remission (CR) was 44%, similar to the frequency of 37% observed previously. Side effects due to thalidomide with previous BTD were less frequent and severe with BLD. The combination of BLD given for one or two courses was an effective primary treatment for newly diagnosed patients with multiple myeloma.
Previously published case reports have noted severe adverse reactions such as cardiac arrest, respiratory arrest, and sudden death when clozapine (CLZ) and benzodiazepines (BZDs) are used concomitantly. As CLZ and BZD are both used regularly to treat psychiatric illness, it is important to have additional information concerning this potential interaction. The objective of this study was to contribute to the evolving literature by evaluating the occurrence of sudden deaths and cardiac or respiratory events leading to death in patients treated concurrently with CLZ and BZD.
A retrospective chart review was conducted at a 240-bed New York State mental health facility. Most patients in this facility have been diagnosed with refractory schizophrenia, resulting in high rates of CLZ use. Electronic and hard copy records of the 490 patients who had been treated with CLZ in this facility at any time from 2001 to 2006 were selected, and the medication records of these patients were assessed for concomitant BZD use. Information on 152 patients who were treated with CLZ and a BZD concomitantly during this time period are included in this study. Data from the facility's mortality review committee were obtained to determine sudden deaths and cardiac or respiratory events leading to death in patients treated with CLZ and BZD concomitantly. Secondary parameters also recorded during the chart review included average duration of CLZ therapy, BZD therapy, and concomitant therapy; average doses of agents used; specific BZD used; number of patients treated with a specific BZD; psychiatric diagnosis; and use of other medications that depress the central nervous system.
No deaths occurred as a result of concomitant BZD and CLZ use in the sample examined in this study, suggesting that CLZ and BZD may be safely used concomitantly in many cases. Further study is needed to determine patient characteristics or predisposing factors that might put patients at higher risk of death from this interaction. Our findings are limited by the small sample size and suboptimal frequency of side effect measurements (e.g., measurements of blood pressure and heart rate, reports of hypotensive episodes). Confounding variables that might also play a role in interactions between CLZ and BZDs, but which were not measured in this study, include other types of respiratory compromise, cognitive dysfunction, and organ dysfunction. Precautionary measures that may be used when initiating concomitant CLZ and BZD therapy include slow titration of CLZ, blood pressure monitoring, and/or nightly pulse oximeter measurements.
To assess whether long term inhibition of angiotensin converting enzyme with captopril and frusemide or bendrofluazide protects kidney function in diabetic nephropathy.
Non-randomised controlled before-after trial of matched hypertensive insulin dependent diabetics with nephropathy treated with captopril and frusemide or bendrofluazide.
Outpatient diabetic clinic in tertiary referral centre.
Treatment group of 18 hypertensive insulin dependent diabetics with nephropathy (mean age 33), who had not been treated previously. Control group of 13 patients (mean age 32) fulfilling the same entry criteria from a prospective study.
Treatment group was given daily captopril 37.5-100.0 mg and frusemide (mean) 98 mg (10 patients) or bendrofluazide (mean) 4 mg (seven). Treatment was continued for about two and a half years. Controls were not treated.
Measurement of arterial blood pressure, albuminuria, and glomerular filtration.
Baseline values were identical in treated and untreated groups respectively: mean blood pressure 146/93 (SE 3/1) mm Hg v 137/95 (2/1) mm Hg; geometric mean albuminuria 982 (antilog SE 1.2) micrograms/min v 936 (1.2) micrograms/min; and mean glomerular filtration rate 98 (SE 5) ml/min/1.73 m2 v 96 (6) ml/min/1.73 m2. Mean arterial blood pressure fell by 8.7 (1.3) mm Hg with captopril and rose by 6.6 (1.5) mm Hg in controls, (p less than 0.001); Albumin excretion decreased to 390 (1.1) micrograms/min with captopril and rose to 1367 (1.3) micrograms/min in controls (p less than 0.001). The rate of decrease in glomerular filtration rate was lower with captopril (5.8 (0.7) ml/year v 10.0 (1.3) ml/year) (p less than 0.01). Rate of fall in glomerular filtration rate and mean arterial blood pressure were significantly correlated (n = 31, r = 0.37, p less than 0.05).
Captopril is a valuable new drug for treating hypertension in insulin dependent diabetics with nephropathy.
This study was designed to assess the effects of dietary supplementation with n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) from fish oil on the response of doxorubicin-induced chronic heart failure in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated daily for 8 weeks with normal saline or n-3 PUFA intragastrically after induction of myocardial injury by intraperitoneal injection of doxorubicin 2 mg/kg once weekly for 8 weeks. Cardiac function was assessed by echocardiography. The cytoprotective role of n-3 PUFA against doxorubicin-induced myocardial injury was demonstrated by light microscopy, and serum cytokines (tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-10) were analysed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Doxorubicin induced death, alterations in echocardiography parameters and histological damage, all of which are features that characterize heart failure. There were significant differences between the doxorubicin-induced heart failure group and the n-3 PUFA-treated group in terms of echocardiography parameters and cytokine changes. Thus, dietary supplementation with n-3 PUFA attenuated doxorubicin-induced cardiac dysfunction, an effect that might be associated with recovery from an imbalance of the cytokine network.
Soluble factors released by intra-cerebral activated cells are implicated in neuronal alterations during central nervous system inflammatory diseases. In this study, the role of the CD23 pathway in astrocyte activation and its participation in human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1)-induced neuropathology were evaluated. In human primary astrocytes, CD23 protein membrane expression was dose-dependently upregulated by gp120. It was also upregulated by gamma-interferon (gamma-IFN) and modulated by interleukin-1-beta (IL-1beta) whereas microglial cells in these stimulation conditions did not express CD23. Cell surface stimulation of CD23 expressed by astrocytes induced production of nitric oxide (NO) and IL-1beta which was inhibited by a specific inducible NO-synthase (iNOS) inhibitor (aminoguanidine), indicating the implication of this receptor in the astrocyte inflammatory reaction. On brain tissues from five out of five patients with HIV-1-related encephalitis, CD23 was expressed by astrocytes and by some microglial cells, whereas it was not detectable on brain tissue from five of five HIV-1-infected patients without central nervous system (CNS) disease or from two of two control subjects. In addition, CD23 antigen was co-localized with iNOS and nitrotyrosine on brain tissue from patients with HIV1-related encephalitis, suggesting that CD23 participates in iNOS activation of astrocytes in vivo. In conclusion, CD23 ligation is an alternative pathway in the induction of inflammatory product synthesis by astrocytes and participates in CNS inflammation.
Morphine hydrochloride (10 mg/kg,i.p.) induced marked catalepsy in rats, which was associated with significantly enhanced striatal acetylcholine levels and reduced cholinesterase activity. Rapid tolerance to morphine-induced catalepsy was noted after twice daily administrations, the tolerance being discernible after the third injection and was complete after the eleventh injection. With the development of tolerance, morphine-induced effects on striatal acetylcholine and cholinesterase were progressively reversed, confirming striatal cholinergic involvement in morphine-induced catalepsy in the rat.
Clarithromycin is a relatively new antibiotic of the macrolide family heralded for an improved side effect profile, dosing schedule, and microbiological activity relative to its parent compound, erythromycin. We review the literature on clarithromycin-induced neurotoxicity in adults and present an illustrative case. A total of 38 patients with clarithromycin-induced neurotoxicity have been reported. The average age of patients was 51.3 years (range: 19-87 years) with females comprising 52.6% of patients. Psychiatric illness was the most common comorbidity, while only two patients had renal failure. Clarithromycin had been prescribed for respiratory infections in most patients, and only two patients were receiving more than 1000 mg/day of antibiotic. The symptoms started 1 day to 10 days after starting clarithromycin (mean: 5 days). A total of 71% of patients were under treatment with concomitant medication, and eight patients were undergoing treatment with psychoactive drugs. Patients had a very good outcome after clarithromycin was discontinued, but medication with neuroleptics or benzodiazepine was required for 58% of patients in the acute phase. Only four patients underwent an electroencephalogram (EEG). Our illustrative patient was a 74-year-old woman with clarithromycin-induced delirium due to non-convulsive status epilepticus (NCSE). Her clinical symptoms and electroencephalogram (EEG) readings dramatically improved after discontinuation of clarithromycin. The mechanism underlying the central nervous system side effects remains unclear. We suggest including an EEG in the diagnostic procedures of patients under treatment with clarithromycin who develop features of neurotoxicity because an EEG can help to differentiate patients with psychiatric illness from those with encephalopathy or epilepsy. Because of the widespread use of clarithromycin, clinicians should be aware of its neurotoxicity. Early detection of clarithromycin-induced neurotoxicity and discontinuation of the drug may result in full recovery.
The brachial plexus was identified by electrical stimulation before interscalene block with 30 mL 0.5% bupivacaine and adrenaline 1:200,000. During injection, compression was applied with a finger proximal to the injection site. Spirometric measurements were made before the block, and then at 5 min, 10 min, 20 min and 4 h after the injection. Diaphragmatic excursion was measured radiographically before the block, and at 15 min and 4 h afterwards. In 25 patients studied, spirometric measurements decreased. Twenty minutes after the injection, the forced vital capacity was 27% less, forced expiratory volume at 1 s 34% less and peak expiratory flow rate 15% less (all P < 0.05). Right diaphragmatic excursion decreased from 4.5 cm (SD 1.2 cm) to 1.8 cm (0.6 cm) at 15 mins and to 1.1 cm (0.6 cm) at 4 h (P < 0.05). Identification of the plexus by electric stimulation combined with finger compression above the injection site did not prevent diaphragmatic paresis.
Recent studies demonstrate that transformation of mild lupus nephritis into end-stage disease is imposed by silencing of renal DNaseI gene expression in (NZBxNZW)F1 mice. Down-regulation of DNaseI results in reduced chromatin fragmentation, and in deposition of extracellular chromatin-IgG complexes in glomerular basement membranes in individuals that produce IgG anti-chromatin antibodies. The main focus of the present study is to describe the biological consequences of renal DNaseI shut-down and reduced chromatin fragmentation with a particular focus on whether exposed large chromatin fragments activate Toll like receptors and the necrosis-related Clec4e receptor in murine and human lupus nephritis. Furthermore, analyses where performed to determine if matrix metalloproteases are up-regulated as a consequence of chromatin-mediated Toll like receptors/Clec4e stimulation. Mouse and human mRNA expression levels of DNaseI, Toll like receptors 7-9, Clec4e, pro-inflammatory cytokines and MMP2/MMP9 were determined and compared with in situ protein expression profiles and clinical data. We demonstrate that exposure of chromatin significantly up-regulate Toll like receptors and Clec4e in mice, and also but less pronounced in patients with lupus nephritis treated with immunosuppresants. In conclusion, silencing of renal DNaseI gene expression initiates a cascade of inflammatory signals leading to progression of both murine and human lupus nephritis. Principal component analyses biplot of data from murine and human lupus nephrits demonstrate the importance of DNaseI gene shut down for progression of the organ disease.
Malignant pleural mesotheliomas (MPMs) often show CDKN2A and NF2 inactivation, but other highly recurrent mutations have not been described. To identify additional driver genes, we used an integrated genomic analysis of 53 MPM tumor samples to guide a focused sequencing effort that uncovered somatic inactivating mutations in BAP1 in 23% of MPMs. The BAP1 nuclear deubiquitinase is known to target histones (together with ASXL1 as a Polycomb repressor subunit) and the HCF1 transcriptional co-factor, and we show that BAP1 knockdown in MPM cell lines affects E2F and Polycomb target genes. These findings implicate transcriptional deregulation in the pathogenesis of MPM.
We report the case of a 30-year-old woman with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) treated with surgery followed by concomitant Temozolomide (TMZ) and external beam radiation, which she tolerated well without any interruptions. However, when she was being evaluated for adjuvant Temozolomide, she developed progressive decline in leukocyte counts and platelet counts and subsequently, febrile neutropenia with bleeding manifestations. A bone marrow aspiration and biopsy done showed a gross hypocellular bone marrow with very few erythriod and myeloid cells and no suggestion of progenitor cells, consistent with aplastic anemia.
The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase subunit PIK3CA is frequently mutated in human cancers. Here we used gene targeting to "knock in" PIK3CA mutations into human breast epithelial cells to identify new therapeutic targets associated with oncogenic PIK3CA. Mutant PIK3CA knockin cells were capable of epidermal growth factor and mTOR-independent cell proliferation that was associated with AKT, ERK, and GSK3beta phosphorylation. Paradoxically, the GSK3beta inhibitors lithium chloride and SB216763 selectively decreased the proliferation of human breast and colorectal cancer cell lines with oncogenic PIK3CA mutations and led to a decrease in the GSK3beta target gene CYCLIN D1. Oral treatment with lithium preferentially inhibited the growth of nude mouse xenografts of HCT-116 colon cancer cells with mutant PIK3CA compared with isogenic HCT-116 knockout cells containing only wild-type PIK3CA. Our findings suggest GSK3beta is an important effector of mutant PIK3CA, and that lithium, an FDA-approved therapy for bipolar disorders, has selective antineoplastic properties against cancers that harbor these mutations.
The discovery of somatic mutations in melanoma has advanced our knowledge of the biology of the disease. The mutations, such as those in NRAS, BRAF, GNAQ and GNA11, promote the growth of melanoma cells in most part through the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Understanding the molecular pathways of some of these mutations has resulted in the successful development of selective BRAF inhibitors. Yet, a cure for advanced melanoma is far from reality. Targeting MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK), an essential intermediary kinase protein within the MAPK pathway, may be a promising way to treat patients with BRAF or other genomic mutation.
The authors discuss the MAPK pathway in melanoma and review the preclinical and clinical studies of the MEK inhibitor, trametinib , in melanoma. They also discuss the potential of using trametinib in the targeted therapy of advanced melanoma.
Studies have demonstrated the activity of trametinib in BRAF-mutant melanoma, suggesting that it could be a very reasonable alternative to BRAF inhibitors for these patients. Current clinical investigations have shown great promise with the combination of trametinib and dabrafenib in patients with BRAF-mutant melanoma; a number of clinical trials of trametinib in combination with other targeted drugs are underway.
This case report describes an unusual presentation of a severe anaphylactic reaction following induction of anaesthesia in an elderly male patient. Full recovery followed protracted resuscitation.
Results from in vivo and in vitro studies showing that antioxidants may act as anticarcinogens support the role of active oxygen in carcinogenesis and provide impetus for exploring the functions of dietary antioxidants in cancer prevention by using in vitro models. We examined the single and combined effects of selenium, a component of glutathione peroxidase, and vitamin E, a known antioxidant, on cell transformation induced in C3H/10T-1/2 cells by x-rays, benzo[a]pyrene, or tryptophan pyrolysate and on the levels of cellular scavenging systems and peroxide destruction. Incubation of C3H/10T-1/2 cells with 2.5 microM Na2SeO3 (selenium) or with 7 microM alpha-tocopherol succinate (vitamin E) 24 hr prior to exposure to x-rays or the chemical carcinogens resulted in an inhibition of transformation by each of the antioxidants with an additive-inhibitory action when the two nutrients were combined. Cellular pretreatment with selenium resulted in increased levels of cellular glutathione peroxidase, catalase, and nonprotein thiols (glutathione) and in an enhanced destruction of peroxide. Cells pretreated with vitamin E did not show these biochemical effects, and the combined pretreatment with vitamin E and selenium did not augment the effect of selenium on these parameters. The results support our earlier studies showing that free radical-mediated events play a role in radiation and chemically induced transformation. They indicate that selenium and vitamin E act alone and in additive fashion as radioprotecting and chemopreventing agents. The results further suggest that selenium confers protection in part by inducing or activating cellular free-radical scavenging systems and by enhancing peroxide breakdown while vitamin E appears to confer its protection by an alternate complementary mechanism.
We examined the effect of prenatal morphine exposure (5-10 mg/kg on days 11-18 of gestation) on seizure susceptibility in female rats during development. The effect of morphine exposure on flurothyl-induced seizures was age-dependent. At postnatal day (PN) 15, morphine exposure decreased both clonic and tonic-clonic seizure thresholds compare to saline controls. At PN 25, morphine exposure did not alter the clonic seizure threshold but increased the threshold to tonic-clonic seizure. At PN 38, morphine exposure did not influence either threshold. The data suggest that the effects of prenatal exposure to opioids on seizures are age-related and transient.
Because the embryopathy associated with maternal warfarin use seems dose-dependent, some physicians advocate low-dose warfarin for pregnant women requiring anticoagulation. The current case, however, highlights that optic nerve dysfunction (as well as other signs of warfarin embryopathy) can occur after low-dose maternal warfarin exposure.
Depression is one of the frequently-observed psychiatric symptoms associated with nicotine (NC) use. In the present study, considering the unique effects of NC (e.g. antidepressant effects have also been reported), the time course of the NC-induced depressive behavioral alterations in a mouse model was compared with a typical depression-inducing stressor. Furthermore, based on the involvement of cannabinoid (CB) receptors in the behavioral effects of NC, the effects of antidepressants including CB ligands (CBs) against the NC-induced behavioral alterations were also investigated. Repeated subcutaneous NC treatments (0.3 mg/kg, 4 days), like repeated immobilization stress (IM) treatments (10 min, 4 days), caused prolonged depressive effects (increased immobility time) at both 2 hr and 1 day time points after the last treatment in the tail suspension test. However, in the NC group, depressive effects (suppressed swimming behaviors) were observed only at the 2 hr time point in the forced swimming test. The antidepressants amitriptyline, clomipramine and fluvoxamine, the endogenous mixed CB agonist/antagonist virodhamine and the anandamide-like cannabimimetic O-2093 provided antagonistic effects against the depressive behaviors in the tail suspension test. However, in the forced swimming test, NC-induced depressive behaviors were antagonized only by the CBs virodhamine and O-2093. The present results demonstrated depressive effects of NC in two typical behavioral tests, which support the risk of repeated NC use. The shortened behavioral alterations in the forced swimming test, as compared to the IM group, seemed to reflect the neuronal modifications peculiar to NC, which are antagonized by some CBs.
The antioxidants butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) were fed in the diet to male F344 rats in two chronic feeding studies. In one study, feeding BHT for 76 wk at concentrations ranging from 100 to 6000 ppm produced no increase in neoplasms at any site. In a second study, feeding 12,000 ppm BHT for 110 wk had no neoplastic effect at any site, whereas feeding BHA at 12,000 ppm resulted in a small increase in squamous cell papillomas of the non-glandular squamous portion of the stomach.
