Whether Simvastatin has beneficial effect on pulmonary artery hypertension (PAH) remains unclear. This study aimed to explore the effect of simvastatin on PAH and the underlying mechanism. Male SD rats were randomized into three groups: control group, PAH model group, and treatment group with the intervention of the Simvastatin (n = 10, each group). Rat PVSMCs were isolated from pulmonary artery, cultured in vitro, and subjected to different treatment with PDGF, and/or Simvastatin or parthenolide. The mean pulmonary arterial pressure (mPAP), endomembrane proliferation in the pneumono-arteriole, and scores of the average angiemphraxis (VOS) were measured. The expression of NF-κB at mRNA and protein levels in the artery and PVSMCs was evaluated by fluorescent quantitative PCR, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot. Our results showed that mPAP, endomembrane proliferation in the pneumono-arteriole and VOS increased significantly in PAH model group compared with control group (P < 0.05). NF-κB expression was significantly higher in PAH model group than control group (P < 0.05), and also higher in the stimulated PVSMCs than control PVSMCs (P < 0.05). With the intervention of simvastatin, mPAP, endomembrane proliferation in the pneumono-arteriole and VOS decreased dramatically, compared with model group (P < 0.05). NF-κB expression was significantly decreased in both the artery and PVSMCs (P < 0.05). In conclusion, our study provides experimental evidence that NF-κB plays an important role in the occurrence of pulmonary artery hypertension and Simvastatin has beneficial effect on pulmonary artery hypertension by inhibiting the expression of NF-κB.
Physical inactivity and exposure to air pollution are important risk factors for death and disease globally. The built environment may influence exposures to these risk factors in different ways and thus differentially affect the health of urban populations.
We investigated the built environment's association with air pollution and physical inactivity, and estimated attributable health risks.
We used a regional travel survey to estimate within-urban variability in physical inactivity and home-based air pollution exposure [particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter ≤ 2.5 μm (PM2.5), nitrogen oxides (NOx), and ozone (O3)] for 30,007 individuals in southern California. We then estimated the resulting risk for ischemic heart disease (IHD) using literature-derived dose-response values. Using a cross-sectional approach, we compared estimated IHD mortality risks among neighborhoods based on "walkability" scores.
The proportion of physically active individuals was higher in high- versus low-walkability neighborhoods (24.9% vs. 12.5%); however, only a small proportion of the population was physically active, and between-neighborhood variability in estimated IHD mortality attributable to physical inactivity was modest (7 fewer IHD deaths/100,000/year in high- vs. low-walkability neighborhoods). Between-neighborhood differences in estimated IHD mortality from air pollution were comparable in magnitude (9 more IHD deaths/100,000/year for PM2.5 and 3 fewer IHD deaths for O3 in high- vs. low-walkability neighborhoods), suggesting that population health benefits from increased physical activity in high-walkability neighborhoods may be offset by adverse effects of air pollution exposure.
Currently, planning efforts mainly focus on increasing physical activity through neighborhood design. Our results suggest that differences in population health impacts among neighborhoods are similar in magnitude for air pollution and physical activity. Thus, physical activity and exposure to air pollution are critical aspects of planning for cleaner, health-promoting cities.
Illicit methamphetamine abuse represents a major problem in many countries worldwide, including the United States. Prolonged regular smoking or injection of methamphetamine can cause a psychosis, typically characterized by paranoid delusions and auditory hallucinations and often associated with disturbances in mood. These symptoms may persist long after methamphetamine is discontinued and may prove refractory to antipsychotic medications. The authors describe a patient who developed a typical methamphetamine psychosis that persisted despite months of abstinence from methamphetamine and weeks of treatment with antipsychotic medication but that responded promptly to electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) on two separate occasions: on initial presentation and again a year later when the patient relapsed into methamphetamine abuse and developed psychosis again. The authors review the large international literature on methamphetamine psychosis, much of which is from Japan and has not previously been summarized in English. Persistent methamphetamine psychosis has been widely reported in Japan for more than 50 years but is rarely discussed in the American literature, possibly because some such cases are misdiagnosed in the United States as primary psychotic disorders. Given the growing public health problem of methamphetamine abuse in the United States, the distinction between persistent methamphetamine psychosis and a primary psychotic disorder has grown increasingly important. Thus, American clinicians should be alert to the possibility of methamphetamine psychosis and may wish to consider ECT in refractory cases.
S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe) and tauroursodeoxycholate (TUDC) exert an additive ameliorating effect on taurolithocholate (TLC)-induced cholestasis. The aims were to investigate the protective effect of SAMe on 17beta-estradiol-glucuronide (17betaEG) cholestasis and to find out whether SAMe and TUDC may exert an additive, ameliorating effect.
Hepatocyte couplet function was assessed by canalicular vacuolar accumulation (cVA) of cholyllysylfluorescein (CLF). Cells were co-treated with 17betaEG and SAMe, TUDC, or both (protection study), or treated with 17betaEG and then with SAMe, TUDC or both (reversion study) before CLF uptake. Couplets were also co-treated with SAMe and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), a competitive substrate for the sulfotransferase involved in 17betaEG detoxification. The effects of 17betaEG, SAMe and TUDC were also examined on intracellular distribution of F-actin.
Both SAMe and TUDC significantly protected against, and reversed, 17betaEG-induced cholestasis, but their effects were not additive. DHEA abolished the protective effect of SAMe. 17BetaEG did not affect the uptake of CLF into hepatocytes at the concentrations used, and also, it did not affect the intracellular distribution of F-actin.
17BetaEG does not affect the uptake of CLF into hepatocytes. SAMe and TUDC protect and reverse 17betaEG-induced cholestasis, but without an additive effect. Protection by SAMe may involve facilitating the sulfation of 17betaEG.
The mechanism underlying the hepatotoxicity induced by arsenic exposure is well investigated. However, little is known about the detailed mechanisms of arsenic-induced cardiotoxicity or cardiac factors involved in high sensitivity to arsenicals in spite of the fact that arsenic trioxide, which is used to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia, causes cardiotoxicity. Here, we show that rat H9c2(2-1) cardiac myocytes exhibit high sensitivity to inorganic arsenite (As(III)) as compared with rat-derived four cell lines (liver epithelial TRL1215 cells, kidney epithelial NRK-52E cells, PC12 phechromocytoma cells and C6 glioma cells). Furthermore, we found a lower steady-state level of glutathione and glutamyl-cysteine ligase (GCL) in H9c2(2-1) cells compared with TRL1215 cells, resulting in an increase in arsenic accumulation. In addition, we detected that the up-regulation of GCL and multi-drug resistance-associated protein (MRP) caused by As(III) was extremely low in H9c2(2-1) cells compared with TRL1215 cells. It is known that Nrf2, which regulates GCL and MRP expression, plays an important role in the protection of cells from arsenicals. We investigated the participation of Nrf2 in the difference of sensitivity to arsenicals between H9c2(2-1) and TRL1215 cells and found that Nrf2 was clearly activated by As(III) exposure in TRL1215 cells but only poorly activated in H9c2(2-1) cells. Considering these results together, we propose that modest activation of Nrf2 during exposure to As(III) in H9c2(2-1) cardiac myocytes leads to reduced ability to metabolize and excrete arsenic.
Chronic antidepressant treatments enhance dopaminergic neurotransmission in the mesolimbic dopamine system. We suggested that this potentiation might underlie both the antidepressant therapeutic effect and the antidepressant-induced switch from depression to mania. In a recent study we have shown a reversal of the imipramine-induced dopaminergic supersensitivity after 40 days of chronic imipramine withdrawal. We interpreted this result suggesting that the mood-switches observed in bipolar patients following antidepressant treatment and subsequent withdrawal, i.e. mania followed by rebound depression, might depend upon parallel changes in the mesolimbic dopamine system sensitivity. On this basis, one might predict a depressive-like behaviour after long-term interruption of a chronic treatment with imipramine. To test this hypothesis we examined the behaviour of rats treated with chronic imipramine 40 days after treatment interruption in an animal model of depression, the forced swimming test. The results show that animals treated with chronic imipramine, 40 days after treatment interruption, display a depressive-like behaviour in the forced swimming test, as indicated by their increased immobility with respect to the control group.
Free radical mediated oxidative stress plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of cataract and the present study was to determine the efficacy of luteolin in preventing selenite induced oxidative stress and cataractogenesis in vitro. Luteolin is a bioactive flavonoid, isolated and characterized from the leaves of Vitex negundo. Lenses were extracted from Sprague-Dawley strain rats and were organ cultured in DMEM medium. They were divided into three groups with eight lenses in each group as follows: lenses cultured in normal medium (G I), supplemented with 0.1mM sodium selenite (G II) and sodium selenite and 2 μg/ml luteolin (G III). Treatment was from the second to fifth day, while selenite administration was done on the third day. After the experimental period, lenses were taken out and various parameters were studied. The antioxidant potential of luteolin was assessed by 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging activity. In the selenite induced group, morphological examination of the lenses showed dense cortical opacification and vacuolization. Biochemical examinations revealed a significant decrease in activities of antioxidant enzymes and enzymes of the glutathione system. Additionally decreased glutathione level and increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) were observed. Luteolin treatment abated selenite induced oxidative stress and cataractogenesis by maintaining antioxidant status, reducing ROS generation and lipid peroxidation in the lens. These finding demonstrated the anticataractogenic effect of luteolin by virtue of its antioxidant property, which has been reported in this paper for the first time.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is an endothelial cell mitogen. The objective of this study was to verify the proregenerative effects of VEGF in an experimental model of acute liver failure.
Sixty four rats that underwent intraperitoneal injection of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) were randomly divided into two groups: group B animals received intravenous injection of VEGF(164) 1 hour following CCl(4) poisoning. Group A hosts were untreated. To obtain daily liver function tests (LFTs) and histological samples, on each day up to 8 days we sacrificed four rats in each group.
The laboratory examinations showed notable alteration of LFTs in group A, while group B revealed only slight changes. The histological examination showed greater liver damage in group A compared with group B.
Our results suggest that administration of exogenous VEGF protects the liver from CCl(4)-induced acute hepatic failure. Further studies are underway to assess whether exogenous VEGF is effective in other liver injuries.
Berberine, an isoquinoline alkaloid isolated from medicinal plants such as Berberis aristata, Coptis chinesis, Coptis japonica, Coscinium fenestatun, and Hydrastis Canadensis, is widely used in Asian countries for the treatment of diabetes, hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia. Interaction between berberine and the cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYPs) has been extensively reported, but there are only a few reports of this interaction in the diabetic state. In this study, the effect of berberine on the mRNA of the CYPs in primary mouse hepatocytes and in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice was investigated. In primary mouse hepatocytes, berberine suppressed the induction of Cyp1a1, Cyp1a2, Cyp2e1, Cyp3a11, Cyp4a10, and Cyp4a14 mRNA expression by their prototypical inducers in a concentration-dependent fashion. However, berberine treatment alone increased the expression of Cyp2b9 and Cyp2b10 mRNA. In vivo, berberine showed the same hypoglycemic activity as metformin, an established hypoglycemic drug. The hepatic mRNA levels of Cyp1a1, Cyp2b9, Cyp2b10, Cyp3a11, Cyp4a10, and Cyp4a14 were increased in STZ-induced diabetic mice. Interestingly, berberine itself suppressed the expression of Cyp2e1, an adverse hepatic event-associated enzyme, while the expression of Cyp3a11, Cyp4a10, and Cyp4a14 were restored to normal levels by berberine. In conclusion, berberine has the potential to modify the expression of CYPs by either suppression or enhancement of CYPs' levels. Consumption of berberine as an anti-hyperglycemic compound by diabetic patients might provide an extra benefit due to its potential to restore the expression of Cyp2e1, Cyp3a, and Cyp4a to normal levels. However, an herb-drug interaction might be of concern since any berberine-containing product would definitely cause pronounced interactions based on CYP3A4 inhibition.
Behavioral changes induced by apomorphine in normal, pseudodeprived (control) and REM sleep-deprived AM-2/TOR inbred rats were investigated. Deprived rats exhibited aggressive behavior for nearly 30 min in the absence of administration of drug, this effect not being observed in normal or control rats. The administration of apomorphine (1, 2 and 5 mg/kg) 5 min before the test elicited short periods of aggressive behavior in normal and control rats, but decreased the total duration of aggressive behavior in deprived rats. However, the deprived rats exhibited a more intense aggressive behavior, since the frequency of real fighting events was enhanced. The administration of apomorphine to deprived rats elicited stereotyped behavior. Enhancement of stereotyped behavior by increasing the dose was correlated with a reduction in the duration of aggressive behavior. Apomorphine also induced short episodes of intense excitability, manifested by increased locomotor activity, jumping and vocalization. This behavioral response was termed "episodic excitation". Deprived rats were significantly more sensitive to apomorphine-induced episodic excitation than normal and control rats. The episodic excitation, stereotyped and aggressive behavior displayed by deprived rats, injected with apomorphine, alternated with time. The results demonstrate increased responsiveness to apomorphine after deprivation of REM sleep. The possible mechanism for such interaction is discussed.
Prenatal exposure to the antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA) has been associated with the formation of spina bifida aperta, meningocele, and meningomyelocele in the human. Until now, a direct relationship between VPA application and spina bifida has not been experimentally demonstrated. VPA was known only to induce exencephaly in mice, a defect of the anterior neural tube. Maximal sensitivity toward production of this defect was on day 8 of gestation (plug day = day 0). The closure of the posterior neuropore occurs later in the development of mice than the closure of the anterior neuropore. To investigate whether there is a direct relationship between VPA application during pregnancy and induction of spina bifida in mice, we administered various doses of the drug on day 9 of gestation, at three time intervals (at 0, 6, and 12 hr). This administration of VPA produced spina bifida aperta and spina bifida occulta in mice. High doses of VPA (3 x 450 and 3 x 500 mg/kg) induced a low rate of spina bifida aperta in the lumbosacral region. High incidences of spina bifida occulta, a less serious form of spina bifida, were induced with lower doses. This malformation was demonstrated in double-stained fetal skeletons by measurements of the distance between the cartilaginous ends of each vertebral arch. The occurrence of this defect and its localization was dose-dependent. The lumbar region was affected by all doses investigated (3 x 300, 3 x 350, 3 x 400, 3 x 450, and 3 x 500 mg/kg). The sacral/coccygeal region was affected additionally, but with higher doses (3 x 400, 3 x 450, and 3 x 500 mg/kg). A comparison of the results obtained with day 16 and 17 control fetuses showed that the pattern of gaps present in the lumbar and sacral region of the spinal cord in treated groups was drug-specific and not related to a developmental delay. Our results indicate that multiple administrations of VPA on day 9 of gestation in mice result in a low incidence of spina bifida aperta and a high incidence of spina bifida occulta, and provides a relevant model for the study of human spina bifida defects.
It has been shown that the primary striatal dopaminergic hypofunction which is at the origin of Parkinson's disease, results in a secondary hyperactivity of glutamatergic neurotransmission. In the search for a therapy of Parkinson's disease, ionotropic, mainly NMDA, receptor antagonists were found to have moderately beneficial, yet also some undesirable side-effects. Therefore the present study was aimed at determining whether some metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) ligands may have antiparkinsonian effects in the haloperidol-induced muscle rigidity. To this end three mGluR ligands were used: the potent and selective mGluR I antagonist (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA), the mixed group II agonist/ group I antagonist (S)-4-carboxy-3-hydroxyphenyl-glycine ((S)-4-C3HPG), and the potent group II agonist (+)-2-aminobicyclo[3.1.0.]hexane-2,6,-dicarboxylic acid (LY354740). Only LY354740 penetrated the brain from the periphery; for this reason other drugs were injected bilaterally into the rostral striatum or nucleus accumbens. The muscle tone was recorded by a mechanomyographic/electromyographic (MMG/EMG) method which measured the resistance of a rat's hind foot and the EMG reflex response of its muscles to passive movements. (S)-4C3HPG (5 and 15 microg/0.5 microl) and LY354740 (5 and 10mg/kg i.p.) diminished the muscle rigidity induced by haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.). AIDA (0.5-15 microg/0.5 microl) injected into the striatum was only slightly effective in the highest dose used. However, when injected into the nucleus accumbens AIDA (15microg/0.5microl) significantly and strongly counteracted the haloperidol-induced muscle rigidity. Our results suggest that stimulation of group II striatal mGluRs seems to play a major role in diminution of parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity. However, it seems that the antagonism of group I mGluRs located in the nucleus accumbens may also be of importance to the antiparkinsonian effect.
It has been hypothesized that too much synchronization in the beta band in basal ganglia-cortical circuits can contribute to bradykinesia and too little can contribute to hyperkinesia. The former has been supported by experiments in patients with Parkinson's disease and chronic implantation of the subthalamic area for deep brain stimulation. Stimulation at 20 Hz in this region slows voluntary tapping when performed in patients withdrawn from their usual antiparkinsonian medication. Here, we show the converse, that stimulation of the same region at 20 Hz in patients treated with levodopa decreases the interval between taps by 8.1+/-1.8% and makes tapping more regular. We suggest that this effect is mediated through an amelioration of levodopa-induced dyskinesias during stimulation.
We report a 13-year-old boy who developed fever, rash and hepatitis with cholestasis (on biochemistry and liver histology) after 10 weeks' use of carbamazepine. Recovery of liver biochemistry occurred 4 months after discontinuing the drug.
Previous studies have shown that BD1008 (N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-N-methyl-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)ethylamine) and related analogs attenuate the toxicity and stimulant effects of cocaine through antagonism of sigma receptors. In the present study, six analogs of BD1008 (UMB 98-103) were synthesized and evaluated in receptor binding and behavioral studies. Competition binding studies confirmed that all six compounds have high affinity for sigma1 receptors, moderate affinity for sigma2 receptors, and low to negligible affinity for monoamine transporters, opioid, N-methyl-D-aspartate, dopamine, and 5-HT receptors. In behavioral pharmacological studies, pretreatment of mice with UMB 100, UMB 101, or UMB 103 significantly attenuated cocaine-induced convulsions and lethality. Together with earlier studies, the data suggest that analogs of BD1008 are promising medication development leads for reducing the toxicity of cocaine.
Alcohol exposure during pregnancy induces a range of disorders in the offspring. Methylation changes in imprinted genes may play a role in the teratogenic effects of alcohol. We evaluated the possible effects of alcohol administration in pregnant mice on the methylation pattern of 5 imprinted genes (H19, Gtl2, Peg1, Snrpn and Peg3) in somatic and sperm cell DNAs of the male offspring. The effects observed were a 3% (p < 0.005) decrease in the number of methylated CpGs of H19 in the F1 offspring sperm, a 4% (p < 0.005) decrease in the number of methylated CpGs of H19 in the F2 offspring brain and a 26% (p < 0.05) decrease in the mean sperm concentration. CpGs 1 and 2 of the H19 CTCF-binding site 2 exhibited significant methylation percentage losses. H19 CTCF-binding sites are important for the regulation of Igf2 gene expression. The hypomethylation of H19 may contribute to the decreased spermatogenesis in the offspring.
5 patients treated with perhexiline maleate, 200-400 mg/day for at least 6 months, exhibited evidence of hepatitis. The picture was very similar to acute alcoholic hepatitis, clinically, biologically and histologically with presence of necrosis, Mallory's hyaline, polynuclear infiltration and to a lesser degree, steatosis. Association with peripheral neuropathy, hypoglycemia, and renal failure appears strikingly frequently. The evolution was severe since 3 patients died within 6 months, even after treatment withdrawal. Further studies are to be done to understand the mechanisms of hepatic and neurologic toxicity, and to measure the hazards of this drug. These studies could bring a new insight to alcohol toxicity.
A major challenge in developing schizophrenia pharmacotherapy is treating the different symptoms of this disorder, typically divided into positive, negative and cognitive symptoms. M₁/M₄ muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) agonists have emerged as a promising therapeutic target, particularly for positive and cognitive symptoms. Here, we examined the activity of the M₁/M₄ mAChR-preferring agonist xanomeline in four pharmacological latent inhibition (LI) models. LI is the poorer conditioning to a stimulus previously experienced as irrelevant during repeated non-reinforced pre-exposure to that stimulus. No-drug controls displayed LI if non-reinforced pre-exposure to a tone was followed by weak, but not strong, conditioning (2 vs. 5 tone-shock pairings). Amphetamine (1 mg/kg)- or scopolamine (0.15 mg/kg)-treated rats failed to show LI with weak conditioning, whereas MK801 (0.05 mg/kg)- or scopolamine (1.5 mg/kg)-treated rats persisted in displaying LI with strong conditioning. Xanomeline (5 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg) reversed amphetamine- and scopolamine-induced LI disruption, effects considered predictive of activity against positive symptoms of schizophrenia. In addition, xanomeline alleviated MK801-induced abnormally persistent LI. Activity of xanomeline on NMDA antagonist-induced behaviour was demonstrated here for the first time and suggests that the drug is effective against negative/cognitive symptoms. Finally, xanomeline alleviated abnormally persistent LI induced by scopolamine, which was suggested to model antipsychotic drug-resistant cognitive impairments, providing further evidence for the cognition-enhancing capacity of xanomeline. Although the use of xanomeline in schizophrenia was discontinued due to cholinergic-related side-effects, our findings suggest that M₁/M₄ mAChR agonism should be an important target in drug development in schizophrenia, potentially beneficial for treatment of positive, negative and cognitive symptoms.
To study cancer mortality among main subgroups of workers employed in VC/PVC production potentially exposed to toxics and carcinogens.
We reanalyzed the mortality of 1,658 males (follow up 1972-1995; 35,626 person years; 170 deaths) by Poisson regression, adjusting for age, age at hiring, calendar period, length of exposure and latency. We calculated the relative risks (RR) and the 95% confidence intervals (CI) for PVC baggers (n. = 197), PVC compound (n. = 403) and autoclave (n. = 209) workers. As an internal reference we used two groups of workers: technicians and employees (main reference: n. = 202 subjects), with the group of other blue collar workers (n. = 639) added for statistical purposes only (minor reference: n. = 841 subjects).
Pooling the four subgroups of exposed workers, the comparison with the main reference group allowed us to detect increased mortality from all causes of death (RR = 2.09; CI = 1.09-4.00; 160 deaths), all tumours (RR = 1.53; ns; 81 deaths), lung cancer (RR = 2.05; ns; 29 deaths) and cardiovascular diseases (RR = 3.57; ns; 29 deaths). The analysis for each specific subgroup revealed increased mortality from all causes of death among both PVC baggers (RR = 2.66; CI = 1.27-5.59) and PVC compound workers (RR = 2.68; CI = 1.36-5.27). Comparison of the minor reference group with the overall population of exposed workers showed increased RRs for other diseases, namely, liver tumour (RR = 4.08; ns; 9 deaths), lymphomas and leukaemia (RR = 2.97; ns; 7 deaths) and liver cirrhosis (RR = 3.30; ns; 11 deaths). The analysis for each specific subgroup revealed significantly increased RR for all tumours among PVC compound workers (RR = 1.74; CI = 1.06-2.85), for lung cancer among PVC baggers workers (RR = 3.04; CI = 1.15-7.99) and for liver cancer (RR = 9.57; CI = 1.69-54.1) and liver cirrhosis (RR = 6.32; CI = 1.37-29.07) among autoclave workers. In addition, the two deaths from brain tumour were observed among PVC compound workers.
To highlight the risk previously reported in the literature and to reduce the possible dilution effect (due to comparison bias, healthy worker effect), it proved methodologically pivotal to separate exposed and probably unexposed workers (considered as an internal reference group).
Excessive intake of vitamin A may produce acute or chronic toxicity. Vitamin A can be consumed in foods, fortified products and supplements. We present a case of a young physical culturist man who was referred to our Unit because of chronic liver disease of unknown origin. The patient had a history of increased vitamin A intake from natural source with the addition of high dose of vitamin A supplements with the purpose of improving his muscular development. Our patient showed chronic liver disease with severe fibrosis, signs of portal hypertension and marked hyperplasia of Ito cells. In conclusion, chronic vitamin A toxicity may produce severe liver damage and should be recognized in the differential diagnosis of chronic liver diseases.
We describe a patient who developed torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia after several years of treatment with disopyramide. The case demonstrates that measuring disopyramide serum concentration provides limited information about correct dosages. Life-threatening arrhythmias may arise even at recommended doses and therapeutic serum concentration. Clinical trials have shown that class Ic antiarrhythmic drugs, and perhaps all class I antiarrhythmics, may increase the risk of serious arrhythmias and sudden death in certain groups of patients. Aspects of the pharmacology of disopyramide are discussed, with particular emphasis on the variable plasma protein binding and the narrow therapeutic specter. This complexity seems to be the most important reason for the limited reliability of serum concentration measurements for predicting the best dosage for the individual patient.
The efficacy and safety of intravenous procainamide in the conversion of atrial fibrillation was investigated. A total of 114 patients without severe heart failure were randomized to receive either intravenous procainamide (1 g over 30 minutes, followed by an infusion of 2 mg/min over 1 hour) or placebo in a double-blind trial. Digoxin (0.5 mg intravenously) was administered to all patients who had not previously been receiving digoxin. Treatment was considered successful if sinus rhythm was restored within 1 hour after starting the infusion. Conversion to sinus rhythm was achieved in 29 (50.9%) of the 57 patients treated with procainamide and in 16 (28.1%) of the 57 who received placebo (P approximately 0.012). When the duration of the atrial fibrillation was < or = 48 hours, conversion to sinus rhythm was achieved in 29 (69%) of the 42 patients receiving procainamide and in 16 (38.1%) of those receiving placebo (P approximately 0.004). None of the patients with atrial fibrillation lasting > or = 48 hours converted to sinus rhythm in either group. Another factor that played a role in the restoration of sinus rhythm was the size of the left atrium: the smaller the left atrium, the larger the success rate. The results of the study suggest that intravenous procainamide is an effective and safe means for the rapid termination of atrial fibrillation of recent onset and that its success rate is inversely related to the size of the left atrium. However, the drug is ineffective in the conversion of atrial fibrillation lasting more than 48 hours.
Effects of infusion of a non-ionic contrast medium(iopamidol, 370 mg l/ml) on renal function in a normovolemic state were examined in patients with normal and mildly affected renal function who underwent coronary angiography(CAG). The patients were divided into three groups: group I (n = 69) with serum creatinine(S-Cr) level < 1.0 mg/dl; group II (n = 50) with S-Cr level of 1.0 to 1.3 mg/dl and group III(n = 17) with S-Cr level of 1.3 to 2.0 mg/dl. Patients with S-Cr > or = 2.0 mg/dl were subjected to 3-h hemodialysis immediately after CAG(group HD, n = 11). Serum(S) and urine(U) values of Cr, Na, K, Cl, beta 2-microglobulin(beta 2MG), and U-N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase(NAG) were measured before and 24 h after CAG. U-NAG and U-beta 2MG were corrected for U-Cr, and fractional excretion of beta 2MG(FE beta 2MG) was determined. Basal U-NAG/Cr, U-beta 2MG/Cr and FE beta 2MG were increased in groups III and HD, suggesting the preexistence of tubular dysfunction. S-Cr was increased significantly only in group I, but there was no change in S-beta 2MG. U-NAG/Cr after CAG was elevated in all the groups, whereas U-beta 2MG/Cr(or FE beta 2MG) was increased only in group III. Greater than two-fold increases of U-NAG/Cr were noted equally in groups I through III. In contrast, the greater than two-fold increase of U-beta 2MG/Cr(or FE beta 2MG) occurred more frequently in group III as compared to the other groups. The incidences of such cases in group HD were similar to those of group III. The half life of serum iodide concentration was significantly shortened by 3-h HD(1.8 +/- 0.3 h vs. 15.9 +/- 3.8 h without HD). In conclusion, patients presenting S-Cr > or = 1.3 mg/dl were at high risk of renal tubular dysfunction even when contrast media was administered in the absence of significant increase in S-Cr. Whether an increase in U-NAG/Cr indicates tubular damage or is merely the result of tubular reabsorption of the agent remains to be clarified. Post-CAG hemodialysis efficiently eliminates contrast medium from the circulation.
We analysed the effects of four cyclooxygenases (COX) inhibitors on cisplatin-induced emesis in piglets. Ninety-five animals receiving cisplatin (5.5 mg kg(-1), i.v.) were observed for 60 h. One hour prior to cisplatin, controls (n=29) were dosed with a saline solution while experimental animals received an i.v. or i.p. injection of one of the COX inhibitors. Additional injections of COX inhibitor were given at 15 and 39 h after cisplatin administration (or every 6h in one group receiving diclofenac). The latencies to the first emetic episode (EE) compared to controls (2.1+/-0.4 h) increased in groups receiving naproxen (4.66+/-0.94 h, n=9, 30 mg kg(-1)) and indomethacin (6.19+/-1.13 h, n=7, 10 mg kg(-1)) i.v. Indomethacin significantly decreased the incidence of both the acute (by 40%) and delayed (by 66%) phases of emesis. The total number of EE during the 60 h compared to controls (28.3+/-1.9 EE) was significantly reduced in piglets receiving indomethacin (14.9+/-3.2 EE, n=7) and meloxicam (17.6+/-3.6 EE, n=11, 0.3 mg kg(-1)). Four piglets receiving meloxicam (0.3 mg kg(-1), i.v.) did not vomit during the delayed phase. The anti-emetic activity of two COX inhibitors suggests that prostaglandins contribute to the activation of the emetic reflex in response to cisplatin.
Lidocaine is absorbed from mucous membranes of the oropharynx, gastrointestinal tract, and tracheobronchial tree. First-pass hepatic metabolism of the drug greatly reduces the amount reaching the general systemic circulation in the normal individual. In patients whose hepatic metabolism is reduced by disease or drugs, or in whom liver blood flow is reduced, this first-pass effect is decreased and lidocaine concentrations may be higher than those produced by the same dose in normal patients. We report an elderly man taking cimetidine with congestive heart failure in whom the accidental ingestion of lidocaine solution for esophageal anesthesia was followed by seizures and elevated serum lidocaine concentrations.
