Occurrence of a progressive encephalopathy with seizures in siblings was associated with hepatic pathology. One of these patients was exposed to valproate (VPA) and developed hepatic necrosis, confirmed at autopsy. The other had not been exposed to VPA, and her hepatic lesions at autopsy were less severe. The liver pathology in both was within the range described in previous cases of liver disease attributed to VPA. These facts and the otherwise similar course of their disease suggests that in these patients, and probably in other cases of fatal liver failure attributed to VPA, the drug actually either had no effect or acted only to increase the severity of the preexisting hepatic component of the hepatocerebral disorder.
Isolated central hypothyroidism, characterized by insufficient TSH secretion resulting in low levels of thyroid hormones, is a rare disorder. We report a boy in whom isolated central hypothyroidism was diagnosed at 9 yr of age. Complete absence of TSH and PRL responses to TRH led us to speculate that he had an inactivating mutation of the TRH receptor gene. The patients' genomic DNA was isolated, and the entire coding region of the TRH receptor was amplified by the PCR and sequenced directly. Confirmation of the mutations and haplotyping of the family was performed using restriction enzymes. The biological activity of the wild-type and mutated TRH receptors was verified by evaluating the binding of labeled TRH and stimulation by TRH of total inositol phosphate accumulation in transfected HEK-293 and COS-1 cells. The patient was found to be a compound heterozygote, having inherited a different mutated allele from each of the parents; both mutations were in the 5'-part of the gene. Mutated receptors were unable to bind TRH and to activate total inositol phosphate accumulation. Our report is the first description of naturally occurring inactivating mutations of a G protein-coupled receptor linked to the phospholipase C second messenger pathway. The prevalence and phenotypic spectrum of TRH receptor mutations in isolated central hypothyroidism remain to be established.
The prevention of diabetic retinopathy requires drugs that leverage the benefits of glycemic control without adding the burden of side effects. Aspirin at dosages of 1-1.5 g/day has prevented manifestations of diabetic retinal microangiopathy in a clinical trial as well as in studies with dogs. Because lower and safer doses of aspirin could be used if its beneficial effects on retinopathy were due to antithrombotic effects, we compared the effects of a selective antiplatelet drug (clopidogrel) to those of aspirin in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Clopidogrel did not prevent neuronal apoptosis, glial reactivity, capillary cell apoptosis, or acellular capillaries in the retina of diabetic rats. Aspirin, at doses yielding serum levels (<0.6 mmol/l) well below the anti-inflammatory range for humans, prevented apoptosis of capillary cells and the development of acellular capillaries but did not prevent neuroglial abnormalities. The aldose reductase inhibitor sorbinil, used as the benchmark for the effect of the other drugs, prevented all abnormalities. The diabetic rat retina showed increased expression of the transcription factor CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein-beta, one of the known targets of low-intermediate concentrations of aspirin. Thus we found a spectrum of drug efficacy on the prevention of experimental diabetic retinopathy, ranging from the absent effect of a selective antiplatelet drug to the prevention of all abnormalities by an aldose reductase inhibitor. Aspirin at low-intermediate concentrations selectively prevented microangiopathy. The minimal effective dose of aspirin should now be sought.
Glut-1 deficiency syndrome was first described in 1991 as a sporadic clinical condition, later shown to be the result of haploinsufficiency. We now report a family with Glut-1 deficiency syndrome affecting 5 members over 3 generations. The syndrome behaves as an autosomal dominant condition. Affected family members manifested mild to severe seizures, developmental delay, ataxia, hypoglycorrhachia, and decreased erythrocyte 3-O-methyl-D-glucose uptake. Seizure frequency and severity were aggravated by fasting, and responded to a carbohydrate load. Glut-1 immunoreactivity in erythrocyte membranes was normal. A heterozygous R126H missense mutation was identified in the 3 patients available for testing, 2 brothers (Generation 3) and their mother (Generation 2). The sister and her father were clinically and genotypically normal. In vitro mutagenesis studies in Xenopus laevis oocytes demonstrated significant decreases in the transport of 3-O-methyl-D-glucose and dehydroascorbic acid. Xenopus oocyte membranes expressed high amounts of the R126H mutant Glut-1. Kinetic analysis indicated that replacement of arginine-126 by histidine in the mutant Glut-1 resulted in a lower Vmax. These studies demonstrate the pathogenicity of the R126H missense mutation and transmission of Glut-1 deficiency syndrome as an autosomal dominant trait.
The anthracyclines and taxanes are considered to be the most active drugs in metastatic breast cancer (MBC). We conducted a multicenter phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of the docetaxel plus epirubicin combination chemotherapy as first-line treatment in MBC and performed a prospective assessment of the predictive values of circulating HER2 extracellular domain (ECD) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Docetaxel 75 mg/m(2) and epirubicin 75 mg/m(2) were given intravenously every 3 weeks. Prophylactic G-CSF was not used. Pretreatment serum HER2 ECD and VEGF levels were measured by enzyme immunoassay. Forty MBC patients were enrolled, and 39 patients were evaluable for toxicities and 38 for response. Complete response was observed in 3 (7.9%) patients, partial response in 20 (52.6%) (overall response rate 60.5%), stable disease in 11 (28.9%) and disease progression in 4 (10.5%). After a median follow-up of 22.5 months, the median duration of response was 28 weeks, median time to disease progression was 32 weeks, and median survival was 15.8 months. Two-hundred and fifteen cycles of treatment were administered (median, 6 cycles per patient). Grade 3 and 4 neutropenia were observed during 24 (11.2%) and 74 (35%) cycles respectively, and grade 3 or 4 febrile neutropenia in 24 (11.2%) cycles. Elevated circulating HER2 ECD levels were found to be associated with a shorter response duration (p<0.005) and shorter time to progression (p<0.005). However, elevated VEGF levels were not found to be correlated with response rate or survival. We concluded that the docetaxel and epirubicin combination is an effective first-line treatment in MBC patients and that elevated serum HER2 ECD levels, but not circulating VEGF levels, predict a poor outcome.
Norcantharidin (NCTD), the demethylated analog of cantharidin isolated from Mylabris, is an anticancer drug routinely used against various human cancers in China. The aims of this study are to learn if NCTD has a protective action against severe proteinuria and consequent interstitial inflammation and fibrosis, and if the inhibition of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) by NCTD might be involved. Male Sprague-Dawley rats with protein overload nephropathy induced by intraperitoneally injected bovine serum albumin were used as a model. The histopathological examination of kidney tissue in the 9th week by light microscopy and scanning electron microscopy revealed that inflammatory cells had extensively infiltrated into the tubulointerstitial areas with interstitial fibrosis. The administration of NCTD at 0.1 mg/kg/day to the bovine-serum-albumin-injected animal models effectively reduced the proteinuria, and prevented the proteinuria-induced interstitial inflammation and fibrosis. Expressions of the NF-kappaB p65 subunit and CTGF, detected by immunohistochemistry, Western blotting and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, were upregulated in protein overload nephropathy and were attenuated by NCTD. Inhibition of the expressions of the NF-kappaB p65 subunit and CTGF was one beneficial effect of NCTD. These results suggest that in addition to the antiproteinuric action of NCTD, due to its anti-inflammatory and antifibrotic effects as shown in the present study, it may become a therapeutic agent for proteinuria and its associated chronic inflammatory and fibrotic nephropathy.
After acute exposure of cells to arsenic, reactive oxygen species mediate changes in cell behavior, including activation of proliferative signaling. For chronic exposure to arsenic, however, the function of reactive oxygen species in cell transformation remains poorly understood. Although microRNA-21 (miR-21) has been implicated in various aspects of carcinogenesis, its functions and molecular mechanisms in carcinogen-induced tumorigenesis are unclear. The purpose of this study was to determine if miR-21 is involved in arsenite-induced malignant transformation and to characterize the associated signaling pathways. During arsenite-induced transformation of human embryo lung fibroblast (HELF) cells, miR-21 was upregulated, and the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)/nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) signal pathway was activated. Moreover, superoxide radical dismutase (a scavenger of superoxide) and catalase (a scavenger of hydroperoxides) blocked the arsenite-induced effects in HELF cells and mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Blockage of ERK by the inhibitor U0126 or inhibition of NF-κB p65 by siRNA or Bay 11-7082 prevented the increases in miR-21 and the decreases in Spry1, Pten, and Pdcd4, the target proteins of miR-21, induced by arsenite. As determined by a ChIP-qPCR assay, NF-κB p65 regulated miR-21 expression by binding directly to the promoter of miR-21. Further, anti-miR-21 downregulated miR-21 expression and prevented the arsenite-induced activation of ERK via the increase in Spry1, indicating that miR-21 has a feedback effect in regulating ERK activation. Overexpression of miR-21 with an miR-21 mimic and feedback activation of ERK and NF-κB via the decrease in Spry1 promoted the malignancy of HELF cells exposed to arsenite, but knockdown of miR-21 with anti-miR-21 and feedback blockage of ERK and NF-κB activation through an increase in Spry1 decreased anchorage-independent growth of arsenite-transformed cells. Thus, the transformation of HELF cells induced by chronic exposure to arsenite is mediated by increased miR-21 expression, which, in turn, is mediated by reactive oxygen species activation of the ERK/NF-κB pathway.
It has been suggested that oxidative stress products play an important role in the etiology of epilepsy. We investigated the effects of selenium (Se) administration on topiramate (TPM)- and pentylentetrazol (PTZ)-induced brain toxicity in rats. Forty male Wistar rats were divided into five equal groups. The first and second groups were used as the control and PTZ groups, respectively. TPM, 50 mg, and Se, 0.3 mg, were administered to rats constituting the third and fourth groups, respectively, for 7 days. The combination of 50 mg TPM and Se was given to animals in the fifth group for 7 days. At the end of 7 days all groups except the first received a single dose of PTZ. Brain cortex samples were taken at 3 h of PTZ administration. PTZ resulted in a significant increase in brain cortex and microsomal lipid peroxidation (LP) levels, number of spikes, and epileptiform discharges on the EEG, although brain cortex vitamin E, brain cortex and microsomal reduced glutathione (GSH), and microsomal calcium (Ca) levels, Ca(2+)-ATPase activities, and latency to first spike on the EEG were decreased by PTZ. LP, GSH, vitamin E, and Ca levels and Ca(2+)-ATPase activities were increased by both Se and TPM, although vitamin A and C concentrations were increased by Se only. There were no effects of TPM and Se on brain cortex and microsomal glutathione peroxidase, brain cortex nitric oxide, or beta-carotene levels. In conclusion, TPM and selenium caused protective effects on PTZ-induced brain injury by inhibiting free radical production, regulating calcium-dependent processes, and supporting the antioxidant redox system.
Crizotinib is a dual MET and ALK inhibitor. Currently, clinical development of crizotinib is focused primarily on ALK rearranged non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Here we report an NSCLC patient with de novo MET amplification but no ALK rearrangement who achieved a rapid and durable response to crizotinib indicating is also a bona fide MET inhibitor.
Alterations of the Akt/mTOR pathway have been observed in numerous types of cancer, thus this pathway represents an exciting new target for molecular therapeutics. We investigated the expression of activated Akt (p-Akt) and mTOR (p-mTOR) in patients with adenocarcinoma of the cervix and the involvement of the p-Akt/p-mTOR pathway in response to combination of inhibitor agents, rapamycin and LY294002, with conventional therapy, cisplatin, in vitro. Immunohistochemistry analysis of p-Akt and p-mTOR was conducted in 26 patients with adenocarcinoma of the cervix. Western blot analysis was performed to determine the protein expression involved in response to chemotherapy in cervical cancer cell lines. The results showed that p-Akt and p-mTOR were identified in 50% and 53.8% of adenocarcinoma of the cervix. The expression of p-mTOR was a significant independent marker for prognosis. A significant correlation between p-Akt and p-mTOR was observed. There was no correlation between their expressions with any of clinicopathological factors. In the in vitro study, cisplatin at CPI(50) targets both the apoptosis and survival pathway by activating the caspase-cascade; inhibiting Akt, mTOR, p70S6K, and 4EBP1. Combination of rapamycin with cisplatin induced synergistic interaction. On the other hand, combination with LY294002 resulted in either synergistic or antagonistic effect depending on the doses given. Rapamycin pretreatment potentiated cisplatin-induced apoptosis cell death and enhanced blocking of the survival pathway. Overall, the expression of p-mTOR is a significant prognostic marker of adenocarcinoma of the cervix and a potential molecular target for the treatment of cervical cancer. Inhibition of the mTOR pathway contributes to cisplatin-induced apoptosis in cervical cancer cell lines.
This study was undertaken to determine the effects of estrogen and testosterone on cerebral ischemic lesion size induced by middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion in male rats. Rats were gonadectomized and treated with testosterone, estrogen, or testosterone plus estrogen filled Silastic pellets. The animals were divided into 6 groups: intact, intact + estrogen (E2), castrate, castrate + testosterone (T), castrate + E2, and castrate + T + E2. One week after treatment, cerebral ischemia was induced by MCA occlusion for 40 min, followed by reperfusion. After 24 h, rats were sacrificed and slices were then stained to assess lesion size. The presence of testosterone increased and the removal of testosterone decreased lesion size. A strong positive correlation (r2 = 0.922) between plasma testosterone concentrations and ischemic lesion size was observed. Estradiol treatment reduced ischemic area. In summary, the present study provides evidence that testosterone exacerbates and estrogens ameliorate ischemic brain damage in an animal model of cerebral ischemia.
The anticonvulsant activity of delta-HCH and of a calmodulin antagonist, W-7 were investigated on convulsions induced in mice by lindane (ED100 100 mg/kg), by GABAergic antagonists PTZ (ED100 60 mg/kg) and PTX(ED100 4 mg/kg), by calcium channel agonist BAY-K-8644 (ED100 5 mg/kg), by two agonists of excitatory amino acid receptors, kainic acid (ED100 80 mg/kg) and NMDA (ED100 160 mg/kg and by the atypical benzodiazepine Ro 5-4864 (ED100 40 mg/kg). The anticonvulsant activity of a voltage-dependent calcium channel antagonist, nifedipine was also investigated on convulsions induced by Ro 5-4864, BAY-K-8644, kainic acid and NMDA. delta-HCH antagonized lindane- and BAY-K-8644-induced convulsions (ED50 231 (172-309) mg/kg and 148 (142-154) mg/kg, respectively) and at concentrations up to 300 mg/kg failed to antagonize Ro 5-4864, kainic acid and NMDA convulsions. In contrast delta-HCH potentiated PTX-induced seizures. Nifedipine antagonized BAY-K-8644- and kainic acid-induced convulsions (ED50 6.5 (4.3-9.7) mg/kg and 30 (13-70) mg/kg but at concentrations up to 20 mg/kg failed to antagonize Ro 5-4864 and 25% of protection was observed on NMDA-induced convulsions at the highest dose (20 mg/kg). The ED50 of W-7 to antagonize convulsions induced by lindane and BAY-K-8644 were 12 (8-19) mg/kg and 49 (29-85) mg/kg, respectively. Some anticonvulsant effect was observed against PTZ and NMDA but without any dose-dependent anticonvulsant activity. W-7 did not protect against PTX and kainic acid convulsions and 30% of protection was observed against convulsions at the highest dose of W-7 (75 mg/kg).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of this study was to determine the inhibitory activity of trans-resveratrol against hyperglycemia-induced inflammation and degradation of gap junction intercellular communication in retinal pigment epithelial cells. Retinal (ARPE-19) cells were incubated with 5.5 mM glucose, 5.5 mM glucose and 10 microM resveratrol, 33 mM glucose, or 33 mM glucose and 0-10 microM trans-resveratrol at 37 degrees C and 5% CO(2) for 9 days. Cell viability was determined by the crystal violet assay. The levels of low-grade inflammation biomarkers interleukin-6 and interleukin-8 (IL-6 and IL-8), angiogenic factors, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) were determined by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Gap junction intercellular communication (GJIC) was determined by the scrape-load/dye transfer method. The expression levels of protein kinase Cbeta (PKCbeta), connexin 43 (Cx43), transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) were determined by Western blot. Incubation of retinal cells with 10 microM trans-resveratrol in the presence of 5.5 mM glucose did not affect any of the biomarkers investigated. Incubation of ARPE-19 cells with 33 mM glucose for 9 days significantly induced the accumulation of VEGF, IL-6, IL-8, TGF-beta, and COX-2, activation of PKCbeta, and reduction of Cx43 and GJIC. Incubation of ARPE-19 cells with 33 mM glucose in the presence of 0-10 microM trans-resveratrol dose-dependently inhibited VEGF, TGF-beta1, COX-2, IL-6, and IL-8 accumulation, PKCbeta activation, and Cx43 degradation and enhanced GJIC. These data suggest that trans-resveratrol can protect the retinal pigment epithelial cells against hyperglycemia-induced low-grade inflammation and GJIC degradation.
The action of delta-aminovaleric acid (AVA) on the muscle relaxant properties of baclofen, a GABAB receptor agonist, was investigated in two experimental models: (1) the pathologically increased muscle tone of the gastrocnemius muscle in spastic mutant Han-Wistar rats and (2) the Hoffmann (H)-reflex recorded from plantar foot muscles after electrical stimulation of the tibial nerve in barbiturate (60 mg/kg) anaesthetized rats. In both paradigms coadministration of AVA (500 nmol/5 microliter) antagonized the muscle relaxant action of intrathecally applied baclofen (0.2-2 nmol), but failed to affect the muscle relaxant effects of intrathecally injected muscimol (2-20 nmol). In contrast, coadministration of bicuculline (1 nmol) did block the muscle relaxant action of muscimol, but failed to alter the effects of baclofen. When administered alone, bicuculline (1 nmol), or AVA (500 nmol-2 mumol) were without intrinsic action in both paradigms. In an additional series of experiments we investigated the action of AVA on a supraspinal effect of baclofen. Coadministration of AVA (12.5 nmol/0.5 microliter) in the ventromedial thalamic nucleus antagonized the catalepsy induced by baclofen (ED50 10 pmol/0.5 microliter), as indicated by an increase in ED50 of baclofen by a factor of 4.835 and a parallel shift of the probit-log dosage regression line to the right. The parallel shift seems to be consistent with a competitive mechanism of action of AVA. This study presents evidence that AVA antagonizes central pharmacological actions of baclofen at both spinal and supraspinal sites without affecting the actions of a GABAA agonist, muscimol.
This study was performed to determine whether augmented intrarenal angiotensinogen may contribute to the enhanced renal angiotensin II (Ang II) and associated tissue injury in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). SHR and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were maintained on a normal diet and killed at either 7 or 14 wk of age. Two groups of SHR received either an Ang II type 1 receptor blocker (ARB; olmesartan, 5 mg/d) or a triple therapy (hydralazine 7.5 mg/d, reserpine 0.15 mg/d, and hydrochlorothiazide 3 mg/d [HRH]) during weeks 7 through 14. Systolic BP and renal Ang II were significantly increased in SHR-14 (n = 8) compared with WKY-7, WKY-14, and SHR-7 (n = 8 each), and ARB treatment prevented these increases (n = 8). However, whereas HRH treatment prevented the development of hypertension in SHR, this combination therapy failed to decrease renal Ang II (n = 8). With the use of urine samples or fixed renal sections, renal injuries in rats were quantified in a semiautomated manner by the following six parameters: (1) urinary excretion rate of total protein, (2) glomerular sclerosis, (3) interstitial expansion, (4) and (5) numbers of monocytes/macrophages in interstitium or glomeruli, and (6) arterial proliferation. Angiotensinogen mRNA and protein levels in kidney cortex, measured by real-time reverse transcriptase-PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively, and all six parameters of renal damage were changed in parallel, and ARB treatment also prevented these increases. However, HRH treatment failed to prevent these increases. These results indicate that SHR have enhanced intrarenal angiotensinogen production that contributes to increased Ang II levels leading to the development of hypertension and renal injury in this strain.
Early exposure to phenobarbital (PhB) causes marked destruction of large neurons which are then forming both in the hippocampus and in the cerebellum. Such exposure to PhB also reduces the achievements of mice in hippocampus-related behaviors such as radial 8-arm maze performance. Experimental evidence suggests that these behaviors are partially mediated by cholinergic transmission. We studied the performance of mice, exposed to PhB prenatally or neonatally, in radial 8-arm maze. Both treatments caused significant impairments in the animals' performance in the maze. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and pseudocholinesterase (pChE) activities were studied in the hippocampus and cerebellum of mice who were exposed to PhB prenatally or neonatally. These enzymes are involved both in cholinergic transmission and in neuronal development. A significant decrease (13-16%, P less than 0.01) in hippocampal AChE specific activity was found between days 15 and 22 in animals exposed to PhB neonatally. The total hippocampal activity of AChE was also greatly reduced (25-39%, P less than 0.01) during that period as a result of both the reduction in specific activity and a reduction in hippocampal weight of the treated animals. These alterations were transient and were not detected in adulthood. No changes in hippocampal AChE or pChE activities were found in animals treated prenatally. Cerebellar AChE and pChE activities were not altered after prenatal nor after neonatal exposure to PhB. It is possible that the short-term effect of neonatal treatment on AChE specific activity might mediate the long-term impairments in hippocampus-related behaviors.
The three reported cases demonstrate that troglitazone is an idiosyncratic hepatotoxin that can lead to irreversible liver injury. Thus, troglitazone should be prescribed with caution and should not be used as a first-line agent in the treatment of type II DM when potentially less toxic alternatives are available. It remains to be seen whether the hepatotoxicity associated with troglitazone is a drug-class effect or specific to troglitazone. Other thiazolidinediones currently in clinical trials may be able to provide the therapeutic benefits of troglitazone without significant hepatotoxicity. If troglitazone is used, frequent monitoring of serum aminotransferases and symptoms is mandatory. However, as illustrated by these and other cases reported to date, the onset of troglitazone-induced liver injury is insidious and temporally variable. Thus, the value of close monitoring and when, if ever, it is safe to stop such monitoring are currently unclear.
Advanced cancer is a multifactorial disease which complicates treatment if the cancer cells have metastasized calling for the targeting of multiple cellular pathways. Gallic acid (GA) is known to possess multiple pharmacological activity including antitumor effects. This study investigated the mechanisms for the anticancer properties of GA on migration and invasion of human osteosarcoma U-2 OS cells. The migration and invasion in U-2 OS cells were determined by a Boyden chamber transwell assay. The expression levels and activities of MMP-2 and MMP-9 were measured by Western blotting, real-time PCR and gelatin zymography assays. All examined proteins levels from Western blotting indicated that GA decreased the protein levels of GRB2, PI3K, AKT/PKB, PKC, p38, ERK1/2, JNK, NF-κB p65 in U-2 OS cells. GA also inhibited the activities of AKT, IKK and PKC by in vitro kinase assay. GA suppressed the migration and invasive ability of U-2 OS cells, and it decreased MMP-2 and MMP-9 protein and mRNA levels and secreted enzyme activities in vitro. These results suggest that potential signaling pathways of GA-inhibited migration and invasion in U-2 OS cells may be due to down-regulation of PKC, inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and PI3K/AKT, resulting in inhibition of MMP-2 and MMP-9 expressions.
Twenty-one intracavernous injections of 40 or 60 mg papaverine hydrochloride were given to ten male paraplegics. Erection sufficient for coitus was achieved within a few minutes after 15 of the injections (71.4%). Tumescence of the penis lasted from 18 minutes to 48 hours and the penile tumescence of the patients who had reflective erection usually lasted longer than that of the patients who did not. The trial that lasted for 48 hours resulted in the fracture of the penis that was presumed to have occurred during coitus and it was treated operatively. Intracavernous injection of papaverine hydrochloride is available for the impotence of male paralegics, but both doctor and patient must be careful about the sensory disturbance of the penis to avoid penile injury during erection. Further studies are needed to establish safety and long-term efficacy, as well as to determine if histological change of cavernous body occurs by repeated injection.
We investigated the effect of vitamin E on aspirin-induced gastric mucosal injury in rats. Twenty-eight male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups and were fed for 20 weeks with a diet containing <0.1 mg/100 g of alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E-deficient), 2 mg/100 g of alpha-tocopherol (normal and vitamin E-sufficient), or 50 mg/100 g of alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E-supplemented). In vitamin E-deficient rats, oral administration of aspirin (200 mg/kg) plus HCI created more severe hemorrhagic erosions than in other rats. Vitamin E-deficient rats had higher levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, myeloperoxidase activity, and cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant in the gastric mucosa. Flow cytometry showed that CD18 expression on stimulated neutrophils was higher in vitamin E-deficient rats than in vitamin E-supplemented rats. These results suggest that vitamin E protects against aspirin-induced gastric mucosal injury by inhibiting lipid peroxidation and accumulation of activated neutrophils.
There is emerging evidence to suggest that brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) is elevated after acute brain injury, and that it may play an adaptive role in recovery through augmentation of cerebral blood flow (CBF). Through a series of experiments, we tested the hypothesis that the administration of BNP after different acute mechanisms of central nervous system (CNS) injury could improve functional recovery by improving CBF. C57 wild-type mice were exposed to either pneumatic-induced closed traumatic brain injury (TBI) or collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). After injury, either nesiritide (hBNP) (8 microg/kg) or normal saline were administered via tail vein injection at 30 min and 4 h. The mice then underwent functional neurological testing via rotorod latency over the following 5 days and neurocognitive testing via Morris water maze testing on days 24-28. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) was assessed by laser Doppler from 25 to 90 min after injury. After ICH, mRNA polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and histochemical staining were performed during the acute injury phase (<24 h) to determine the effects on inflammation. Following TBI and ICH, administration of hBNP was associated with improved functional performance as assessed by rotorod and Morris water maze latencies (p < 0.01). CBF was increased (p < 0.05), and inflammatory markers (TNF-alpha and IL-6; p < 0.05), activated microglial (F4/80; p < 0.05), and neuronal degeneration (Fluoro-Jade B; p < 0.05) were reduced in mice receiving hBNP. hBNP improves neurological function in murine models of TBI and ICH, and was associated with enhanced CBF and downregulation of neuroinflammatory responses. hBNP may represent a novel therapeutic strategy after acute CNS injury.
Previously, we have provided evidence that cytochromes P450 (P450s) and flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMOs) are involved in the oxidation of S-(1,2,2-trichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (TCVC) in rabbit liver microsomes to yield the reactive metabolite TCVC sulfoxide (TCVCS). Because TCVC is a known nephrotoxic metabolite of tetrachloroethylene, the nephrotoxic potential of TCVCS in rats and TCVCS formation in rat liver and kidney microsomes were investigated. At 5 mM TCVC, rat liver microsomes formed TCVCS at a rate nearly 5 times higher than the rate measured with rat kidney microsomes, whereas at 1 mM TCVC only the liver activity was detectable. TCVCS formation in liver and kidney microsomes was dependent upon the presence of NADPH and was inhibited by the addition of methimazole or 1-benzylimidazole, but not superoxide dismutase, catalase, KCN, or deferoxamine, consistent with the involvement of both FMOs and P450s. Rats given TCVCS at 230 micromol/kg i.p. exhibited acute tubular necrosis at 2 and 24 h after treatment, and they had elevated blood urea nitrogen levels at 24 h, whereas TCVC was a much less potent nephrotoxicant than TCVCS. Furthermore, pretreatment with aminooxyacetic acid enhanced TCVC toxicity. In addition, reduced nonprotein thiol concentrations in the kidney were decreased by nearly 50% 2 h after TCVCS treatment compared with saline-treated rats, whereas the equimolar dose of TCVC had no effect on kidney nonprotein thiol status. No significant lesions or changes in nonprotein thiol status were observed in liver with either TCVC or TCVCS. Collectively, the results suggest that TCVCS may play a role in TCVC-induced nephrotoxicity.
Inactivation of tumor suppressor genes by promoter methylation is an important mechanism of tumorigenesis. Increased expression of DNA methyltransferases has been commonly observed in cancer. A C/T polymorphism in the DNA methyltransferase 3b (DNMT3b) promoter region results in increased activity and has recently been identified as a risk factor for lung cancer. In this study, we examined the C/T polymorphism of the DNMT3b gene in specimens from 81 patients with prostate cancer and 42 controls selected from patients with benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH). Genomic DNA was isolated from archived formaldehyde-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue blocks. DNMT3b genotypes were determined by restriction-fragment-length-polymorphism polymerase chain reaction. The DNMT3b polymorphism frequencies in the prostate cancer and BPH specimens were, respectively, 20 and 26% for CC, 42 and 52% for CT, and 38 and 21% for TT. Although such differences fall within the realm of chance variation (P>0.05), the data suggest that the TT genotype may be associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer: the age-adjusted odds ratio (aOR) was 2.6 [95% confidence interval: 0.8-8.0]; the increase in odds ratio was seen in both blacks and whites (aOR=4.3 in blacks, and 2.0 in whites). The samples used in this study have previously been examined for methylation index (MI) based on the number of genes methylated, the range being 0 to 5. A trend toward an increase in MI was detected for the DNMT3b polymorphisms in prostate cancer patients but not for BPH subjects (mean MI 2.6, 2.9, 3.1 for CC, CT, and TT genotype in prostate cancer; 0.8, 0.8, 0.7 for CC, CT, and TT genotype in BPH subjects). These findings suggest that the DNMT3b polymorphisms may be associated with an increase in promoter methylation of tumor-suppressor genes related to the development of prostate cancer, and may thereby increase the risk of this disease.
TCDD is known to induce thymic atrophy in several mammalian species through activation of programmed cell death, or apoptosis. To investigate the time course of events which precede TCDD-induced thymic apoptosis in vitro, experiments were performed with thymocytes isolated from immature rats. Peak accumulation of both total and specifically bound [3H]TCDD was observed at 60 min post incubation. Incubation of cells with 10 nM TCDD resulted in significant increases in RNA polymerase activity and incorporation of [3H]uridine at 30 min, indicating increased RNA synthesis in response to TCDD. TCDD-induced stimulation of [3H]uridine incorporation was not significantly altered in the presence of cycloheximide, while this effect was abrogated in the presence of actinomycin D. Incubation of thymocytes with 10 nM TCDD also stimulated the activity of poly(A)polymerase, the enzyme catalyzing mRNA polyadenylation, at time points beyond 30 min. No significant increases in [35S] incorporation were observed in cells treated with 10 nM TCDD, although analysis of detergent and high salt extracted nuclear proteins by SDS-PAGE and coomassie blue staining revealed the increased abundance of at least two proteins with molecular masses of 52,000 and 42,000 Da, respectively. These studies reveal that thymocyte nuclei rapidly accumulated TCDD in vitro, leading to increased RNA synthesis, poly(A)polymerase activity and protein synthesis. These events correlate closely with the process of programmed cell death.
The efficacy and toleration of once-daily amlodipine (5-10 mg) was studied in 11 patients with mild to moderate hypertension. Continuous intra-arterial blood pressure monitoring was used to study the effects of amlodipine over a 24-h period. Following a 2-week placebo run-in period, amlodipine was given initially as a single-blind 5-mg dose for 2 weeks and increased to 10 mg if required to control blood pressure for a further 4 weeks. Twenty-four-hour intra-arterial blood pressure recordings made after 6 weeks of treatment with amlodipine revealed that amlodipine effectively reduced blood pressure throughout the whole 24-h period without altering the normal circadian pattern. The mean daytime blood pressure was reduced from 165/103 to 147/89 mm Hg (p < 0.05) and the mean nighttime blood pressure was reduced from 137/79 to 121/69 mm Hg (p < 0.05). There was no significant change in heart rate. The mean supine blood pressure measured sphygmomanometrically was reduced from 169/103 mm Hg after placebo to 153/98 mm Hg after 2 weeks of treatment and to 145/92 mm Hg at the end of the study. The results of isometric and dynamic exercise testing showed that amlodipine decreased blood pressure, with no postural decrease on tilting and no change in the proportional increase in blood pressure at peak exercise. Amlodipine was well tolerated although one patient developed ankle edema that would have required discontinuation had she not already completed the study. This study has shown that amlodipine effectively reduced blood pressure for 24 h after once-daily dosing and was well tolerated.
The level of mRNA expression and DNA structure of c-H-ras were examined in a transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) induced in C3H/He mice and Fisher rats by N-(4,5-nitro-2-furylthiazolyl)formamide (FANFT) and carried as serially transplanted tumors. Neither amplification nor gross rearrangements were detected by Southern analysis in the FANFT tumor. Increased expression of c-H-ras was detected by Northern and in situ hybridization in both the FANFT-induced mouse and rat TCC, as compared to normal urothelium. No expression of six other cellular oncogenes was detected in the tumor. It appears that the increase in H-ras expression in the FANFT tumor is specific to this oncogene and that increased expression of the H-ras gene may play a role in bladder carcinogenesis.
Nitric oxide-mediated nociception has been suggested to involve formation of cyclic guanosine 5'-monophosphate (cGMP) and activation of cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG). To further evaluate this pathway we assessed the effects of the PKG-inhibiting cGMP analog Rp-8-Br-cGMPS in the rat formalin assay and analyzed the regulation of PKG expression in rat lumbar spinal cord. Spinally delivered Rp-8-Br-cGMPS (0.1-0.5 micro mol i.t.) reduced the nociceptive behavior in a dose-dependent manner. Similar effects were achieved with Rp-8-Br-PET-cGMPS (0.5 micro mol i.t.), another PKG-inhibitory cGMP analog. In contrast, Rp-8-Br-cAMPS (0.5 micro mol i.t.), an inhibitor of protein kinase A, had no effect in this model. Formalin treatment resulted in a rapid (within 1h), long-lasting (up to 96h) upregulation of PKG-I protein expression. This increase was prevented in animals pretreated with Rp-8-Br-cGMPS (0.5 micro mol i.t.) or morphine (2.5-5mg/kg i.p.) 10min prior to formalin injection. Spinal delivery of 8-Br-cGMP, a PKG-activating cGMP analog, without subsequent formalin treatment also caused an increase of PKG-I protein expression. Hence, the upregulation of PKG-I might possibly be mediated by cGMP itself. Our data suggest that PKG-I activation is involved in the synaptic transmission of nociceptive stimuli in the spinal cord and that PKG-I inhibitors might be interesting novel drugs for pain treatment.
We examined the effects of activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha, PPARgamma, and both of them in combination in obese diabetic KKAy mice and investigated the mechanisms by which they improve insulin sensitivity. PPARalpha activation by its agonist, Wy-14,643, as well as PPARgamma activation by its agonist, rosiglitazone, markedly improved insulin sensitivity. Interestingly, dual activation of PPARalpha and -gamma by a combination of Wy-14,643 and rosiglitazone showed increased efficacy. Adipocyte size in Wy-14,643-treated KKAy mice was much smaller than that of vehicle- or rosiglitazone-treated mice, suggesting that activation of PPARalpha prevents adipocyte hypertrophy. Moreover, Wy-14,643 treatment reduced inflammation and the expression of macrophage-specific genes in white adipose tissue (WAT). Importantly, Wy-14,643 treatment upregulated expression of the adiponectin receptor (AdipoR)-1 and AdipoR2 in WAT, which was decreased in WAT of KKAy mice compared with that in nondiabetic control mice. Furthermore, Wy-14,643 directly increased expression of AdipoRs and decreased monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 expression in adipocytes and macrophages. Rosiglitazone increased serum adiponectin concentrations and the ratio of high molecular weight multimers of adiponectin to total adiponectin. A combination of rosiglitazone and Wy-14,643 increased both serum adiponectin concentrations and AdipoR expression in WAT. These data suggest that PPARalpha activation prevents inflammation in WAT and that dual activation of PPARalpha and -gamma enhances the action of adiponectin by increasing both adiponectin and AdipoRs, which can result in the amelioration of obesity-induced insulin resistance.
