Nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates, which are widely used to treat osteoporosis, act as inhibitors of farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase, one of the key enzymes of the mevalonate pathway, and thus may have the potential to enhance the effect of statins (inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase). In this study, we evaluated the synergistic effect of two nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates, alendronate and risedronate, in statin-induced apoptosis in rat skeletal L6 myoblasts.
L6 rat myoblasts were differentiated with drugs. DNA fragmentation was measured and small GTPase was detected by immunoblotting.
Alendronate and risedronate caused dose-dependent apoptosis of L6 myoblasts. Risedronate induced detachment of rho GTPase from the cell membrane, followed by activation of the caspase-8-related cascade. Risedronate-induced apoptosis was synergistically enhanced with atorvastatin and significantly reduced by addition of geranylgeraniol. By contrast, alendronate did not reduce membrane GTPases and the apoptosis was caspase independent.
These results suggest that risedronate-induced apoptosis is related to geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate depletion followed by rho detachment, whereas alendronate affects are independent of rho. Our results suggest a risk of synergistic action between nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates and statins in the development of rhabdomyolysis when treating osteoporosis in women with hyperlipidaemia.
The process triggering spontaneous recurrences of methamphetamine (MAP) psychosis (i.e. flashbacks) was studied in 41 flashbackers, along with 84 non-flashbackers with a history of MAP psychosis. Plasma monoamine metabolite levels were assayed in 25 of the 41 flashbackers, 16 of the 84 non-flashbackers, 9 subjects with persistent MAP psychosis and 28 control subjects. All flashbackers had experienced threatening events or frightening paranoid-hallucinatory states during previous MAP use. The dominant factor triggering flashbacks was a mild fear of other people. Plasma norepinephrine levels were elevated during flashbacks. The results suggest that a mild fear of other people may have elicited memories of MAP psychosis associated with threatening experiences through increased sensitivity to psychosocial stressors. As a result the flashbacks occurred, including an increase in peripheral noradrenergic activity.
Individual vulnerability to psychopathologies is linked to a number of genetic polymorphisms including the serotonin transporter (5HTT) promoter polymorphic region (5HTTLPR). A single copy of the short variant (s-variant) allele of 5HTTLPR confers increased susceptibility to anxiety disorders and depression and decreased efficacy of serotonin-releasing agents in pharmacotherapy compared to the homozygous long 5HTTLPR variant (l/L). The data suggesting that the 5HTTLPR polymorphism modulates the efficacy of serotonin-releasing agents in pharmacotherapy is inconsistent. Other factors such as age, gender, and hormonal status could interact with 5HTTLPR genotype to affect individual physiological and behavioral responses to serotonin reuptake inhibitors such as citalopram. Indeed, estradiol and progesterone, the primary female steroid hormones, exert an array of effects on the serotonergic system, including 5HTT expression. The present study used ovariectomized female rhesus monkeys to determine the interaction between the 5HTTLPR polymorphism and the effects of midfollicular levels of estradiol and luteal levels of progesterone on serotonergic responsivity to acute citalopram administration. The increase in serum prolactin, a surrogate measure of serotonin activity, following citalopram administration was significantly larger in l/L females than in s-variant females over the course of two hours during concurrent estradiol and progesterone hormone replacement only. These data suggest that ovarian function and the 5HTTLPR polymorphism interact to gate serotonergic reactivity in females, suggesting that clinicians should be aware of the ovarian status and 5HTTLPR genotype of women when considering serotonergic pharmacotherapy in women.
Anticholinergic medication (ACM) is frequently used in psychiatry to treat the side-effects of D2 blocking agents. However, ACM is not without adverse effects and, in the elderly, cognitive and memory impairments have been emphasized. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of discontinuation of ACM on cognitive functions in a group of elderly chronic schizophrenia patients. Twenty-seven elderly patients (age 60 years or older), who were diagnosed as suffering from schizophrenia (DSM-IV) and receiving ACM in addition to antipsychotic treatment, were enrolled. Before and after ACM was discontinued, the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive (ADAS-Cog) subscale was administered. Twenty-one patients completed the study. All were receiving Akineton (biperiden), 2-6 mg daily before the study. Significant improvement in the ADAS-Cog total score was demonstrated (P < 0.03), as well as in the ideational praxia and orientation subscales. Improvement was correlated with the previous dose of biperidin. No adverse events or emergent extrapyramidal symptoms were noted. Discontinuation of ACM may be warranted in chronic schizophrenia patients since it may improve cognitive functioning with no adverse effects.
Recent human genetic studies have revealed that common variants of the zinc transporter 8 (ZnT-8) gene are strongly associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). ZnT-8 has been suggested as a potential candidate in the regulation of insulin secretion in pancreatic β-cells. In this study, we aimed to explore the expression of ZnT-8 in the development of T2DM. The expression of ZnT-8 was investigated in the pancreas and adipose tissue of homozygous db/db mice compared to heterozygous sibling db/+ mice (n=6-8). Furthermore, the effect of Exendin-4 (an analogue of glucagon-like peptide-1) on ZnT-8 expression was examined in the db/db mice. Exendin-4 or vehicle (control) was administered (i.p., 1 nmol/kg) to diabetic 8-week-old db/db mice daily for 14 days (n=8). The results revealed that ZnT-8 protein levels in the pancreas of db/db mice were reduced, accompanied by a decrease in ZnT-8 mRNA. ZnT-8 mRNA and protein levels were also significantly reduced in the epididymal and visceral fat of the db/db mice. Treatment with Exendin-4 up-regulated ZnT-8 gene expression in the pancreas of the db/db mice, but did not affect its expression in adipose tissue. These findings suggest that ZnT-8 synthesis in the pancreas and adipose tissue is down-regulated in db/db mice. Reduced ZnT-8 production in the pancreas may advance defects in insulin secretion in diabetes. These may be reversed, at least partially, by the administration of Exendin-4.
This paper reports the results of the mortality rate in a retrospective cohort of cocaine addicts enrolled in treatment programs at the SerTs (Drug Addiction Services) of Bologna's metropolitan area from 1989 to December 31, 2004 including 347 subjects, 89% males and 11% females, with an average age of 30.4 years at the time of enrollment (females 29.1 and males 30.6). 15.3% of the subjects had been at least once in jail, 29.4% were also using cannabis, 22.2% alcohol, 25% had a high school degree, 16% were married and 60% were employed. During the follow-up period, 7 deaths have been observed, all in the male population: one caused by AIDS, one by drug overdose, three by vascular diseases, two by injuries and poisonings. The mortality rate was 4.98 per 1000 person-years in both sexes, 5.38 by the males. The survival chance after 12 years from the first contact with the SerTs was of 89% (CI 66.8-96.7). The death risk goes down after two years from the first enrollment and drops remarkably only after two years from the last contact with the drug treatment service. The study confirms the excess of mortality for all causes of the cohort among males in comparison with the general population (SMR 4.75; CI 2.26-9.96). As to the specific death causes, the highest SMR was related to vascular diseases (SMR 14.85; CI 4.79-46.04), suicides (SMR 7.07; CI 1-50.16) and overdoses (SMR 9.95; CI 1.40-70.61). Males show a higher mortality rate, subjects older than 30 years at the first contact with SerTs, with at least one imprisonment, married, with problematic housing situation, unemployed, with concomitant alcohol abuse and low schooling level.
Oral anticoagulants, such as dabigatran etexilate, an oral, direct thrombin inhibitor, that do not require monitoring or dose adjustment offer potential for prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism (VTE) after total knee replacement surgery.
In this randomized, double-blind study, 2076 patients undergoing total knee replacement received dabigatran etexilate, 150 mg or 220 mg once-daily, starting with a half-dose 1-4 hours after surgery, or subcutaneous enoxaparin 40 mg once-daily, starting the evening before surgery, for 6-10 days. Patients were followed-up for 3 months. The primary efficacy outcome was a composite of total VTE (venographic or symptomatic) and mortality during treatment, and the primary safety outcome was the incidence of bleeding events.
The primary efficacy outcome occurred in 37.7% (193 of 512) of the enoxaparin group versus 36.4% (183 of 503) of the dabigatran etexilate 220 mg group (absolute difference, -1.3%; 95% CI, -7.3 to 4.6) and 40.5% (213 of 526) of the 150 mg group (2.8%; 95% CI, -3.1 to 8.7). Both doses were noninferior to enoxaparin based on the pre-specified noninferiority criterion. The incidence of major bleeding did not differ significantly between the three groups (1.3% versus 1.5% and 1.3% respectively). No significant differences in the incidences of liver enzyme elevation and acute coronary events were observed during treatment or follow-up.
Dabigatran etexilate (220 mg or 150 mg) was at least as effective and with a similar safety profile as enoxaparin for prevention of VTE after total knee-replacement surgery.
Nephrotoxicity is a common complication of cisplatin chemotherapy that limits its clinical use. Here, we determined whether arachidonic acid metabolism has a role in the pathogenesis of cisplatin nephrotoxicity in mice. Three days following cisplatin injection, wild-type mice displayed renal functional and structural abnormalities consistent with nephrotoxicity accompanied by elevated circulating and renal levels of TNF-α and renal levels of IL-1β, subunits of NADPH oxidase, thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, and PGE(2). These indices of kidney injury, inflammation, oxidative stress, and arachidonate metabolism were all diminished in microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1) null mice; a phenotype recapitulated by treatment of wild-type mice with the COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib. Following cisplatin administration, there was paralleled induction of COX-2 and mPGES-1 in renal parenchymal cells. Interestingly, mPGES-1 null mice were not protected from acute kidney injury caused by ischemia-reperfusion or endotoxin. Hence, our results suggest the activation of COX-2/mPGES-1 pathway in renal parenchymal cells may selectively mediate cisplatin-induced renal injury. This may offer a novel therapeutic target for management of the adverse effect of cisplatin chemotherapy.
Modulation of gene expression in tumors has the potential of being a surrogate end-point biomarker for chemoprevention. Thus, we determined the modulation by chemopreventive agents of the protein and mRNA expression of genes in rat colon tumors. Male F344 rats were administered three weekly injections of 15 mg/kg azoxymethane. Forty-seven weeks later, they received aspirin (600), calcium chloride (50 000), 2-(carboxyphenyl) retinamide (2-CPR, 315), alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO, 3000), piroxicam (200), quercetin (33 600), 9-cis retinoic acid (9-cis RA, 30), rutin (3000), or sulindac (280) in their diet at the indicated mg/kg concentration for 7 days and were then killed. In colon tumors relative to the mucosa, the protein and mRNA levels of c-myc were increased, while the levels of p16 and p27 were decreased. Calcium chloride, DFMO, piroxicam and sulindac administered for 7 days decreased the mitotic index and reduced the protein and mRNA levels of c-myc in colon tumors. Calcium chloride, DFMO and piroxicam increased the protein and mRNA levels of p16 and along with sulindac increased the protein level of p27, but not its mRNA. The other agents failed to modulate both the mitotic index and the expression of the genes. The ability of the chemopreventive agents to prevent colon tumors was determined. Male F344 rats were administered three weekly injections of 15 mg/kg azoxymethane and 8 weeks later they were administered aspirin, 2-CPR, DFMO, piroxicam, 9-cis RA and rutin in their diet. The rats were killed 26 weeks after they started to receive the chemopreventive agents. The multiplicity of colon tumors was reduced by DFMO and piroxicam, increased by rutin and not affected by the other agents. Hence, agents that prevented colon cancer decreased the mitotic index and altered the expression of c-myc, p16 and p27 suggesting that modulation in the expression of these genes are potential biomarkers for chemopreventive activity.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO), an ancient traditional Chinese medicine, has been successfully used as a therapeutic agent for leukemia. Drug resistance and toxicity are major concerns with the treatment. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small non-coding RNA molecules that might modulate cellular sensitivity to anticancer drugs. miRNA-21 (miR-21) is one of the most prominent miRNAs involved in various aspects of human cancers. However, miR-21 has been rarely characterized in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Here, we used a specific anti-miR-21 oligonucleotide (AMO-miR-21) to sensitize K562 cells to ATO by degradation of miR-21. The results showed that both AMO-miR-21 and ATO caused growth inhibition, apoptosis, and G1-phase arrest in K562 cells. Meanwhile, AMO-miR-21 significantly promoted ATO-mediated growth inhibition and apotosis without affecting the G1 phase. Apoptotic cells were confirmed morphologically with Giemsa's staining. Furthermore, dual-luciferase reporter vector, containing two tandem miR-21 binding sites from PDCD4 3'UTR, validated that PDCD4 was directly regulated by miR-21. Therefore, AMO-miR-21 sensitized leukemic K562 cells to ATO by inducing apoptosis partially due to its up-regulation of PDCD4 protein level. The combination of ATO and AMO-miR-21 present therapeutic potential for CML.
The small GTPase RhoA has been implicated in the regulation of cell morphology, motility, and transformation, but the role of RhoA protein in the carcinogenesis of gastric cancer remains unclear. In the present study, we have analyzed the expression status of the RhoA protein in human gastric cancer cells and tissues and investigated the possible involvement of RhoA in regulating the malignant phenotype of gastric cancer cells.
RhoA expression was analyzed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot in gastric cancer tissues and cell lines. The RhoA-specific small interfering RNA (siRNA) vector was designed and constructed. We examined the role of RhoA in the malignant phenotype of gastric cancer cells by using siRNA knockdown and dominant-negative RhoA mutant suppression of endogenous RhoA activity.
RhoA was found frequently overexpressed in gastric cancer tissues and cells compared with normal tissues or gastric epithelial cells. RhoA-specific siRNA could specifically and stably reduce RhoA expression up to 90% in AGS cells. Both RhoA-specific siRNA and dominant-negative RhoA expressions could significantly inhibit the proliferation and tumorigenicity of AGS cells and enhance chemosensitivity of the cancer cells to Adriamycin and 5-fluorouracil.
RhoA may play a critical role in the carcinogenesis of gastric cancer, and the interference of RhoA expression and/or activity could provide a novel avenue in reversing the malignant phenotype of gastric cancer cells.
Misoprostol, an inexpensive, stable, orally active prostaglandin analogue, has been suggested for use in the prevention of postpartum haemorrhage. Potential side-effects, however, need to be quantified.
To compare the rate of postpartum shivering and pyrexia following oral misoprostol 600 micrograms and placebo.
A double-blind placebo-controlled trial. Women in labour were randomly allocated to receive either misoprostol 600 micrograms orally or placebo after delivery. Conventional oxytocics were given immediately if blood loss was thought to be more than usual. Side-effects were recorded. Postpartum blood loss in the first hour was measured by collection in a special flat plastic bedpan.
The labour ward of an academic hospital in Johannesburg, with 7,000 deliveries per annum.
Shivering and pyrexia.
The groups were well matched. Misoprostol use was associated with more shivering (44% versus 11%, relative risk (RR) 4.03, 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.85-5.70), pyrexia > or = 37.8 degrees C (38% v. 6%, RR 6.23, CI 3.89-9.97), 1-hour systolic blood pressure > or = 140 mmHg (33% v. 25%, RR 1.32, CI 1.03-1.70), and diastolic blood pressure > or = 90 mmHg (10.5% v. 3.0%, RR 3.44, CI 1.67-7.11). There were no other significant differences. The study was not designed to be large enough to assess a difference in blood loss > or = 1,000 ml (9% v. 9.7%, RR 0.93, CI 0.56-1.53). Possible effects on blood loss may have been obscured by the lesser use of additional oxytocics in the misoprostol group (14% v. 18%, RR 0.78, CI 0.54-1.13).
This study has shown the association of postpartum oral misoprostol 600 micrograms with shivering, pyrexia and hypertension. The increased blood pressure, as for the trend towards increased abdominal pain, may be secondary to the uterotonic effect of misoprostol. Large randomised trials are needed to assess the effectiveness of misoprostol in the prevention of postpartum haemorrhage, against which the disadvantages demonstrated here can be weighed.
1. In anaesthetized, pump-ventilated guinea-pigs, bolus intravenous injection of prostaglandin D2 (PGD2 5-160 micrograms kg-1) caused a dose-dependent rise in both heart rate and systemic mean arterial blood pressure with only a small monophasic rise in pulmonary inflation pressure (PIP). 2. In contrast, inhaled PGD2 (0.1-1 mg ml-1, 30s) provoked a substantial concentration-dependent biphasic rise in PIP. The bronchoconstrictor action of inhaled PGD2 was accompanied by minimal cardiovascular effects. 3. The 3-benzyl substituted hydantoin BW A868C (0.1-1 mg kg-1 i.v.) a novel prostanoid DP-receptor antagonist, had no significant effect on the cardiovascular or bronchoconstrictor effects of intravenously administered or inhaled PGD2. 4. However, BW A868C (0.1-1 mg kg-1 i.v.) did inhibit the hypotensive actions of the DP-receptor agonist, BW 245C (1-3 micrograms kg-1 i.v.). 5. The prostanoid TP-receptor antagonist BM 13.177 (2.5 mg kg-1 i.v.) strongly inhibited the bronchoconstrictor effect of inhaled PGD2, abolishing the first phase of this response and reducing the peak increase in PIP provoked by PGD2 (0.1 or 1 mg ml-1 for 30 s), by 67 +/- 16% and 44 +/- 5% respectively. 6. A combination of BW A868C (0.1 or 1 mg kg-1 i.v.) with BM 13.177 (2.5 mg kg-1 i.v.) produced no greater inhibition of the bronchoconstrictor effect of inhaled PGD2 than that seen with BM 13.177 (2.5 mg kg-1 i.v.) alone. 7. Neither bilateral vagotomy, nor selective inhibition of arachidonate cyclo-oxygenase with indomethacin or 5-lipoxygenase with the novel acetohydroxamic acid BW A4C, significantly reduced the bronchoconstrictor effect of inhaled PGD2. 8. These findings indicate that the bronchoconstrictor effect of inhaled PGD2 in guinea-pigs in vivo is mediated primarily through direct TP-receptor activation and not through actions on DP-receptors.
Chronic (14 days) but not acute treatment with antidepressants (amitriptyline, imipramine, desipramine, clomipramine, mianserin, danitracen, iprindole) potentiated the aggressive behaviour induced by apomorphine (APO) in rats. The APO stereotypy was not changed. A similar potentiation was caused by chronic treatment with phentolamine or thioridazine but not with spiperone or deazepam. In rats treated chronically with amitriptyline the APO-induced fighting was antagonized by phenoxybenzamine or spiperone, and not by metergoline. The results allows us to postulate that the chronic treatment with antidepressants potentiates the APO-induced aggressiveness via the noradrenergic mechanism, i.e., through an enhanced response to the endogenous NA.
Patients with cirrhosis are prone to develop renal failure upon administration of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The aim of the present study was to determine the safety and efficacy of misoprostol (400 microg) in two repeated doses for the prevention of ibuprofen-induced decrements in renal function in decompensated cirrhotics.
Patients were given ibuprofen (800 mg) with either misoprostol (n = 9) or a placebo (n = 10). Sixty minutes later another dose of misoprostol or the placebo was administered. Renal function tests were assessed by clearance techniques.
Administration of ibuprofen with a placebo caused significant decreases in urinary output, inulin clearance, sodium excretion, osmolar clearance, free water clearance, and urinary prostaglandin E2 excretion. Coadministration of ibuprofen and the first misoprostol dose maintained urinary output and sodium excretion, and caused an increase in free water clearance. These changes were maintained only for 1 h. Administration of the second dose of misoprostol temporarily improved inulin and creatinine clearances. Half the patients who received misoprostol suffered from episodes of chills, fever, and diarrhea.
Ibuprofen causes renal dysfunction in decompensated cirrhotics, whereas misoprostol may have some protective renal effects, which are, however, short lived and clinically insignificant. Because of side effects, misoprostol should be used with caution in these patients.
Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation are the most common arrhythmias in Brugada syndrome, causing syncope or sudden death. Sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardias are rare in this context. We report the case of a 41-year-old man with repetitive syncopal episodes and an ajmaline-induced characteristic Brugada ECG pattern, in whom episodes of monomorphic ventricular tachycardia with pleomorphism and response to ventricular pacing were documented.
In 1988, the specific benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil (Anexate Roche), was introduced in clinical practice in Czechoslovakia for analgesia. A pilot study was initiated to establish whether .1 mg of flumazenil iv was capable of accelerating the psychic recovery of women after abortion. 30 healthy women aged 17-25 received a combination of .1 mg/kg-1 diazepam iv together with .88 mg/kg-1 ketamine iv. Another group of 10 women of the same age range were given .05 mg/kg-1 of midazolam iv. Flumazenil, in a dose of .1 mg iv, was administered to the women following the completion of the procedure, i.e., about 5-7 minutes after giving benzodiazepine. The effect of flumazenil became apparent 30 seconds after iv administration. The hypnotic-sedative effect of benzodiazepine set in after 30-60 seconds, and its biological half-life was 50-60 minutes. After administration of midazolam, an especially strong sedative effect was produced for operative intervention. The psychic effects of ketamine lasted only a little while and no occurrence of psychomimetic symptoms were observed as determined by an orientation test of place, time, and space. Retrograde amnesia was complete during the procedure. Partial amnesia occurred after administration of flumazenil. The lowest flumazenil doses antagonized only the hypnotic and sedative effects of benzodiazepine but did not influence the anxiolytic and amnestic effects. Systolic pressure increased by 10 torr: the pulse rate increased on the average from 74.4 - 84.8 beats/minute. Mild ataxia occurred in women who attempted to get out of bed, but 60 minutes after completion of the procedure, the patients were able to walk without ataxia. It was clearly demonstrated that the sedative-hypnotic effects of benzodiazepine can be subdued after abortion, shortening the period required for the recovery of the patient.
An experimental model of the "withdrawal syndrome" in chronic clonidine treatment is reproduced in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Medication is withdrawn abruptly after daily oral administration of 100 micrograms/kg clonidine for 12 days or after it has been received with the drinking water in a dose of approximately 250 micrograms/kg daily for 14 days. In the course of the treatment, as well as on the 24th and 48th hour after withdrawal, studies are carried out of the changes in the arterial pressure, heart rate, vascular resistance, the contractions of electrically stimulated m.anococcygeus and vas deferens, as well as some biochemical parameters (noradrenaline content in the brain and myocardium, the level of glucose and free fatty acids in the blood, the activity of phosphorylase "a" in the myocardium). In the course of clonidine treatment there is potentiation of the peripheral noradrenaline effects on the arterial pressure and vascular resistance, increasing hyperglycaemia, reduced noradrenaline content in the brain and myocardium, as well as potentiation of the inhibitory effect of clonidine on the contractions of electrically stimulated m.anococcygeus, as well as potentiation of the isoprenaline responses on the arterial pressure. The isoprenaline effects on electrically stimulated vas deferens, as well as the activity of the stimulated phosphorylase "a", decrease. No sharp increase in the arterial blood pressure was observed upon withdrawal of the clonidine treatment. The reactivity of the peripheral pre- and postsynaptic alpha-adrenergic receptors is intensified (the effects of noradrenaline on the arterial pressure and vascular resistance become even stronger, the noradrenaline content in the brain and myocardium and hyperglycaemia increase, and there is potentiation of the inhibitory effect of clonidine on electrically stimulated m.anococcygeus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Adolapin is a basic polypeptide (M. W. 11500) isolated from bee venom. It showed marked antiinflammatory and analgetic properties and inhibited cyclooxygenase. It was found that adolapin inhibited also the activity of bee venom phospholipase A2 (7 nmole/ml producing about 80% inhibition of 2.5 nmole/ml phospholipase). In addition it inhibited the lipoxygenase from human platelets (4.5 nmole/ml inhibited about 80% of the activity of 0.8 mg protein/ml). Adolapin (20 micrograms/kg) caused an elevation of c-GMP level in rat spleen and brain as well as a decrease of c-AMP in rat spleen. Adolapin was tested by the "tail flick" method which allowed the demonstration of its analgetic action. The partial inhibition of the analgetic effect of adolapin induced by naloxon, proved the participation of a central mechanism of action. Similar to other nonsteroid analgetics, adolapin displayed antipyretic effect (40 micrograms/kg caused an inhibition of the mean temperature rise about 62%.
We report the case of a 48-year-old woman who developed morphea-like plaques after 1 year of treatment with D-penicillamine at 250 mg daily for a seronegative erosive arthritis of rheumatoid type. The rash began as several red itchy patches on the trunk; these became thickened and shiny over about 3 months. The histological appearance was of increased dermal fibrosis with an inflammatory infiltrate round dermal capillaries. However, epidermal changes were not typical of morphea. New lesions ceased to appear within a few months of stopping penicillamine, and by 1 year all the plaques were pale and symptomless.
Increased expression of fibroblast growth factors that can activate the fibroblast growth factor receptor-4 (FGFR-4) occurs in a substantial fraction of human prostate cancers in vivo. A germline polymorphism of the FGFR-4 gene resulting in expression of arginine at codon 388 (Arg388) is associated with aggressive disease in patients with breast and colon cancer. We therefore sought to determine whether the FGFR-4 Arg388 allele was associated with prostate cancer incidence and/or the occurrence of aggressive disease.
The FGFR-4 genotype of men undergoing radical prostatectomy and controls of the same race was determined and the genotype correlated with clinical and pathologic markers of disease aggressiveness. PNT1A cell lines expressing predominantly the FGFR-4 Arg388 or Gly388 allele were established, and cell migration and invasiveness of these cells were assessed by a wounding assay and by quantitative determination of invasion through Matrigel. Expression of urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor was determined by quantitative RT-PCR and enzyme-linked immunoabsorption assay.
Homozygosity for the FGFR-4 Arg388 allele is strongly associated with the occurrence of prostate cancer in white men. The presence of the FGFR-4 Arg388 allele is also correlated with the occurrence of pelvic lymph node metastasis and biochemical (prostate-specific antigen) recurrence. Expression of FGFR-4 Arg388 in immortalized prostatic epithelial cells results in increased cell motility and invasion through Matrigel and was associated with increased expression of urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor.
The FGFR-4 Arg388 allele is associated with both an increased incidence and clinical aggressiveness of prostate cancer and results in changes in cellular motility and invasiveness in immortalized prostate epithelial cells consistent with the promotion of metastasis.
The ubiquitin-like SUMO proteins covalently modify protein substrates and regulate their functional properties. In a broad spectrum of cancers, the tumor suppressor PML undergoes ubiquitin-mediated degradation primed by CK2 phosphorylation. Here, we report that the SUMO E3-ligase inhibitor PIAS1 regulates oncogenic signaling through its ability to sumoylate PML and the PML-RARA oncoprotein of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation of PML promoted CK2 interaction and ubiquitin/proteasome-mediated degradation of PML, attenuating its tumor suppressor functions. In addition, PIAS1-mediated SUMOylation of PML-RARA was essential for induction of its degradation by arsenic trioxide, an effective APL treatment. Moreover, PIAS1 suppression abrogated the ability of arsenic trioxide to trigger apoptosis in APL cells. Lastly, PIAS1 was also essential for PML degradation in non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) cells, and PML and PIAS1 were inversely correlated in NSCLC cell lines and primary specimens. Together, our findings reveal novel roles for PIAS1 and the SUMOylation machinery in regulating oncogenic networks and the response to leukemia therapy.
To determine whether hepatic steatosis is susceptible to acetaminophen (APAP) hepatotoxicity.
Male C57Bl/6 mice were fed a "Western-style" diet (high fat and high carbohydrate) for 4 months to develop severe hepatic steatosis with mild increases in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels. These were compared to mice fed a standard chow diet.
Treatment with APAP (300 mg/kg, orally) to mice fed a regular chow increased ALT levels (519-fold) and caused hepatic centrilobular injury at 6 h. APAP increased hepatic cytochrome-P (CYP)-2E1 mRNA levels (17-fold). In vivo microscopic studies showed that APAP caused a 30% decrease in sinusoidal perfusion and the infiltration of red blood cells into the space of Disse. Electron microscopy demonstrated that numerous gaps were formed in sinusoidal endothelial cells. Mice fed the "Western-style" diet were protected from APAP hepatotoxicity as evidenced by 89% decrease in ALT levels and less centrilobular injury, which was associated with 42% decrease in CYP2E1 mRNA levels. The APAP-induced liver microcirculatory dysfunction was minimized in mice fed the "Western-style" diet.
These results suggest that hepatic steatosis elicited by the "Western-style" diet attenuated APAP-induced hepatotoxicity by inhibiting CYP2E1 induction and by minimizing sinusoidal endothelial cell injury, leading to protection of liver microcirculation.
Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene) is a natural product occurring in grapes and various other plants with medicinal properties associated with reduced cardiovascular disease and reduced cancer risk. To evaluate the possibility and potential mechanism(s) of which resveratrol inhibits N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA)-induced rat esophageal tumorigenesis, 96 F344 male rats were divided into 10 groups and resveratrol (1 and 2 mg/kg) was administered orally or intraperitoneally (i.p.). In the groups in which resveratrol was administered at 2 mg/kg (orally, for 16 weeks), 1 and 2 mg/kg (i.p., for 16 weeks) and 1 mg/kg (i.p., for 20 weeks), the number of NMBA-induced esophageal tumors per rat was significantly reduced to 78, 62, 54 and 48, respectively (P < 0.05), and the size of maximum tumors in each group with resveratrol treatment was also significantly smaller than that in NMBA alone group (P < 0.05). Although the pathological examination did not indicate significantly decreased incidence of carcinomas by administering resveratrol, the tendency of carcinogensis suppression was observed (P = 0.177). Semi-quantitative RT-PCR and ELISA analysis demonstrated that following NMBA treatment, the expression of COX-1 mRNA was strongly present in tumor tissues, while weakly present in non-tissues; the expression of COX-2 mRNA was induced in both tumor and non-tumor tissues. The production of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) increased approximately 6-fold, compared with the normal esophageal mucosa. The higher expression of COX-1, the up-regulated COX-2 expression and the increased levels of PGE(2) synthesis were all significantly decreased by administering resveratrol. Our study suggests that resveratrol suppressed NMBA-induced rat esophageal tumorigenesis by targeting COXs and PGE(2), and therefore may be a promising natural anti-carcinogenesis agent for the prevention and treatment of human esophageal cancer.
