The mitochondrially expressed manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase (MnSOD, SOD2) is an essential antioxidative enzyme that is necessary for normal heart function. In this study, we investigated the heart function of mice that were exposed to increased oxidative stress for time periods of up to 6 months due to decreased MnSOD activity caused by heterozygous deletion of the MnSOD gene.
We generated a mouse strain in which the gene encoding MnSOD was exchanged against a cassette containing the SOD cDNA under the control of the tetracycline response element. After breeding with mice carrying the tetracycline receptor, compound mice express MnSOD depending on the presence of tetracycline. Without tetracycline receptor the MnSOD gene is fully inactivated, and animals show an MnSOD-deficient phenotype. Using echocardiographic recordings, we found an impairment of left ventricular functions: MnSOD+/- mice displayed a decrease in fraction shortening and ejection fraction and an increase in left ventricular internal diameter in systole. Furthermore, MnSOD+/- mice developed heart hypertrophy with accompanying fibrosis and necrosis revealed by immunhistochemical analysis. Although we did not find an increase in apoptosis in MnSOD+/- hearts under normal conditions, we observed an increase of the number of apoptotic cells and vascular senescence after treatment with doxorubicin.
Our study demonstrates that lifelong reduction of MnSOD activity has a negative effect on normal heart function. This animal model presents a valuable tool to investigate the mechanism of heart pathology reported in patients bearing different polymorphic variants of the MnSOD gene and to develop new therapeutic strategies through manipulation of the antioxidative defence system.
The chemopreventive efficacy of lycopene and curcumin with regard to prostate carcinogenesis was investigated using 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenol (DMAB)- and 2-amino-1-methylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP)-induced rat ventral prostate cancer models. Three 60 week experiments with male F344 rats were carried out. In the first DMAB was given for the first 20 weeks and lycopene or curcumin were administered concomitantly or subsequently at dietary doses of 15 and 500 p.p.m., respectively. In the second experiment lycopene and curcumin were given to rats pretreated with DMAB at doses of 5, 15 or 45 p.p.m. or 100 or 500 p.p.m. In the third PhIP was selected as an initiator for prostate carcinogenesis and administered for 20 weeks. Rats were then fed a diet containing lycopene at a dose of 45 p.p.m. or curcumin at a dose of 500 p.p.m. or both together. Chemopreventive effects of lycopene and curcumin on development of DMAB-induced ventral prostate carcinomas were observed only in the first experiment and no confirmation of inhibition potential was obtained in the following studies. Neither summational nor synergistic chemoprevention was evident. It is concluded from the present data that, overall, neither lycopene nor curcumin can consistently prevent rat prostate carcinogenesis.
We quantified the amount of inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor binding required for the onset of convulsions induced by ciprofloxacin in combination with biphenylacetic acid (BPAA) in mice. In fasting mice iv ciprofloxacin given 30 min after oral BPAA (50 mg/kg) induced convulsions at doses of 40 mg/kg or above. In contrast, ofloxacin caused no convulsions even at 100 mg/kg, the highest dose tested. When mice received 40 mg/kg of ciprofloxacin or ofloxacin, maximal brain concentrations of each quinolone at 30 min were 0.37 or 1.97 micrograms/g, respectively. These brain concentrations of ciprofloxacin and ofloxacin were not affected by combination with BPAA. In the presence of ciprofloxacin and BPAA (at brain tissue concentrations which induced convulsions), the binding of 3H-muscimol to GABAA receptor sites was inhibited by approximately 30%. Using results from a similar binding study, an impracticable iv dose of ofloxacin (500 mg/kg) was estimated to be required to inhibit GABAA receptor binding by 30%, and therefore to induce similar convulsions to those seen with ciprofloxacin at a dose of 40 mg/kg. These results may indicate that epileptic convulsions occur when ciprofloxacin and BPAA interact with each other to antagonize at least 30% of GABAA receptor binding in mice, and provide evidence for a significant role of GABAA receptor inhibition in the occurrence of quinolone-induced convulsions.
We have taken the opportunity of a clinical trial of the potential efficacy and safety of FK 506 (tacrolimus) in chronic progressive multiple sclerosis (MS) to examine the influence of this potent new immunosuppressant on circulating T-lymphocytes in an otherwise healthy non-transplant population. Peripheral blood levels of subsets of CD4+ T lymphocytes expressing the activation molecule interleukin-2 receptor (p55 alpha chain; CD25) or the CD45RA isoform were determined sequentially in 19 patients that were treated continuously with oral FK 506 (starting dose 0.15 mg/kg/day) for 12 months. No significant change in the proportion of circulating CD25+ CD4+ cells was observed over the study period in which the mean trough plasma FK 506 level rose from 0.3 +/- 0.2 to 0.5 +/- 0.4 ng/ml. There was also no significant effect of FK 506 on the percentage of CD45R+ CD4+ cells in the peripheral blood at 12 months compared with pretreatment values. Analysis of a subgroup of 7 patients, who showed a sustained reduction in CD25+ CD4+ cells and a reciprocal increase in CD45RA+ CD4+ cells for at least 6 months after start of treatment, did not reveal any difference in disability at one year compared with the treatment group as a whole. The side effects of FK 506 were mild and the overall degree of disability estimated by the mean Kurtzke expanded disability status scale (EDSS) score or the ambulation index did not deteriorate significantly in the 19 patients studied over the 12 months of FK 506 administration.
We report a successful case of active infective endocarditis due to Methicilin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). A 2-year-old girl who had a ventricular septal defect (VSD) complained of persistent fever. Echocardiography showeda large vegetation on the tricuspid valve and a small VSD. She underwent vegetectomy, tricuspid valvoplasty and direct closure of VSD. Vancomycin treatment was also effective to abolish infection. She was discharged without any complication.
Epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cancer stem cells (CSC) have been associated with resistance to chemotherapy. Eighty percent of ovarian cancer patients initially respond to platinum-based combination therapy but most return with recurrence and ultimate demise. To better understand such chemoresistance we have assessed the potential role of EMT in tumor cells collected from advanced-stage ovarian cancer patients and the ovarian cancer cell line OVCA 433 in response to cisplatin in vitro. We demonstrate that cisplatin-induced transition from epithelial to mesenchymal morphology in residual cancer cells correlated with reduced E-cadherin, and increased N-cadherin and vimentin expression. The mRNA expression of Snail, Slug, Twist, and MMP-2 were significantly enhanced in response to cisplatin and correlated with increased migration. This coincided with increased cell surface expression of CSC-like markers such as CD44, α2 integrin subunit, CD117, CD133, EpCAM, and the expression of stem cell factors Nanog and Oct-4. EMT and CSC-like changes in response to cisplatin correlated with enhanced activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2. The selective MEK inhibitor U0126 inhibited ERK2 activation and partially suppressed cisplatin-induced EMT and CSC markers. In vivo xenotransplantation of cisplatin-treated OVCA 433 cells in zebrafish embryos demonstrated significantly enhanced migration of cells compared to control untreated cells. U0126 inhibited cisplatin-induced migration of cells in vivo, suggesting that ERK2 signaling is critical to cisplatin-induced EMT and CSC phenotypes, and that targeting ERK2 in the presence of cisplatin may reduce the burden of residual tumor, the ultimate cause of recurrence in ovarian cancer patients.
Allergic contact hypersensitivity (CHS) is a T cell-mediated inflammatory skin disease. Interleukin (IL)-12 is considered to be important in the generation of the allergen-specific T cell response. Loss of IL-12 function in IL-12Rbeta2-deficient mice, however, did not ameliorate the allergic immune response, suggesting alternate IL-12-independent pathways in the induction of CHS. Because exposure to contact allergens always takes place in the presence of microbial skin flora, we investigated the potential role of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) in the induction of CHS. Using mice deficient in TLR4, the receptor for bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), IL-12 receptor (R) beta2, or both, we show that the concomitant absence of TLR4 and IL-12Rbeta2, but not the absence of TLR4 or IL-12Rbeta2 alone, prevented DC-mediated sensitization, generation of effector T cells, and the subsequent CHS response to 2,4,6-trinitro-1-chlorobenzene (TNCB), oxazolone, and fluorescein isothiocyanate. Introduction of the TLR4 transgene into the TLR4/IL-12Rbeta2 mutant restored the CHS inducibility, showing a requirement for TLR4 in IL-12-independent CHS induction. Furthermore, the concomitant absence of TLR2 and TLR4 prevented the induction of CHS to TNCB in IL-12-competent mice. Finally, CHS was inducible in germ-free wild-type and IL-12Rbeta2-deficient mice, but not in germ-free TLR4/IL-12Rbeta2 double deficient mice, suggesting that the necessary TLR activation may proceed via endogenous ligands.
Periconceptional use of multivitamins reduces the risk of a child with a congenital heart defect (CHD). Data on the impact of maternal diet, however, are lacking.
We investigated the association between the maternal dietary intake of B-vitamins and having a child with a CHD.
A case-control study was performed in 192 mothers of a child with a CHD and 216 mothers of a healthy child. Mothers filled out food frequency questionnaires covering the current dietary intake, and general questionnaires at 17 months after the index-pregnancy. Maternal blood samples were taken to determine B-vitamin and plasma total homocysteine (tHcy) concentrations as nutritional biomarkers. Pregnant and lactating mothers and those with another diet compared with the preconceptional period were excluded for analysis. Case-mothers and controls were compared using the Mann-Whitney U test and logistic regression.
The dietary intake of macronutrients and B-vitamins was comparable between both groups, but all mothers had a substantially lower median folate intake (cases 161 microg, controls 175 microg) than the Dutch recommended dietary allowance of 300 microg. Within the case-group, the intake of proteins and vitamin B(6) and the concentrations of serum vitamin B(12) and folate were significantly lower in hyperhomocysteinemics (tHcy > or = 14.5 micromol/l) than in normohomocysteinemics. The maternal educational level was positively associated with B-vitamin intake, except for vitamin B(12) in controls. Low educated case-mothers showed a significantly lower median vitamin B(12) intake than controls (2.8 microg and 3.8 microg, P = 0.01). The CHD risk doubled if vitamin B(12) intake in these mothers reduced by 50% (OR 2.0; 95% CI: 1.1-3.5).
A diet low in vitamin B(12) is associated with an increased risk of a child with a CHD, especially in low educated women. A disbalance in the maternal intake of proteins and low folate intake may play a role as well, but needs further investigation. As hyperhomocysteinemia is a strong risk factor for adult cardiovascular disease, these data may imply that the hyperhomocysteinemic mothers and their children should be targeted for nutritional interventions.
A preliminary double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effects of a 48-h intravenous infusion of nitroglycerin (NG) in 140 patients with acute myocardial infarction has been carried out. The patients were randomised to placebo or active treatment within 12 h of the onset of symptoms. Those patients treated with nitroglycerin showed a significant reduction on both days in systolic blood pressure, haemoglobin concentration, and packed cell volume. There was also a significant reduction in diamorphine usage in the first 24 h. There was a higher incidence (non-significant) of dysrhythmia in the placebo group despite an increased usage of antidysrhythmic therapy. The mortality rate in the placebo group was 13%, and 7.8% in the active treatment group, but this difference was not significant. At the 3-month follow-up, 83% of treated patients as opposed to 60% of placebo group were able to resume normal or near-normal activities. Preliminary findings suggest that intravenous NG may be useful treatment for patients with acute myocardial infarction and a larger-scale trial is warranted.
This study sought to document the safety of a new accelerated dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography protocol and to analyze its complications.
Dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography studies were performed using an incremental dobutamine infusion protocol from 20 to 40 microg/kg/min in 3-minute stages and followed by atropine.
A total of 962 patients were included. Mean age was 64 +/- 11 years and 584 were male (61%). Mean ejection fraction was 62 +/- 10%. Complications included hypertensive responses in 66 patients (7%), arrhythmias in 26 (2.7%), and symptomatic hypotension in 16 (1.7%). No patient developed heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, ventricular fibrillation, or died. The independent predictors of hypertensive responses were age, baseline systolic blood pressure, and treatment with nitrates. The independent predictors of arrhythmias were history of hypertension, previous coronary artery disease, and baseline heart rate.
This accelerated dobutamine-atropine stress echocardiography protocol is safe in a low-risk population and has a rate of complications similar to that reported for the standard protocol.
In a previous forced-titration trial, mibefradil 100 mg QD was as effective as amlodipine 10 mg QD in reducing sitting diastolic blood pressure (SDBP), and it produced significantly less leg edema than did amlodipine 10 mg QD. The present multicenter, double-masked, randomized, parallel-design trial was performed to assess the reproducibility of these results using a flexible-titration design. Following a 4-week, single-masked, placebo run-in period, 296 patients with a trough SDBP of between 95 and 114 mm Hg (21 to 27 hours postdose) were randomized to receive once-daily treatment with mibefradil 50 mg (n = 146) or amlodipine 5 mg (n = 150). In patients whose trough SDBP was greater than 90 mm Hg after 4 or 8 weeks of double-masked therapy, the dosage was titrated upward to mibefradil 100 mg or amlodipine 10 mg for the remainder of the 12-week active treatment period. A greater proportion of amlodipine-treated patients (65%) than of mibefradil-treated patients (54%) required titration to the higher dose. Despite this difference, statistically equivalent reductions in trough SDBP were observed after 12 weeks of treatment with 50 to 100 mg of mibefradil QD (-11.7 +/- 6.4 mm Hg) and 5 to 10 mg of amlodipine QD (-11.9 +/- 6.9 mm Hg). SDBP was normalized to < or = 90 mm Hg at week 12 in 66% of patients treated with mibefradil and 65% of those receiving amlodipine. The tolerability profile of mibefradil was superior to that of amlodipine, with significantly fewer patients (P = 0.009) reporting leg edema after mibefradil treatment (7%) than after amlodipine treatment (17%). The results of this study confirm those of the previous trial. Once-daily treatment with mibefradil 50 to 100 mg for 12 weeks was as effective as 12 weeks of once-daily treatment with amlodipine 5 to 10 mg in reducing SDBP and was associated with a significantly lower incidence of leg edema.
The potential neuroadaptations to cocaine self-administration (SA) were evaluated using quantitative in situ hybridisation histochemistry. Levels of mRNAs of the monoamine transporters, i.e. the primary molecular targets of cocaine, and the striatal neuropeptides substance P and enkephalin, which predominantly exist in different populations of dopaminoceptive striatal neurons, were quantified in rats which had reached different stages of acquisition of cocaine SA. Thus, animals were killed 1 h after completing a self-administration session (i) early in or after acquisition of cocaine SA (ii) after various regimes of chronic cocaine SA, and (iii) a 10-day period of withdrawal from chronic cocaine intake. Control mRNA levels of all molecules under study were those quantified in animals receiving i.v. saline yoked to rats self-administering cocaine (1.5 or 0.75 mg/kg per infusion, depending on the experiment). Monoamine transporter expression was differentially altered by cocaine; dopamine transporter mRNA levels in the ventral tegmental area, but not in the substantia nigra, were increased following withdrawal from cocaine, suggesting a role for the upregulated mesolimbic dopamine transporter in the mechanisms underlying relapse to cocaine taking. By contrast, serotonin transporter mRNA in the dorsal raphé and noradrenaline transporter mRNA in the locus coeruleus remained unaltered under all experimental conditions. In addition, the expression of the striatal neuropeptides was also differentially altered; substance P mRNA levels were transiently increased in the shell of the nucleus accumbens by prolonged cocaine self-administration, but enkephalin mRNA levels in the dorsal and ventral striatum remained unaltered under all conditions.
Depression observed following acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is common and associated with an increased risk of death. The Sertraline Antidepressant Heart Attack Trial (SADHART) tested the safety and efficacy of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor in this population. No evidence of harm was seen, and sertraline hydrochloride had an overall beneficial effect on mood that occurred primarily in patients with a history of episodes of major depressive disorder (MDD).
To determine how frequently the MDD began before ACS and whether onset of the current MDD episode before or after the ACS event influenced response to sertraline.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment of 369 patients with ACS and MDD was conducted in 40 outpatient clinics in 10 countries between April 1, 1997, and April 30, 2001.
Diagnosis of MDD, number of previous episodes of depression, and episode onset before or after hospitalization were established using the Diagnostic Interview Schedule. Treatment response was measured with the Clinical Global Impression-Improvement scale.
Fifty-three percent of MDD episodes began before hospitalization for the index episode of ACS (for 197 of 369 patients), and 94% of the MDD episodes began more than 30 days before the index ACS episode. Episodes of MDD that began prior to ACS responded more frequently to sertraline than to placebo (63% vs 46%, respectively; odds ratio, 2.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.13-3.55) whereas depression with onset beginning after hospitalization showed a high placebo response rate (69% vs 60%, respectively) and low sertraline-placebo response ratio (1.15). Multivariate analysis indicated that time of onset of the current episode, history of MDD, and baseline severity independently predicted the sertraline-placebo response ratio.
Half of the episodes of major depression associated with ACS began long before ACS and therefore were not caused by ACS. Patients whose current episodes of MDD begin before ACS, those with a history of MDD, and those whose episodes are severe should be treated because they will benefit considerably from sertraline. Since these 3 predictors of sertraline response are independent, having more than 1 of them substantially increases the benefit of sertraline while reducing the chance of spontaneous recovery.
We have previously shown that chronic exposure to ambient fine particulate matter (less than 2.5 μm in aerodynamic diameter, PM₂.₅) pollution in conjunction with high-fat diet induces insulin resistance through alterations in inflammatory pathways. In this study, we evaluated the effects of PM₂.₅ exposure over a substantive duration of a rodent's lifespan and focused on the impact of long-term exposure on adipose structure and function. C57BL/6 mice were exposed to PM₂.₅ or filtered air (FA) (6 h/day, 5 days/week) for duration of 10 months in Columbus, OH. At the end of the exposure, PM₂.₅-exposed mice demonstrated insulin resistance (IR) and a decrease in glucose tolerance compared with the FA-exposed group. Although there were no significant differences in circulating cytokines between PM₂.₅- and FA-exposed groups, circulating adiponectin and leptin were significantly decreased in PM₂.₅-exposed group. PM₂.₅ exposure also led to inflammatory response and oxidative stress as evidenced by increase of Nrf2-regulated antioxidant genes. Additionally, PM₂.₅ exposure decreased mitochondrial count in visceral adipose and mitochondrial size in interscapular adipose depots, which were associated with reduction of uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) expression and downregulation of brown adipocyte-specific gene profiles. These findings suggest that long-term ambient PM₂.₅ exposure induces impaired glucose tolerance, IR, inflammation, and mitochondrial alteration, and thus, it is a risk factor for the development of type 2 diabetes.
It was examined whether superoxide dismutase (SOD) had protective effects in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN). Nephrotic rats were induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PA, 60 mg/kg). Subcutaneous administration of SOD (30 mg/kg) was started the day before PA injection and continued every 24 hours. Animals were sacrificed 10 days later to assess the morphology and glomerular basement membrane anionic charge sites (CSs). GBM CSs were stained in vitro with polyethyleneimine (PEI) and studied by electron microscopic examination. The SOD-injected group had a significant reduction of urinary protein excretion compared to the PA-treated group. Light microscopy revealed that vast majority of glomeruli in PA-treated group had segmental mesangial expansion and epithelial cell adhesions of the glomerular tuft to Bowman's capsule. Contrasted to these changes in the PA group, glomeruli from SOD-treated group showed less severe morphologic changes. On electron microscopy, the PA-treated rats exhibited marked glomerular epithelial loss of foot processes, epithelial attenuation, cytoplasmic vacuolization and protein reabsorption droplets. The SOD-treated animals demonstrated a lesser degree of epithelial loss of foot processes with a few protein reabsorption droplets. There was also a significant decrease in GBM lamina rara externa CSc stained with PEI in PAN compared to the control. The SOD-treated rats had a significant increase in GBM CSs compared to those of the PAN rats. SOD has protective effects in urinary protein excretion, the morphology and GBM CSc in PAN, which indicate indirect evidence that superoxide and/or its metabolites are responsible for glomerular injury.
We conducted an open-label, randomized trial to determine whether ICRF-187 would reduce doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in pediatric sarcoma patients.
Thirty-eight patients were randomized to receive doxorubicin-containing chemotherapy (given as an intravenous bolus) with or without ICRF-187. Resting left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was monitored serially with multigated radionuclide angiography (MUGA) scan. The two groups were compared for incidence and degree of cardiotoxicity, response rates to four cycles of chemotherapy, event-free and overall survival, and incidence and severity of noncardiac toxicities.
Eighteen ICRF-187-treated and 15 control patients were assessable for cardiac toxicity. ICRF-187-treated patients were less likely to develop subclinical cardiotoxicity (22% v 67%, P < .01), had a smaller decline in LVEF per 100 mg/m2 of doxorubicin (1.0 v 2.7 percentage points, P = .02), and received a higher median cumulative dose of doxorubicin (410 v 310 mg/m2, P < .05) than did control patients. Objective response rates were identical in the two groups, with no significant differences seen in event-free or overall survival. ICRF-187-treated patients had a significantly higher incidence of transient grade 1 serum transaminase elevations and a trend toward increased hematologic toxicity.
ICRF-187 reduces the risk of developing short-term subclinical cardiotoxicity in pediatric sarcoma patients who receive up to 410 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. Response rates to chemotherapy, event-free and overall survival, and noncardiac toxicities appear to be unaffected by the use of ICRF-187. Additional clinical trials with larger numbers of patients are needed to determine if the short-term cardioprotection afforded by ICRF-187 will reduce the incidence of late cardiac complications in long-term survivors of childhood cancer.
Cocaine dependence is associated with high rates of relapse. Stress and drug cue exposure are known to increase cocaine craving and stress arousal, but the association between these responses and cocaine relapse has not been previously studied.
To examine whether stress-induced and drug cue-induced cocaine craving and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses evoked in the laboratory are associated with subsequent cocaine relapse.
Prospective study design assessing cocaine relapse and drug use during a 90-day follow-up period after discharge from inpatient treatment and research. Data were analyzed by Cox proportional hazards regression and multiple regression.
Inpatient treatment and research unit in a community mental health center.
Forty-nine treatment-seeking cocaine-dependent individuals.
Time to cocaine relapse, number of days of cocaine use, and amount of cocaine used per occasion in the follow-up phase.
Greater stress-induced, but not drug cue-induced, cocaine craving was associated with a shorter time to cocaine relapse. Stress-induced corticotropin and cortisol responses predicted higher amounts of cocaine use per occasion in the 90-day follow-up.
These results demonstrate that stress-related increases in cocaine craving and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses are each associated with specific cocaine relapse outcomes. The findings support the use of stress-induced drug craving and associated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses to evaluate cocaine relapse propensity. Furthermore, treatments that address stress-induced cocaine craving and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal responses could be of benefit in improving relapse outcomes in cocaine dependence.
Sulfur dioxide (SO(2)) pollution in atmospheric environment is involved in neurotoxicity and increased risk for hospitalization and mortality of many brain disorders; however, our understanding of the mechanisms by which SO(2) caused harmful insults on neurons remains elusive. Here, we show that SO(2) exposure produced a neuronal insult, and the neurotoxic effect was likely via stimulating cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) elevation by activation of nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activity and its acting on the promoter-distal NF-κB-binding site of COX-2 promoter. The action of SO(2) on elevating COX-2 ultimately appeared to be dependent on the increased production of arachidonic acid-derived prostaglandins, mainly prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), and functioning of its EP2/4 receptors. Also, the molecular modulating process might be triggered by free radical attack from SO(2) metabolism in vivo and followed by activating cyclic adenosine monophosphate/protein kinase A pathway and enhancing probability of the release of glutamate, upregulating N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor expression and causing neuronal apoptosis. Our results reveal a mechanistic basis for exploring an association between SO(2) inhalation and increased risk for neurological disorders and opening up therapeutic approaches of treating, ameliorating, or preventing brain injuries resulting from SO(2) exposure in atmospheric polluting environment.
The time course for vulnerability to the amnestic effects of the cholinergic antagonist, scopolamine, during the postacquisition period has been investigated. We have examined the effects of post-test injections of scopolamine (1 mg/kg ip) given at different times from 30 s for up to 6 h following the end of the first acquisition session of a concurrent spatial discrimination (reference memory) protocol in an 8-arm radial maze on subsequent long-term (24 h) retention performance in C57BL/6 mice. Results show that the immediate (30 s) post-test injection of scopolamine-HCl on Day 1 produces marked perturbation (amnesia) of long-term retention as attested to by significant deficits in various indices of spatial discrimination performance gain on Day 2 as compared to control subjects injected either with scopolamine-MBr or saline. The severity of this scopolamine-induced amnesia declines only slightly as a function of the treatment period 30 s-3 h post-test. However, no evidence for amnesia is observed if scopolamine-HCl injections are delayed for 6 h postsession. This important latter observation attests to the absence of any significant proactive effects of scopolamine on the ability of mice to perform the retention test via possible long-term effects on attention, motivation, or locomotor performance. These results thus constitute evidence for the existence of a limited (30 s-3 h) time gradient for vulnerability of the early memory trace to disruption by scopolamine. The present results are discussed in relation to our previous direct neurochemical observations describing the differential time courses of intervention of the ascending septohippocampal and nBM-cortical cholinergic pathways in the postlearning period. In particular, the presently observed time window concerning post-test vulnerability to scopolamine-induced amnesia corresponds more closely to the time course of the acute activation of the nBM-cortical cholinergic pathway, induced by testing with the same spatial memory protocol as used in the present study in mice.
We studied the effect of the addition of sodium to nonionic contrast medium (CM) on the incidence of ventricular fibrillation (VF) during coronary arteriography in dogs.
We infused 20 ml (0.5 ml/sec) of iohexol, iohexol plus 30 mmol of Na+ per liter, and NaCl-Ringer's acetate in randomized order through a wedged catheter placed in the right coronary artery (RCA) or in the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) in 12 anesthetized dogs. In addition to electrocardiographic and hemodynamic measurements, epicardial monophasic action potential durations and ventricular activation times were recorded during infusions into the LAD.
All infusions with iohexol into the RCA and the LAD (n = 16) caused VF. Seven of 19 infusions with iohexol plus 30 mmol of Na+ per liter caused VF. Infusions with iohexol plus 30 mmol of Na+ per liter that did not cause VF lengthened monophasic action potential durations and increased ventricular activation times more in the CM-perfused area than in the control area.
The addition of sodium to iohexol reduces the incidence of VF when infused through a wedged catheter. The protective mechanisms may be attributable to a lengthened repolarization phase and an increased activation time in the CM-perfused area.
To describe an electroclinical presentation of a peripheral neuropathy in a patient who suffered from vitamin B12 deficiency.
We report the case of a 56-year-old man who, 17 years after a subtotal gastrectomy, presented with a diffuse sensory-motor demyelinating peripheral neuropathy with multifocal alteration of conduction confirmed by electromyography. Its causal relationship with vitamin B12 deficiency was biologically demonstrated. This neuropathy improved within a few days after intramuscular hydroxocobalamin treatment. Both clinical and electrophysiological signs had totally disappeared 3 months later on.
This observation demonstrates that, in spite of its poor outcome reported by several authors, peripheral neuropathy induced by vitamin B12 deficiency can recover completely with substitutive treatment.
CHOP is a four-drug, first-generation combination chemotherapy regimen that has cured approximately 30% of all patients with advanced stages of intermediate- or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in national cooperative group trials. Initial single-institution studies of third-generation regimens such as m-BACOD, ProMACE-CytaBOM, and MACOP-B suggested that 55%-60% of these patients might be cured.
In order to make a valid comparison between these regimens, the Southwest Oncology Group and the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group initiated a randomized phase III comparison of CHOP vs. m-BACOD vs. ProMACE-CytaBOM vs. MACOP-B. Endpoints of the study were response rate, time to treatment failure, overall survival, and severe or life-threatening toxicity. Received dose intensity calculations and subset analyses were also performed.
1138 patients were registered on this clinical trial. Each treatment arm contained between 218 and 233 eligible patients. Known prognostic factors were equally distributed. The initial results of this study were recently published. There were no significant differences in either the partial or complete response rates between treatment arms. Now after a median follow-up of 49 months and a maximum follow-up of 84 months, there is still no difference in time to treatment failure (p = 0.40) or overall survival (p = 0.68). No subset of patients was found to have significantly improved survival with the third-generation regimens. The received dose intensity data were comparable to previously published data for these regimens. Fatal toxicity was 1% for CHOP, 3% for ProMACE-CytaBOM, 5% for m-BACOD, and 6% for MACOP-B.
Based on similar failure-free and overall survival with lower cost and lower severe toxicity, CHOP remains the standard chemotherapy for patients with advanced-stage, intermediate- or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. New treatment strategies need to be developed to improve the prognosis of these patients.
There has been an increased incidence of malaria among Europeans returning from Africa and Asia. The relatively new antimalarial mefloquine (Lariam) has become extremely popular due to its efficacy in treating the wide-spread chloroquine-resistant Plasmodium falciparum. Mefloquine is used both for prophylaxis and treatment of malaria and is relatively well tolerated. However, since introduced in 1985, there have been over 100 reports of severe neurologic and psychiatric adverse effects associated with its use, including acute psychosis, affective disorders, acute confusional states and seizures. We describe a 39-year-old woman who developed acute psychosis after being given mefloquine prophylaxis. Adverse effects occur more often after therapeutic rather than prophylactic use, and those with a history of seizures or psychiatric illness are at increased risk of developing these reactions. Physicians should be aware of these possible side effects and prescribe mefloquine only when indicated.
Previous studies have shown that serotonin neurons play an important role in the induction and maintenance of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in animals with lesion of the nigrostriatal dopamine system. Patients with Parkinson's disease that receive transplants of foetal ventral mesencephalic tissue, the graft cell preparation is likely to contain, in addition to dopamine neurons, serotonin neurons that will vary in number depending on the landmarks used for dissection. Here, we have studied the impact of grafted serotonin neurons--alone or mixed with dopamine neurons--on the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in rats with a partial 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the host nigrostriatal projection. In these rats, which showed only low-level dyskinesia at the time of transplantation, serotonin grafts induced a worsening in the severity of dyskinesia that developed during continued L-DOPA treatment, while the dopamine-rich graft had the opposite, dampening effect. The detrimental effect seen in animals with serotonin neuron grafts was dramatically increased when the residual dopamine innervation in the striatum was removed by a second 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. Interestingly, rats with grafts that contained a mixture of dopamine and serotonin neurons (in approximately 2:1) showed a marked reduction in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia over time, and the appearance of severe dyskinesia induced by the removal of the residual dopamine innervation, seen in the animals with transplants of serotonin neurons alone, was blocked. FosB expression in the striatal projection neurons, which is associated with dyskinesias, was also normalized by the dopamine-rich grafts, but not by the serotonin neuron grafts. These data indicate that as long as a sufficient portion, some 10-20%, of the dopamine innervation still remains, the increased host serotonin innervation generated by the grafted serotonin neurons will have limited effect on the development or severity of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. At more advanced stages of the disease, when the dopamine innervation of the putamen is reduced below this critical threshold, grafted serotonin neurons are likely to aggravate l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in those cases where the dopamine re-innervation derived from the grafted neurons is insufficient in magnitude or do not cover the critical dyskinesia-inducing sub-regions of the grafted putamen. We conclude that it is not the absolute number of serotonin neurons in the grafts, but the relative densities of dopamine and serotonin innervations in the grafted striatum that is the critical factor in determining the long-term effect of foetal tissue graft, beneficial or detrimental, on dyskinesia in grafted Parkinson's disease patients.
Several food polyphenols act as chemopreventers by reducing the incidence of many types of cancer, especially in colon epithelia. In this study, we have investigated whether the flavonoid quercetin can modulate cell proliferation and survival by targeting key molecules and/or biological processes responsible for tumor cell properties. The effect of quercetin on the expression of Ras oncoproteins was specifically studied using systems of either constitutive or conditional expression of oncogenic RAS in human epithelial cells. Our findings suggest that quercetin inhibits cell viability as well as cancer cell properties like anchorage-independent growth. These findings were further supported at the molecular level, since quercetin treatment resulted in a preferential reduction of Ras protein levels in cell lines expressing oncogenic Ras proteins. Notably, in cells that only express wild-type Ras or in those where the oncogenic Ras allele was knocked out, quercetin had no evident effects upon Ras levels. We have shown that quercetin drastically reduces half-life of oncogenic Ras but has no effect when the cells are treated with a proteasome inhibitor. Moreover, in Ha-RAS-transformed cells, quercetin induces autophagic processes. Since quercetin downregulates the levels of oncogenic Ras in cancer cells, we propose that this flavonoid could act as a chemopreventive agent for cancers with frequent mutations of RAS genes.
We present a case of cutaneous vasculitis apparently due to an adverse reaction to atenolol. The causal relationship between the drug and the eruption was based mainly on circumstantial evidence. It has been further strengthened by positive results of the indirect rat mast cell degranulation test. The number of published cases of reaction to atenolol is limited. Cutaneous vasculitis has, to the best of our knowledge, never been reported as an adverse reaction to atenolol, although it is not a rare side effect of other beta blocker drugs including propranolol and practolol. Atenolol should be added to the list of beta blocker medications that may produce cutaneous vasculitis.
We designed this randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study to compare the analgesic effect of the cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors rofecoxib and celecoxib with acetaminophen when administered before outpatient otolaryngologic surgery in 240 healthy subjects. Patients were assigned to one of four study groups: Group 1, control (vitamin C 500 mg); Group 2, acetaminophen 2 g; Group 3, celecoxib 200 mg; or Group 4, rofecoxib 50 mg. The first oral dose of the study medication was administered 15-45 min before surgery, and a second dose of the same medication was given on the morning after surgery. Recovery times, side effects, pain scores, and the use of rescue analgesics were recorded. Follow-up evaluations were performed at 24 and 48 h after surgery to assess postdischarge pain, analgesic requirements, nausea, and patient satisfaction with their postoperative pain management and quality of recovery. The need for rescue analgesia and peak pain scores were used as the primary end points for estimating efficacy, and the costs to achieve complete satisfaction with analgesia were used for the cost-efficacy comparisons. Premedication with oral rofecoxib (50 mg) or celecoxib (200 mg) was more effective than placebo in reducing postoperative pain scores and analgesic requirements in the postoperative care unit and after discharge. The analgesic efficacy of oral acetaminophen (2 g) was limited to the postdischarge period. Patient satisfaction with pain management was improved in all three treatment groups compared with placebo but was higher with celecoxib and rofecoxib compared with acetaminophen. Rofecoxib was also more effective than celecoxib in reducing pain and improving patient satisfaction after otolaryngologic surgery. Rofecoxib achieved complete satisfaction with pain control in one additional patient, who would not have otherwise been satisfied, at lower incremental costs to the institution compared with celecoxib. We conclude that rofecoxib 50 mg orally is more cost-effective for reducing postoperative pain and improving patient satisfaction with their postoperative pain management than celecoxib (200 mg) or acetaminophen (2 g) in the ambulatory setting.
Oral premedication with rofecoxib (50 mg) was more effective than celecoxib (200 mg) and acetaminophen (2 g) in reducing postoperative pain and in improving the quality of recovery and patient satisfaction with pain management after outpatient otolaryngologic surgery with only a small increase in cost of care.
We report the case of a 50-year-old man who reported sudden, painless loss of vision in his left eye after starting antihypertensive therapy. Potential causes of acute painless unilateral visual loss are discussed, as is the initial management of hypertension in asymptomatic patients.
