Clinical, biochemical and pathological findings are described in a 23-year-old male with a mitochondrial myopathy who had a high-output circulatory state and cardiomyopathy which resulted in cardiac insufficiency 22 years before presentation of the skeletal myopathy. Venous lactate levels were elevated and severe lactic acidosis developed at one stage of the illness. Electron microscopy of muscle tissue showed various mitochondrial abnormalities and accumulation of neutral lipids which was confirmed histochemically and by thin-layer chromatography. Marked improvement in the myopathy occurred after commencement of prednisone and thiamine and was maintained following withdrawal of these drugs. The metabolic defect in this case has not been defined, but an abnormality in the Kreb's over-production of lactate and lipid accumulation in muscle is postulated.
Intermittent rifampicin therapy has been reported to commonly cause a flu-like illness with chills and fever sometimes associated with acute renal failure. This report describes a fourth case of partially reversible insidious renal damage associated with continuous rifampicin therapy and provides evidence that it is not the results of light chain proteinuria as previously suggested. A retrospective review of data relating to renal function in 89 tuberculous patients indicated that increased plasma urate concentration was commonly associated with ethambutol therapy.
A patient presenting with atypical ventricular tachycardia due to oral disopyramide given in normal doses over a period of four months is described. This arrhythmia was preceded by marked prolongation of the QTc. It is suggested that patients receiving treatment with oral disopyramide should be closely monitored for symptoms of ventricular tachyarrhythmias, particularly in the face of a prolonged QTc.
The treatment of scleromyxedema has been largely ineffective. We report improvement of scleromyxedema with myopathy after treatment with isotretinoin, 40 mg twice a day. We review other therapeutic modalities used for this disorder and discuss properties of isotretinoin that may have contributed to the favorable response.
Four patients with abnormal movements were treated with tiapridal. Very good results were obtained in a case of buccofacial dyskinesia associated with an extrapyramidal syndrome and dementia, and in another patient with middle-of-the-dose dyskinesias induced by L-dopa treatment for Parkinson's disease. No effect was observed, however in a case of beginning of the dose dyskinesias, and the extrapyramidal symptoms increased in severity. A dopadecarboxylase-inhibitor was associated with the L-dopa treatment in these three cases. In the fourth case, there was an increase in the spasms of the medial part of the face.
Drug-induced liver injury is a major problem in drug development and clinical drug therapy. In most cases the mechanisms are still unknown, thus, it is difficult to predict or prevent these reactions. It has been known that halothane, an inhaled anesthetic, induces liver injury. To investigate the mechanisms of halothane-induced liver injury, we used a recently established mouse model of liver injury. The expression of transcription factors and cytokines specific for Th1 and Th2 (helper T cells), respectively, were compared between BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice. The mRNA expression ratios of mouse T-bet(a Th1-specific transcription factor)/GATA-binding protein (GATA-3, a Th2-specific transcription factor) and interferon gamma/interleukin (IL)-10 were lower in BALB/c mice compared with C57BL/6 mice, suggesting that a typical Th1 or Th2-dominant response could not be distinguished in halothane-induced liver injury. We observed increases of the plasma IL-17 level and hepatic macrophage inflammatory protein 2 expression in halothane-administrated BALB/c mice, as well as neutrophil infiltration. Neutralization of IL-17 suppressed the hepatotoxic effect of halothane. Administration of recombinant IL-17 (1 microg per mouse, single ip) to the halothane-treated mice resulted in a remarkable increase of alanine and aspartate aminotransferases. In conclusion, we demonstrated that IL-17 is involved in the halothane-induced liver injury.
Over the last century, benzene has been a well-studied chemical, with some acute and chronic exposures being directly associated with observed hematologic effects in humans and animals. Chronic heavy exposures to benzene have also been associated with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) in humans. Other disease processes have also been studied, but have generally not been supported by epidemiologic studies of workers using benzene in the workplace. Within occupational cohorts with large populations and very low airborne benzene exposures (less than 0.1–1.0 ppm), it can be difficult to separate background disease incidence from those occurring due to occupational exposures. In the last few decades, some scientists and physicians have suggested that chronic exposures to various airborne concentrations of benzene may increase the risk of developing non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) (Savitz and Andrews, 1997, Am J Ind Med 31:287–295; Smith et al., 2007, Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 16:385–391), multiple myeloma (MM) (Goldstein, 1990, Ann NY Acad Sci 609:225–230; Infante, 2006, Ann NY Acad Sci 1076:90–109), and various other hematopoietic disorders. We present a state-of-the-science review of the medical and regulatory aspects regarding the hazards of occupational exposure to benzene. We also review the available scientific and medical evidence relating to benzene and the risk of developing various disorders following specific levels of exposure. Our evaluation indicates that the only malignant hematopoietic disease that has been clearly linked to benzene exposure is AML. Information from the recent "Benzene 2009," a symposium of international experts focusing on the health effects and mechanisms of toxicity of benzene, hosted by the Technical University of Munich, has been incorporated and referenced.
Persons heterozygous for Z, S and rare alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT, SERPIN1A) polymorphisms (ca. 9% of population) are often considered 'silent' carriers with increased vulnerability to environmentally modulated liver and lung disease. They may have significantly more anxiety and bipolar spectrum disorders, nutritional compromise, and white matter disease [Schmechel DE, Browndyke J, Ghio A. Strategies for the dissection of genetic-environmental interactions in neurodegenerative disorders. Neurotoxicology 2006;27:637-57]. Given association of art and mood disorders, we examined occupation and artistic vocation from this same series. One thousand five hundred and thirty-seven consecutive persons aged 16-90 years old received comprehensive work-up including testing for AAT 'phenotype' and level, nutritional factors, and inflammatory, iron and copper indices. Occupations were grouped by Bureau of Labor Standards classification and information gathered on artistic activities. Proportion of reactive airway disease, obstructive pulmonary disease, and pre-existing anxiety disorder or bipolar disorder were significantly increased in persons carrying AAT non-M polymorphisms compared to normal MM genotype (respectively, 10, 20, 21, and 33% compared to 8, 12, 11, and 9%; contingency table, pulmonary: chi2 37, p=0.0001; affective disorder: chi2=171, p=0.0001). In persons with artistic avocation (n=189) or occupation (n=57), AAT non-M polymorphisms are significantly increased (respectively, proportions of 44 and 40% compared to background rate of 9%; contingency table, avocation: chi2=172, p=0.0001; occupation: chi2=57, p=0.0007). Artistic ability and 'anxiety/bipolar spectrum' mood disorders may represent phenotypic attributes that had selective advantage during recent human evolution, an 'intensive creative energy' (ICE) behavioral phenotype. Background proportion of ICE of 7% consists of 49 of 1312 persons with AAT MM genotype (4%), and 58 of 225 persons with non-MM genotypes (26%) (contingency table, chi2=222, p=0.0001). Penetrance of ICE increases in genotypes with lower AAT levels: PiMS, 18%; PiMZ, 44%; PiSS and PiZZ, 100% (five cases). At all ages, persons with non-MM genotype had significantly higher proportion of thiamine deficiency (50% in PiMZ), reactive hypoglycemia (20% in PiMZ), and possibly fatty liver (thiamine: chi2=28, p=0.0001; hypoglycemia: chi2=92, p=0.0001). In older persons, PiMZ genotype had significantly increased proportion (46%) of brain MRI T2 white matter abnormalities (chi2=49, p=0.003). Persons with ICE and MM genotype showed increased prevalence of pulmonary disorders and same signature as S and Z carriers and homozygotes (see above). Z polymorphism was associated with delayed age of onset (average 7 years) for persons with toxic environmental or occupational exposures (log rank, p=0.0001) and more stable cognitive change in persons with neurodegenerative illness (p<0.05). At all ages, ICE phenotype and Z polymorphism were associated with altered copper homeostasis with low or absent non-ceruloplasmin bound copper (p<0.05). AAT polymorphisms which affect iron, lipid and copper metabolism may affect early events in nervous system development, function and response to environmental exposures. AAT may also be a 'switch' for copper metabolism and low 'free' copper would be theorized to provide protection for lipid oxidation and favorably affect beta-amyloid and other aggregation, but possibly alter early 'critical' period of CNS development. AAT polymorphisms may define an important and treatable subset of persons presenting with CNS disorders. This new proposed phenotype for AAT transcends classic pattern of strictly liver and lung disease, and should be considered for proper evaluation and management of patients presenting with classic AAT-related disorders, affective disorders, persons with ICE, white matter disease or multisystem disorders of memory.
Oxidative stress is reported as one of the most widely accepted mechanisms of maneb (MB)- and paraquat (PQ)-induced nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration leading to the Parkinson's disease (PD) phenotype. The study investigated the effects of silymarin, an antioxidant of plant origin, and melatonin, an indoleamine produced in all species, in MB- and PQ-induced mouse model of PD. The mice were treated intraperitoneally daily with silymarin (40mg/kg) or melatonin (30mg/kg) along with respective controls for 9wk. Subsets of these animals were also treated with MB (30mg/kg) and PQ (10mg/kg), twice a week, for 9wk, 2hr after silymarin/melatonin treatment. Locomotor activities along with striatal dopamine content, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity, number of degenerating neurons, lipid peroxidation and nitrite content were estimated. Additionally, mRNA expression of vesicular monoamine transporter, cytochrome P-450 2E1 (CYP2E1), and glutathione-S-transferase A4-4 (GSTA4-4), catalytic activities of CYP2E1 and GSTA4-4 and protein expressions of unphosphorylated and phosphorylated p53 (p53 and P-p53), Bax and caspase 9 were measured in control and MB- and PQ-treated mice with either silymarin or melatonin treatments. Silymarin/melatonin significantly offset MB- and PQ-mediated reductions in locomotor activities, dopamine content, TH immunoreactivity, VMAT 2 mRNA expression and the expression of p53 protein. Silymarin/melatonin attenuated the increases in lipid peroxidation, number of degenerating neurons, nitrite content, mRNA expressions of cytochrome P-450 2E1 (CYP2E1) and GSTA4-4, catalytic activities of CYP2E1 and GST and P-p53, Bax and caspase 9 protein expressions. The results demonstrate that silymarin and melatonin offer nigrostriatal dopaminergic neuroprotection against MB- and PQ-induced PD by the modulation of oxidative stress and apoptotic machinery.
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression and distribution pattern of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in lung development during different stages, and to compare with a model of stimulated lung growth after tracheal ligation (TL) and with the teratogen model of induced congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) and lung hypoplasia after nitrofen. Sprague-Dawley rat fetuses were obtained on gestational days 14, 17, and 21 (E14, E17, E21). For the experimental CDH group, pregnant rats were given 100 mg nitrofen on gestational day 9.5 (E9.5), and delivered E21. In another group, Sprague-Dawley rat fetuses were subjected to intrauterine tracheal ligation (TL) on gestational day 19 (E19), and delivered on day 21 (E21). All fetuses were delivered by cesarean section and lungs harvested. Lungs from 1-day-old newborn healthy, nonoperated rats were also obtained. Immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis for CTGF was performed on the different lung sections. CTGF mRNA expression levels in hyperplastic lungs after TL, hypoplastic lungs and CDH after nitrofen administration, and fetal controls at E21 were analyzed with real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Immunohistochemical staining for CTGF at E14 showed that it was merely localized to the epithelium of terminal bronchiole, increasing during gestation, being more abundant at E17 and at E21. In the CDH group, lungs had an immature appearance and CTGF protein expression was decreased in the epithelium of the distal airways compared to the control group at E21, and was mainly observed in the lung mesenchyme. In the TL group, CTGF expression was more abundant compared to the control group at E21, especially in the epithelium of the terminal bronchioles, with a decreasing expression pattern distally. In the newborn lungs, CTGF had a pattern of expression in the epithelium of terminal bronchiole similar to TL lungs. At the mRNA level, CTGF expression was increased after TL, and decreased in the teratogen model of CDH and lung hypoplasia after nitrofen administration. This is, to the authors’ knowledge, the first report of CTGF expression pattern during lung development, and of an impaired expression in CDH lungs after nitrofen. CTGF is suggested to enhance alveologenesis and microvascular development at late stages of lung development, and a decreased expression could lead to the impaired alveologenesis and abnormal microvascular pulmonary bed observed in CDH lungs. Increased understanding of the molecular mechanisms that control lung growth could provide a key to develop novel therapeutic techniques to stimulate pre- and/or postnatal lung growth in infants with impaired lung growth and development, such in congenital diaphragmatic hernia.
The peritoneum is impaired by exposure to biocompatible dialysis solutions. Because icodextrin peritoneal dialysis fluid (PDF) is made from cornstarch, a possibility that it induces intraperitoneal inflammation has been reported. In the present study, patients on glucose PDF were switched to icodextrin PDF and then switched back to glucose PDF. Icodextrin PDF-induced intraperitoneal inflammation was investigated based on changes in peritoneal permeability and inflammatory reactions.
The subjects were 7 stable peritoneal dialysis patients (4 men, 3 women), with a mean age of 59.1 +/- 3.8 years (range: 55.2 - 64.6 years). The mean duration of peritoneal dialysis was 58.3 +/- 27.4 months (range: 34.3 - 97.7 months), and the cause of end-stage renal disease was chronic glomerulonephritis in all patients. For the overnight dwell, glucose PDF was changed to icodextrin PDF, and the patients returned to glucose PDF 30 months later. To evaluate peritoneal permeability, a peritoneal equilibrium test (PET) was performed, and dialysate-to-plasma (D/P) ratios of creatinine (Cr), beta(2)-microglobulin (beta2M), albumin, immunoglobulin G (IgG), and alpha(2)-macroglobulin (alpha2M) were measured in the overnight dialysate and serum. As markers of inflammation and fibrinolysis or coagulation, interleukin-6 (IL-6) and fibrinogen degradation products (FDPs) were measured in overnight effluent. The evaluations were made every 6 months for 36 months.
A significant elevation in FDP levels was detected in overnight effluent 6 months after the switch to icodextrin PDF, and IL-6 levels tended to increase. The D/P ratios of Cr, beta2M, and albumin were also significantly increased, and the D/P ratios of IgG and alpha2M tended to increase. The D/P ratio of Cr as measured by PET was slightly increased, but the elevation was not significant. In 5 patients, after icodextrin PDF was switched back to glucose PDF at 30 months, the D/P ratios of Cr, beta2M, albumin, IgG, and alpha2M in overnight effluent were significantly reduced. The FDP levels decreased slightly in those patients. In the remaining 2 patients, the D/P ratios of Cr on PET and of Cr, beta2M, albumin, IgG, and alpha2M in overnight effluent, and the FDP and IL-6 levels in overnight effluent were markedly elevated after the switching from glucose to icodextrin PDF, and they remained high after the switch back to glucose PDF. One of these 2 patients developed pre-EPS and was treated with prednisolone and concomitant hemodialysis. The other was switched from peritoneal dialysis to hemodialysis.
Icodextrin dialysis solution may induce an inflammatory reaction in the peritoneum. Further investigation is necessary for the long-term use of icodextrin PDF.
Nerium oleander Linn (NOL) an evergreen shrub belonging to the Apocynaceae family has been reported to have a wide spectrum of bioactivities. In in vitro study, the free radical scavenging potential of the hydroethanolic extract of N oleander Linn (ENO) flower and its fractions (glycosidic and nonglycosidic) were studied using 2, 2(')-azino-di [3-ethylbenzthiazoline sulphonate] (ABTS(*+) ) and 1, 1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH*) scavenging assay. ENO exhibited better radical scavenging activities than its fractions. Furthermore, the cardioprotective role of ENO (10, 30, 100 mg/kg, per oral [po]) was tested against isoproterenol-induced myocardial toxicity (ISO, 120 mg/kg per day, subcutaneously [sc], for 2 days at 48 hours interval) in experimental rats when compared to propranolol (5 mg/kg, po) which was the standard. Pretreatment with ENO (10, 30, and 100 mg/kg) and propranolol for 2 weeks followed by ISO challenge in rats prevented the elevation of marker enzymes such as lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), γ-glutamyl transferase (GGT), creatine kinase (CK-MB and creatine phosphokinase [CPK]), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) in plasma. In addition, pretreatment with ENO and propranolol significantly attenuated the lipid peroxidation by maintaining the levels of enzymatic (superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase) and nonenzymatic antioxidants (reduced glutathione and nitrite), which was also confirmed histologically. Taken together, the current study indicates that the hydroalcoholic extract of N oleander Linn flowers aid in cardioprotection probably by improving the antioxidant defense system during experimental myocardial necrosis.
The present study evaluated the proconvulsant liability of biapenem, a novel carbapenem antibiotic, in in vitro and in vivo experiments, in comparison with the carbapenems, imipenem/cilastatin and meropenem. Imipenem/cilastatin is a carbapenem antibiotic with known proconvulsive liability in man and in animal experiments. In in vivo studies imipenem/cilastatin, at doses of 400/400 mg/kg i.v., significantly lowered the convulsive threshold of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) in mice and shifted the dose-response curve of PTZ. The effects of biapenem (400 mg/kg i.v.) and another reference carbapenem, meropenem (400 mg/kg i.v.), in the mouse PTZ model were not significantly different from control. In in vitro experiments the carbapenems were tested for their ability to inhibit [3H]muscimol (1.3 mM) binding to rat brain homogenates at concentrations of 1-10 mM. Similar to in vivo results, when compared to imipenem/cilastatin, biapenem and meropenem did not inhibit [3H]muscimol binding to the GABAA receptor complex in brain homogenates while imipenem/cilastatin exhibited significant inhibition (IC50 = 4.6 mM). These results further confirm the correlation between in vitro GABAA binding and in vivo PTZ convulsive testing with carbapenem antibiotics, and suggest that biapenem possesses a low proconvulsive liability.
Overexpression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) is a common feature in solid malignancies related to oxygen deficiency. Since increased HIF-1 expression correlates with advanced disease stage, increased angiogenesis and poor prognosis, HIF-1 and its signaling pathway have become targets for cancer chemotherapy. In this study, we identified noscapine to be a novel small molecule inhibitor of the HIF-1 pathway based on its structure-function relation-ships with HIF-1 pathway inhibitors belonging to the benzylisoquinoline class of plant metabolites and/or to microtubule binding agents. We demonstrate that noscapine treatment of human glioma U87MG and T98G cell lines exposed to the hypoxic mimetic agent, CoCl2, inhibits hypoxia-mediated HIF-1alpha expression and transcriptional activity as measured by decreased secretion of VEGF, a HIF-1 target gene. Inhibition of hypoxia-mediated HIF-1alpha expression was due, in part, to its ability to inhibit accumulation of HIF-1alpha in the nucleus and target it for degradation via the proteasome. One mechanism of action of microtubule binding agents is their antiangiogenic activity associated with disruption of endothelial tubule formation. We show that noscapine has similar properties in vitro. Thus, noscapine may possess novel antiangiogenic activity associated with two broad mechanisms of action: first, by decreasing HIF-1alpha expression in hypoxic tumor cells, upregulation of target genes, such as VEGF, would be decreased concomitant with its associated angiogenic activity; second, by inhibiting endothelial cells from forming blood vessels in response to VEGF stimulation, it may limit the process of neo-vascularization, correlating with antitumor activity in vivo. For more than 75 years, noscapine has traditionally been used as an oral cough suppressant with no known toxic side effects in man. Thus, the studies reported here have found a novel function for an old drug. Given its low toxicity profile, its demonstrated antitumor activity in several animal models of cancer and its potential to inhibit the HIF-1 pathway, noscapine should be considered as an antiangiogenic chemotherapy for glioma.
The Hodgkin cells and Reed-Sternberg cells (HRS) of classical Hodgkin lymphoma (CHL) are derived from germinal center B cells. The pathogenesis of CHL is unclear but constitutive activation of NFkappaB may contribute. Proteasome inhibition aimed at inhibiting NFkappaB has been shown to result in apoptosis in HRS cells. Here we investigated the effects of bortezomib, a proteasome inhibitor, in HRS cells with a combination of functional assays and gene expression profiling (GEP). Exposure of KMH2 and L428 cells to bortezomib resulted in inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis. Gene expression analysis of KMH2 cells by oligonucleotide cDNA microarrays showed that a limited set of genes were differentially expressed involving several key cellular pathways including cell cycle and apoptosis. Among them, the caspase 8 inhibitor cFLIP was down-regulated and confirmed by Q-PCR. Given the evidence that cFLIP in HRS cells contribute to cells' insensitive to death receptor-mediated apoptosis, we combined bortezomib and TRAIL. This combination caused further down-regulation of cFLIP protein and increased apoptosis in CHL cells demonstrated by PARP p85 immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting. Such apoptotic effects were inhibited by caspase inhibitor z-VAD-FMK, confirming the pro-apoptotic effects of bortezomib and TRAIL are caspase-dependent. Bortezomib has no detectable effect on expression of TRAIL receptor DR4/DR5 in these two cell lines. Tissue microarray analysis of primary Hodgkin lymphomas displayed that 82% cases (95/116) expressed cFLIP in Reed-Sternberg cells. The discovery of apoptotic pathways that can be manipulated by proteasome inhibition provides rationale for the combination of bortezomib and agents such as TRAIL in CHL treatment.
The cardiovascular effects of hypoglycaemia, with and without beta-blockade, were compared in fourteen healthy men. Eight received insulin alone, and eight, including two of the original insulin-only group, were given propranolol and insulin. In the insulin-group the period of hypoglycaemia was associated with an increase in heart-rate and a fall in diastolic blood-pressure. In the propranolol-insulin group there was a significant fall in heart-rate in most subjects and an increase in diastolic pressure. Typical S-T/T changes occurred in the insulin-group but in none of the propranolol-insulin group. Hypertension in diabetics prone to hypoglycaemia attacks should not be treated with beta-blockers because these drugs may cause a sharp rise in blood-pressure in such patients.
Biperiden hydrochloride has been used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and related disorders within two drugs: --Akinophyl, --and Akineton which is chemically similar but has a slower effect. The first French publications upon its use as a neuroleptic corrector date from 1972. Our study deals with 55 chronic psychotic patients treated with neuroleptics and varied correctors of resulting Parkinson disorders. Akineton has been substituted for the preceding antiparkinson drugs. We may come to the following conclusions = Akineton is effective upon neuroleptic syndrom, gives few or no untoward reactions, has no toxicologic effects, shows no incompatibility with any other drug. It is very satisfactory to have at our disposal a drug effective in small doses and having a slow effect within average of 24 hours.
Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid, suitable for transdermal delivery, offering an interesting solution as a step 3 opioid in cancer pain treatment. The purpose of the study was to carefully investigate: 1) the feasibility of the direct conversion from codeine to TTS fentanyl, in patients already receiving codeine and requiring strong opioids for their analgesia; 2) the safety of 25 microg/hour incremental steps and at shorter than 72-hour intervals, if clinically required.
130 patients were judged eligible for the study. All the patients were receiving 280-360 mg or more of codeine and required strong opioid for their analgesia. The study lasted 56 days. The initial dose was 25 microg/hour. TTS fentanyl for all patients. Data assessments were made on baseline, day 1, day 2, day 3, in the hospital and thereafter on days 7, 14, 21, 28, 42 and 56. After the patch application, all the patients were given an immediate release oral morphine (5 mg) every 4-6 hours for the first 12 hours and then if needed only as rescue doses. The patients remained in the hospital for the first three days of the study where follow-up (pain score, satisfaction, side effects etc.). was recorded by the palliative care team and by daily cards.
The itnitial dose of fentanyl was 25 microg/hour while the mean dose on day 3 was 45.9 microg/hour. All the patients required upward titration of the study medication during follow-up visits. On day 56 the mean dose of fentanyl was 87.4 microg/hour. Mean pain intensity decreased from an initial 5.96 on the baseline to 0.83 on day 3. Karnofsky scale measurements between treatment phases revealed non-significant changes. The rate of overall satisfaction was quite high. Nine patients discontinued the study due to inadequate pain relief or side effects between day 7 and day 28, while five patients died between day 28 and day 56. Constipation, nausea and vomiting were the most common side effects. Skin reaction was relatively mild and acceptable during the study.
Under controlled conditions, TTS fentanyl seems to be feasible for direct conversion from mild to strong opioids and additionally, 25 microg/hour incremental steps day by day can be made by palliative care specialists, if clinically required for cancer pain management.
Indomethacin has been shown to cause fetal oliguria in humans and animals. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that indomethacin-induced fetal oliguria is mediated through the renal action of arginine vasopressin.
Twenty-seven late-gestation (129 +/- 4 days [mean +/- SE]) chronically catheterized fetal sheep were studied. After a 1-hour control period fetal responses to indomethacin, 0.05 mg/kg given intravenously, followed by a 4-hour maintenance infusion (n = 9), were compared with an identical indomethacin infusion plus an arginine vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist (d[CH2]1(5), D-Phe2, Ile4,Arg8,Ala9)-VP (n = 8) or vehicle alone (n = 10). Fetal arterial and venous pressures, heart rate, and urinary flow were measured continuously.
Fetal urinary flow rate (p < 0.0001) and free water clearance (p = 0.004) fell in response to indomethacin alone, but the addition of the arginine vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist blocked indomethacin's oliguric and free water effect. Urinary osmolality and sodium increased in both indomethacin and indomethacin+arginine vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist groups compared with vehicle (p < 0.05). Fetal arterial pressure increased in response to indomethacin, and the addition of the arginine vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist potentiated this response (p = 0.007).
These results suggest that (1) fetal oliguria secondary to indomethacin is mediated through the stimulation of the renal arginine vasopressin V2-receptor and (2) prostaglandin synthesis inhibition may play a role in renal tubular sodium handling. In addition, the arginine vasopressin V2-receptor plays a role in ameliorating the hypertensive response to indomethacin. We speculate that indomethacin stimulates circulating arginine vasopressin levels and enhances peripheral arginine vasopressin effects in the fetus, resulting in oliguria and hypertension.
An in vivo model of the inflammatory response to orthopaedic biomaterials was used to examine cellular and cytokine responses to polymer particles of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) and polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA), and metal particles of cobalt-chrome (Co-Cr) and titanium alloy (Ti-6Al-4V). Responses were determined separately and in combinations, to examine interactions between different forms of biomaterials. Murine air pouches were injected with particle suspensions, and reactions evaluated using histological, immunological, and molecular techniques. All particulate biomaterials caused significant increases in membrane thickness compared with control (saline) air pouches, with the highest reaction seen in response to Ti-6Al-4V particles. A synergistic increase in membrane thickness was observed when PMMA was combined with UHMWPE, suggesting that multiple biomaterial stimuli markedly increase the inflammatory reaction. Cellular analysis indicated that all particles increased the absolute number and the percentage of macrophages in the membrane over the control level, with the most pronounced increase due to individual biomaterial occurring with UHMWPE particles. Cytokine analysis revealed that biomaterials provoked a strong IL-1 response. Ti-6Al-4V stimulated the highest IL-6 gene transcription and the lowest IL-1 gene transcription. The data suggest that synergism in the inflammatory response to biomaterials may be important in adverse responses to orthopaedic wear debris.
Acyclic retinoid (ACR), a novel synthetic retinoid, has been demonstrated by us to inhibit the in vitro growth of human hepatoma cells, and this effect was associated with modification of cell cycle control molecules, suggesting that this agent may be useful in the chemoprevention and therapy of various types of malignancies. However, whether or not ACR exerts anticancer activities on human colon carcinoma cells has not yet been elucidated. The purpose of this study was to examine the inhibitory effects of ACR in human colon carcinoma cells and to characterize the molecular mechanism of action of this agent. ACR inhibited the growth of the HCT116 and SW480 human colon carcinoma cell lines with IC50 values of about 30 and 60 microM, respectively. ACR also induced G1-phase cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in these cell lines. When the HCT116 cells were treated with 5-25 microM ACR, there was a marked decrease in the cellular levels of cyclin D1 mRNA and an approximate 2.5- to 3-fold increase in those of p21CIP1 mRNA, and this induction occurred via a p53-independent mechanism. Furthermore, ACR induced a dose-dependent mRNA elevation of differentiation markers at concentrations of ACR that affect the levels of expression of p21CIP1. These novel results suggest that ACR inhibits cell proliferation by inducing G1 arrest and apoptosis and that cyclin D1 and p21CIP1 play critical roles in the molecular mechanisms of growth inhibition and differentiation induced by ACR. Collectively, these findings provide further evidence that ACR may be a potential agent for the chemoprevention and therapy of human colon cancer.
The amount of free arachidonic acid and prostaglandin F2 alpha in rat cerebral hemispheres was increased following convulsions induced by carbachol and metrazol. The level of thromboxane B2 was not affected and prostaglandin endoperoxides could only be "trapped" after a very short convulsive period. Unesterified fatty acid levels at 2 minutes post-mortem were decreased by 50% in the cerebral hemispheres of phenytoin treated rats. Under the same conditions, phenobarbital and diazepam had little effect on the levels of free fatty acids in rat brain.
We repeated direct-current cardioversion of atrial fibrillation after ibutilide injection in patients who failed conventional cardioversion. Eleven of 12 patients (92%) had successful cardioversion and avoided the need for internal cardioversion.
A low level of high-density lipoprotein (HDLC) is a proven risk factor for coronary artery disease. Niacin raises HDLC levels, but it is infrequently used because of its side effect profile. Niacin's side effects are dose related. This study tests the hypothesis that very low-dose niacin, in conjunction with long-term statin therapy, will improve the lipid profile by significantly raising the level of HDLC, with fewer side effects than traditional doses of niacin.
Fifty patients undergoing stable statin therapy for 3 months were blindly randomized to receive either placebo or niacin 50 mg administered by mouth 2 times daily for 3 months. Patients with diabetes and active smokers were excluded. Each patient completed a questionnaire regarding current medical problems, medications, and lifestyle before and after the therapy. Patients were questioned about any possible side effects that occurred during the medication trial. The primary end points were change in HDLC level and patient-reported side effects.
Thirty-nine patients completed the study. Very low-dose niacin added to statin therapy increased the mean HDLC, 2.1 mg/dL in niacin group (standard error of the mean, 0.767) versus -0.56 mg/dL for placebo group (standard error of the mean-.816, P =.0246 by analysis of variance). Five patients receiving niacin, versus 2 patients receiving placebo, had episodes of flushing. No major side effects were noted. No patients stopped the study medication as a result of side effects.
The addition of very low-dose niacin to statin therapy increased HDLC cholesterol significantly, while avoiding the side effects that are associated with traditional doses of niacin therapy.
