Patients submitted to urgent percutaneous coronary interventions (PCIs) are quite often at high risk for contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) since they exhibit several predisposing factors such as electrical and haemodynamic instability together with the lack of time to undergo adequate prophylaxis. This was a not blinded, non-randomized study whose aims were (i) to evaluate the incidence of CIN after urgent PCI in a high-volume cardiovascular referral practice (patients with acute myocardial infarction or with acute coronary syndromes enrolled in a single centre), and (ii) to assess the prognostic implications of CIN during hospitalization and at 1-month follow-up.
Between 1 October 2003 and 1 April 2004, 194 consecutive patients undergoing urgent coronary angiography and PCIs at our catheterization laboratory were enrolled in the study: 67 patients (34.5%) received the iso-osmolar contrast medium iodixanol (group A) and 127 patients (65.5%) received the hypo-osmolar contrast medium iopromid (group B).
The overall incidence of CIN was 10.82%. Patients of group A showed a higher incidence of CIN than patients of group B (22.3 vs. 4.7%, P < 0.05). On univariate logistic analysis, age, pre-existing renal insufficiency, intra-aortic balloon pump (an indirect indicator of haemodynamic instability), dyslipidaemia, and postprocedural hypotension were risk indicators for the development of CIN after primary PCI. On multivariate logistic analysis, age and postprocedural hypotension remained significant independent correlates of CIN.
In emergency PCIs, CIN is a frequent complication mainly related to haemodynamic instability and pre-existing renal dysfunction. Since CIN is associated with a high in-hospital mortality rate, our data stress the need for the development and validation of new preventive strategies for renal protection during emergency PCIs.
We evaluated whether patients with young-onset Parkinson's disease (PD) (onset between 21 and 40 years) develop levodopa-induced dyskinesias and motor response fluctuations more frequently and earlier than patients with older-onset PD (onset after 40 years) by determining the period from levodopa introduction to development of dyskinesias or fluctuations in 25 young-onset (mean age at onset, 33.54 years) and in 25 matched older-onset PD patients (mean age at onset, 55.76 years). Young-onset PD patients had significantly higher frequency for both dyskinesias and fluctuations after both 3 and 5 years of levodopa. Young-onset PD patients also developed both levodopa-induced dyskinesias and fluctuations earlier than older-onset PD patients. We suggest that the introduction of levodopa therapy in patients with young onset PD should be postponed as long as possible.
Anti-tumour necrosis factor-alpha antibodies are useful for the treatment of refractory Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Thalidomide is another agent with tumour necrosis factor-alpha suppressive properties.
To investigate the long-term efficacy and safety of thalidomide in a group of children and young adults with refractory inflammatory bowel disease.
Twenty-eight patients with refractory moderate-severe inflammatory bowel disease (19 Crohn's disease, 9 ulcerative colitis) received thalidomide 1.5-2.5 mg/kg/day. Patients were assessed at baseline, at weeks 2, 4, 8 and 12, and then every 12 weeks by patient's diary, physical examinations, laboratory analyses and scoring on activity indexes. Primary outcomes were: (i) efficacy in inducing remission; and (ii) efficacy in maintaining remission.
Remission was achieved with thalidomide in 21 of 28 (75%) patients (17 with Crohn's disease, 4 with ulcerative colitis). Mean duration of remission was 34.5 months. Sixteen of 20 (80%) patients suspended steroids. Reversible neuropathy occurred in seven of 28 (25%) patients, but only with cumulative doses over 28 g. Other side effects requiring thalidomide suspension were vertigo/somnolence (one of 28), and agitation/hallucinations (one of 28).
Thalidomide seems to be effective in inducing long-term remission in children and adolescents with intractable inflammatory bowel disease. Neuropathy is the main adverse effect, but appears to be cumulative dose-dependent, thus allowing long-term remission before drug suspension.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether intracoronary infusion of dipyridamole represents a suitable tool for preventing deterioration of left ventricular performance and hemodynamic function during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA).
Coronary angioplasty represents a suitable model for establishing myocardial ischemia in humans. Balloon inflation is usually accompanied by significant deterioration in left ventricular systolic and diastolic properties. A brief episode of ischemia followed by reperfusion, termed preconditioning, has been identified as a mechanism for rendering the myocardium more resistant to ischemia. Adenosine is considered an important mediator of preconditioning. Dipyridamole is an important drug that interferes with myocardial adenosine metabolism by inhibiting its cellular reuptake.
In 20 patients undergoing elective coronary angioplasty of a major vessel, assessment of angiographic left ventricular performance and hemodynamic variables was performed before, during and after PTCA. Patients were randomly allocated to pretreatment with intracoronary infusion of dipyridamole before percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (10 patients) or conventional pretreatment without dipyridamole (10 patients).
Dipyridamole pretreatment resulted in significant preservation of systolic and diastolic left ventricular performance during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, as documented by an unaffected global ejection fraction (vs. a deterioration of 29.2% with conventional pretreatment, p < 0.01) and an increment in diastolic stiffness of only 12.7% (vs. an increment of 57.3% with conventional pretreatment, p < 0.01). Apart from one instance of coronary steal phenomenon, no significant side effects of dipyridamole infusion could be detected.
It is concluded that intracoronary application of dipyridamole may result in the induction of myocardial preconditioning by improving systolic and diastolic ventricular performance during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty, thereby potentially reducing the risk of the angioplasty procedure.
Growth hormone-releasing peptides (GHRP) and ghrelin are synthetic and natural ligands of growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHSR) respectively and are shown to exert protective actions on cardiac dysfunction. Because ghrelin has been reported to inhibit proinflammatory responses in human endothelium and GHSR has been identified in blood vessels, we hypothesized that GHRP could alleviate the development of atherosclerosis (As). Atherosclearosis was induced by a short period (4 days) of vitamin D(3) and chronic (three months) intragastric feeding of high fat emulsion (containing 0.5% propylthiouracil) in adult SD rats. Some As rats received chronic hexarelin (a variant of GHRP) injection (SC BID, 30 days) and normal rats received placebo as control. Significant atherosclerosis developed in animals fed with the emulsion. Serum total cholesterol and LDL-c increased, and HDL-c and aortic nitric oxide (NO) decreased significantly in As group. Hexarelin suppressed the formation of atherosclerotic plaques and neointima, partially reversed serum HDL-c/LDL-c ratio and increased the levels of serum NO and aortic mRNAs of eNOS, GHSR and CD36 in As rats. Hexarelin also decreased [(3)H]-TdR incorporation in cultured vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) and calcium sedimentation in aortic wall. Furthermore, foam cell formation induced by ox-LDL was decreased by hexarelin. In conclusion, hexarelin suppresses high lipid diet and vitamin D3-induced atherosclerosis in rats, possibly through upregulating HDL-c/LDL-c ratio, vascular NO production and downregulating the VSMC proliferation, aortic calcium sedimentation and foam cell formation. These novel anti-atherosclerotic actions of hexarelin suggest that the peptide might have a clinical potential in treating atherosclerosis.
Immunologic incompetence is correlated with increased susceptibility to malignacy. Immunostimulation with such agents as Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) and dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) have resulted in regression of cutaneous maligancies. An evaluation of the effect of BCG and dinitrochlorobenzene sensitization and bladder irrigation in Fischer rats revealed no decrease in the incidence of bladder tumors induced by 2-formylamino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl) thiazole (FANFT). However, direct intralesional injection of BCG into early bladder tumors was effective in preventing the progression of such tumors in seven of ten BCG-sensitized rats (P less than 0.005). No effect was seen when BCG was injected intralesionally in unsensitized rats or when control solutions were injected.
To evaluate the effect of 7-day angiotensin II antagonism with losartan, an AT1-receptor antagonist, on systolic blood pressure, renal sodium and water excretion and on the atrial natriuretic factor system in one-kidney, one clip hypertensive rats.
The one-kidney, one clip hypertensive rats were separated into four groups: untreated (group 1), low-sodium diet (group 2), losartan (20 mg/kg orally, group 3) and low-sodium diet with losartan (group 4). All of the rats were kept in metabolic cages with urinary volume, urinary sodium level and water intake being evaluated daily. Body weight and blood pressure were assessed before treatment and at the end of the observation period. Renal glomerular and papillary atrial natriuretic factor receptors were assessed by radioligand binding experiments.
No differences were observed either in body weight or in blood pressure between groups at the outset After 1 week, blood pressure was 184+/-4, 184+/-7, 170+/-5 and 78+/-8 mmHg, in groups 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. Group 3 rats failed to gain weight and had high urinary volume. In contrast, group 4 rats lost 15% of their original body weight. Both of the losartan-treated groups presented an apparently reduced cardiac hypertrophy but it was only clear in the low-sodium diet group. Both of the losartan-treated groups had high plasma renin activity. All of the three treated groups showed upregulation of glomerular and no changes in papillary atrial natriuretic factor receptors. Overall, mortality was 18, 27, 0 and 36% in groups 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively.
Losartan administration reduces blood pressure in one-kidney, one clip rats only when combined with a low-sodium diet. Both low-sodium diet and angiotensin II antagonism upregulate renal glomerular but not papillary atrial natriuretic factor receptors, suggesting a divergent regulatory mechanism.
Deafferentation of the auditory nerve from loss of sensory cells is associated with degeneration of nerve fibers and spiral ganglion neurons (SGN). SGN survival following deafferentation can be enhanced by application of neurotrophic factors (NTF), and NTF can induce the regrowth of SGN peripheral processes. Cochlear prostheses could provide targets for regrowth of afferent peripheral processes, enhancing neural integration of the implant, decreasing stimulation thresholds, and increasing specificity of stimulation. The present study analyzed distribution of afferent and efferent nerve fibers following deafness in guinea pigs using specific markers (parvalbumin for afferents, synaptophysin for efferent fibers) and the effect of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in combination with acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF). Immediate treatment following deafness was compared with 3-week-delayed NTF treatment. Histology of the cochlea with immunohistochemical techniques allowed quantitative analysis of neuron and axonal changes. Effects of NTF were assessed at the light and electron microscopic levels. Chronic BDNF/aFGF resulted in a significantly increased number of afferent peripheral processes in both immediate- and delayed-treatment groups. Outgrowth of afferent nerve fibers into the scala tympani were observed, and SGN densities were found to be higher than in normal hearing animals. These new SGN might have developed from endogenous progenitor/stem cells, recently reported in human and mouse cochlea, under these experimental conditions of deafferentation-induced stress and NTF treatment. NTF treatment provided no enhanced maintenance of efferent fibers, although some synaptophysin-positive fibers were detected at atypical sites, suggesting some sprouting of efferent fibers.
Two cases of occupational allergic contact dermatitis in plywood mill workers are presented. Although both patients thought they were allergic to sawdust, they were in fact allergic to a phenol-formaldehyde resin used to bond the plywood sheets together. Both patients only developed their dermatitis when they came into contact with uncured glue.
CGS 35601 is a potent triple vasopeptidase inhibitor (VPI) of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), neutral endopeptidase (NEP), and endothelin-converting enzyme (ECE). The aim of the study was to determine the effects of this VPI on the hemodynamic profile of conscious, instrumented, unrestrained spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), in comparison to selective inhibitors of ACE and ACE + NEP, than +ECE combined. Circulating plasma concentrations of vasoactive mediators and reactive oxygen species were measured.
Old SHR male were instrumented (arterial catheter) and placed in a metabolic cage for daily hemodynamic measurements and blood samplings. Seven days after surgery, SHR received 1) saline vehicle; 2) increasing doses of the triple CGS 35601 (0.01, 0.1, 1, and 5 mg/kg/d, intra-arterially (i.a.) infusion for 5 d/dose) followed by a 5-day washout period; 3) benazepril (ACE inhibitor), ACE inhibitor + CGS 24592 (NEP inhibitor) and ACE inhibitor + NEP inhibitor + CGS 35066 (ECE inhibitor) (1 or 5 mg/kg/d i.a. infusion for 5 d/combination) followed by a 5-day washout period.
The lowest dose of CGS 35601 had no effect. Doses at 0.1, 1, and 5 mg/kg/d reduced mean arterial blood pressure by 10%, 22%, and 40%, respectively. Heart rate was unaffected in all groups. CGS 35601 decreased concentrations of angiotensin II (Ang II), endothelin-1 (ET-1), and pro-atrial natriuretic peptide (proANP), and increased those of big ET-1, atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), bradykinin (BK), and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) dose dependently.
The blood pressure-lowering effect of this triple VPI was superior to that of the other VPI in this preclinical rat model of hypertension. Further experiments are needed to assess triple VPI to other combinations in other models with regard to efficacy and angioedema. Only then it may constitute a first-in-class approach for the treatment of hypertension and other cardiovascular disorders.
A principal task in dissecting the genetics of complex traits is to identify causal genes for disease phenotypes. We previously developed a method to infer causal relationships among genes through the integration of DNA variation, gene transcription and phenotypic information. Here we have validated our method through the characterization of transgenic and knockout mouse models of genes predicted to be causal for abdominal obesity. Perturbation of eight out of the nine genes, with Gas7, Me1 and Gpx3 being newly confirmed, resulted in significant changes in obesity-related traits. Liver expression signatures revealed alterations in common metabolic pathways and networks contributing to abdominal obesity and overlapped with a macrophage-enriched metabolic network module that is highly associated with metabolic traits in mice and humans. Integration of gene expression in the design and analysis of traditional F(2) intercross studies allows high-confidence prediction of causal genes and identification of pathways and networks involved.
Adriamycin has been given to 442 patients using the weekly regimen as initially described by Bonadonna et al. Hematologic toxicity and clinical effectiveness have been similar to those described with regimens in which the drug is given every 3 weeks. Stomatitis is more frequent with the weekly regimen than with the usual triweekly regimen. The incidence of electrocardiographic changes and arrhythmias was similar to that reported in other studies. Nine patients received between 500 and 550 mg/m2, nine between 550 and 600 mg/m2, 28 between 600 and 1000 mg/m2, and 22 between 1000 and 2500 mg/m2. None of the patients developed definite evidence of cardiomyopathy although six showed some disturbance of myocardial function. In each of the six patients, factors other than adriamycin cardiotoxicity were believed to play a major role in the myocardial abnormality. The difference between the incidence of cardiomyopathy seen in this series and that previously reported is statistically significant. The reasons for the difference are not clear but are probably related to the schedule that was used.
Macrophage-solubilized indium-containing particles (ICPs) were previously shown in vitro to be cytotoxic. In this study, we compared macrophage solubilization and cytotoxicity of indium phosphide (InP) and indium-tin oxide (ITO) with similar particle diameters (∼ 1.5 µm) and then determined if relative differences in these in vitro parameters correlated with pulmonary toxicity in vivo. RAW 264.7 macrophages were treated with InP or ITO particles and cytotoxicity was assayed at 24 h. Ionic indium was measured in 24 h culture supernatants. Macrophage cytotoxicity and particle solubilization in vitro were much greater for InP compared with ITO. To correlate changes in vivo, B6C3F1 mice were treated with InP or ITO by oropharyngeal aspiration. On Days 14 and 28, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and pleural lavage (PL) fluids were collected and assayed for total leukocytes. Cell differentials, lactate dehydrogenase activity, and protein levels were also measured in BAL. All lavage parameters were greatly increased in mice treated with InP compared with ITO. These data suggest that macrophage solubilization and cytotoxicity of some ICPs in vitro are capable of predicting pulmonary toxicity in vivo. In addition, these differences in toxicity were observed despite the two particulate compounds containing similar amounts of indium suggesting that solubilization, not total indium content, better reflects the toxic potential of some ICPs. Soluble InCl3 was shown to be more cytotoxic than InP to macrophages and lung epithelial cells in vitro further suggesting that ionic indium is the primary cytotoxic component of InP.
Previous research has shown that glucose is an effective agent in facilitating memory performance and in attenuating scopolamine-induced amnesia. Although insulin has not been shown to facilitate unimpaired memory, a previous study has demonstrated that insulin can also attenuate scopolamine-degraded memory. The present study was designed to determine how different combinations of insulin, glucose and scopolamine affect memory. It involved nine rats whose memory was assessed through performance in a win-shift radial arm maze task under different drug treatments. A 2 x 2 x 2 (insulin x glucose x scopolamine) within-subjects design with a 5-h drug test interval was employed. Scopolamine disrupted memory performance, and both glucose and insulin counteracted this disruption. Combining the glucose and insulin treatments did not increase their ability to attenuate scopolamine deficits but slightly decreased this effect. Glucose tended to enhance memory, even in the absence of scopolamine, whereas insulin had no effect on memory in the absence of scopolamine. Blood glucose levels were measured and did not indicate changes caused by drug treatments. The memory effects may have been due to the acetylcholine-agonist actions of glucose and insulin, an interpretation consistent with previous research findings.
We used high-resolution SNP genotyping to identify regions of genomic gain and loss in the genomes of 212 medulloblastomas, malignant pediatric brain tumors. We found focal amplifications of 15 known oncogenes and focal deletions of 20 known tumor suppressor genes (TSG), most not previously implicated in medulloblastoma. Notably, we identified previously unknown amplifications and homozygous deletions, including recurrent, mutually exclusive, highly focal genetic events in genes targeting histone lysine methylation, particularly that of histone 3, lysine 9 (H3K9). Post-translational modification of histone proteins is critical for regulation of gene expression, can participate in determination of stem cell fates and has been implicated in carcinogenesis. Consistent with our genetic data, restoration of expression of genes controlling H3K9 methylation greatly diminishes proliferation of medulloblastoma in vitro. Copy number aberrations of genes with critical roles in writing, reading, removing and blocking the state of histone lysine methylation, particularly at H3K9, suggest that defective control of the histone code contributes to the pathogenesis of medulloblastoma.
A young patient had unexpected and prolonged postoperative delirium apparently associated with morphine-induced biliary colic. Naloxone had no therapeutic effect, but a small dose of pethidine produced a dramatic return to lucidity. Unrecognized biliary spasm should be considered as a cause of agitation in the recovery room in postoperative patients who have received morphine.
Genetic polymorphisms in arsenic-metabolizing enzymes may be involved in the biotransformation of inorganic arsenic and may increase the risk of developing urothelial carcinoma (UC). The present study evaluated the roles of glutathione S-transferase omega 1 (GSTO1) and GSTO2 polymorphisms in UC carcinogenesis. A hospital-based case-control study was conducted. Questionnaire information and biological specimens were collected from 149 UC cases and 251 healthy controls in a non-obvious inorganic arsenic exposure area in Taipei, Taiwan. The urinary arsenic profile was determined using high-performance liquid chromatography and hydride generator-atomic absorption spectrometry. Genotyping for GSTO1 Ala140Asp and GSTO2 Asn142Asp was conducted using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymerase. GSTO1 Glu208Lys genotyping was performed using high-throughput matrix-assisted laser desorption and ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. A significant positive association was found between total arsenic, inorganic arsenic percentage and monomethylarsonic acid percentage and UC, while dimethylarsinic acid percentage was significantly inversely associated with UC. The minor allele frequency of GSTO1 Ala140Asp, GSTO1 Glu208Lys and GSTO2 Asn142Asp was 18%, 1% and 26%, respectively. A significantly higher MMA% was found in people who carried the wild type of GSTO1 140 Ala/Ala compared to those who carried the GSTO1 140 Ala/Asp and Asp/Asp genotype (p=0.02). The homogenous variant genotype of GSTO2 142 Asp/Asp was inversely associated with UC risk (OR=0.17; 95% CI, 0.03 - 0.88; p=0.03). Large-scale studies will be required to verify the association between the single nucleotide polymorphisms of arsenic-metabolism-related enzymes and UC risk.
Conversion of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) into hepatic myofibroblasts is a necessary event during the development of liver fibrosis. DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), which catalyzes DNA methylation and subsequently leads to the transcriptional repression of profibrotic genes, is selectively induced in myofibroblasts from diseased livers. Treatment of HSC with the DNA methylation inhibitor, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-azadC), prevented TGF-β1-induced proliferation and alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) and collagen expression. 5-AzadC also rescued TGF-β1-induced suppression of Smad7 expression which occurs during HSC activation. Similarly, silencing the expression of the DNMT1 gene ameliorated the suppression of Smad7 expression by TGF-β1. In addition, DNMT1 inhibition, by 5-azadC or DNMT1 silencing, prevented the phosphorylation of Smad2 and Smad3. These studies suggest that epigenetic repression of Smad7 promotes the phosphorylation of Smad2 and Smad3 that may be an important molecular mechanism for perpetuated HSC activation and liver fibrosis.
Aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is a potent hepatocarcinogen that causes carcinogenesis in many animal species. In previous study, we found that isocitrate dehydrogenase 3α subunit (IDH3α) was upregulated in AFB1-induced carcinogenesis process. In this study, the sequences of IDH3α from various species were compared and the protein expression levels in different organs were examined, and the results showed that IDH3α was a widely distributed protein and shared highly conserved sequence in various species. In the same time, IDH3α was demonstrated to accumulate in a dose-dependent manner induced by AFB1 in cells, and was also up-regulated in the process of AFB1-induced liver lesion. Similar results were observed when H2O2 was used to replace AFB1. Over-expression of IDH3α increased the phosphorylation level of Akt (Protein kinase B) and neutralized the cellular toxicity induced by AFB1 or H2O2 and apoptosis induced by AFB1, while the reduced expression of IDH3α by siRNA decreased the phosphorylation, indicating that IDH3α played important roles in oxidative stress-induced PI3K/Akt pathway. Overall, the results suggested that AFB1 treatment could increase the expression of IDH3α, and the activated PI3K/Akt pathway by IDH3α eventually neutralized the apoptosis induced by AFB1.
The first-pass metabolism of foreign compounds in the lung is an important protective mechanism against oxidative stress. We investigated whether polymorphisms in the gene for microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEPHX), an enzyme involved in this protective process, had any bearing on individual susceptibility to the development of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and emphysema.
We designed PCR-based genotyping assays to detect variant forms of mEPHX that confer slow and fast activity. We used these assays to screen 203 blood-donor controls and groups of patients with asthma (n = 57), lung cancer (n = 50), COPD (n = 68), and emphysema (n = 94), who were attending specialised clinics in Edinburgh, UK.
The proportion of individuals with innate slow mEPHX activity (homozygotes) was significantly higher in both the COPD group and the emphysema group than in the control group (COPD 13 [19%] vs control 13 [6%]; emphysema 21 [22%] vs 13 [6%]). The odds ratios for homozygous slow activity versus all other phenotypes were 4.1 (95% CI 1.8-9.7) for COPD and 5.0 (2.3-10.9) for emphysema.
Genetic polymorphisms in xenobiotic enzymes may have a role in individual susceptibility to oxidant-related lung disease. Epoxide derivatives of cigarette-smoke components may be the cause of some of the lung damage characteristic of these diseases.
Skin microcirculation and skin temperature of 10 healthy subjects (6 men and 4 women, 20-44 yr of age) without any vascular diseases were registered when a thermoindifferent tap water iontophoresis was applied. The aim of this controlled study was to evaluate the development of skin hyperemia after the intake of 500 mg of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). The measurement was conducted by laser-Doppler flowmetry on the proximal forearm. The skin temperature was measured before and after the treatment by an infrared thermometer. In all persons there was an intense erythema on the side of the cathode and only a modest one on the side of the anode. Without ASA preliminary treatment, the cutaneous flow showed an increase of 106% at the anodal side and that of 834% at the cathodal side (P < 0.001). After ending tap water iontophoresis, the skin temperature increased more on the cathode side than on the anode side (P < 0.001). After the intake of 500 mg ASA, the increase of the flow was 78% at the anode and 88% at the cathode. The comparison of the skin microcirculation did not show any differences at the anodal side when acetylsalicylic acid was taken before, but a strong suppression of the galvanic erythema at the cathodal side was observed after the intake of ASA. There is a direct influence of acetylsalicylic acid on the induction of the neurogenic inflammation caused by a galvanic erythema. The intensity of the induced erythema correlates with the analgesic effects of constant current treatment. An attenuation of the electrotherapeutic analgesia is possible.
Oxidative stress caused by doxorubicin (DOX) is believed to be a major underlying molecular mechanism of DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Sesamin (Ses), an active component extracted from sesame seeds, exhibits antioxidative and anti-inflammatory effects. In the present study, possible protective mechanisms of Ses on DOX-induced cardiotoxicity were investigated in rats and cultured H9C2 cells. We demonstrated that Ses exhibits a significant protective effect on cardiac tissue in animal and cell models of DOX-induced cardiac injury. Moreover, Ses can ameliorate DOX-induced oxidative stress and mitochondrial damage. Further studies suggested that Ses is able to up-regulate the protein expression of Mn-SOD in normal rats and to restore the decreased expression of Mn-SOD in DOX-induced cardiac injury rats. Exposure to Ses or DOX alone slightly increased the protein expression of Sirt1; however, a more remarkable increase in Sirt1 protein level was detected in the Ses+DOX group. Treatment with a pan-sirtuin inhibitor (nicotinamide) or a Sirt1-specific inhibitor (EX-527) partially antagonised the effect of Ses on DOX-induced mitochondrial damage and completely abolished the effect of Ses on Mn-SOD expression. These findings indicate that the protective mechanisms of Ses on DOX-induced cardiotoxicity are involved in the alleviation of oxidative stress injury and Mn-SOD dysfunction, partially via the activation of Sirt1.
The efficacy, cycle-control and tolerance of Microgynon-30, a widely prescribed levonorgestrel containing oral contraceptive, and Femodene, a new oral-contraceptive containing gestodene, were compared in a randomised, double-blind study involving 456 healthy women over a 6 month period. 229 women were allocated to receive Femodene and 227 received Microgynon-30. No differences between the groups in terms of obstetric and gynaecological history, previous contraceptive history, smoking habits, blood-pressure or body weight at admission were observed. No pregnancies were reported in either group, despite tablet-taking errors recorded in 6.3% of the Femodene group and 7.6% of the Microgynon-30 group. Both oral contraceptives were compared in terms of cycle length, intensity of the withdrawal bleed and side effects. Cycle-control was similar in the two groups. However, significantly fewer subjects reported breakthrough bleeding (with or without spotting) in the Femodene group (18% of patients) compared with the Microgynon-30 group (26% of patients). The incidence of absent withdrawal bleeds was 1% or less in both groups and no significant effects on body weight or blood pressure were observed.
Both prilocaine and articaine are short-acting local anaesthetics suited for spinal anaesthesia for day-case knee arthroscopy. Articaine is thought to have a faster onset and shorter duration of action than prilocaine, although no comparative study has been published in the anaesthetic literature.
In this prospective randomized double-blind study, spinal anaesthesia was performed in 72 ASA I-II patients undergoing knee arthroscopy with 50 mg of either plain prilocaine or plain articaine. The primary outcome variable was duration of motor block. Secondary outcomes were onset of sensory and motor blocks, maximum spread of the sensory block, time to spontaneous voiding, and side-effects.
Time to full motor function recovery was shorter after articaine than prilocaine [mean (SD) 140 (33) vs 184 (46) min, respectively, P<0.001]. Time to spontaneous voiding was shorter after articaine than prilocaine [mean (SD) 184 (39) vs 227 (45) min, respectively, P<0.001]. One patient in the articaine group reported mild transient neurological symptoms (TNS) limited to the first postoperative day, but there were no significant differences in adverse effects between the groups.
Spinal anaesthesia with plain articaine 50 mg resulted in a faster recovery of motor function and earlier spontaneous voiding compared with plain prilocaine 50 mg. Surgical anaesthesia was not different. The incidence of TNS was low.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is a metabolic regulator involved in maintaining glucose and fatty acid homeostasis. Besides its metabolic functions, the receptor has also been implicated in tumorigenesis. Ligands of PPARgamma induce apoptosis in several types of tumor cells, leading to the proposal that these ligands may be used as antineoplastic agents. However, apoptosis induction requires high doses of ligands, suggesting the effect may not be receptor-dependent. In this report, we show that PPARgamma is expressed in human primary T-cell lymphoma tissues and activation of PPARgamma with low doses of ligands protects lymphoma cells from serum starvation-induced apoptosis. The prosurvival effect of PPARgamma was linked to its actions on cellular metabolic activities. In serum-deprived cells, PPARgamma attenuated the decline in ATP, reduced mitochondrial hyperpolarization, and limited the amount of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in favor of cell survival. Moreover, PPARgamma regulated ROS through coordinated transcriptional control of a set of proteins and enzymes involved in ROS metabolism. Our study identified cell survival promotion as a novel activity of PPARgamma. These findings highlight the need for further investigation into the role of PPARgamma in cancer before widespread use of its agonists as anticancer therapeutics.
Little is known about how the composition of stromal cells within the lung cancer microenvironment varies during tumor progression. We examined by immunohistochemistry each of six different stromal cell populations during the development of chemically induced primary lung cancer in mice. Blood vessels were seen even in microscopic lesions, and their numbers increased with tumor size. Neutrophils infiltrated the alveoli of tumor-bearing lungs and within the periphery of macroscopic adenomas and adenocarcinomas. The numbers of peritumoral lymphocytes and macrophages increased during oncogeny, but quantitative changes in mast cells and fibroblasts were not evident. Because macrophage depletion reduces tumor growth and these cells are thus important to tumorigenesis, we also investigated their phenotype. Pulmonary macrophages expressed arginase I (subtype M2) but not inducible nitric-oxide synthase in lungs with premalignant lesions, whereas macrophages in carcinoma-bearing lungs expressed inducible nitric-oxide synthase (subtype M1) but not arginase I. Local pulmonary stimuli did not seem responsible for this shift in macrophage activation state because monocytes still residing within the bone marrow adopted these expression patterns before entering the circulation, presumably in response to tumor-derived signals. These biochemical markers of macrophage activation states would have diagnostic and/or therapeutic value if analogous systemic shifts occur in humans.
Dystonia is a movement disorder that causes involuntary contractions of the muscles. Dystonia can affect just 1 muscle, a group of muscles, or all of the muscles. The most common cause acquired dystonia in childhood is drugs. Cetirizine is widely used for allergic disorders in childhood. It is without central nervous system side effects at recommended dosages. There is only 1 case of cetirizine-induced dystonia in the literature. We report a second case of cetirizine-induced acute acquired dystonia whose symptoms completely resolved after the discontinuation of the drug.
