2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), the most abundant heterocyclic amine produced during the cooking of meats and fish, is suspected to be a human carcinogen. Metabolic activation of PhIP is primarily mediated by the enzyme cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2. Metabolism of PhIP by CYP1A2 differs considerably between humans and rodents, with more N(2)-hydroxylation (activation) and less 4'-hydroxylation (detoxication) in humans. Transgenic CYP1A-humanized mice (hCYP1A-mice), which have the human CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 genes but lack the murine orthologs Cyp1a1 and Cyp1a2, provide an excellent opportunity to develop a relevant model to study dietary-induced colon carcinogenesis. The treatment with 200 mg/kg PhIP by oral gavage, followed by 1.5% dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) in the drinking water for 7 days, was found to be an effective combination to induce colon carcinogenesis in hCYP1A-mice. Tumor multiplicity at week 6 was calculated to be 3.75 ± 0.70 and for week 10 was 3.90 ± 0.61 with 80-95% of the tumors being adenocarcinomas. No tumors were found in the similarly treated wild-type mice. Western blots revealed overexpression of β-catenin, c-Myc, cyclin D1, inducible nitric oxide synthase and cyclooxygenase-2 in colon tumor samples. Strong nuclear localization of β-catenin was observed in tumors. These results illustrate that PhIP and DSS combination produces rapid colon carcinogenesis in hCYP1A-mice and this is an effective model to mimic human colon carcinogenesis.
UV-sensitive syndrome (UV(S)S) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by photosensitivity and deficiency in transcription-coupled repair (TCR), a subpathway of nucleotide-excision repair that rapidly removes transcription-blocking DNA damage. Cockayne syndrome is a related disorder with defective TCR and consists of two complementation groups, Cockayne syndrome (CS)-A and CS-B, which are caused by mutations in ERCC8 (CSA) and ERCC6 (CSB), respectively. UV(S)S comprises three groups, UV(S)S/CS-A, UV(S)S/CS-B and UV(S)S-A, caused by mutations in ERCC8, ERCC6 and an unidentified gene, respectively. Here, we report the cloning of the gene mutated in UV(S)S-A by microcell-mediated chromosome transfer. The predicted human gene UVSSA (formerly known as KIAA1530)(7) corrects defective TCR in UV(S)S-A cells. We identify three nonsense and frameshift UVSSA mutations in individuals with UV(S)S-A, indicating that UVSSA is the causative gene for this syndrome. The UVSSA protein forms a complex with USP7 (ref. 8), stabilizes ERCC6 and restores the hypophosphorylated form of RNA polymerase II after UV irradiation.
Cocaine use continues to be prevalent among all races and socioeconomic groups in the United States. Patients presenting to emergency departments after cocaine ingestion frequently present with a chief complaint of chest pain. Although acute myocardial infarction is perhaps the most concerning diagnosis in this setting, there are many other potential causes of chest pain after cocaine ingestion. This article reviews the pharmacology of cocaine, as well as the etiologies and treatment of cocaine-associated chest pain, with an emphasis on this drug's range of cardiovascular effects.
Variants associated with meconium ileus in cystic fibrosis were identified in 3,763 affected individuals by genome-wide association study (GWAS). Five SNPs at two loci near SLC6A14 at Xq23-24 (minimum P = 1.28 × 10(-12) at rs3788766) and SLC26A9 at 1q32.1 (minimum P = 9.88 × 10(-9) at rs4077468) accounted for ~5% of phenotypic variability and were replicated in an independent sample of affected individuals (n = 2,372; P = 0.001 and 0.0001, respectively). By incorporating the knowledge that disease-causing mutations in CFTR alter electrolyte and fluid flux across surface epithelium into a hypothesis-driven GWAS (GWAS-HD), we identified associations with the same SNPs in SLC6A14 and SLC26A9 and established evidence for the involvement of SNPs in a third solute carrier gene, SLC9A3. In addition, GWAS-HD provided evidence of association between meconium ileus and multiple genes encoding constituents of the apical plasma membrane where CFTR resides (P = 0.0002; testing of 155 apical membrane genes jointly and in replication, P = 0.022). These findings suggest that modulating activities of apical membrane constituents could complement current therapeutic paradigms for cystic fibrosis.
Animal work implicates chemical carcinogens, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and heterocyclic aromatic amines (HAAs) as contributing to the development of colorectal cancer (CRC). The epidemiologic evidence, however, remains inconsistent possibly due to intra-individual variation in bioactivation of these compounds. We conducted a case-control study of colorectal adenoma (914 cases, 1185 controls) and CRC (496 cases, 607 controls) among Japanese Americans, European Americans and Native Hawaiians to investigate the association of genetic variation in the PAH and HAA bioactivation pathway (CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, AHR and ARNT) identified through sequencing with risk of colorectal neoplasia, as well as their interactions with smoking and intakes of red meat and HAAs. The A allele for ARNT rs12410394 was significantly inversely associated with CRC [odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for GG, AG and AA genotypes: 1.00, 0.66 (0.48-0.89), 0.54 (0.37-0.78), P(trend) = 0.0008] after multiple comparison adjustment. CYP1A2 rs11072508 was marginally significantly associated with CRC, where each copy of the T allele was associated with reduced risk (OR: 0.72, 95% CI: 0.58-0.88, P(trend) = 0.0017). No heterogeneity of genetic effects across racial/ethnic groups was detected. In addition, no significant interaction was observed after adjusting for multiple testing between genetic variants and pack-years of smoking, intake of red meat or HAAs (PhIP, MeIQx, Di-MeIQx or total HAAs) or NAT2 genotype (Rapid versus Slow or Intermediate). This study suggests that the genomic region around ARNT rs12410394 may harbor variants associated with CRC.
Fentanyl induced seizures have been described previously in the literature. Clinical observations has labeled the movements seen in fentanyl anesthesia as seizure activity but electroencephalographic studies have not supported this. A case of seizure-like activity after the administration of fentanyl in a 20-year-old female is reported.
The ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1) is a carboxyl-terminal ubiquitin hydrolase regulating cellular ubiquitin levels, recently suggested as a tumor suppressor. However, the role of UCHL1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is not clear. We investigated the expression and DNA methylation of the UCHL1 in primary HCC, liver metastases from digestive carcinomas, and primary digestive cancers. UCHL1 is expressed in all normal tissues and immortalized normal epithelial cell lines, but was low or silenced in 77% (10/13) of HCC cell lines, which is well correlated with its promoter methylation status. Methylation was further detected in 44% (12/27) of HCCs, but less in metastatic tumors generated from colorectal and stomach in the liver (19%, 3/16; P < 0.05). Methylation was also detected in primary digestive tumors, including 71% (22/31) of colon, 77% (53/69) of gastric, and 40% (18/45) of esophageal carcinomas, but none or occasionally in paired adjacent nontumor tissues. Detailed methylation analysis of 49 CpG sites at a 540-bp promoter region by bisulfite genomic sequencing confirmed the methylation. UCHL1 silencing could be reversed by chemical or genetic demethylation of the promoter, indicating direct epigenetic silencing. Restoring UCHL1 expression in silenced cell lines significantly inhibited their growth and colony formation ability by inhibiting cell proliferation, causing cell cycle arrest in G2/M phase and inducing apoptosis through the intrinsic caspase-dependent pathway. Moreover, UCHL1 directly interacts with p53 and stabilizes p53 through the ubiquitination pathway.
Epigenetic inactivation of UCHL1 is common in primary HCCs and other digestive tumors. UCHL1 appears to be a functional tumor suppressor involved in the tumorigenesis of HCCs and other digestive cancers.
Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) and nephrotoxicity are adverse events induced by cisplatin administration. These effects can be reduced by treatment regimens with low-dose cisplatin, but high-dose cisplatin is still used. In Japan, high-dose cisplatin is usually administered in an inpatient setting to permit management of CINV. However, with use of new-generation antiemetic agents such as aprepitant, CINV and nephrotoxicity are controllable in an outpatient setting. Here, we discuss issues related to the management of high-dose cisplatin administration in outpatients. Grade 2 or worse CINV induced by high-dose cisplatin occurs in more than 40% of patients without treatment with aprepitant, but is controllable by administration of a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, steroids and aprepitant. Moreover, prevention of CINV using these drugs is cost-effective, since outpatient settings have advantages with regard to health economics and patient quality of life. These findings suggest that shifting high-dose cisplatin administration to the outpatient setting may be achieved with co-administration of aprepitant. Available facilities and the status of the patient should be considered when selecting whether an outpatient setting is suitable for administration of cisplatin, but the use of aprepitant and adequate oral hydration should allow use of cisplatin in this setting.
Systemic administration of pilocarpine to adult rats induces an acute status epilepticus followed by spontaneous recurrent seizures after a 1-2-week silent period. We recorded field potentials in hippocampal slices obtained from rats with spontaneous recurrent seizures after pilocarpine-induced status. The frequency of the interictal discharges induced in these slices by 4-aminopyridine (4AP) was reduced and their duration was increased. Cutting the Schaffer collaterals caused interictal discharges in CA1 to disappear in normal rats and in rats 3 weeks after pilocarpine-induced status. However, 12 weeks after pilocarpine, these discharges remained in CA1 after such a cut but occurred at a lower frequency. These findings show that in rat hippocampi with a lesion similar to that of human Ammon's horn sclerosis some electrophysiological features of 4AP-induced interictal discharges are altered in comparison to those induced in normal hippocampi.
To report a severe interaction between simvastatin and rapamycin resulting in rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure in a liver transplant patient.
A 56-year-old man with hepatitis C virus cirrhosis (Child B) was diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma and underwent liver transplantation in April 2007. He was immunosuppressed with tacrolimus (FK) and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF). Postoperative complications were arterial hypertension and renal insufficiency. In June 2007, liver dysfunction was detected and acute rejection was diagnosed by biopsy. He received three 500-mg boluses of methylprednisolone and FK levels were maintained between 10 and 12 ng/mL. Laboratory values revealed persistent rejection and MMF was stopped with initiation of rapamicin. One month later, hyperlipidemia appeared as a consequence of rapamicin therapy; simvastatin was administered. In August 2007, the patient was readmitted due to severe muscule pain and the inability to ambulate. Laboratory values were: total bilirubin 16 mg/dL, serum creatinine 4.3 mg/dL, and total creatine kinase (CK) 42,124 U/L. With the suspicion of rhabdomyolysis, leading to worsening of his basal renal insufficiency, rapamycin and tacrolimus were stopped. Hemodialysis was initiated owing to renal failure and hyperkalemia. Some hours later, the patient developed ventricular fibrillation and respiratory failure and succumbed.
Calcineurin inhibitors (CNI), corticosteroids, and mammalian target of rapamycin (m-TOR) inhibitors are associated with adverse dyslipidemic effects. To reduce the overall cardiovascular risk in these patients, lipid-lowering drugs, especially 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors, have been widely used. CNI and m-TOR inhibitors, as well as most statins, are metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP)3A4; thus, pharmacokinetic interactions between these drugs are possible. Previous reports have indicated an increased risk of rhabdomyolysis in the presence of concomitant drugs that inhibit simvastatin metabolism.
Concomitant administration of statin therapy and drugs that inhibit cytochrome P450 (CYP)3A4 increased the risk of rhabdomyolysis in a patient suffering liver and renal dysfunction.
In the present study, the expression of pro-inflammatory transcripts was assessed across the brain of mice having undertaken pilocarpine-induced seizures. Pilocarpine-induced marked neurodegeneration and demyelination in multiple regions of the forebrain. The pattern of genes encoding toll-like receptor type 2 (TLR2) and I kappa B alpha (index of NF-kappa B activation) was associated with the neurodegenerating areas, but this was not the case for the mRNA encoding other inflammatory proteins. Scattered tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-expressing cells were found across brain, whereas the signals for monocyte-chemoattractant protein-1 and microsomal prostaglandin mPGES E synthase were robust in thalamus and cerebral cortex and weak in the hippocampus and amygdala. TLR2 and TNF-alpha transcripts were expressed mainly in microglia/macrophages. Cyclooxygenase-2 was induced specifically in the hippocampus and piriform cortex. A low increase in interleukin-12 mRNA was detected in the brain, but the signal for interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) remained undetectable. Although pro-inflammatory markers were induced in a different manner across the CNS, their patterns were not characteristic of those caused by other inflammatory challenges, such as endotoxin. These data suggest a different mechanism involved in regulating the innate immune reaction in response to seizures and could have direct implications for the neuropathology associated with epilepsy.
Seventy to 80% of women using subdermal contraceptive implants (Norplant) have reported side effects, such as uterine bleeding, headache, mastalgia, and local pain at the site of insertion. This is a report of two patients who presented with peripheral neuropathy associated with the implants. One patient responded to removal of the device. The second patient, whose symptoms were thought to be related to trauma, was successfully treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents.
Two cases of peripheral neuropathy associated with subdermal contraceptive implants (Norplant) are reported. In the first case, a 22-year-old woman had received an implant in her left arm 11 months earlier. This woman was small and slender, and her implant rested nearly in the axilla. Whenever she rotated her arms internally, she experienced an electric shock-type pain shooting down the anterolateral aspect of her left arm to her fingers and causing parenthesia and numbness. The sensation lasted 2-3 minutes. This pain could be reproduced by pressing the superior portion of the axillary subdermal capsules. Following removal, her arm returned to normal. In the second case, a 26-year-old woman who had an implant for a year experienced a trauma to her left arm 3 days before she sought treatment. She stated that she experienced acute immediate pain in her upper arm after it was grabbed. The next day she experienced parenthesia and numbness radiating down the lateral aspect of her arm to her hand. Symptoms could be reproduced by palpitating the proximal tip of the capsule situated closest to the biceps muscle. The patient did not want to have the implant removed, so she was treated with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent for 2 weeks, and her symptoms disappeared. The pain experienced in these cases may represent compression of the musculocutaneous nerve by the capsule, resulting in a "Norplant neuropathy." If this condition becomes more common, providers might consider orienting the subdermal capsules in the direction of the elbow rather than the axilla, especially in women with short upper arms.
Recent reports have indicated that cholesterol-dependent association of tryptophan-aspartate containing coat protein (TACO) plays a crucial role in the entry/survival of Mycobacterium tuberculosis within human macrophages. Keeping this in view, the present study explored whether the molecules that have the ability to downregulate TACO gene transcription could also restrict entry/survival of mycobacteria within human macrophages. The study revealed that chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA), either alone or in combination with retinoic acid (RA), had the inherent capacity to downregulate TACO gene transcription in a dose-dependent fashion. This result was in conformity with the existence of a functional FXR/RXR binding site analyzed in the regulatory region of the TACO gene. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the entry and intracellular survival of M. tuberculosis is significantly restricted in THP-1 macrophages exposed to CDCA/RA. On the basis of these findings, we propose that the CDCA/RA-dependent pathway may open a new possibility for the treatment of tuberculosis.
Roberts syndrome (RBS) (OMIM #268300) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by tetraphocomelia (symmetrical limb reduction), craniofacial anomalies, growth retardation, mental retardation, cardiac and renal abnormalities. The syndrome is caused by mutations in the ESCO2 (establishment of cohesion 1 homolog 2) (Entrez 609353) gene, which is located at 8p21.1, and encodes a protein essential in establishing sister chromatid cohesion during S phase. SC phocomelia (SC) (OMIM #269000), has less severe symmetric limb reduction, flexion contractures of various joints, minor facial anomalies, growth retardation and occasionally, mental retardation. These two syndromes can be considered part of a spectrum, with RBS at the most severe range in which severely affected infants may be stillborn or die in the post-natal period, while individuals with SC phocomelia represent the milder end of the spectrum and typically survive to adulthood. In both presentations, karyotype investigations characteristically reveal premature centromere separation (PCS), otherwise known as heterochromatin repulsion or puffing. There is little literature about the follow-up of adults with the spectrum of RBS/SC phocomelia or their recommended management. We report on an adult presentation of RBS/SC phocomelia spectrum disorder with a history of major cardiac malformation in childhood, normal limbs on physical examination, mild facial anomalies, mild learning difficulties, and PCS. Molecular studies of ESCO2 have confirmed the diagnosis. A literature review, focussing on adult manifestations of this condition and a discussion of follow-up guidelines are presented.
The difficulties encountered in administering D-penicillamine to 40 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) over a six to 24 month period are recorded. Side-effects were frequent. Proteinuria occurred in 13 patients (33%) mainly in the fourth to the sixth month. Renal biopsies were performed in six patients and all showed light microscopy abnormalities. Electron microscopy performed in five patients revealed subepithelial deposits in all and in addition some had mesangial and subendothelial deposits. Seven patients (17.5%) developed eight episodes of thrombocytopaenia which was quickly reversed on cessation of treatment or reduction in dosage. On the positive side, there was significant improvement in most parameters of disease activity at six, 12 and 18 months compared to the pretreatment levels, but the results at two years were less impressive. Reduction in steroid dosage was considerable and was greater than half the mean pretreatment dose after two years but the absence of a control group makes the full significance of these uncertain. Patients on high and low dosage regimens were compared over a 12 month period of treatment. Although the differences were not statistically significant, withdrawals and side-effects were less frequent in the low dose group.
The effects of 10 mg of morphine sulphate given either extradurally or i.m. for the relief of pain after operation were compared in two randomized double-blind trials in patients undergoing major gynaecological surgery. In the first trial when morphine was given with the local anaesthetic before surgery, extradural administration resulted in significantly longer lasting analgesia: mean 707 min compared with 371 min (i.m.). In the second trial in patients complaining of pain after operation, extradural morphine had a slower onset of action, but longer duration of action compared with i.m. morphine, although the differences were not statistically significant. In this group extradural morphine often failed to provide useful analgesia. The extradural group received significantly less additional morphine (6.75 mg) than did the i.m. group (18.75 mg) in the following 24 h.
Mutation of a receptor tyrosine kinase gene, Mertk, in the Royal College of Surgeons (RCS) rat results in defective phagocytosis of photoreceptor outer segments by the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and retinal degeneration. We screened the human orthologue, MERTK, located at 2q14.1 (ref. 10), in 328 DNA samples from individuals with various retinal dystrophies and found three mutations in three individuals with retinitis pigmentosa (RP). Our findings are the first conclusive evidence implicating the RPE phagocytosis pathway in human retinal disease.
Future success using chemotherapy against human gliomas may result from exploiting unique molecular vulnerabilities of these tumors. Chemotherapy frequently results in DNA damage. When such damage is sensed by the cell, programmed cell death, or apoptosis, may be initiated. However, chemotherapy-induced DNA damage may activate nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) and block apoptosis. We inhibited NF-kappaB using a gene therapy approach to determine whether this would render human glioma cells more susceptible to chemotherapy. U87 and U251 glioma cell lines were infected with either treatment adenovirus containing the gene for a mutant non-degradable form of IkappaBalpha, which is an inhibitor of NF-kappaB nuclear translocation, or empty control virus. Following viral infection, cells were treated either with BCNU, carboplatin, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), or SN-38. Chemotherapy resulted in a marked increase in active intranuclear NF-kappaB. This response was greatly decreased by insertion of the mutant repressor gene. Similarly, a significant increase in cell killing by all chemotherapy age was demonstrated following infection with treatment virus. Expression of the mutant repressor gene also resulted in increased apoptosis by TUNEL assay following chemotherapy. Numerous genes are responsible for glioma chemoresistance. DNA damage by chemotherapy may induce the antiapoptotic factor NF-kappaB and prevent programmed cell death. Insertion of a mutant inhibitor of NF-kappaB strips cells of this antiapoptotic defense and renders them more susceptible to killing by chemotherapy via increased apoptosis.
Visceral leishmaniasis is a parasitic disease which has a good prognosis in previously healthy patients who have been successfully treated. At present, visceral leishmaniasis is increasingly reported in immunocompromised patients including those with AIDS, whose display a fulminating form and higher mortality. We report a case of visceral leishmaniasis in a healthy patient with a non classical clinical evolution of the disease.
A 17 years old patient without immunosuppressive factors was diagnosed by histologic evaluation of bone marrow which revealed intracellular leishmania amastigotes. Immediately the patient received treatment with antimony therapy.
Patient developed a multi-organic failure (respiratory distress, disseminated intravascular coagulation, hepatic and renal insufficiency) and died at 13 days his after intensive care unit admission.
The major new finding of this study is that in normal humans visceral leishmaniasis can have a dramatic short-term follow up in spite of correctly treatment. We suggest a possible immunological mechanism similar at non septic pathology.
The nephrotoxic potential of amphotericin B (5 mg/kg per day intraperitoneally for 3 weeks) has been investigated in salt-depleted, normal-salt, and salt-loaded rats. In salt-depleted rats, amphotericin B decreased creatinine clearance linearly with time, with an 85% reduction by week 3. In contrast, in normal-salt rats creatinine clearance was decreased but to a lesser extent at week 2 and 3, and in salt-loaded rats creatinine clearance did not change for 2 weeks and was decreased by 43% at week 3. All rats in the sodium-depleted group had histopathological evidence of patchy tubular cytoplasmic degeneration in tubules that was not observed in any normal-salt or salt-loaded rat. Concentrations of amphotericin B in plasma were not significantly different among the three groups at any time during the study. However, at the end of 3 weeks, amphotericin B levels in the kidneys and liver were significantly higher in salt-depleted and normal-salt rats than those in salt-loaded rats, with plasma/kidney ratios of 21, 14, and 8 in salt-depleted, normal-salt, and salt-loaded rats, respectively. In conclusion, reductions in creatinine clearance and renal amphotericin B accumulation after chronic amphotericin B administration were enhanced by salt depletion and attenuated by sodium loading in rats.
Previous studies suggest that NGF may function as a mediator of inflammatory pain. Here, we examined the effect of inflammation on expression of the low affinity neurotrophin receptor p75, using the model of cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis in rats. In control rats, p75-positive thick fibre bundles were scattered in the muscle layer. At 2 and 3 days after injection of cyclophosphamide, numbers of p75-positive fine fibres in the muscle layer were dramatically increased. Electron microscopy revealed that p75 immunoreactivity was localized on the surface of Schwann cells and at the sites where they were apposed to axons. Results show that p75 is up-regulated in inflamed tissues, suggesting that p75 may bind to and take up nerve growth factor (NGF), thus participating in NGF-induced hyperalgesia.
The article deals with Ebstein's anomaly, lithium and their relationship. Some studies suggest that lithium might be involved as a teratogen increasing the incidence of Ebstein's anomaly in the offspring of female patients with manio-depressive psychosis and lithium-administered during pregnancy. The second part of the article contains data on the incidence of Ebstein's anomaly in the Czech Socialist Republic between 1960 and 1985. The results indicate a steady rise in the incidence of this congenital malformation over the above period of time.
Spirocercosis is an emerging disease in veterinary medicine. A strong suspicion of spirocercosis is usually evident after a thorough clinical examination and radiography of the chest has been performed. Lesions seen on radiography include an oesophageal mass, spondylitis and oesophageal air. Unfortunately, radiography is not diagnostic and additional diagnostic procedures are required to confirm the diagnosis. Endoscopy is commonly performed to diagnose the condition. The dog presented in this study had radiographic and clinical signs consistent with spirocercosis and definitive diagnosis was required. Shortly after sedation with medetomidine, the dog went into cardiac arrest and failed to respond to resuscitative measures. On post mortem, the diagnosis of spirocercosis was confirmed and the cause of death was identified as acute aortic rupture. Aortic aneurysms are not an uncommon finding and cause of acute death in dogs with spirocercosis. The acute rupture of the aorta in this case is most probably the result of cardiovascular changes associated with the administration of medetomidine. Medetomidine causes an acute rise in systemic vascular resistance with hypertension. The increase in shear stress across the weakened aortic wall resulted in rupture. Caution with the use of medetomidine in patients with spirocercosis is advised.
A patient who developed porphyria cutanea tarda and disturbed liver function tests following treatment with rifampicin and isoniazid for a tuberculous psoas abscess is reported. The patient had normal liver function tests prior to receiving anti-tuberculosis chemotherapy, but was subsequently demonstrated to have cholelithiasis. Challenge testing with both drugs incriminated rifampicin as the agent precipitating porphyria cutanea tarda and disturbance of the liver function tests particularly the serum bilirubin. The association between rifampicin and porphyria cutanea tarda has not previously been described but might be expected because of the ability of rifampicin to induce various liver enzyme systems including delta aminolevulinic acid synthetase activity. This further illustration of rifampicin hepatotoxicity emphasizes the need for regular monitoring of liver function when rifampicin is prescribed. Rifampicin should be used with extreme caution in any patient with a previous history of porphyria cutanea tarda.
The authors undertook a retrospective study of the modes of prescription, the tolerance and efficacy of prostaglandin E1 in 62 consecutive neonates with congenital heart disease (average Age 1.6 days: 35 boys: weight: 3.1 +/- 0.6 Kg) admitted to the paediatric intensive care unit of Nancy University Hospital between 1998 and 2002. The infusion time and cumulative dosage were 134 +/- 112 (6-480) hours and 111 +/- 94 (4-396) microg/Kg respectively. The side effects that were observed were: Apnoea (19%), abdominal distension (16%), bradycardia (13%), enterocolitis (6.5%), hypotension (6.5%), vomiting (5%), fever (1.6%) and skin rash (1.6%). Gastrointestinal disturbances are associated with a low body weight (p<0.04), to prolonged treatment (p<0.02) with no influence of initial or cumulative dosages (P=NS), with respiratory assistance (p<0.03) and longer hospital stay (p<0.01). Hypotension was commoner in cases of poor neonatal adaptation. Mortality was correlated with severe initial acidosis (p<0.02), a low Apgar score, the initial prolonged use of high doses of prostaglandin (p<0.04), and the presence of severe valvular aortic stenosis or hypoplasia of the left heart (p<0.002). The authors conclude that treatment with prostaglandin is effective in the majority of cases despite the use of low maintenance doses (0.01 microg/Kg/min). Gastrointestinal disturbances favourised by the perinatal context, the cardiac disease, and prolonged treatment are significant factors for morbidity and mortality. The beneficial role of early neonatal enteral feeding was not demonstrated in this high risk population.
A constellation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) capable of damaging cellular constituents generated in excess during the chronic, inflammatory, neurodegenerative disease process of leprosy. The consequences of this leads to enhanced oxidative stress and lower antioxidant status. Enzymatic antioxidants provide first line defense against ROS. We have measured the levels of oxidative stress indices like lipid peroxidation (LPO), protein carbonyls together with enzymatic antioxidants in the blood samples of control and leprosy patients. Nutritional rehabilitation by way of exogenous supplementation of functionally efficient antioxidants like vitamin E reactivates the enzymatic antioxidant system and guards against the insult caused by ROS during the pathogenesis of the disease and antileprosy chemotherapy.
Untreated leprosy patients were selected on the basis of clinical examination and skin smear. All diagnosed untreated leprosy patients received multi drug therapy (MDT) consisting of rifampicin, dapsone and clofazimine as recommended by World Health Organization. A small number of untreated cases were selected for co-supplementation of vitamin E along with MDT. Oxidative stress indices, enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidant status were assayed in untreated, MDT treated and those supplemented vitamin E along with MDT.
We have compared the significance in the mean+/-s.d. values of the oxidative stress indices and the levels of antioxidants using one way analysis of variance (ANOVA) between control, untreated, MDT treated and those supplemented vitamin E with MDT and the results were significant at P < 0.05. Statistical analysis of the results suggests that oral administration of vitamin E lowers oxidative stress and augments antioxidant status in affected individuals.
Enhanced oxidative stress as evidenced by increased LPO and protein carbonyl in leprosy cases lowers the antioxidant status. Treatment with MDT has a limited impact on increased oxidative stress and decreased antioxidant status. Coadministration of vitamin E along with MDT decreases oxidative stress and activate the antioxidant status.
The excess production of ROS as seen in leprosy cases could lead to degeneration of tissues and derangement of internal organs. The possible reason for the decreased antioxidant status in leprosy cases may be increased production of ROS, deranged liver function, and the free radical producing ability of drugs used in MDT of leprosy. Intervention with antioxidant supplementation like vitamin E prevents oxidative stress mediated through ROS and activates the net antioxidant status during the chronic course of the disease and antileprosy chemotherapy.
