Changes in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) physiology are important in determining seizure susceptibility in the developing nervous system. Noninvasive measurements of brain GABA in adults with epilepsy have demonstrated important relations among seizure control, brain GABA levels, and changes in brain GABA with drugs designed to alter GABA metabolism. The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the changes in GABA in the occipital lobes of children with epilepsy after treatment with vigabatrin (VGB).
Ten proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopic (NMRS) studies were obtained on four subjects with epilepsy. The subjects were between ages 1 and 5 years. Occipital lobe GABA levels were measured before and after treatment with VGB.
Brain GABA levels increased significantly in these subjects after VGB treatment (p < 0.05, paired Student's t test). In one subject, brain GABA was decreased in the region of the epileptic focus compared with the homologous region of the opposite hemisphere. A nearly fivefold increase in GABA occurred in the epileptic region after VGB treatment in this subject.
VGB increases brain GABA levels in children with epilepsy. NMRS can be used to monitor the response of brain GABA levels to drugs known to alter GABA physiology and serve as an important tool to understand the role of GABA-mediated inhibition in pediatric epilepsies.
We treated a patient with arrhythmia during pregnancy with prolonged intravenous administration of lidocaine hydrochloride. This was a case of twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome and the arrhythmia was caused by ritodrine therapy. In total, 14.1 g lidocaine (50 mg.hr-1 for 282 hr) were used. Since there are no descriptions of human placental transfer of lidocaine after such a prolonged continuous intravenous administration, we measured lidocaine concentrations in maternal and fetal serum, and in the amniotic fluid (AF) at delivery. Fetal serum lidocaine concentrations (donor: 0.83 microgram.ml-1; recipient: 0.82 microgram.ml-1) were lower than in the maternal serum (1.6 micrograms.ml-1), while the AF lidocaine concentrations (donor: 1.05 micrograms.ml-1; recipient: 1.04 micrograms.ml-1) were higher than those of the fetal sera. The fetal/maternal concentration ratios of lidocaine were 0.52 for the donor and 0.51 for the recipient, which were similar to those described previously after administration of lidocaine in labour.
Tetrachloroethylene (PCE) is an important occupational chemical used in metal degreasing and drycleaning and a prevalent drinking water contaminant. Exposure often occurs with other chemicals but it occurred alone in a pattern that reduced the likelihood of confounding in a unique scenario on Cape Cod, Massachusetts. We previously found a small to moderate increased risk of breast cancer among women with the highest exposures using a simple exposure model. We have taken advantage of technical improvements in publically available software to incorporate a more sophisticated determination of water flow and direction to see if previous results were robust to more accurate exposure assessment.
The current analysis used PCE exposure estimates generated with the addition of water distribution modeling software (EPANET 2.0) to test model assumptions, compare exposure distributions to prior methods, and re-examine the risk of breast cancer. In addition, we applied data smoothing to examine nonlinear relationships between breast cancer and exposure. We also compared a set of measured PCE concentrations in water samples collected in 1980 to modeled estimates.
Thirty-nine percent of individuals considered unexposed in prior epidemiological analyses were considered exposed using the current method, but mostly at low exposure levels. As a result, the exposure distribution was shifted downward resulting in a lower value for the 90th percentile, the definition of "high exposure" in prior analyses. The current analyses confirmed a modest increase in the risk of breast cancer for women with high PCE exposure levels defined by either the 90th percentile (adjusted ORs 1.0-1.5 for 0-19 year latency assumptions) or smoothing analysis cut point (adjusted ORs 1.3-2.0 for 0-15 year latency assumptions). Current exposure estimates had a higher correlation with PCE concentrations in water samples (Spearman correlation coefficient = 0.65, p < 0.0001) than estimates generated using the prior method (0.54, p < 0.0001).
The incorporation of sophisticated flow estimates in the exposure assessment method shifted the PCE exposure distribution downward, but did not meaningfully affect the exposure ranking of subjects or the strength of the association with the risk of breast cancer found in earlier analyses. Thus, the current analyses show a slightly elevated breast cancer risk for highly exposed women, with strengthened exposure assessment and minimization of misclassification by using the latest technology.
Increased impulsivity caused by addictive drugs is believed to contribute to the maintenance of addiction and has been linked to hypofunction within the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). Recent data indicate that cocaine "self-administration" induces the transcription factor DeltaFosB in the OFC that alters the effects of investigator-administered cocaine on impulsivity. Here, using viral-mediated gene transfer, the effects of overexpressing DeltaFosB within the OFC were assessed on the cognitive sequelae of chronic cocaine self-administration as measured by the 5-choice serial reaction time task (5CSRT). Cognitive testing occurred in the mornings, and self-administration sessions in the evenings, to enable the progressive assessment of repeated volitional drug intake on performance. Animals self-administering cocaine initially made more omissions and premature or impulsive responses on the 5CSRT but quickly developed tolerance to these disruptive effects. However, withdrawal from cocaine dramatically increased premature responding. When access to cocaine was increased, animals overexpressing DeltaFosB failed to regulate their intake as effectively and were more impulsive during withdrawal. In summary, rats develop tolerance to the cognitive disruption caused by cocaine self-administration and show a deficit in impulse control that is unmasked during withdrawal. Our findings suggest that induction of DeltaFosB within the OFC is one mediator of these effects and, thereby, increases vulnerability to addiction.
Within estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer (ER+ BC), the expression levels of proliferation-related genes can define two clinically distinct molecular subtypes. When treated with adjuvant tamoxifen, those ER+ BCs that are lowly proliferative have a good prognosis (luminal-A subtype), however the clinical outcome of those that are highly proliferative is poor (luminal-B subtype).
To investigate the biological basis for these observations, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed using microarray data from 246 ER+ BC samples from women treated with adjuvant tamoxifen monotherapy. To create an in vitro model of growth factor (GF) signaling activation, MCF-7 cells were treated with heregulin (HRG), an HER3 ligand.
We found that a gene set linked to GF signaling was significantly enriched in the luminal-B tumors, despite only 10% of samples over-expressing HER2 by immunohistochemistry. To determine the biological significance of this observation, MCF-7 cells were treated with HRG. These cells displayed phosphorylation of HER2/3 and downstream ERK and S6. Treatment with HRG overcame tamoxifen-induced cell cycle arrest with higher S-phase fraction and increased anchorage independent colony formation. Gene expression profiles of MCF-7 cells treated with HRG confirmed enrichment of the GF signaling gene set and a similar proliferative signature observed in human ER+ BCs resistant to tamoxifen.
These data demonstrate that activation of GF signaling pathways, independent of HER2 over-expression, could be contributing to the poor prognosis of the luminal-B ER+ BC subtype.
The role of oxidative stress in mercuric chloride (HgCl2)-induced nephrotoxicity is uncertain and controversial. We demonstrate that I.L.C-PK1 cells, exposed to HgCl2, generate massive amounts of hydrogen peroxide, the latter completely quenched by the hydrogen peroxide scavenger, pyruvate. HgCl2 exerts a dose-dependent cytotoxicity which is attenuated by pyruvate and catalase. Cellular generation of hydrogen peroxide arises, at least in part, from mitochondria since mitochondrial rates of generation of hydrogen peroxide increase in response to HgCl2; HgCl2 also provokes a shift in absorbance spectra in rhodamine 123 loaded-mitochondria and stimulates mitochondrial state 4 respiration. HgCl2, applied for one hour, impairs cellular vitality as demonstrated by the MTT assay, an assay dependent in part on mitochondrial function. HgCl2 impairs function in other organelles such as lysosomes that maintain a transmembrane proton gradient; these latter effects are partially attenuated by pyruvate. We complement these in vitro findings with in vivo evidence demonstrating that HgCl2 stimulates renal generation of hydrogen peroxide. The functional significance of such generation of hydrogen peroxide was evaluated in rats deficient in selenium and vitamin E, a nutrient deficiency that impairs the scavenging of hydrogen peroxide and promotes the toxicity of this oxidant. In these rats serum creatinine values were significantly higher on sequential days following the administration of HgCl2. To probe the renal response to oxidative stress induced by HgCl2, we examined hydrogen peroxide-scavenging enzymes and redox-sensitive genes. Catalase activity was unaltered whereas glutathione peroxidase activity was decreased, effects that may contribute to the net renal generation of hydrogen peroxide. The redox sensitive enzyme, heme oxygenase, was markedly up-regulated in the kidney in response to HgCl2. HgCl2 also induced members of the bcl family, bcl2 and bclx, genes that protect against apoptosis and oxidant injury. In another model of oxidant-induced renal injury, the glycerol model, bcl2 mRNA was not induced at 6 and 24 hours after the administration of glycerol. In summary, we demonstrate that HgCl2 potently stimulates renal generation of hydrogen peroxide in vitro and in vivo and such generation of peroxide contributes to renal dysfunction in vitro and in vivo. We also demonstrate that in response to HgCl2, redox sensitive genes are expressed including heme oxygenase and members of the bcl family.
In patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, clinical symptoms such as exertional dyspnea, angina and collapse are considered to be rather the consequence of diastolic than of systolic dysfunction of the left ventricle. Beta-blocker therapy is aimed at reducing systolic overcontraction while calcium blockers predominantly therapy is aimed at reducing systolic overcontraction while calcium blockers predominantly improve diastolic filling characteristics. Therefore 61 consecutive patients with well defined hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were treated with calcium channel blockers: 60 patients with verapamil at average dose 530 mg (320 to 720 mg/d) and one patient received 30 mg nifedipine. All patients had clinical, noninvasive and cardiac catheterization evaluation at the time of entry into the study. Therapy was continued for an average of 54 months (10 to 96). Follow-up studies were performed at 6-month intervals. Subjective improvement was achieved in 47 of 55 symptomatic patients (85%). Heart size, judged as heart volume from tele-chest X-ray in supine position, showed a reduction in 36/61, no change in 15/61 and increase in 10/61. On average in all 61 patients, a significant reduction from 947 to 833 ml/1.73 m2 was seen. Twenty-six patients who had been followed for an average of 24 months prior to verapamil therapy on beta blockers or no treatment had heart volume increases averaging 12% in the pre-verapamil period. Electrocardiography (ECG) showed a significant reduction in QRS amplitude and a tendency towards normalization of ST/T segments. Serial echocardiography study showed small but significant reduction in left atrial diameter. Repeat catheterization was performed in 19 patients and a significant reduction in intraventricular pressure gradient, left ventricular muscle mass and coronary artery diameter was demonstrated. Three patients died during the study (256 patient-treatment-years) for an annual mortality rate of 1.3%. This mortality is considerably lower than reported for patients receiving no treatment, beta-blockade, or surgery. Of all 61 patients only one had surgery related to the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. One patient had the dose of verapamil reduced because of the occurrence of heart block. No patient discontinued the drug because of side-effects. Utilizing serial noninvasive and invasive studies, we conclude that verapamil therapy in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy results in objective and subjective improvement, a low death rate and little need for operation as compared to standard therapy.
A phase I study of S-1 and biweekly docetaxel (DOC) combination therapy was conducted to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and pharmacokinetic parameters. Fourteen patients with advanced or recurrent gastric cancer were analyzed. The treatment consisted of S-1 [body surface area (BSA) <1.25 m2:80 mg/day, 1.25<or= BSA <1.50 m2: 100 mg/day, 1.50 m2<or= BSA; 120 mg/day, orally, day 1-14) and DOC (30-40 mg/m2/day, intravenously, day 1 and 15], which were repeated as often as possible every four weeks. Pharmacokinetic analysis was done at DOC 40 mg/m2/day. Initially, patients were administered S-1 and 40 mg/m2/day of DOC, and DOC 40 mg/m2/day was considered as MTD. In detail, one patient developed neutropenia (grade 4, G4), and two other patients had no day 15 DOC administration because of neutropenia (grade 3, G3). When S-1 and 35 mg/m2/day of DOC were administered to three patients, no adverse reactions were noted. In six patients treated with S-1 and 30 mg/m2/day of DOC, one patient developed neutropenia (G4), and another patient developed diarrhea (G3) and anorexia (G3). The rest of this cohort showed no adverse reactions. Although 5-fluorouracil and gimeracil concentrations remained high under impaired renal function, no pharmacokinetic interactions appeared between S-1 and DOC under normal renal function. The dose limiting toxicity of a combination of S-1 and biweekly DOC was leukopenia and neutropenia. The recommended dose for this combination in phase II study is DOC 35 mg/m2/day.
The use of phosphodiesterase inhibitors such as milrinone in the treatment of severe heart failure is frequently restricted because they cause vasodilation and hypotension. In patients with decompensated heart failure with hypotension after treatment with milrinone, low doses of vasopressin restored blood pressure without inhibiting the inotropic effect of milrinone.
To compare the effects of unilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) with bilateral STN DBS in advanced PD.
Our initial 10 consecutive patients with medication-refractory motor fluctuations and levodopa-induced dyskinesias undergoing chronic bilateral STN DBS underwent a standardized evaluation of unilateral and bilateral STN DBS in the medication-off state 6 to 18 months after electrode implantation.
Bilateral STN DBS improved the mean total Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor score by 54%, whereas unilateral stimulation improved motor scores only 23%. Unilateral STN DBS improved postural stability and gait 14%, other axial motor features 19%, and overall parkinsonism in limbs contralateral to stimulation by 46%, including an 86% improvement in contralateral tremor. However, bilateral STN DBS resulted in greater improvement in each of these domains, including limb function, i.e., the reduction in scores from the limbs on one side was greater with bilateral than with unilateral stimulation of the contralateral STN.
Bilateral STN DBS improves parkinsonism considerably more than unilateral STN DBS; bilateral simultaneous electrode implantation may be the most appropriate surgical option for patients with significant bilateral disability. Unilateral STN DBS results in moderate improvement in all aspects of off-period parkinsonism and improves tremor as much as is typically reported with DBS of the ventral intermedius nucleus of the thalamus (Vim). For this reason, STN DBS may be a more appropriate choice than Vim DBS or thalamotomy for parkinsonian tremor. Some patients with highly asymmetric tremor-dominant PD might be appropriately treated with unilateral instead of bilateral STN DBS.
Radioiodine (RAI) therapy may cause progression of mild or absent Graves' orbitopathy (GO), preventable by oral prednisone. Optimal doses of prednisone are undefined.
The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of reported doses [starting dose, >0.3 mg/kg body weight (bw)], and lower (<0.3 mg/kg bw)] doses of prednisone.
We conducted a retrospective matched cohort study at a University Center.
Of 111 RAI-treated Graves' patients with mild or no GO, 35 received no steroid prophylaxis (absence of GO and/or risk factors for RAI-associated GO progression); 28 received low-dose prednisone (starting dose, 0.16-0.27 mg/kg bw; mean +/- sd, 0.22 +/- 0.03 mg/kg bw; group 1); and 48 received higher doses (group 2). Among the latter, 28 (starting dose, 0.32-0.56 mg/kg bw; mean +/- sd, 0.36 +/- 0.05 mg/kg bw) were matched with group 1 according to several relevant variables. Prednisone was started 1 d after RAI and withdrawn after 6 wk.
We assessed ocular changes (1, 3, and 6 months after RAI) and side effects of prednisone.
Two of 35 patients not receiving steroid prophylaxis (6%) developed mild-to-moderate GO (clinical activity score, 2/7 and 3/7) after RAI. No patients in group 1 or group 2 had GO progression. Side effects were very mild and inconstant, although more frequent in group 2. Both groups showed an increase in bw, an increase that was significantly higher in group 2.
Lower doses of oral prednisone (about 0.2 mg/kg bw) are as effective as previously reported doses (0.3-0.5 mg/kg bw). A shorter treatment period (6 wk) is probably sufficient. The increase in bw is less using lower doses of prednisone.
The authors report on 2 personal cases, and review 48 published cases of myasthenia induced by D-penicillamine (D-P) treatment in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The clinical symptoms were not different from those of myasthenia gravis, and no correlation could be found between the total cumulative dose of D-P and the onset on the myasthenic syndrome. In 71% of the patients the neurological deficiency regressed after D-P was withdrawn, but in some cases anticholinesterase treatment had to be continued and thymectomy was contemplated. The most remarkable biological abnormalities were anti-striational antibodies (found in 58% of the cases) and anti-acetylcholine receptors antibodies (found in 4 out of 7 patients tested). These findings are in favour of a genuine myasthenia and against a myasthenic syndrome due to neuro-muscular blockade. While the mechanisms underlying the emergence of these antibodies remains unknown, their presence throws new light on immunological disorders in rheumatoid arthritis.
We have previously demonstrated that morphine withdrawal induced hyperactivity of the heart by activation of noradrenergic pathways innervating the left and right ventricle, as evaluated by noradrenaline turnover and c-Fos expression. The extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) has been implicated in drug addiction, but its role in activation of the heart during morphine dependence remains poorly understood. Here, we have looked for activation of ERK during morphine withdrawal and if this activation induced gene expression.
Dependence on morphine was induced by s.c. implantation of morphine pellets for 7 days. Morphine withdrawal was precipitated on day 8 by injection of naloxone (2 mg kg(-1), s.c.). ERK1/2, their phosphorylated forms and c-Fos were measured by western blotting and immunohistochemistry of cardiac tissue.
Naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal activated ERK1/2 and increased c-Fos expression in cardiac tissues. c-Fos expression was blocked by SL327, a drug that prevents ERK activation.
These results indicate that signalling through the ERKs is necessary for morphine withdrawal-induced hyperactivity of the heart and suggest that this pathway may also be involved in activation of immediate-early genes in both cytosolic and nuclear effector mechanisms that have the potential to bring about long-term changes in the heart.
Organophosphates (OP) are irreversibly bound to cholinesterase, causing deactivation of acetylcholinesterase. As a result of inhibition of plasma cholinesterase, increased sensitivity to drugs hydrolyzed by this enzyme can occur, e.g. succinylcholine and mivacurium. A case of more prolonged succinylcholine-induced paralysis in a child with undiagnosed acute OP insecticide poisoning is presented. A 7-h period of apnea and paralysis after administration of succinylcholine was attributed to the decreased rate of succinylcholine metabolism resulting from inhibition of pseudocholinesterase by the insecticide. In seven previously reported cases of prolonged succinycholine apnea after OP poisoning, exposure to insecticide was in chronic or subacute form without any obvious symptoms, and the duration of apnea did not extend up to 4 h, whereas in our case with acute, severe poisoning, succinylcholine led to more prolonged muscle paralysis. In the anesthetic management of patients with acute OP poisoning, succinylcholine should be avoided.
The role of melatonin in the mediation of apoptotic events has recently gained attention, especially after recent studies have reported that melatonin exerts antiapoptotic actions in normal cells but may activate proapoptotic pathways in some tumor cells. Here, we have evaluated the effect of melatonin on apoptosis in the human leukemia cell line HL-60. Melatonin treatment (1 mm) induced a significant increase in caspase-3 and -9 activities. The effect of melatonin on the activation of caspases was time dependent, reaching a maximum after 12 hr of stimulation, and then decreasing to a minimum after 72 hr. Treatment with melatonin also evoked mitochondrial membrane depolarization and permeability transition pore induction, which caused loss of mitochondrial staining by calcein, and increased cell death by apoptosis/necrosis as demonstrated by propidium iodide positive-staining of cells after 72 hr of stimulation. In addition, the exposure of cells to melatonin resulted in an activation and association of the proapoptotic proteins Bax and Bid, as well as promoting detectable increases in the expression of both proteins. We conclude that melatonin has proapoptotic and/or oncostatic effects in the human myeloid cell line HL-60.
Tamoxifen was administered in the diet (420 p.p.m.) to female F344 (Fischer), Wistar (LAC-P) and LEW (Lewis) rats to determine for each strain the early morphological and biochemical changes associated with the subsequent development of liver cancer. Hepatic DNA damage, as determined by 32P-postlabelling, showed a cumulative increase with time from 500 adducts/10(8) nucleotides at 30 days to almost 3000 adducts/10(8) nucleotides after 180 days, with little difference between strains at this time point. A significant strain difference was found in the number of adducts present in the Fischer rats at 90 days, compared to the Wistar and Lewis strains. There was a marked strain differences in the time to development of liver tumours. After 6 months treatment, both Wistar and Lewis rats had tumours while none were seen in the Fischer animals. After 11 months, all of the Wistar and Lewis rats had developed liver carcinoma, while the Fischer rats developed liver carcinoma by 20 months. Depression in cell proliferation, relative to age-matched controls, was seen in the livers of Fischer rats after six months of exposure to tamoxifen, in contrast to an increase in the Wistar and Lewis rats. This observation is consistent with the promotion of foci to tumours and the subsequent progression of tumours to carcinomas in the latter two strains. These data may assist in establishing the possible risk factors, such as extent of DNA damage and increased liver cell proliferation, to women with long-term prophylactic exposure to tamoxifen.
We searched for additional anti-platelet effects of clopidogrel in coronary artery disease (CAD) patients treated with aspirin. Response to clopidogrel was also stratified according to aspirin resistance. Out of 76 screened aspirin-treated CAD male patients, five were aspirin-resistant based on arachidonic acid (AA) and ADP aggregometry. These five patients and 15 aspirin-sensitive patients entered the proper study. Platelet function was assessed at baseline and after one week of additional clopidogrel treatment using aggregometry, flow cytometry (ADP, TRAP-6) and platelet reactivity index (PRI) based on VASP (vasodilatorstimulated phosphoprotein) expression. We evaluated the same markers in 15 healthy men after aspirin treatment. In healthy subjects aspirin did not affect resting or ADP-induced activated GPIIb/IIIa and P-selectin expression. The P-selectin expression on ADP-activated platelets was increased (p < 0.01) in aspirin treated ASA-resistant CAD patients as compared to ASA-sensitive group or aspirin-treated healthy subjects. Clopidogrel significantly decreased ADP and AA-induced platelet aggregation and overcame aspirin resistance in four of five patients. Expression of ADP-induced activation markers was significantly lowered after clopidogrel in all patients. Out of 20 patients, five did not respond to clopidogrel (<10% inhibition of ADP aggregation), and this group showed no change in expression of ADP-induced activation markers after clopidogrel. Clopidogrel treatment significantly reduced PRI only in the clopidogrel-sensitive group. In conclusion, the addition of clopidogrel to aspirin provides greater inhibition of platelets and can overcome aspirin resistance. Flow cytometric analysis of platelets is useful for monitoring of clopidogrel therapy.
This case report describes a pregnant woman with acute renal failure, caused by aggravation of HELLP syndrome, who developed coma induced by overdose of continuous magnesium sulfate administration for eclampsia. Before examination of serum concentration of magnesium, coma was suspected to be the result of brain vascular problem or brain infarction. Patient was treated in ICU and hemodialysis was started, and she recovered fully from abnormal neurological symptoms. This case illustrate that hypermagnesemia should be considered in the pregnant woman with coma at ER and ICU. Furthermore, the accurate information about the continuous administration of magnesium by previous clinician helped us to make correct diagnosis and to treat the patient successfully.
This study investigates the apoptotic activity of the cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor celecoxib in prostate carcinoma cells. COX-2 is constitutively expressed in androgen-responsive LNCaP and androgen-nonresponsive PC-3 cells. Exposure of these cells to celecoxib induces characteristic features of apoptosis, including morphological changes, DNA laddering, and caspase-3 activation, whereas piroxicam, a COX-1-specific inhibitor, displays no appreciable effect on either cancer cell line even after prolonged exposure. Moreover, the potency of celecoxib in apoptosis induction is significantly higher than that of other COX-2 inhibitors examined despite the observation that these inhibitors exhibit similar IC(50) in COX-2 inhibition. It is noteworthy that normal human prostate epithelial cells, expressing a marginally detectable level of COX-2, are insensitive to the induction of apoptosis by celecoxib. These data suggest a correlation between COX-2 expression and sensitivity to the apoptotic effect of the COX-2 inhibitor. In an effort to delineate the underlying mechanism, we examined the effect of celecoxib on the expression of Bcl-2 as well as the activation of the key anti-apoptotic kinase Akt. In contrast to an earlier report that attributed the apoptotic activity of NS398 in LNCaP cells to Bcl-2 down-regulation, we provide evidence that the induction of apoptosis by celecoxib in LNCaP and PC-3 cells is independent of Bcl-2. First, treatment with celecoxib does not alter the cellular Bcl-2 level in both cell lines. Second, enforced Bcl-2 expression in PC-3 cells does not confer protection against the induction of apoptosis by celecoxib. Our data show that celecoxib treatment blocks the phosphorylation of Akt. This correlation is supported by studies showing that overexpression of constitutively active Akt protects PC-3 cells from celecoxib-induced apoptosis. Nevertheless, how celecoxib down-regulates Akt is not clear because the drug does not adversely affect phosphoinositide 3-kinase activity in vivo and okadaic acid, a protein phosphatase 2A inhibitor, cannot rescue the inhibition. In summary, our data demonstrate that inhibition of Akt activation may play a crucial role in the induction of apoptosis by celecoxib.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the ferric-reducing ability of serum (FRAS), paraoxonase 1 (PON1), ceruloplasmin serum oxidase activity and hsCRP level in patients with type1 diabetes mellitus without and with diabetic retinopathy. The study was performed in 76 patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus, 35 without diabetic retinopathy (group 1) and 41 with preproliferative and proliferative retinopathy (group 2). Control group consisted of 35 nondiabetic, age-, gender-, body mass-matched healthy volunteers who came to the outpatient clinic for a routine health check-up. We evaluated FRAS using the method described by Benzie and Strain; PON1 by kinetic spectrophotometric assay with paraoxon as substrate and ceruloplasmin using its oxidative activity with 3-phenylenodiamine as substrate. CRP was measured with a high sensitive enzyme immunoassay. PON1 activity was significantly decreased in patients with diabetic retinopathy (227.66 +/- 123.57 U/l) when compared with control (312.04 +/- 129.77 U/l). FRAS was significantly decreased in group 2 (439.33 +/- 79.87 micromol/l) when compared with group 1 (522.79 +/- 167.56 micromol/l) and control (529.80 +/- 81.99 micromol/l). Ceruloplasmin activity was significantly elevated in group 1 (58.36 +/- 22.56 U/g protein) when compared with control (45.22 +/- 14.96 U/g protein). We have found significant increase in hsCRP level in group 2 (3.71 +/- 2.47 mg/l) when compared with group 1 (1.75 +/- 1.01 mg/l) and control (0.57 +/- 0.46 mg/l). The PON1/CRP ratio in control group was significantly increased when compared with diabetic patients and was significantly decreased in group 2 compared with group 1. We have not found gender-dependent difference in studied parameters in both control and in study groups. We have found tendency to decrease the serum activity of FRAS and hsCRP in elder patients but the difference was significant only in group 2. FRAS and PON 1 activity is decreased in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus with presence of diabetic retinopathy which confirms that oxidative stress could play a role in pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy. Significantly elevated levels of hsCRP in diabetic patients with the presence of diabetic retinopathy compared with patients without diabetic retinopathy providing a link between inflammation and the development of microvascular complication of diabetes. Because of the significant difference in PON1/CRP ratio between patients without and with the presence of diabetic retinopathy, it seems that PON1:CRP ratio may be used as a biochemical marker for progression of retinopathy. The link between the antioxidant concentration, inflammation and the development of diabetes complications needs further longitudinal studies in order to confirm our findings.
Pulse treatment of U-937 promonocytic cells with cadmium chloride (2 h at 200 microM) provoked apoptosis and induced a rapid phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38(MAPK)) as well as a late phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (ERK1/2). However, although the p38(MAPK)-specific inhibitor SB203580 attenuated apoptosis, the process was not affected by the ERK-specific inhibitor PD98059. The attenuation of the cadmium-provoked apoptosis by SB203580 was a highly specific effect. In fact, the kinase inhibitor did not prevent the generation of apoptosis by heat shock and camptothecin, nor the generation of necrosis by cadmium treatment of glutathione-depleted cells, nor the cadmium-provoked activation of the stress response. The generation of apoptosis was preceded by intracellular H(2)O(2) accumulation and was accompanied by the disruption of mitochondrial transmembrane potential, both of which were inhibited by SB203580. On the other hand, the antioxidant agent butylated hydroxyanisole-inhibited apoptosis but did not prevent p38(MAPK) phosphorylation. In a similar manner, p38(MAPK) phosphorylation was not affected by the caspase inhibitors Z-VAD and DEVD-CHO, which nevertheless prevented apoptosis. These results indicate that p38(MAPK) activation is an early and specific regulatory event for the cadmium-provoked apoptosis in promonocytic cells.
Early loss of CB1 receptors is a hallmark of human Huntington's disease. Data from rodent studies suggest that preservation and activation of CB1 receptors may be protective against disease progression. R6/1 transgenic mice are considered to be a model of early pathogenic changes in Huntington's disease. We have shown previously that levels of CB1 in R6/1 mice prior to the onset of motor symptoms (12 weeks of age) remain high enough to justify commencement of cannabinoid drug treatment. Eight weeks of daily treatment with the cannabinoid agonists HU210 (0.01 mg/kg) and Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC, 10.00 mg/kg), or the inhibitor of endocannabinoid metabolism URB597 (0.30 mg/kg), did not alter the progressive deterioration of performance observed in motor behavioural testing. HU210-treated R6/1 mice experienced a significant increase in seizure events suggesting that this therapy may lower the seizure threshold and cautioning against highly efficacious agonists as potential therapy in this disease. Molecular characterisation of brains at the end of the study showed that there were no significant effects of HU210 or THC treatment on the ligand binding of cannabinoid CB1, dopamine D1, D2, serotonin 5HT2A or GABA(A) receptors, nor CB1 or fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) mRNA expression in R6/1 mice. Intriguingly, a significant increase in the number of ubiquitinated aggregates was observed in the striatum with HU210 treatment, indicating an influence of CB1 on the disease process. Chronic URB597 treatment preserved CB1 receptors in the R6/1 striatum, suggesting that the manipulation of endocannabinoid levels warrants further exploration.
DNAs from 1,3-butadiene-induced mammary adenocarcinomas of B6C3F1 mice were examined for mutations in the Trp53 gene, the ras gene family and several components of the Wnt signaling pathway, including beta-catenin (Catnb), Apc and Axin. Trp53 mutations were detected in 41% (7 out of 17) of tumors. Each tumor with a Trp53 mutation also exhibited loss of the wild-type Trp53 allele, supporting the importance of Trp53 inactivation during development of these tumors. Analyses of the Hras1, Kras2 and Nras proto-oncogenes revealed Hras1 mutations in 53% (9 out of 17) of tumors. Seven of these mutations were a G-->C transversion in Hras1 codon 13, consistent with a 1,3-butadiene-specific Kras2 mutation previously reported in several other tumor types. Mutation screens in Catnb exon 2, the Apc mutation cluster region and the Catnb-binding domain of the Axin gene identified Catnb missense mutations in 3 out of 17 (18%) tumors. In total, mutations of the Trp53, Hras1 and/or Catnb genes were identified in 15 out of 17 1,3-butadiene-induced mammary adenocarcinomas. These results indicate that multiple genetic pathways are disrupted in chemically induced mammary tumors, and that studies in mouse models may help to understand the etiology of human breast cancers.
To investigate, using functional MRI (fMRI), the neural network that is activated by the pain component of capsaicin-induced secondary mechanical hyperalgesia.
Mechanical hyperalgesia (i.e., pain to innocuous tactile stimuli) is a distressing symptom of neuropathic pain syndromes. Animal experiments suggest that alterations in central pain processing occur that render tactile stimuli capable of activating central pain-signaling neurons. A similar central sensitization can be produced experimentally with capsaicin.
In nine healthy individuals the cerebral activation pattern resulting from cutaneous nonpainful mechanical stimulation at the dominant forearm was imaged using fMRI. Capsaicin was injected adjacent to the stimulation site to induce secondary mechanical hyperalgesia. The identical mechanical stimulation was then perceived as painful without changing the stimulus intensity and location. Both activation patterns were compared to isolate the specific pain-related component of mechanical hyperalgesia from the tactile component.
The pattern during nonpainful mechanical stimulation included contralateral primary sensory cortex (SI) and bilateral secondary sensory cortex (SII) activity. During hyperalgesia, significantly higher activation was found in the contralateral prefrontal cortex: the middle (Brodmann areas [BAs] 6, 8, and 9) and inferior frontal gyrus (BAs 44 and 45). No change was present within SI, SII, and the anterior cingulate cortex.
Prefrontal activation is interpreted as a consequence of attention, cognitive evaluation, and planning of motor behavior in response to pain. The lack of activation of the anterior cingulate contrasts with physiologic pain after C-nociceptor stimulation. It might indicate differences in the processing of hyperalgesia and C-nociceptor pain or it might be due to habituation of affective sensations during hyperalgesia compared with acute capsaicin pain.
Compared with surgery alone, preoperative radiotherapy and 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy (combined-modality therapy; CMT) improves outcomes in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer. Although numerous studies have focused on identifying molecular markers of prognosis in the primary rectal cancer before CMT, our aim was to identify markers of prognosis in residual rectal cancer after preoperative CMT.
Sixty-seven patients with locally advanced (T3-4 and/or N1) rectal cancer were treated with preoperative radiotherapy (median, 5040 cGy) with or without 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy. Residual tumor in the resected specimen, available for 52 patients, was analyzed for tumor-node-metastasis stage, lymphovascular and/or perineural invasion, and immunohistochemical expression of p27, p21, p53, Ki-67, retinoblastoma gene, cyclin D1, and bcl-2. Recurrence-free survival (RFS) was determined by the Kaplan-Meier method and compared by the log-rank test.
With a median follow-up of 69 months, the overall 5-year RFS was 74%. RFS was significantly worse for patients with positive p27 expression (P = .005), T3-4 tumors (P = .02), and positive lymph nodes (P = .04) in the irradiated specimen. On multivariate analysis, positive p27 expression remained an independent negative prognostic factor for RFS (P = .04). None of the other proteins was significantly associated with RFS.
Our results indicate that positive p27 expression in rectal cancer after preoperative chemoradiation is an independent negative predictor of RFS. Expression of p27 in the residual rectal cancer may therefore identify patients with disease likely to be refractory to standard therapy and for whom investigational approaches should be strongly considered.
