The effect of caffeine by oral administration on female Wistar rats was studied for 12 months. High concentrations (2000 micrograms/mL) of caffeine caused a decrease in body weight and an increase in the weight of the pituitary gland in these rats. Increased pituitary weight was caused by the growth of a pituitary adenoma or hyperplasia. Pituitary adenomas and instances of hyperplasia were found in 27 of the 40 rats in the caffeine group, compared to 9 of the 30 rats in the control group. The histologic classification used was microadenoma, papillary (or sinusoidal) macroadenoma, and diffuse macroadenomas. These adenomas appeared to be endocrinologically nonfunctioning.
Risperidone is a novel and atypical agent with a dual antagonistic effect on 5-HT and D receptors. Open-label reports and one controlled study suggest that risperidone addition is effective in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder refractory to treatment with serotonin reuptake inhibitors. However, risperidone has also been implicated in the production or exacerbation of obsessive-compulsive symptoms. We report six cases (schizophrenia, five cases; psychotic depression, one case) in which risperidone was effective in the treatment of the psychotic symptoms but produced obsessive-compulsive symptoms (four cases) or caused exacerbation of previous obsessive-compulsive symptoms (two cases). In all but one case, obsessive-compulsive symptoms emerged shortly after initiation of risperidone treatment with a dose above 3 mg/day. The mechanisms and risk factors for risperidone and other atypical antipsychotics to induce or exacerbate obsessive-compulsive symptoms are as yet not clear. Risperidone-induced obsessive-compulsive symptoms appear to be dose-dependent and are probably produced by serotoninergic-dopaminergic imbalance. Close monitoring of the patients receiving risperidone, especially those vulnerable to the development of obsessive-compulsive symptoms, may be of value. Gradual escalation and low final dose may be helpful.(2) (2)
The effects of lansoprazole given intravenously on gastric mucosal lesions, gastric bleeding and acid secretion were investigated in rats in comparison with those of omeprazole, famotidine and ranitidine. Lansoprazole inhibited the formation of gastric mucosal lesions in rats induced by water-immersion stress or aspirin with ID50 values of 0.26 and 0.99 mg/kg, respectively, and also inhibited gastric bleeding induced by hemorrhagic shock or water-immersion stress with ID50 values of 0.46 and 1.22 mg/kg, respectively. Lansoprazole was more potent than omeprazole, famotidine and ranitidine in inhibiting gastric mucosal lesions and hemorrhagic shock- or stress-induced bleeding. Famotidine and ranitidine showed negligible inhibition of water-immersion stress-induced gastric bleeding. Lansoprazole strongly inhibited water-immersion stress-stimulated acid secretion in rats, whereas famotidine and ranitidine did not show a potent inhibitory effect. These results indicate that lansoprazole exerts prominent inhibitory actions against the formation of gastric mucosal lesions and gastric bleeding by inhibiting acid secretion, and they show that it is superior to histamine H2-receptor antagonists in inhibiting stress-induced gastric bleeding.
There are few data from systematic, double-blind clinical trials that have compared the effect of the typical and the atypical antipsychotics on serum prolactin (PRL) levels in patients with schizophrenia.
The goal of this study was to compare the effect of risperidone and haloperidol on serum PRL and investigate the relationship between serum PRL levels and clinical response in patients with schizophrenia.
Seventy-eight inpatients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia (according to DSM-III-R) were randomly assigned to 12 weeks of treatment with 6 mg/day of risperidone or 20 mg/day of haloperidol after a 2-week washout period, using a randomized, double-blind design. Clinical efficacy was determined using the positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS). Their serum PRL was assayed by means of radioimmunometric assay (RIA) between pre-treatment and post-treatment, and compared with 30 sex-matched and age-matched normal subjects.
Both risperidone and haloperidol treatment significantly increased serum PRL levels in drug-free chronic schizophrenia patients (both P<0.001). Hyperprolactinemia induced by risperidone 6 mg/kg was comparable to levels produced by haloperidol 20 mg/day. Considering dose-adjusted serum PRL levels, risperidone treatment induced a significant elevation of PRL levels compared with haloperidol treatment at the haloperidol equivalent (P<0.001). Change in PRL levels at pre-treatment and post-treatment were related to positive symptom improvement seen in the risperidone group (r=0.51, P=0.016), but not in the haloperidol group (P>0.05). Female patients showed both a higher baseline and post-treatment PRL level and a greater increase in PRL than men (all P<0.05).
Risperidone is associated with a robust effect on prolactin secretion in contrast to the conventional antipsychotic haloperidol. Prolactin monitoring during risperidone treatment should be performed.
A case of a patient resident from Tuva who had cerebral cysticercosis is presented. The diagnosis was established on the basis of the available clinical symptoms, brain RCT and NMRI findings and a positive serological reaction (enzyme immunoassay) with C. cellulosus antigen. The patient received 2 courses of treatment with the Russian drug azinox (praziquantel) in a daily dose of 50 mg/kg body weight thrice before meal. Prednisolone was additionally given in a daily dose of 30 mg. The course of treatment was 14 days. The first treatment days were marked by worse headache. Thereafter treatment induced no complications. Better condition, less headache, lower serological reaction titers, regressed cerebral structural changes were observed after the treatment. RCT and NMRI revealed transformation of cysts to high-density foci and calcificates.
Rectal sheath hematoma has been a well-known clinical entity from the ruin of the ancient Greece. It is relatively rare, however, to encounter this abdominal disorder in the clinical setting. Furthermore, the initial symptoms of rectus sheath hematoma are often similar to those of acute abdominal disorders. Therefore, the majority of the patients with rectus sheath hematoma have been treated with operative procedures because of the difficulty of a differential diagnosis from other abdominal disorders. We recently treated a 74-year female diagnosed with rectus sheath hematoma with the anticoagulants after an episode of cerebral infarction. From the findings of the physical examinations, ultrasound, and computed tomography, we could correctly diagnose, and could treat her with completely conservative methods without any invasive techniques. It is stressed that it is important to recognize this entity of rectus sheath hematoma when patients are examined, after complaining of acute abdominal pain and with evidence abdominal masses in the clinical setting.
A 37-year-old male transported by an ambulance with severe pulsating headache after transient was scintillating scotoma and right hemianopia. He had experienced migraine attacks 2-10 times every year since he was 22 years old. His initial vital signs were stable, the neurological findings while he rested in bed were normal and the head CT examination showed no abnormality. MR angiography revealed narrowing of his cerebral arteries, especially noticeable on the left side. The headache improved after administration of eletriptan hydrobromide. The diffusion weighted image on the next day showed high intensity areas in the left cerebellar hemisphere, vermis, left insular and occipital lobe. The MRA indicated enlargement of the diameter of the cerebral arteries. These findings suggested the usefulness of MRA and diffusion weighted image to evaluate migraine.
Although the main therapeutic effect of angiotensin AT1 receptor antagonists is to decrease blood pressure, they also exert anti-inflammatory effects in the cardiovascular system. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We investigated the inhibitory effect of AT1 antagonists on the chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) and its receptor C-C chemokine receptor 2 (CCR2) in rat monocytes and aortas.
Spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHRs) were treated with the AT1 antagonists losartan or telmisartan for 4 weeks, and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKYs) were used as normotensive controls. Systolic arterial pressure was measured, and the number of macrophages in the aortic vessel wall was assessed by anti-ED-1 antibody immunolabelling.
Compared with WKYs, SHRs showed significantly increased ED-1 positive macrophages in the aortic wall, which were decreased after high doses of losartan or telmisartan. Low doses of losartan did not improve blood pressure significantly as did the high doses, but markedly decreased macrophage infiltration in the vessel wall. AT1 antagonists, particularly at high doses, improved aortic remodeling in SHR. At the molecular level, AT1 antagonists attenuated the expression of MCP-1 and CCR2 in the aorta and peripheral blood monocytes and lowered the serum level of MCP-1. In addition, Western blotting showed that AT1 antagonists inhibited the phosphorylation of Akt in mouse monocytes.
AT1 antagonism inhibited vessel wall inflammation and inhibition of PI3K/Akt may be involved in the modulation of the MCP-1/CCR2 system by AT1 antagonists in SHRs.
Retinoids are natural and synthetic compounds related to retinoic acid that act through interaction with two basic types of nuclear receptors: retinoic acid receptors (RARalpha, RARbeta and RARgamma) and retinoid X receptors (RXRalpha, RXRbeta and RXRgamma) as ligand-activated, DNA-binding, transacting, transcription-modulating proteins involved in a general molecular mechanism responsible for transcriptional responses in target genes. Function of retinoids in organisms affecting broad spectrum of various biochemical and molecular biology reactions is unimaginable without fully functional nuclear receptors--retinoid inducible transcription factors. Retinoic acids exert tumour-suppressive activity due to their antiproliferative and apoptosis-inducing effects. A number of novel retinoids and rexinoids acting through cognate nuclear receptors have been tested both in vitro and in vivo, using cell culture or animal models for breast cancer. This article briefly summarizes the role and properties of nuclear retinoid/rexinoid receptors as well as selected effects of retinoic acids or selected synthetic retinoids and rexinoids with respect to their potential use in chemoprevention of breast cancer.
A case of sensorimotor polyneuropathy during disulfiram administration is described. This complication partially resolved after the medication was stopped. Pathological observations revealed axonal changes and neurofilament accumulation was found in a few myelinated and unmyelinated axons.
We report the clinical, echocardiographic and therapeutic aspect of one case of right cardiac migrant thromboembolus in pulmonary embolism. Medical therapy consisted of tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA, 100 mg/3h). Progressive reduction of thromboembolus until its disappearance was observed by echo 2D after this therapy. Ec 2D may be an important test in diagnosing pulmonary embolism when perfusion lung scans (extremely sensitive but non specific test) or pulmonary angiography (the most accurate test) are not available at hospital and patient cannot be transferred for his critical illness.
The effects of lansoprazole given intravenously on indomethacin-induced gastric bleeding and mucosal lesions were investigated in rats in comparison with those of omeprazole, famotidine and ranitidine. Lansoprazole inhibited gastric bleeding induced by indomethacin with an ID50 value of 0.29 mg/kg. Omeprazole and famotidine significantly inhibited gastric bleeding, but ranitidine provided negligible inhibition. A correlation was found between the inhibitory action of lansoprazole on gastric bleeding, and acid secretion, and its inhibitory action on gastric bleeding was almost completely abolished by adding 50 mM-HCl to the gastric perfusate, suggesting that lansoprazole's inhibitory action on gastric bleeding was mainly due to its antisecretory action. Lansoprazole inhibited the development of gastric lesions induced by indomethacin with an ID50 value of 0.10 mg/kg, whereas histamine H2-receptor antagonists did not display a potent inhibitory effect. ID50 values for omeprazole, famotidine and ranitidine were 0.69, 2.58 and 24.6 mg/kg, respectively. These results indicate that lansoprazole has a potent inhibitory action on indomethacin-induced gastric bleeding and mucosal lesions and that it is useful in the treatment of acute gastric mucosal lesions.
The capacity of Leishmania donovani-infected BALB/c mice to respond to conventional chemotherapy with pentavalent antimony (Sb) is T cell dependent and, in nude mice, can be restored in part by treatment with the T cell lymphokines, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) or interleukin-2 (IL-2). To document the presumed role of endogenous IFN-gamma and IL-2 in responsiveness to antileishmanial chemotherapy in the T cell-intact host, L. donovani-infected euthymic BALB/c mice were treated with anti-IFN-gamma or anti-IL-2 monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) before and after Sb administration. Treatment with MAbs exacerbated visceral infection but did not inhibit the in vivo efficacy of Sb. Thus, while combination therapy of Sb plus IFN-gamma or IL-2 may prove beneficial in T cell-deficient hosts with visceral leishmaniasis, T cell activities other than or in addition to IFN-gamma or IL-2 production may mediate in vivo responsiveness to antileishmanial chemotherapy in the euthymic host.
In this report, abnormal changes of 1266 ECG were assessed during antipsyhotic drugs medication. It was founded that cardiac dysrhythmia (sinus tachycardia) in the first place, T wave changes and depression of S-T segment in the next. The rate of abnormal ECG with chlorpromazine seemed to be higher than other drugs. Factors of dosage and time of treatment were non-significant.
To evaluate the potential anticonvulsant effects of Adenocard in theophylline-induced seizures, we developed a rodent model of theophylline neurotoxicity with resultant convulsions. We used this model to investigate the actions of intracerebroventricular (ICV) Adenocard on seizure onset.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats.
Surgical cannulation of the jugular veins of the rats was followed by stereotaxic placement of a catheter in the right lateral ventricle. The rats then received 15 micrograms (5 microL) ICV Adenocard or an equivalent. Ten seconds later, continuous infusion of IV aminophylline was begun at a rate of 75 mg/minute until the appearance of generalized convulsions with maximal hindlimb extension.
Compared with vehicle-injected controls, rats that received ICV Adenocard had a significant delay in mean time to seizure (162.1 seconds versus 107.4 seconds; P < .001). There was a corresponding increase in the weight-adjusted convulsant dose of aminophylline after the ICV administration of Adenocard (311.4 mg/kg versus 470.4 mg/kg; P < .003).
Our data indicate that ICV Adenocard ameliorates theophylline-induced seizures. Potential anticonvulsant benefits of Adenocard and other adenosinergic compounds for victims of severe theophylline poisoning should be investigated further.
Atherosclerosis is a major macrovascular complication of diabetes that increases the risks for myocardial infarction, stroke, and other vascular diseases. The effect of a selective 5-lipoxygenase enzyme inhibitor; caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) on diabetes-induced atherosclerotic manifestations was investigated. Insulin deficiency or resistance was induced by STZ or fructose respectively. Atherosclerosis developed when rats were left for 8 or 12 weeks subsequent STZ or fructose administration respectively. CAPE (30 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) was given in the last 6 weeks. Afterwards, blood pressure (BP) was recorded. Then, isolated aorta reactivity to KCl and phenylephrine (PE) was studied. Blood glucose level, serum levels of insulin, tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) as well as advanced glycation end products (AGEs) were determined. Moreover aortic haem oxygenase-1 (HO-1) protein expression and collagen deposition were also assessed. Insulin deficiency and resistance were accompanied with elevated BP, exaggerated response to KCl and PE, elevated serum TNF-α and AGEs levels. Both models showed marked increase in collagen deposition. However, CAPE alleviated systolic and diastolic BP elevations and the exaggerated vascular contractility to both PE and KCl in both models without affecting AGEs level. CAPE inhibited TNF-α serum level elevation, induced aortic HO-1 expression and reduced collagen deposition. CAPE prevented development of hyperinsulinemia in insulin resistance model without any impact on the developed hyperglycemia in insulin deficiency model. In conclusion, CAPE offsets the atherosclerotic changes associated with diabetes via amelioration of the significant functional and structural derangements in the vessels in addition to its antihyperinsulinemic effect in insulin resistant model.
Cocaine abuse and the consequent prevalence of the damage associated with it have increased in the global population. The damage depends on the route of administration, where an important sequel of snorting is perforation of the nasal septum and palate. Necrosis of the palate, meanwhile, is also the manifestation of other diseases such as tertiary syphilis, necrotizing sialometaplasia and malignant neoplasms. The differential diagnosis of such lesions is important for determining appropriate treatment. A case of an ulcerated lesion in the palate of a cocaine-using patient whose diagnosis was necrotizing sialometaplasia is reported.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the mammalian brain. We found that among the three NMDARs examined (NMDAR1, NMDAR2A, NMDAR2B), only NMDAR2A was silenced in colorectal carcinoma (CRC) cell lines at basal line and reactivated by the demethylating agent, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. NMDAR2A was expressed in normal colon epithelium, while expression was hardly detectable in colon cancer tissues. Promoter methylation of NMDAR2A was confirmed by bisulfite sequencing and combined bisulfite restriction analysis in the CRC cell lines and primary tumors. Quantitative methylation-specific PCR demonstrated NMDAR2A promoter hypermethylation in 82 of 100 primary human CRC, 15 of 100 normal corresponding epithelial tissues and 1 of 11 (9%) normal colon mucosa samples obtained from patients without cancer. Moreover, forced expression of full-length NMDAR2A in CRC cell lines induced apoptosis and almost abolished the ability of the cells to form colonies in culture, while NMDAR2A knockdown increased cell growth. Thus, NMDAR2A is commonly hypermethylated in primary human CRC and possesses tumor-suppressive activity.
It is often taught that acetaminophen-induced liver dysfunction occurs only after a latent period of 24 to 48 hours. This study was designed to evaluate the temporal profile of transaminase levels in patients with acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity.
Prospective data collection using standard poison control center data sheets.
Hospitalized patients with acetaminophen exposure who were reported to the Long Island Poison Control Center between January 1993 and June 1994. Patients who presented within 24 hours of ingestion and in whom increased aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels developed during hospitalization were included in the data analysis. Patients who presented more than 24 hours after ingestion, who had ingested another potentially hepatotoxic agent, or who had ingested acetaminophen over a period of more than 2 hours were excluded.
Of 1,825 patients with reported acetaminophen exposure, 779 had potentially toxic ingestions and were examined in an emergency department. Of 291 patients with toxic acetaminophen levels who were admitted, 36 (12%) had increased levels of AST at some point during hospitalization. All received oral N-acetylcysteine within 2.5 hours of presentation. In 11 of 19 patients who met all inclusion criteria (58%), AST levels were noted to be increased in the 24 hours after ingestion. The median peak AST level was 422 IU/L (range, 74 to 8,538 IU/L). AST levels peaked within 48 hours in 4 patients (21%) and within 72 hours in 18 patients (95%). Six of eight patients with peak AST levels greater than 1,000 IU/L had increased transaminase levels during the 24 hours after acetaminophen ingestion.
Acetaminophen poisoning may cause the serum transaminase level to increase during the 24 hours after ingestion.
Sedation is the principal side effect of first generation H1 antihistamines, and recent studies have suggested that this side effect should limit the clinical application of these drugs. The sedative effect also underlies the use of these first-generation drugs as nonprescriptive remedies for insomnia. In both cases, the potential for tolerance to the sedative effect of these drugs is an important issue for which there are few objective data. In the study reported here, 15 healthy men age 18 to 50 years received either diphenhydramine 50 mg or placebo twice a day for 4 days in a randomized, double-blind, crossover trial design. Dependent measures included objective and subjective assessments of sleepiness and computer-based tests of psychomotor performance. Both objective and subjective measures of sleepiness showed significantly higher levels on day 1 for diphenhydramine compared to placebo. By day 4, however, levels of sleepiness on diphenhydramine were indistinguishable from placebo. Similarly, diphenhydramine produced significant impairment of performance that was completely reversed by day 4. These data provide the first objective confirmation that tolerance develops to the sedative effect of a prototypical first-generation H1 antihistamine, diphenhydramine. On this dosing regimen, tolerance was complete by the end of 3 days of administration. While other antihistamines and dosing regimens may differ, these results suggest that tolerance to the sedation produced by these drugs develops with remarkable rapidity.
Pentoxifylline is a synthetic derivative of xantine which stimulates adenosine receptors, inhibit phosphodiesterase and increases cyclic monophosphate adenosine. It is also considered a dopaminergic D1 receptor agonist. Worsening of patients with Parkinson's disease when taking this product has been reported. On the other hand, it is considered that adenosine A2A receptors antagonists have antiparkinsonian properties. Four cases of patients with a mean age of 77 years who developed a rigid akinetic syndrome following therapy with a mean dose of 1100 mg/day of pentoxifylline over a mean period of 32 days are presented. Two of these patients presented clinical characteristics of drug-induced parkinsonism and the other two showed Parkinson's disease. The possibility of pentoxifylline causing an imbalance between D1 and D2 receptor stimulation and producing pharmacologic parkinsonism, or rather, the possibility of pentoxifylline unmasking subclinical Parkinson's disease are discussed.
The Hedgehog pathway is activated in various types of malignancies. We previously reported that inhibition of SMO or GLI prevents osteosarcoma growth in vitro and in vivo. Recently, it has been reported that arsenic trioxide (ATO) inhibits cancer growth by blocking GLI transcription. In this study, we analyzed the function of ATO in the pathogenesis of osteosarcoma. Real-time PCR showed that ATO decreased the expression of Hedgehog target genes, including PTCH1, GLI1, and GLI2, in human osteosarcoma cell lines. WST-1 assay and colony formation assay revealed that ATO prevented osteosarcoma growth. These findings show that ATO prevents GLI transcription and osteosarcoma growth in vitro. Flow cytometric analysis showed that ATO promoted apoptotic cell death. Comet assay showed that ATO treatment increased accumulation of DNA damage. Western blot analysis showed that ATO treatment increased the expression of γH2AX, cleaved PARP, and cleaved caspase-3. In addition, ATO treatment decreased the expression of Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL. These findings suggest that ATO treatment promoted apoptotic cell death caused by accumulation of DNA damage. In contrast, Sonic Hedgehog treatment decreased the expression of γH2AX induced by cisplatin treatment. ATO re-induced the accumulation of DNA damage attenuated by Sonic Hedgehog treatment. These findings suggest that ATO inhibits the activation of Hedgehog signaling and promotes apoptotic cell death in osteosarcoma cells by accumulation of DNA damage. Finally, examination of mouse xenograft models showed that ATO administration prevented the growth of osteosarcoma in nude mice. Because ATO is an FDA-approved drug for treatment of leukemia, our findings suggest that ATO is a new therapeutic option for treatment of patients with osteosarcoma.
To evaluate whether frovatriptan would provide greater relief if given early during a migraine attack.
Adults with a history of migraine of at least 1 year, and who had 2-8 headaches in the previous month were recruited from 19 US centres for a prospective, placebo-controlled crossover study over 2 migraine attacks. Dose 1 was taken at the onset of mild migraine headache, Dose 2 was taken at least 2 h later if the headache progressed to moderate/severe. Patients were randomized to receive Dose 1 frovatriptan then Dose 2 placebo or Dose 1 placebo followed by Dose 2 frovatriptan. Treatment order was reversed for the second attack. This schedule enabled a comparison of frovatriptan with placebo and a comparison of early and later treatment with frovatriptan.
Freedom from pain at 2 h for frovatriptan versus placebo as Dose 1; use of Dose 2 and/or rescue medication, pain severity, functional impairment and headache recurrence.
In 241 patients who each treated 2 migraine attacks, Dose 1 frovatriptan was more effective than placebo in terms of the proportion of patients who were pain free at 2 h (28% vs 20%, p = 0.04). This benefit was sustained up to 4 h post-dose (p = 0.003). Early use of frovatriptan significantly reduced re-medication (p < 0.001). Twenty-four-hour headache recurrence was low in both early (4%) and later use (6%) groups. Sustained pain-free response occurred in 40% of frovatriptan early use patients compared with 31% of later use patients (p < 0.05). Early use prevented headache progression: 69%-78% had mild/no headache 2-4 h after Dose 1 frovatriptan compared with 54%-63% taking Dose 1 placebo (p < 0.001). Early use reduced pain burden and functional disability (p < or = 0.001). More patients rated early use of frovatriptan as excellent or good (57% vs 46%).
Early use of frovatriptan resulted in a higher, earlier and sustained pain-free response, prevented progression to moderate/severe headache and reduced pain burden and functional disability.
To compare the tolerability of quetiapine with risperidone in older outpatients.
Post hoc analysis of a subset of older patients (aged 60-80; n = 92) from a randomized, 4-month, multicenter, open-label trial comparing quetiapine and risperidone in an outpatient setting. Participants had various neuropsychiatric disorders associated with psychosis as defined by criteria from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th edn).
The main outcome measure was an extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) checklist, used to assess motor symptoms, including parkinsonism, at baseline and after treatment. The Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) and the Clinical Global Impression scale were used to assess therapeutic efficacy.
Substantial EPS (defined as EPS requiring a dosage adjustment or use of medication to reduce EPS) occurred less often with quetiapine (median dosage, 200 mg/day) than with risperidone (median dosage, 3 mg/day); odds ratio, 0.31 (P < 0.03). Quetiapine was also less likely than risperidone to cause akathisia or hypertonia. Both compounds produced comparable reductions in PANSS scores.
Interpretation of findings in this report is limited by the open-label design of the study and the post hoc nature of this analysis. However, the results suggest that quetiapine, when given within the recommended dosage range, has a benign EPS profile, with potentially greater tolerability and comparable efficacy to risperidone in older outpatients with psychotic disorders.
Aromatic hydrocarbons readily penetrate the skin on dermal exposure, leading to irritation, inflammation and cytotoxicity. The effects of short-term occlusive and long-term unocclusive dermal exposure to benzene and xylene on the skin irritation response (transepidermal water loss (TEWL), skin moisture content and erythema) and cytokine/chemokine expression (interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1)) were investigated in hairless rats. Occlusive dermal exposure was carried out with 230 microL of the chemicals for 1 h using Hill top chambers. In unocclusive dermal exposure, 15 microL of the chemicals were applied to the skin every 2 h, for 8 h a day, for 4 days. The occlusive dermal exposure revealed a clear difference in the TEWL and erythema response of these chemicals (xylene>benzene) whereas unocclusive exposure revealed similar TEWL and erythema scores for both benzene and xylene. The expression of IL-1alpha was elevated 2.5- and 3.8-fold in response to occlusive and unocclusive exposure, respectively, vs control (P<0.01) for both the chemicals (benzene and xylene). Similarly, TNF-alpha levels were elevated about 2.4- and 6.0-fold as a result of occlusive and unocclusive exposure, respectively, vs control (P<0.01). These results show that unocclusive exposure induced significantly higher TNF-alpha expression than occlusive exposure (P<0.05). The MCP-1 expression in blood was slightly elevated compared with the control group, but this increase was not statistically significant (P>0.05). Similarly, MCP levels in skin were increased approximately 1.7- and 1.8-fold by occlusive and unocclusive exposure, respectively, compared with the control group (P<0.05). Our study demonstrates that the skin irritation profiles of benzene and xylene are similar and unocclusive long-term exposure to small amounts of these chemicals can induce more skin irritation and cytokine response than occlusive exposure.
