It is suggested that the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is involved in tumor development and fibrogenesis. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of RAS inhibition on the liver enzyme-altered preneoplastic lesions and fibrosis development.
The effects of the clinically used angiotensin-I converting enzyme inhibitor (ACE-I), perindopril (PE), on two different rat model of liver carcinogenesis models induced separately by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and a choline-deficient L-amino acid-defined (CDAA) diet were studied. This CDAA model was also used to elucidate the effect of PE on liver fibrosis development.
The immunohistochemical evaluation revealed that the glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P), and gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT)-positive preneoplastic foci significantly decreased in the livers of the PE-treated groups. In CDAA-induced liver fibrosis model, PE revealed a marked inhibitory effect of liver fibrosis development. The hepatic hydroxyproline, serum fibrosis markers, alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) immunopositive cells in number, and alpha-(III) pro-collagen mRNA expression were significantly suppressed by PE treatment. These inhibitory effects of PE were achieved even at a clinically comparable dose (2 mg/kg per day).
These results suggested that the RAS is involved in liver carcinogenesis and fibrosis development.
We investigated the activities of telavancin and vancomycin against biofilm-producing Staphylococcus and Enterococcus strains. At clinically attainable concentrations, telavancin was active against bacteria embedded in biofilm (minimal biofilm eradication concentration [MBEC], 0.125 to 2 microg/ml) and inhibited biofilm formation at concentrations below the MIC. Vancomycin did not demonstrate the same activity (MBEC, > or =512 microg/ml) against Staphylococcus aureus and Enterococcus faecalis. Telavancin may have a unique role in biofilm-associated infections.
This study evaluated the systemic toxicity, arrhythmogenicity, and mode of death of convulsant and supraconvulsant doses of lidocaine, bupivacaine, and ropivacaine. Experiments in awake dogs were designed to mimic the clinical situation of an accidental intravenous (IV) injection of local anesthetics. On the first experimental day, lidocaine (8 mg.kg-1.min-1), bupivacaine (2 mg.kg-1.min-1), and ropivacaine (2 mg.kg-1.min-1) were infused intravenously until seizures occurred (n = 6 for each group). The average dose and arterial plasma concentration at seizure onset was 20.8 +/- 4.0 mg/kg and 47.2 +/- 5.4 micrograms/mL for lidocaine, 4.31 +/- 0.36 mg/kg and 18.0 +/- 2.7 micrograms/mL for bupivacaine, and 4.88 +/- 0.47 mg/kg and 11.4 +/- 0.9 micrograms/mL for ropivacaine. The margin of safety between the convulsive and lethal doses was determined by administering two times the convulsive dose 24 h later. Two dogs given lidocaine died because of progressive hypotension, respiratory arrest, and finally cardiovascular collapse with an average peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of 469 micrograms/mL. No ventricular arrhythmias were observed in this group. Ventricular arrhythmias occurred in five of six dogs receiving bupivacaine. Four animals died because of hypotension, respiratory arrest, and cardiovascular collapse. One additional animal died because of ventricular fibrillation. The Cmax for bupivacaine was 70.1 +/- 14.6 micrograms/mL in nonsurvivors. In the ropivacaine group one animal died because of hypotension, respiratory arrest, and cardiovascular collapse (Cmax = 72.4 micrograms/mL). A surviving dog had transient premature ventricular contractions. Twenty-four hours later three times the convulsive dose was administered to the survivors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acetylcholine released on parasympathetic stimulation slows heart rate through activation of muscarinic receptors on the sinus nodal cells and subsequent opening of the atrial muscarinic potassium channel (K(ACh)). K(ACh) is directly activated by G protein betagamma-subunits. To elucidate the physiological role of Gbetagamma for the regulation of heart rate and electrophysiological function in vivo, we created transgenic mice with a reduced amount of membrane-bound Gbeta protein by overexpressing nonprenylated Ggamma(2)-subunits in their hearts using the alpha-myosin heavy chain promoter. At baseline and after muscarinic stimulation with carbachol, heart rate and heart rate variability were determined with electrocardiogram telemetry in conscious mice and in vivo intracardiac electrophysiological studies in anesthetized mice. Reduction of the amount of functional Gbetagamma protein by >50% caused a pronounced blunting of the carbachol-induced bradycardia as well as the increases in time- and frequency-domain indexes of heart rate variability and baroreflex sensitivity that were observed in wild types. In addition, sinus node recovery time and inducibility of atrial arrhythmias were reduced in transgenic mice. Our data demonstrate in vivo that Gbetagamma plays a crucial role for parasympathetic heart rate control, sinus node automaticity, and atrial arrhythmia vulnerability.
Prospective phytoestrogen exposure was assessed using both biomarkers and estimates of intake in 89 British men recruited into the Norfolk arm of the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition study, men who subsequently developed prostate cancer. Results were compared with those from 178 healthy men matched by age and date of recruitment. Levels of seven phytoestrogens (daidzein, genistein, glycitein, O-desmethylangolensin, equol, enterodiol, and enterolactone) were measured in spot urine and serum samples. Five single-nucleotide polymorphisms in COMT, CYP19, ESR1, and SHBG genes were genotyped. Urinary levels of all phytoestrogens correlated strongly with serum levels. Correlation coefficients ranged from 0.63 (glycitein) to 0.88 (daidzein) (P < 0.001). Urinary and serum levels correlated significantly with isoflavone intake assessed from food diaries (R = 0.15-0.20; P < 0.05) but not with that from a food-frequency questionnaire. Odds ratios for phytoestrogen exposure, as assessed using the four methods, were not significantly associated with prostate cancer risk (P = 0.15-0.94). Men with the CC genotype for the ESRI PvuII polymorphism had significantly higher risk for prostate cancer compared with men with the TT genotype [adjusted odds ratio = 4.65 (1.60-13.49); P = 0.005]. Our results utilizing a combined prospective exposure provide no evidence that phytoestrogens alter prostate cancer risk in British men, whereas the C allele for the PvuII polymorphism may be associated with increased risk.
Inhibitory effects of naturally occurring antioxidants on the initiation stage of hepatocarcinogenesis were studied. Group 1 rats were given a diet containing beta-carotene (beta-CT, 0.02%), alpha-tocopherol (alpha-TP, 1.5%), glutathione (GLT, 5%), vanillin (VNL, 1%), quercetin (QCT, 1%) or ellagic acid (ELA, 1%), or 3 doses of diallyl sulfide (DAS, 200 mg/kg, i.g.) over an 8-day period. On day 7, the animals received a single dose of 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f] quinoline (IQ, 100 mg/kg, i.g.), 12 h after two-thirds partial hepatectomy for initiation and 2 weeks thereafter, were placed on promotion regimen comprising phenobarbital (0.05% in diet) and a single dose of D-galactosamine (100 mg/kg, i.p.). Groups 2 and 3 were treated as described for Group 1, but without test material or IQ, respectively. Survivors were killed at week 11 and antioxidant influence was assessed by comparing values for preneoplastic glutathione S-transferase placental form-positive (GST-P+) foci between Groups 1 and 2. All lesions larger than 70 microns in diameter consisting of approximately 5 cells in cross section were counted. Numbers of GST-P+ foci/cm2 in Group 1 were: beta-CT, 7.99; alpha-TP, 8.21; GLT, 9.71; DAS, 10.37; VNL, 10.57; QCT, 11.1; ELA, 12.5 (n = 11-15). All, except ELA, showed a significant decrease as compared with the Group 2 value of 14.54 (n = 15). Only beta-CT showed a significant decrease for the area value. This is the first report to show that beta-CT, alpha-TP, GLT, DAS, VNL, QCT exert inhibitory effects on initiation of hepatocarcinogenesis by the food carcinogen IQ, suggesting that these antioxidants might find application as chemopreventive agents. Furthermore, the current protocol proved practical for the assessment of chemopreventive agents within 11 weeks, a relatively short period.
Breast cancer incidence is lower and survival is longer in Asian women residing in Japan, China, or the Philippines than Caucasian women residing in the United States. Phytoestrogen intake has been examined as a possible reason for the disparity in breast cancer incidence and survival. This study examined the association between phytoestrogen intake prior to diagnosis of breast cancer and indicators of breast cancer prognosis (tumor size, estrogen and progesterone receptor status, histological grade, lymphovascular invasion, nodal spread, and stage) in 128 women, aged 40-79 yr, newly diagnosed with invasive breast cancer. After controlling for significant confounding factors, higher intakes of phytoestrogens were associated with favorable indicators of breast cancer. In women with higher intakes of phytoestrogens, there was a 32% reduction in the odds of being diagnosed with any stage of cancer other than stage 1 (95% confidence interval, CI = 0.49-0.93; P = 0.02), a 38% reduction in odds of being diagnosed with positive lymphovascular invasion (95% CI = 0.40-0.95; P = 0.03), and a 66% increase in the odds of being diagnosed with a positive progesterone receptor (95% CI = 1.06-2.58; P = 0.03). We conclude that phytoestrogen intake prior to diagnosis may improve prognosis of breast cancer.
We report a case of spontaneous iliopsoas haemorrhage following intravenous streptokinase which serves to remind physicians of the potential dangers of this form of therapy.
Invasive mold infections continue to account for significant morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients; outcomes are dependent on both underlying host factors and appropriate therapy. The antifungal armamentarium has gradually increased during the past, with liposomal amphotericin B (L-AMB) being an important representative. Still, the question of what dose to use - a maximum tolerated or a minimum effective - has yet to be answered. On this basis, a randomized trial comparing a high-loading dose regimen with a standard dosing of L-AMB (AmBiLoad trial) for primary therapy of mold infections was initiated. No significant differences in response between the treatment groups were detected, although recipients of the 10-mg/kg daily dose experienced higher rates of nephrotoxicity and hypokalemia. Uncontrolled malignancy and allogeneic stem cell transplantation were significantly associated with poor survival. This article analyzes the study, discusses the rationale and the results and concludes that this study supports the routine application of L-AMB.
A 30 year old bodybuilder who had been taking anabolic steroids for 18 months presented with bleeding oesophageal varices. Serious liver disease secondary to anabolic steroids including peliosis hepatis, nodular hyperplasia and malignant change is well recognized. We report what is, to our knowledge, the first case of bleeding oesophageal varices associated with the use of anabolic steroids.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) has numerous regulatory roles in peripheral, endocrine organs and in the central nervous system. The present study related to the effects of centrally (intracerebroventricularly) administered VIP on pain sensitivity and on opiate tolerance and dependence in intact male CFLP mice. VIP was analgesic when administered alone centrally. Naloxone treatment abolished this analgesic effect. VIP decreased the analgesic effect of a single subcutaneous morphine injection and the development of chronic tolerance to morphine. Morphine withdrawal signs were not significantly affected after VIP pretreatment. These findings indicate that VIP may play a role in pain sensitivity and that an opiate component may participate in this effect.
Insomnia is a frequent adverse effect reported by women taking tamoxifen, an estradiol receptor-antagonist, for breast cancer.
The authors report on six patients treated with quetiapine, an atypical antipsychotic, for tamoxifen-related insomnia without depression.
Quetiapine was started at 25 mg/day 1 hour before bedtime; dose adjustments upward were made in 25-mg increments, titrated to a maximum dose of 100 mg according to therapeutic response and tolerance.
Five of the six women showed a prompt improvement of their insomnia; this effect was maintained after 6 weeks of treatment.
Quetiapine might improve sleep alterations because of its high affinity for serotonergic receptors, enhancing central serotonergic neurotransmission, thus possibly decreasing excitatory glutamatergic transmission.
The bioactivation of both endogenous and equine estrogens to electrophilic quinoid metabolites has been postulated as a contributing factor in carcinogenic initiation and/or promotion in hormone sensitive tissues. Bearing structural resemblance to estrogens, extensive studies have shown that many selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) are subject to similar bioactivation pathways. Lasofoxifene (LAS), a third generation SERM which has completed phase III clinical trials for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis, is currently approved in the European Union for this indication. Previously, Prakash et al. (Drug Metab. Dispos. (2008) 36, 1218-1226) reported that similar to estradiol, two catechol regioisomers of LAS are formed as primary oxidative metabolites, accounting for roughly half of the total LAS metabolism. However, the potential for further oxidation of these catechols to electrophilic o-quinones has not been reported. In the present study, LAS was synthesized and its oxidative metabolism investigated in vitro under various conditions. Incubation of LAS with tyrosinase, human liver microsomes, or rat liver microsomes in the presence of GSH as a trapping reagent resulted in the formation of two mono-GSH and two di-GSH catechol conjugates which were characterized by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Similar conjugates were also detected in incubations with P450 3A4, P450 2D6, and P450 1B1 supersomes. Interestingly, these conjugates were also detected as major metabolites when compared to competing detoxification pathways such as glucuronidation and methylation. The 7-hydroxylasofoxifene (7-OHLAS) catechol regioisomer was also synthesized and oxidized either chemically or enzymatically to an o-quinone that was shown to form depurinating adducts with DNA. Collectively, these data show that analogous to estrogens, LAS is oxidized to catechols and o-quinones which could potentially contribute to in vivo toxicity for this SERM.
Urinary incontinence is a common problem in elderly women. However, urinary incontinence secondary to the commonly used antihypertensive, prazosin, is a rare phenomenon. The possible mechanism of this drug in causing incontinence is described in this case report. The possibility of an exaggerated response to the drug by women suffering from borderline stress incontinence is highlighted.
Tamoxifen is a first-generation selective estrogen-receptor modulator that has been shown to decrease recurrence and prolong survival among premenopausal women with breast cancer; however, it also results in estrogen-insufficiency symptoms, the most common being hot flushes.
The authors present a case in which tamoxifen apparently produced acute depression symptoms in a 34-year-old breast cancer patient.
After two aborted periods of tamoxifen treatment, the patient was started on venlafaxine as a preventive measure before tamoxifen treatment was begun again.
After 2 months of treatment with venlafaxine, tamoxifen was initiated for a third time, with no recurrence of her previous mood symptoms.
Treatment of depression may result in better compliance with tamoxifen regimens and, thus, more favorable outcomes.
To study the frequency and severity of acute orthostatic hypotension (OH) in patients with Parkinson's disease who are starting dopamine agonist therapy.
In the context of an outpatient clinical practice, 29 consecutive patients with Parkinson's disease who were starting dopamine agonist therapy were brought into the clinic for their first dose of agonist. After a baseline supine and standing blood pressure assessment, patients were given a test dose of either pergolide mesylate (0.025, 0.05, 0. 125, or 0.25 mg), pramipexole dihydrochloride (0.125 mg), or ropinirole hydrochloride (0.125 or 0.25 mg). At 3 selected times, blood pressure readings were repeated in the supine and standing positions.
Orthostatic hypotension was defined as a drop in either systolic blood pressure of more than 25 mm Hg or diastolic pressure of more than 10 mm Hg. Patients with OH before the administration of the dopamine agonist were excluded.
Ten subjects (34%) met the criteria for acute OH. There was no evidence that OH was related to the use of a specific dopamine agonist or the concurrent use of levodopa. Of the patients who met the criteria for OH, only 3 (30%) had symptoms of OH, such as lightheadedness or general malaise.
Acute OH occurs frequently when starting dopamine agonist therapy in Parkinson's disease, but is frequently not appreciated by patients. Knowledge of acute blood pressure responses may be useful when making decisions regarding agonist titration schedules in clinical practice. Arch Neurol. 2000;57:1461-1463
Active hexose correlated compound (AHCC) is a newly developed functional food. In vitro experiments have shown that AHCC enhances natural killer cell activity, and may be considered a potent biological response modifier in the treatment of cancer patients. However, the effects of AHCC in a clinical setting have not been reported. We seek to determine whether AHCC can improve the prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients following surgical treatment.
A prospective cohort study was performed from February 1, 1992 to December 31, 2001. A total of 269 consecutive patients with histologically confirmed HCC were studied. All of the patients underwent resection of a liver tumor. Time to treatment failure (disease recurrence or death) and ten parameters related to liver function after surgery were examined.
Of the 269 patients, 113 received AHCC orally after undergoing curative surgery (AHCC group). The AHCC group had a significantly longer no recurrence period (hazard ratio (HR), 0.639; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.429-0.952; P=0.0277) and an increased overall survival rate (HR, 0.421; 95% CI, 0.253-0.701; P=0.0009) when compared to the control group by Cox's multivariate analysis.
This study suggests that AHCC intake can improve the prognosis of postoperative HCC patients.
TSLC1 and DAL-1 are tumor suppressor genes involved in cell adhesion. In this study, we examined the expression and methylation pattern of these genes in breast cancer cell lines and primary breast carcinomas. TSLC1 expression was lost in 5 of 8 (63%) and DAL-1 expression was lost in 6 of 8 (75%) breast cancer cell lines, respectively. Downregulation of TSLC1 expression was observed in 43 of 50 (86%) and of DAL-1 expression in 26 of 55 (47%) primary breast carcinomas. TSLC1 methylation was found in 4 of 8 (50%) and DAL-1 methylation was observed in 6 of 8 (75%) breast cancer cell lines, respectively. Of 95 primary breast carcinomas 46 (48%) were TSLC1 methylated and 26 (27%) were DAL-1 methylated. Twenty of 43 (47%) and 10 of 26 (38%) primary breast cancer samples which showed downregulation of TSLC1 and DAL-1 expression were unmethylated for these genes. Re-expression of TSLC1 and DAL-1 was observed after treatment of BT-20 cells with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine and TSA. Samples from patients with grade 3 tumors were more frequently TSLC1 and TSLC1 and/or DAL-1 methylated than samples from patients with grade 1 and 2 tumors (P = 0.032, P = 0.023). Moreover, TSLC1 methylation correlated with loss of both ER and PgR staining (P = 0.011, P = 0.02). Our findings suggest that TSLC1 and DAL-1 are involved in the pathogenesis of breast cancer and are frequently inactivated by methylation.
Doxorubicin is one of the most active drugs in oncology, with cardiotoxicity as a serious side effect of its application. The aim of this study was to investigate dexrazoxane and amifostine impact on the evolution of myocardial changes induced by doxorubicin. BalbC female mice were treated with doxorubicin only (10 mg/kg, single intravenous push), or with dexrazoxane (200 mg/kg, intraperitoneal [ip]) or amifostine (200 mg/kg, ip) 60 mins or 30 mins prior to treatment with doxorubicin, respectively. Blood sampling for determination of conventional serum-marker activity was performed 48 hrs later. The grade of histopathology changes was evaluated by light microscopy 1.5 and 3 months after treatments using the Billingham scoring method. Control groups consisted of nontreated mice. After doxorubicin-only treatment, the grade of heart tissue damage was found to increase in the period between 1.5 and 3 months. A similar but less intense progression was also detected in amifostine-pretreated animals, with significant difference among median Billingham scores between the two time points. The pretreatment with dexrazoxane suspended expansion of tissue lesions in time. Changes in serum enzyme activity revealed two correlations: the greater reduction in alpha-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (alpha-HBDH) leakage is associated with a lower percentage of damaged tissue, and the creatine kinase to alpha-HBDH percent of difference ratio being greater than one is correlated with limited spreading of pathological lesions. Our results indicate that the development of doxorubicin-induced heart failure is based on a slow and persistent expansion of pathological process even long after the completion of the treatment. Dexrazoxane has proved to be successful and superior over amifostine against such an evolution of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is one of the major problems in drug development and clinical drug therapy. In general, it is believed that women exhibit worse outcomes from DILI than men. It is known that halothane (HAL), an inhaled anesthetic, rarely induces severe liver injury. The risk factors for severe HAL-induced liver injury (HILI) are female sex, genetics and adult age. To investigate the underlying mechanism by which women are more susceptible to HILI, we focused on two major female sex hormones, estradiol (E2) and progesterone (Prog). In this study, we first found that pretreatment of mice with E2 attenuated HILI, whereas pretreatment with Prog exacerbated HILI. E2 and Prog had no effects on the degree of metabolic activation, the ratio of GSH/GSSG or oxidative stress in the liver. We observed higher numbers of neutrophils infiltrated into the liver and increased hepatic mRNA levels of proinflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) α, interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-6 and chemokines, CXCL1 and CXCL2 by pretreatment with Prog, whereas E2 pretreatment resulted in the opposite effects. These results suggest that E2 and Prog play a critical role in HILI via immune-related responses and female sex hormone balance might represent a risk factor for HILI.
Skin allergies caused by the wearing of stockings and hose have received little attention. Findings in patients of an allergy department, enquiries at stocking counters of stores and recent publications indicate, however, that probably many more persons have an allergy to stocking dyes than is generally thought. Skin tests with isolated stocking dyes indicate that azo dye dispersion yellow 3, dispersion orange 3 and dispersion red 1 are the most important contact allergens. They were demonstrated in 18-21 of the 23 hose examined. In textile materials, azo dye dispersion blue 124 is predominant among allergens. Cross-reactions may occur to other dispersion azo dyes, used in cosmetics, textiles, toiletries and hygenic articles, permitted food additives and hair dyes. It is suggested that in persons who have dye allergy or intolerance, decolouration followed by colouring with natural colours be undertaken.
Thirteen pediatric patients with Crohn's disease, aged 12-22 yr, were studied to assess the prevalence of peripheral neuropathy due to oral metronidazole. After 4-11 mo of therapy, 11 of 13 patients (85%) had a sensory peripheral neuropathy, determined by abnormal neurologic examinations or reduced nerve conduction velocities, or both. Only 6 of the 11 patients were symptomatic. Nine of 11 patients with peripheral neuropathy had their metronidazole discontinued and 2 had the dose reduced to less than 10 mg/kg X day. Follow-up evaluations of the 9 patients whose metronidazole had been discontinued 5.5-13 mo earlier demonstrated complete resolution of the peripheral neuropathy in 5, improvement in 3, and no change in 1. In the 2 patients whose metronidazole dose was reduced, 1 showed worsening and 1 showed complete resolution of the neuropathy after 10-12 mo of continued therapy.
This study evaluated systemic and ocular acute safety and intraocular pressure (IOP)-lowering efficacy of travoprost 0.004% and bimatoprost 0.03%, compared to brimonidine 0.2% and betaxolol 0.25% in healthy subjects.
Nineteen (19) young men, ages between 24 and 42, were enrolled in a single-center, institutional randomized, double-masked, crossover clinical trial. Baseline IOP, heart rate, blood pressure, and respiratory rate were recorded at hour 0. At minute 30, heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate, and spirometry were measured. At hour 1, color Doppler imaging of retrobulbar vessels was performed. At hour 2, heart rate, blood pressure, and respiratory rate were measured; spirometry and a 15-minute treadmill test were performed. The same protocol was applied after one drop of a study medication was instilled into each eye on four subsequent visits at 5-day intervals.
Travoprost and bimatoprost did not cause significant reductions in systolic blood pressure during exercise and recovery. The mean respiratory rate and forced expiratory volume in 1 second were not significantly altered by any study medication. Travoprost reduced the resistive index and increased blood velocities in the ophthalmic artery and its branches. Bimatoprost caused a significant increase in end diastolic velocity of the ophthalmic artery. At hour 6, all medications reduced IOP significantly (p < 0.05). The most frequent ocular side effect of travoprost and bimatoprost was conjunctival hyperemia.
Travoprost and bimatoprost were found to be systemically safe and caused an increase in blood-flow velocities of the retrobulbar vessels after a single-dose application. Their ocular hypotensive effect was comparable to that of brimonidine and greater than that of betaxolol in healthy subjects.
In the context of a long term follow-up study, we analysed the possible implication of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism at the serotonin transporter gene in clinical response and remission of major depressive patients treated with citalopram. The sample consisted of 131 patients, all of Spanish origin, diagnosed according to DSM-IV criteria. A 21-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) was used to evaluate severity of the symptoms during the follow-up and to determine clinical response and remission condition of the patients at 4th and 12th week, respectively. Our results showed that S/S genotype of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism was associated with the non-Remission condition at 12th week (chi2 = 8.7, P = 0.013). Moreover, homozygous for the allele S presented three times more risk for non reaching remission of depressive episode after citalopram treatment than patients with any other 5-HTTLPR genotype combination (chi2: 7.29, P = 0.006; OR = 3.23 [95%CI: 1.24-8.5]). In conclusion, our results show that genetic variation of serotonin transporter is involved in clinical remission of major depressive episodes after twelve weeks of citalopram treatment.
The occurrence of interstitial nephritis in patients receiving antimicrobial therapy has frequently been reported in adults while it has rarely been described in children. We report the case of a patient treated with amoxicillin who presented hallucinations and serosanguineous blisters during treatment and developed renal failure a few days after discontinuation of the drug. On renal biopsy an interstitial nephritis with tubulitis was identified.
Some anti-allergic agents act as histamine H1 antagonists and induce seizure discharges in epileptic patients. Of these agents, ketotifen has an especially potent effect. We have experienced 2 cases of 4-month-old boys who developed infantile spasms 8 to 10 days after ketotifen administration. They showed almost the same clinical course with regard to their age, the interval between ketotifen administration and the onset of seizures, their symptoms and EEG abnormalities. These cases suggest that the administration of ketotifen to young infants may be hazardous with regard to inducing infantile spasms.
If the nitric oxide (NO) diffusing capacity of the airways (DNO) is the quantity of NO diffusing per unit time into exhaled gas (q) divided by the difference between the concentration of NO in the airway wall (Cw) and lumen, then DNO and C(w) can be estimated from the relationship between exhaled NO concentration and expiratory flow. In 10 normal subjects and 25 asthmatic patients before and after treatment with inhaled beclomethasone, DNO averaged 6.8 +/- 1.2, 25.5 +/- 3.8, and 22.3 +/- 2.7 nl/s/ppb x 10(-3), respectively; C(w) averaged 149 +/- 31.9, 255.3 +/- 46.4, and 108.3 +/- 14.3 ppb, respectively; and DNOC(w) (the maximal from diffusion) averaged 1,020 +/- 157.5, 6,512 +/- 866, and 2,416 +/- 208.5 nl/s x 10(-3), respectively. DNO and DNOC(w) in the asthmatic subjects before and after steroids were greater than in normal subjects (p < 0.0001), but C(w) was not different. Within asthmatic subjects, steroids caused C(w) and DNOC(w) to fall (p < 0.0001), but DNO was unchanged. DNOC(w) after steroids, presumably reflecting maximal diffusion of constitutive NO, was positively correlated with methacholine PC(20) and FEV(1)/FVC before or after steroids. The increased DNO measured in asthmatic patients may reflect upregulation of nonadrenergic, noncholinergic, NO-producing nerves in airways in compensation for decreased sensitivity of airway smooth muscle to the relaxant effects of endogenous NO.
