We assessed force coordination of the hand in Parkinson's disease and its relationship to motor complications of levodopa therapy, particularly to levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). We studied two groups of Parkinson's disease patients with (Parkinson's disease + LID, n = 23) and without levodopa-induced dyskinesias (Parkinson's disease - LID, n = 10), and age-matched healthy controls. The motor score of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale, a dyskinesia score and force in a grip-lift paradigm were assessed ON and OFF levodopa. A pathological increase of forces was seen in ON-state in Parkinson's disease + LID only. In Parkinson's disease + LID, the force involved in pressing down the object before lifting was significantly increased by levodopa (by 61%, P < 0.05). An overshooting of peak grip force by 51% (P < 0.05) and of static grip force by 45% (P < 0.01) was observed in the ON- compared with the OFF-drug condition. In contrast, no excessive force was found in Parkinson's disease - LID. Peak grip force in ON-state was 140% (P < 0.05) higher in Parkinson's disease + LID than in Parkinson's disease - LID, while static grip force was increased by 138% (P < 0.01) between groups. Severity of peak-dose dyskinesias was strongly correlated with grip force in ON-state (r = 0.79 with peak force, P < 0.01). No correlation was observed between forces and the motor score as well as with the daily dose of dopaminergic medication. Force excess was only observed in patients with LID and motor fluctuations. A close relationship was seen between the overshooting of forces and dyskinesias in the ON-drug condition. We postulate that both LID and grip force excess share common pathophysiological mechanisms related to motor fluctuations.
As indicated by in vitro studies, both lipogenesis and lipolysis in adipocytes depend on the cellular ATP levels. Ectopic expression of mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) in the white adipose tissue of the aP2-Ucp1 transgenic mice reduced obesity induced by genetic or dietary manipulations. Furthermore, respiratory uncoupling lowered the cellular energy charge in adipocytes, while the synthesis of fatty acids (FA) was inhibited and their oxidation increased. Importantly, the complex metabolic changes triggered by ectopic UCP1 were associated with the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a metabolic master switch, in adipocytes. Effects of several typical treatments that reduce adiposity, such as administration of leptin, beta-adrenoceptor agonists, bezafibrate, dietary n-3 polyunsaturated FA or fasting, can be compared with a phenotype of the aP2-Ucp1 mice. These situations generally lead to the upregulation of mitochondrial UCPs and suppression of the cellular energy charge and FA synthesis in adipocytes. On the other hand, FA oxidation is increased. Moreover, it has been shown that AMPK in adipocytes can be activated by adipocyte-derived hormones leptin and adiponectin, and also by insulin-sensitizes thiazolidinediones. Thus, it is evident that metabolism of adipose tissue itself is important for the control of body fat content and that the cellular energy charge and AMPK are involved in the control of lipid metabolism in adipocytes. The reciprocal link between synthesis and oxidation of FA in adipocytes represents a prospective target for the new treatment strategies aimed at reducing obesity.
Portal fibroblasts are newly identified, potentially fibrogenic liver cells that are distinct from hepatic stellate cells. The ectonucleotidase* nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 2 (NTPDase2) is restricted to portal fibroblasts in the normal liver. However, the fate of NTPDase2 after bile duct ligation (BDL) is unknown.
The aim of this study was to assess the effect of experimental rat and disease-mediated human biliary cirrhosis on NTPDase2 expression in the liver.
Cirrhosis was induced in experimental rats via BDL and carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) administration. Archived human liver biopsy specimens from normal liver, primary biliary cirrhosis, or hepatitis C cirrhosis were examined. Changes in expression of NTPDase2 were determined using confocal immunofluorescence, immunoblot, and real-time polymerase chain reaction.
Confocal immunofluorescence demonstrated a decrease in NTPDase2 expression after BDL. Immunoblot and real-time polymerase chain reaction demonstrated a decrease in NTPDase2 expression by portal fibroblasts after BDL. No decrease in NTPDase2 protein was noted after CCl4 administration, and NTPDase2 messenger ribonucleic acid was markedly up-regulated after CCl4 administration. Confocal immunofluorescence demonstrated a shift of NTPDase2 expression from portal areas to central areas that colocalized with alpha-smooth muscle actin after CCl4 administration. In human biopsy specimens, NTPDase2 expression was lost in cirrhosis owing to primary biliary cirrhosis, whereas NTPDase2 expression was shifted to bridging fibrous bands in cirrhosis owing to hepatitis C.
Loss of NTPDase2 is a common pathway in both rat and human manifestations of biliary cirrhosis. Conversely, in non-biliary cirrhosis, NTPDase2 is shifted from the portal area to bridging fibrous bands. Elucidations of the mechanisms regulating NTPDase2 expression may lead to new therapeutic approaches to fibrotic liver disease.
In India, 320 patients with visceral leishmaniasis (209 in the state of Bihar and 11 in the neighboring state of Uttar Pradesh) received identical pentavalent antimony (Sb) treatment. Sb induced long-term cure in 35% (95% confidence interval [CI], 28%-42%) of those in Bihar versus 86% (95% CI, 79%-93%) of those in Uttar Pradesh. In Bihar, the center of the Indian epidemic, traditional Sb treatment should be abandoned.
Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia is a common problem in infancy and childhood. Past treatment has included digitalis and nonselective beta blockers (propranolol). We describe a new mode of therapy with a cardioselective beta blocker (metoprolol) that may be of use in patients resistant to standard therapy.
To observe the effect of rosiglitazone on serum intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (SICAM-1) level, urinary excretion of ICAM-1, and renal expression of ICAM-1, and investigate its possible renoprotective mechanisms in diabetic rats.
Twenty-four Wistar Rats were divided into 3 groups: non-diabetic control rats (group A, no.=8), streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (group B, no.=8), and diabetic rats treated with rosiglitazone (group C, no.=8). Rats in group C were treated with rosiglitazone (5 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1)) 1 week after the establishment of diabetic model, group A and B were treated with corresponding sodium chloride. Peripheral blood glucose was tested weekly. Glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and SICAM-1 as well as urinary albumin excretion rate (UAER), urinary retinol binding-protein (URBP) excretion rate, and urinary ICAM-1 (UICAM- 1) excretion rate were tested at the 8th week, and the renal tissues of all rats were obtained for evaluating kidney/body weight ratio, observing pathologic change via electron microscope, and for examining the expression of ICAM-1 mRNA by reverse transcriptase-PCR.
At the 8th week, the blood glucose, HbA1c levels, UAER, URBP excretion rate, kidney/body weight ratio and serum, urinary ICAM-1 levels all increased significantly in group B and group C in comparison with group A; however, the above-mentioned parameters in group C (except the blood glucose and HbA1c levels) were much lower than those in group B. In addition, both SICAM-1 and UICAM-1 were highly correlated with the UAER, URBP level, and kidney/body weight ratio in all rats; renal pathological lesions observed by electron microscope in group C were much lighter than those of group B; compared with group A, the expression of ICAM-1 mRNA was markedly up-regulated in group B and group C, and rosiglitazone was able to decrease the expression of ICAM-1 mRNA in the renal tissue.
Rosiglitazone could definitely protect against the renal injury of diabetic rats, which may be partly associated with decreasing the expression of ICAM-1 in the renal tissue, reducing ICAM-1 productions in both serum and urine.
The developing female brain represents a potential target for estrogenic environmental chemicals because it depends on estrogen but is exposed to low endogenous estrogen levels, thus facilitating competition by exogenous estrogen receptor (ER) agonists. We investigated effects of two estrogenic UV filters, 4-methylbenzylidene camphor (4-MBC) and 3-benzylidene camphor (3-BC). 4-MBC has been detected in human milk, indicating potential exposure of fetus and infant. The two chemicals were administered in chow to rats of the parent generation before mating, during pregnancy and lactation, and to their offspring until adulthood. Female sexual behavior was recorded on videotape in adult female offspring on proestrus evening at the beginning of the dark phase. 4-MBC (7 and 24mg/kg bw/day) and 3-BC (2.4 and 7mg/kg bw/day) reduced proceptive behavior (jump and ear wiggling) and receptive behavior (lordosis quotient), and increased rejection behavior towards the male. Estrous cycles were not affected by 4-MBC but disturbed by 3-BC. mRNAs encoding for genes involved in female sexual behavior, ERalpha, ERbeta, progesterone receptor (PR) and steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1), were measured by real-time RT-PCR in ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMH) and medial preoptic area of adult male and female offspring (studied in diestrus) after pre- and postnatal exposure to 3-BC (0.24, 0.7, 2.4 and 7mg/kg bw/day). Gene expression was affected in a sex- and region-specific manner. PR mRNA in female VMH was reduced to male levels at dose levels of 2.4 and 7mg/kg bw/day 3-BC. Our data demonstrate that female sexual behavior represents a sensitive target of endocrine disrupters and point to an involvement of PR in VMH.
An otherwise healthy, sexually inactive woman was determined by in vitro susceptibility testing to have vaginal infection by a strain of Trichomonas vaginalis with high-grade metronidazole resistance. Prolonged high-dose oral and intravaginal metronidazole therapy did not resolve the infection, but caused temporary peripheral neuropathy. Tinidazole was ineffective as well. Serendipitous use of topical intravaginal nonoxynol-9 for contraception appeared to resolve the infection. We reviewed reinfection, noncompliance with therapy, and concomitant use of other drugs that degrade the efficacy of metronidazole as possible causes of falsely "resistant" trichomoniasis. The literature suggests that mebendazole, furazolidone, and anisomycin may be effective for treatment of metronidazole-resistant trichomoniasis. This case and previously published laboratory data suggest that intravaginal nonoxynol-9 deserves further study as a treatment for resistant trichomoniasis, though trichomonal coinfection of the patient's urethra, Skene glands, and sexual partner would not likely be resolved by such therapy.
In a double-blind study of patients suffering from pain after surgery, fenoprofen 200 mg and paracetamol 500 mg was compared with each drug given separately and with a placebo. There was a significant difference between the combination and the placebo, whereas, separately, the drugs were only marginally better than the placebo in relieving pain. There was a significant linear trend indicating a better clinical result as the number of active components in the regimen was increased.
Intravenous amiodarone (Amiodarone i.v.) is widely used to treat cardiac arrhythmias. The most frequent clinical adverse event associated with Amiodarone i.v. administration is systemic hypotension which has been attributed to the cosolvents used in the formulation, polysorbate 80 and benzyl alcohol. To minimize hypotension Amiodarone i.v. is diluted in 5% dextrose in water prior to administration and slowly infused. PM101 is a novel intravenous formulation that uses sulfobutylether-7-beta-cyclodextrin to solubilize amiodarone, and thus should be devoid of the untoward hemodynamic effects associated with polysorbate 80 and benzyl alcohol. Beagle dogs (n=7/group) were anesthetized with morphine and alpha-chloralose and instrumented to assess aortic blood pressure, cardiac output, cardiac contractility, and heart rate. Animals were treated with the U.S. approved human-equivalent loading dose (2.14 mg/kg) of Amiodarone i.v., PM101, and their respective vehicle controls. Administration of Amiodarone i.v. rapidly and significantly decreased mean aortic pressure, cardiac output, and cardiac contractility. A significant increase in heart rate was also observed as was a transient, but not significant, decrease in systemic vascular resistance. A similar pattern of rapid and significant hemodynamic changes was produced by the Amiodarone i.v. Vehicle (polysorbate 80/benzyl alcohol) alone. In marked contrast, PM101 and its vehicle produced no significant hemodynamic effects. This study provides a useful model for the continued search for a safe and effective intravenous amiodarone formulation devoid of the hypotensive risk associated with the current commercial formulation.
Macaques chronically infected with simian immunodeficiency virus were treated with zidovudine (20 mg/kg of body weight per day for 9 weeks) or 3'-fluorothymidine (5 mg/kg of body weight per day for 9 weeks or three doses of 2 mg/kg per day for 24 days). Hematological changes in the treated animals included macrocytic anemia and leukopenia. Determination of antiviral effects in this model requires improved assay methods.
We showed previously that both crocidolite and chrysotile asbestos inhalation induced a persistent macrophage inflammatory response within the pleural space of the rat. We postulated that the stimulus for pleural macrophage recruitment after asbestos exposure was the induction of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) synthesis by pleural mesothelial cells. To test this hypothesis, rat pleural mesothelial cells (RPMC) were cultured with or without chrysotile or crocidolite asbestos fibers (8 micrograms/cm2) in the presence (50 ng/mL) or absence of either tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) or interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta). MCP-1 mRNA expression was assessed by RT-PCR in RPMC cultured for 2 to 24 hours, and MCP-1 protein secretion was measured by ELISA in conditioned medium from 24-hour and 48-hour cultures. Crocidolite and chrysotile fibers induced MCP-1 mRNA expression in RPMC which was maximal after 12 hours in the absence of cytokines, but which peaked after 2 hours when RPMC were challenged with asbestos + TNF-alpha or IL-1 beta. Both types of asbestos also significantly increased MCP-1 protein secretion after 24 and 48 hours (P < .0001), an effect that was potentiated by cytokine stimulation. Rats exposed by inhalation to either chrysotile or crocidolite asbestos fibers also had greater amounts of MCP-1 protein in their pleural lavage fluid than did sham-exposed rats. These findings suggest that MCP-1 secretion by RPMC may have a role in the initiation and/or potentiation of asbestos-induced pleural injury.
To show the effectiveness of emergency extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) in treating severe, life-threatening flecainide intoxication.
Case report.
Intensive care unit in a quaternary care center.
A patient with electromechanical dissociation after severe flecainide acetate overdose.
ECMO.
A 30-yr-old male with a history of depression presented after a severe flecainide overdose with plasma concentrations exceeding 20 times the upper boundary of the therapeutic range. At presentation, the patient was in refractory cardiocirculatory collapse and was successfully resuscitated with ECMO. Twenty-six hours later, extracorporeal support could be discontinued and the patient made a full recovery.
In patients with severe but potentially reversible cardiac dysfunction attributable to flecainide intoxication, ECMO can maintain cardiac output and vital organ perfusion while allowing time for drug redistribution, metabolism, and clearance.
We describe a 62-year-old woman with Psoriasis who presented as Methotrexate-induced pericarditis and pericardial effusion. Aspiration of the pericardium was required and the patient made a satisfactory recovery. At six-months follow-up, she remained well, psoriasis plaques was controlled by topical crude coal tar and topical corticosteroid. These complications are extremely rare, but have been described as isolated phenomena associated with methotrexate therapy.
Thirteen patients with schizophrenia received injections of 25, 50, or 75 mg of long-acting risperidone every 2 wk. Brain D2 receptor occupancy was assessed with [11C]raclopride 2 wk after the last (fifth) injection (day 71) in seven subjects and 2 wk after the third injection (day 44) in one subject. Stable plasma concentrations were reached after the third injection and steady-state concentrations of the active moiety (risperidone + 9-hydroxyrisperidone) after the fourth injection. Steady-state plasma concentrations were maintained for 4-5 wk after the last injection and then declined rapidly. After injections of 25, 50 and 75 mg on day 44 or day 71, D2 receptor occupancy ranged from 25-48%, 59-83% and 62-72% respectively, while plasma active-moiety levels ranged from 4.4-8.8, 15.0-31.1 and 22.5-26.3 ng/ml respectively. The results indicate that brain D2 receptor occupancy at steady state after injections of long-acting risperidone was in the range found in patients effectively treated with 2-6 mg of oral risperidone.
The therapeutic effectiveness of (6R,7R)-7-(2-[3,5-dichloro-4-oxo-1(4H)-pyridyl]-acetamido)-3-([(5-methyl-1,3,4-thiadiazol-2-yl)-thio]methyl)-8-oxo-5-thia-1-azabicyclo[4,2,0]oct-2-ene-2-carboxylic acid (cefazedone, Refosporen), cephazolin, cephacetrile and cephalothin was compared in the test model of estradiol-induced E. coli pyelonephritis in the rat. Cefazedone and cephazolin were similar in effect. The relations between results of treatment and microbiological and pharmacokinetic characteristics of the cephalosporins tested are discussed.
Ductus arteriosus constriction is a known complication of exposure to indomethacin in utero. Nonimmune hydrops associated with indomethacin use has been reported in only six cases, all twins over 32 weeks' gestation.
We present a case of fetal hydrops associated with tricuspid regurgitation and ductal constriction developing within 30 hours of instituting indomethacin tocolysis in a 28-week singleton gestation. Discontinuation of indomethacin resulted in partial resolution of these findings 72 hours later. A normal infant was delivered subsequently.
Ultrasonographic screening for signs of constriction of the ductus arteriosus should be done within 48 hours of instituting indomethacin therapy at any gestational age.
In order to grow, solid tumors need to develop new blood vessels. Neoplastic cells secrete growth factors that stimulate angiogenesis and tumor growth. Since Carrageenan acts as in vitro blocking agent which interferes with growth factor-receptor binding, we tested its action in vivo in order to analyze its growth inhibition capability in an experimental murine fibrosarcoma model. Indomethacin was used as a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent to neutralize the inflammatory action of Carrageenan. A murine fibrosarcoma was induced with methylcholanthrene in Balb/c mice and maintained by serial passage of tumor cells in mice of the same strain. Tumor volume was evaluated measuring two dimensions and applying the formula V = 0.4 x d2 x D. The mice with tumors were separated into groups; one of them was used as control and the other ones were treated with Indomethacin, Carrageenan and Carrageenan-Indomethacin. Tumor volume was compared between groups using the Student t Test. We demonstrated that Carrageenan and Indomethacin inhibit tumor growth. The inhibitory action of Carrageenan is significantly higher than the antitumoral effect of either Indomethacin or Carrageenan-Indomethacin.
Recent evidence suggests that inflammation in rosacea is associated with generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that are released by inflammatory cells. The efficacy of current therapeutic agents for rosacea such as tetracyclines and metronidazole has also been attributed to their antioxidant properties. Recently, a macrolide antibiotic, azithromycin, has been found to be an effective alternative in the treatment of rosacea.
We planned a study to evaluate the antioxidant effects of azithromycin on ROS in rosacea. We compared basal ROS concentrations measured in the facial skin of patients with rosacea with the post-treatment levels and with those of healthy controls.
Facial skin biopsies of 17 papulopustular patients with rosacea and 25 healthy controls were taken. Rosacea patients were assigned to receive oral azithromycin 500 mg on three consecutive days each week for 4 weeks. The total number of inflammatory lesions (the sum of papules and pustules) on the face of each patient with rosacea was counted at each visit. The luminol- and lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence (CL) levels of patients with rosacea were measured before and after 4 weeks of treatment and compared with those of healthy controls.
Rosacea patients had higher ROS levels than healthy controls (P < 0.001). A statistically significant decrease of both luminol- and lucigenin-enhanced CL levels were observed in patients with rosacea after treatment with azithromycin (t = 4.602, P < 0.001; vs. t = 4.634, P < 0.001, respectively).
Rosacea patients have higher ROS levels than healthy controls. The results of our study support the antioxidant properties of azithromycin in rosacea.
The Zip4 protein is involved in dietary zinc uptake from the intestinal lumen. The human ZIP4 gene (SLC39A4) was identified because of its association with acrodermatitis enteropathica (AE), a genetic disorder of zinc absorption. To date, several SLC39A4 mutations have been identified in AE patients. To investigate the effects of these mutations on function of the Zip4 transporter, we introduced six AE-associated missense mutations into the orthologous mouse ZIP4 gene for functional expression in cultured cells. All mutations decreased 65Zn uptake activity of mZip4, thereby providing a causal link to AE. The mutants fell into two groups based on their phenotypic effects. Several alleles (G340D, L382P, G384R, G643R) failed to localize on the cell surface at high levels. These defects were attributable to misfolding and/or mislocalization in the secretory pathway. Two other alleles (P200L and G539R) accumulated to high levels in the plasma membrane and had wild-type apparent Km values for 65Zn uptake. However, these mutations decreased the Vmax of uptake to approximately 30% of wild-type. We showed previously that wild-type mZip4 is regulated post-translationally in response to zinc status. In zinc-replete cells, mZip4 is found largely in intracellular compartments. In zinc-limited cells, surface levels increase markedly because the rate of endocytosis decreases. Surprisingly, endocytosis of both P200L and G539R is no longer zinc responsive; these proteins are endocytosed at a slow rate regardless of zinc status. These effects suggest a zinc sensing mechanism for regulating Zip4 trafficking in response to zinc.
A group of 256 newly diagnosed myeloma patients were enrolled in a phase III study that included 4 monthly cycles of induction chemotherapy and tandem transplant. All patients were randomized to either receive or not receive thalidomide. A total of 221 patients (86%) received no prophylactic anticoagulation (cohort I); 35 patients received low dose coumadin (cohort II). The incidence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) was significantly higher in the thalidomide arm hazard ratio: 4.5; P < 0.0001). As low dose coumadin (1 mg/d) failed to decrease thrombotic complications in 35 patients (cohort II), low molecular weight heparin (LMWH, enoxaparin 40 mg s.c. q.d.) was instituted as DVT prophylaxis in the thalidomide-treated patients (n = 68) of the subsequent cohort (n = 130, cohort III). This intervention eliminated the difference in DVT incidence between the two arms (thalidomide and no thalidomide). Within cohorts I and II, 36 patients, in whom thalidomide was discontinued after experiencing a thrombotic episode during chemotherapy, subsequently resumed the drug on full anticoagulation; with a median follow-up of 22 months, DVT recurred in four patients (11%). After completing induction and tandem transplantation, 55 patients were re-exposed to thalidomide and chemotherapy during consolidation treatment. Thrombotic complications were observed in 4%. Our experience, although not based on a randomized study, suggests that the excess frequency of thrombosis in patients treated with chemotherapy and thalidomide can be safely reduced by the prophylactic use of LMWH. The rate of DVT recurrence observed in our study upon thalidomide resumption was sufficiently low to allow its continuation in patients who may benefit from this therapeutic intervention.
Omega-3 (n-3) fatty acids are essential for proper neuronal function, and they possess prominent analgesic properties, yet their underlying signalling mechanisms are unclear. Here we show that n-3 fatty acids interact directly with TRPV1, an ion channel expressed in nociceptive neurones and brain. These fatty acids activate TRPV1 in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, enhance responses to extracellular protons, and displace binding of the ultrapotent TRPV1 ligand [3H]resiniferatoxin. In contrast to their agonistic properties, n-3 fatty acids competitively inhibit the responses of vanilloid agonists. These actions occur in mammalian cells in the physiological concentration range of 1-10 mum. Significantly, docosahexaenoic acid exhibits the greatest efficacy as an agonist, whereas eicosapentaenoic acid and linolenic acid are markedly more effective inhibitors. Similarly, eicosapentaenoic acid but not docosahexaenoic acid profoundly reduces capsaicin-evoked pain-related behaviour in mice. These effects are independent of alterations in membrane elasticity because the micelle-forming detergent Triton X-100 only minimally affects TRPV1 properties. Thus, n-3 fatty acids differentially regulate TRPV1 and this form of signalling may contribute to their biological effects. Further, these results suggest that dietary supplementation with selective n-3 fatty acids would be most beneficial for the treatment of pain.
Neonatal treatment with estrogens is associated with development of uterine adenocarcinomas in CD-1 mice. Treatment with the synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol (DES) on Days 1 to 5 after birth results in 90% incidence of these hormone-dependent lesions in 18-mo.-old mice. Three cell lines were established from these DES-associated tumors. Each of these cell lines exhibited morphologic and ultrastructural characteristics of transformed epithelial cells, including an increased nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio, enlarged and irregular nuclei with multiple nucleoli and areas of chromatin condensation, positive staining for cytokeratin, desmosomes, and microvilli. After subcutaneous injection into nude mice, all three cell lines formed solid tumors within 4 wk. Although the primary uterine tumors and tumor transplants in nude mice had been shown to be estrogen-dependent and estrogen-receptor positive, neither the monolayer growth nor the tumorigenicity of any of the three cell lines in this study was enhanced by or dependent on estrogen. Estrogen receptor levels were low in early and intermediate passage cells. Allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization analysis of PCR-amplified cell line DNA revealed no point mutations in the 12th, 13th, or 61st codons of the K-ras or H-ras protooncogenes. Southern analysis revealed no changes in genomic organization of the putative tumor suppressor gene DCC, but demonstrated a three- to four-fold amplification of the c-myc gene in one cell line. Expression of c-myc RNA was concomitantly increased in the same cell line. These three transformed cell lines represent the end point in the process of hormone-associated tumorigenesis and as such should prove useful in investigating the molecular changes and the mechanisms involved in hormonal carcinogenesis.
To report a case of acute cholestatic jaundice in a patient who was receiving oral ciprofloxacin.
An 84-year-old woman residing in a long-term care facility developed acute cholestatic jaundice while being treated with ciprofloxacin for a urinary tract infection. On day 6 of ciprofloxacin therapy, she was noted to have an erythematous, pruritic rash over her chest and abdomen. At this point ciprofloxacin treatment was discontinued, as an allergy was suspected. Three days later she was noted to have jaundiced sclera and skin, and liver function test results were markedly elevated. The plasma cholesterol concentration was increased substantially; there was no decrease in plasma albumin concentration or increase in prothrombin time. The patient was treated with intravenous fluids. Within the next month, the liver function test results decreased to near normal and the patient was asymptomatic. Follow-up liver test results three months later were normal.
To our knowledge, there are only a few other case reports in the literature of a possible ciprofloxacin-induced liver injury. Enoxacin, a fluorinated quinolone antibiotic similar to ciprofloxacin, was reported to cause cholestatic liver injury in one patient. The exact mechanism by which fluoroquinolones may cause liver injury is unknown.
We believe that this is only the second reported case of acute cholestatic jaundice resulting from ciprofloxacin therapy. Although this reaction seems to occur rarely, it is prudent to be alert for the signs and symptoms of cholestasis when administering ciprofloxacin.
Fibrate drugs are PPARalpha agonists prescribed for the treatment of dyslipidemia. Severe myotoxicity has been reportedly associated with their use albeit at a low frequency, especially for gemfibrozil. Few studies have investigated the mechanism of fibrate-induced myotoxicity in vivo. Considering the apparent species-related differences in PPARalpha agonist-induced hepatotoxicity, we studied the myotoxicity of gemfibrozil in a Cynomolgus monkey model and explored the relationship between myotoxicity and pharmacokinetics. Six Cynomolgus monkeys were dosed with gemfibrozil twice daily at 600 mg/kg/day for the first two periods (P1 and P2, 8 days and 9 days respectively) and 300 mg/kg/day for the third period (P3, 14 days). Creatine kinase and myoglobin were measured, together with hepatotoxicity and nephrotoxicity markers. Behavioral responses were recorded for indication of toxicity. Pharmacokinetics was carried out following the 16th dosage of P1 and 17th dosage of P2 when myotoxicity was identified. Multivariable data analysis was employed to explore the relationship between pharmacokinetic parameters and myotoxicity markers. Consequently, myotoxicity occurred in monkey #2 (M2) and M6 in P1, M3 and M4 in P2, M3 and M6 in P3. Data analysis showed T80-150 (sustained time above the given concentration) contributed for myotoxicity discriminance and correlated with myotoxicity risk. This study revealed Cynomolgus monkey may be a good animal model for myotoxicity evaluation with sensitivity, reproducibility and similarities to humans. More interestingly, they exhibited a much higher incidence of myotoxicity than that of humans. Sustained high drug concentration plays an important role for the occurrence of myotoxicity. This may suggest an influence of drug transport and metabolism on myotoxicity.
To report a case of aplastic anemia that developed during ticlopidine treatment.
An 84-year-old woman was started on ticlopidine for secondary stroke prevention. Within six weeks of initiating ticlopidine therapy she developed aplastic anemia. She was hospitalized and received empiric antibiotics, antifungal agents, blood transfusions, platelets, and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. The patient died on day 76 after beginning ticlopidine.
Hematologic effects such as neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, agranulocytosis, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, and pancytopenia have been described with the use of ticlopidine. Previous case reports have associated ticlopidine with the development of aplastic anemia.
Ticlopidine can produce fatal hematologic adverse effects, and its use should be reserved as second-line therapy.
The effects of chronic adriamycin toxicity on myocardial carnitine content and contractile function were studied in rats, along with potential protective effects of L-carnitine administration. Cardiomyopathy was induced over a 6- to 7-week period by weekly intravenous injections of adriamycin, 2 mg/kg. In vivo myocardial tissue levels of carnitine were not significantly changed by adriamycin, but plasma levels were elevated. Cardiac output was depressed in isolated perfused hearts from adriamycin-treated rats perfused with 11 mM glucose. In a second experiment, 4-week-old male rats were divided into four groups: saline-treated control, L-carnitine-treated control, saline-treated adriamycin, and L-carnitine-treated adriamycin. L-Carnitine was given intraperitoneally each day at a dose of 500 mg/kg. Myocardial histology and ultrastructure were analyzed. Cardiac performance was determined in hearts perfused with 1.2 mM palmitate and 5.5 mM glucose. Hearts from saline-treated adriamycin rats showed histopathological changes and a significantly diminished cardiac output at various preloads when compared to saline-treated controls. Daily intraperitoneal L-carnitine reduced histopathological alterations and improved cardiac performance.
