Ketoconazole is an oral antimycotic agent approved by the FDA for the treatment of fungal disease which also blocks the synthesis of adrenocorticosteroids and functions as a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist. In these experiments, adult male Wistar rats were allowed alternating 15-min periods of access to food reinforcement and cocaine self-administration (0.125, 0.25 or 0.5 mg/kg per infusion) during daily 2-h sessions. A 1-min timeout separated access to the two reinforcers. Pretreatment with ketoconazole (25 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly decreased plasma corticosterone and reduced low dose (i.e. 0.125-0.25 mg/kg per infusion) cocaine self-administration without affecting food-reinforced responding. In fact, pretreatment with ketoconazole resulted in rates and patterns of self-administration at these doses that were indistinguishable from those observed during cocaine extinction. However, cocaine self-administration at the highest dose tested in these experiments (i.e. 0.5 mg/kg per infusion) was not significantly affected by ketoconazole. These data suggest the potential utility of ketoconazole or related drugs as adjuncts in the treatment of cocaine abuse and further underscore the role for corticosterone in cocaine reinforcement.
Understanding the psychobiological basis of relapse remains a challenge in developing therapies for drug addiction. Relapse in cocaine addiction often occurs following exposure to environmental stimuli previously associated with drug taking. The metabotropic glutamate receptor, mGluR5, is potentially important in this respect; it plays a central role in several forms of striatal synaptic plasticity proposed to underpin associative learning and memory processes that enable drug-paired stimuli to acquire incentive motivational properties and trigger relapse. Using cell type-specific RNA interference, we have generated a novel mouse line with a selective knock-down of mGluR5 in dopamine D1 receptor-expressing neurons. Although mutant mice self-administer cocaine, we show that reinstatement of cocaine-seeking induced by a cocaine-paired stimulus is impaired. By examining different aspects of associative learning in the mutant mice, we identify deficits in specific incentive learning processes that enable a reward-paired stimulus to directly reinforce behavior and to become attractive, thus eliciting approach toward it. Our findings show that glutamate signaling through mGluR5 located on dopamine D1 receptor-expressing neurons is necessary for incentive learning processes that contribute to cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking and which may underpin relapse in drug addiction.
The effects of isoflavones (genistein and daidzein) on endometrial carcinogenesis in mice were investigated in two experiments. In the short-term experiment (2 weeks), single subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of genistein [1 mg / 30 g body weight (b.w.)] significantly decreased the levels of estradiol-17beta (E(2)) (5 ppm in diet)-induced expression of c-jun, interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) mRNAs in the uteri of ovariectomized mice (P < 0.005, P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). Daidzein significantly inhibited E(2)-induced expression of c-fos and IL-1alpha (P < 0.01, P < 0.01 respectively). In the long-term experiment (30 weeks), 140 female ICR mice were given N-methyl-N-nitrosourea-containing solution (1 mg / 100 g b.w.) and normal saline (as controls) into their left and right uterine corpora, respectively. They were divided into six groups; group 1 was given E(2) (in diet) alone. Group 2 was given E(2) and genistein (1 mg / 30 g b.w., s.c., every four weeks). Group 3 was exposed to E(2) and daidzein (1 mg / 30 g b.w., s.c., every four weeks). Groups 4 and 5 respectively received genistein and daidzein, and were kept on the basal diet. Group 6 was kept on the basal diet and served as a control. At the termination of the experiment, incidences of endometrial adenocarcinoma and atypical endometrial hyperplasia of the group given E(2) and genistein or daidzein were significantly lower than of the group with E(2) alone (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively). It is suggested that both genistein and daidzein have an inhibitory effect on estrogen-related endometrial carcinogenesis in mice, possibly by suppressing expression of estrogen-induced estrogen-related genes c-fos and c-jun, and internal cytokines IL-1alpha and TNF-alpha through a cytokine and estrogen receptor-mediated pathway.
Sagittal craniosynostosis is the most common form of craniosynostosis, affecting approximately one in 5,000 newborns. We conducted, to our knowledge, the first genome-wide association study for nonsyndromic sagittal craniosynostosis (sNSC) using 130 non-Hispanic case-parent trios of European ancestry (NHW). We found robust associations in a 120-kb region downstream of BMP2 flanked by rs1884302 (P = 1.13 × 10(-14), odds ratio (OR) = 4.58) and rs6140226 (P = 3.40 × 10(-11), OR = 0.24) and within a 167-kb region of BBS9 between rs10262453 (P = 1.61 × 10(-10), OR = 0.19) and rs17724206 (P = 1.50 × 10(-8), OR = 0.22). We replicated the associations to both loci (rs1884302, P = 4.39 × 10(-31) and rs10262453, P = 3.50 × 10(-14)) in an independent NHW population of 172 unrelated probands with sNSC and 548 controls. Both BMP2 and BBS9 are genes with roles in skeletal development that warrant functional studies to further understand the etiology of sNSC.
It has been variably suggested that nonselective NSAIDs and cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 selective inhibitors aggravate or ameliorate clinical disease activity in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. We assessed the effect of these drugs in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (n = 209) and the possible mechanisms.
First, patients with quiescent Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis received the non-NSAID analgesic acetaminophen (n = 26) and the conventional NSAIDs naproxen (n = 32), diclofenac (n = 29), and indomethacin (n = 22) for 4 weeks. The Harvey-Bradshaw index was used to define relapse. Second, to assess the mechanism of relapse, intestinal inflammation was quantitated (fecal calprotectin) before and during treatment (20 patients/group) with acetaminophen, naproxen (topical effect, COX-1 and -2 inhibitor), nabumetone (COX-1 and -2 inhibitor), nimesulide (selective COX-2 inhibitor), and low-dose aspirin (selective COX-1 inhibition).
Nonselective NSAIDs were associated with a 17%-28% relapse rate within 9 days of ingestion. No patient had an early relapse on acetaminophen, nimesulide, or aspirin, whereas those on naproxen and nabumetone (20%) experienced relapse. These clinical relapses were associated with escalating intestinal inflammatory activity.
NSAID ingestion is associated with frequent and early clinical relapse of quiescent inflammatory bowel disease, and the mechanism appears to be due to dual inhibition of the COX enzymes. Selective COX-2 inhibition with nimesulide and COX-1 inhibition with low-dose aspirin appear to be well-tolerated in the short-term.
Testosterone (T) is essential for spermatogenesis, fertility, and maintenance of the male phenotype. We analyzed in hypogonadal LH receptor knockout (LuRKO) male mice whether T treatment can restore their phenotype, spermatogenesis, and fertility. In LuRKO mice, spermatogenesis is arrested at round spermatids, adult-type Leydig cells are absent, T production is dramatically decreased, the animals are cryptorchid, and their accessory sex organs are atrophic. T replacement therapy from 21 d of life for 60 or 120 d in LuRKO mice induced a male phenotype macroscopically indistinguishable from that of wild-type littermates as well as full spermatogenesis and testicular descent. Thus, the absence of LH-dependent prepubertal androgen priming is not necessary for subsequent maturation of the male phenotype. Conspicuously, some abnormalities remained in epididymal histology after T treatment despite normal expression of several epididymis-specific genes in caput epididymis. The mice displayed normal mating behavior, although at lower frequency than wild-type controls. The spermatozoa were able to fertilize oocytes, but their impaired passage from epididymis to uterus was apparent. The mice remained subfertile, because only 9% of all breedings resulted in pregnancy, and only two of 13 mice (15%) were fertile. Moreover, inflammation in epididymides and prostate was found in many T-treated LuRKO mice, which probably impaired sperm transport and contributed to their high rate of subfertility. In conclusion, T replacement initiated prepubertally only partially restores the fertility of LuRKO mice, even though most features of the male phenotype recover. Full fertility may require higher and/or earlier postnatal T exposure or production of other Leydig cell factors lacking in this model.
Alterations of the candidate tumor suppressor gene PTEN/MMAC1 and the cell cycle control gene p16((CDKN2/MTS-1/INK4a)) have been detected in many types of human cancer. Here, we wanted to study the role of PTEN/MMAC1 in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC) in correlation to mutation and methylation of p16 and to previous in situ hybridization results concerning loss of chromosomes 9 and 10. We screened for alterations of PTEN/MMAC1 and p16 in 52 HNSCC of different sites. Mutations of PTEN/MMAC1 were found in 23% of tumor samples (missense mutations in 7 carcinomas, 13%). A loss of chromosome 10 was detected in five carcinomas with missense PTEN/MMAC1 mutations (71%). The missense mutations of PTEN/MMAC1 occurred in exons 5 (five different mutations in the neighborhood of the protein tyrosine phosphatase domain), 6, 7, and 8. Only one of these mutations had been described before. In addition, in three laryngeal carcinomas (6%), missense mutations of p16 (in exon 2) were detected and 14% of carcinomas showed a methylation of p16. Our results focus on the essential but not solitary role of PTEN/MMAC1 in the tumorigenesis or progression of a subset of HNSCC.
Currently available oral triptans are not ideal, at least for 20-30% of migraine patients, due to either response failure or adverse events. Almotriptan is a novel selective 5-HT1B/D receptor agonist exhibiting the highest bioavailability among triptans, both outside and within a migraine attack. The tolerability of the therapeutic oral dose of almotriptan, 12.5 mg, is similar to that of placebo, with a remarkably low incidence of chest symptoms. At this dose, efficacy parameters remain comparable to those of sumatriptan 100 mg, while the recurrence rate is in the lower range. This balanced profile makes almotriptan 12.5 mg a good choice for the symptomatic treatment of the typical migraine patient.
Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is known to be the principal pro-inflammatory prostanoid and play an important role in nociception. To identify PGE receptor (EP) subtypes that mediate pain responses to noxious and innocuous stimuli, we studied them by use of EP1 and EP3 knockout (EP1(-/-) and EP3(-/-)) mice. PGE2 could induce mechanical allodynia in EP1(+/+), EP3(+/+) and EP3(-/-) mice, but not in EP1(-/-) mice. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), the substrate of nitric oxide (NO) synthase L-arginine, or the NO donor sodium nitroprusside administered intrathecal (i.t.) could induce allodynia in EP3(-/-) and EP1(-/-) mice. Activation of EP1 receptors appears to be upstream, rather than downstream, of NMDA receptor activation and NO production in the PGE2-induced allodynia. Although PGE2 produced thermal hyperalgesia over a wide range of dosages from 50 pg to 0.5 microg kg(-1) in EP3(+/+) mice, it showed a monophasic hyperalgesic action at 5 ng kg(-1) or higher doses in EP3(-/-) mice. The selective EP3 agonist, ONO-AE-248, induced hyperalgesia at 500 pg kg(-1) in EP3(+/+) mice, but not in EP3(-/-) mice. Saline-injected EP1(-/-) mice showed hyperalgesia, which was reversed by i.t. PGE2 in a dose-dependent manner. There was no significant difference in the formalin-induced behaviours between EP1(-/-) or EP3(-/-) mice and the cognate wild-type mice. These results demonstrate that spinal EP1 receptors are involved in the PGE2-induced allodynia and that spinal EP3 receptors are involved in the hyperalgesia induced by low doses of PGE2. However, the formalin-induced pain cannot be ascribed to a single EP receptor subtype EP1 or EP3.
We report the case of a patient who experienced ventricular dysrhythmias and seizure five minutes after the injection of 30 mL of 0.5% bupivacaine with 1:200,000 epinephrine, during a lumbar plexus block performed via the posterior approach described by Winnie. The patient who underwent his total hip arthroplasty was still anaesthetised and under controlled ventilation at the time of bupivacaine administration. Aspiration test performed before injection was negative. Normal cardiac activity and stable haemodynamic condition were restored after one hour of resuscitation including 15 electric shocks and administration of epinephrine (40 mg) and clonidine (300 micrograms). The patient was discharged without neurologic sequelae after four days in the ICU.
This study compared the direct effects and acute physical dependence of butorphanol and morphine, opioids with differing actions at mu versus kappa receptors. Six non-dependent heroin-using volunteers were exposed to six conditions in a within-subject, Latin square design using double-blind procedures. In each session, agonist effects of single i.m. injections of butorphanol (3 and 6 mg/70 kg), morphine (15 and 30 mg/70 kg), lorazepam (4 mg/70 kg) or saline were evaluated. Butorphanol and morphine produced effects of comparable magnitude on miosis and reports of 'any drug effect'. Volunteers reported dysphoria, confusion and sedation after butorphanol, subjective effects that overlapped with those of lorazepam, whereas morphine produced euphoria and stimulation. Acute physical dependence (i.e. precipitated withdrawal responses to naloxone 10 mg/70 kg i.m. administered 6 h after each treatment) significantly increased after 30 mg/70 kg morphine but not after butorphanol treatments. These differences in naloxone sensitivity are likely due to differences in opioid receptor (mu versus kappa) activity, affinity and efficacy of these compounds. Pharmacological ramifications of these results are discussed.
Tamoxifen used in the treatment of breast cancer is reported to cause hepatic steatosis. This study aimed to assess the incidence and risk factors of the development of fatty liver disease, resulting from tamoxifen use, in females with breast cancer.
Seventy females aged between 28 and 80years with breast cancer were recruited from Shahid Sadoughi Clinic, Yazd, Iran in 2006-2008. The patients underwent chemotherapy followed by 20mg tamoxifen daily as postoperative endocrine treatment. Only in patients with normal baseline liver function, negative test for hepatitis C virus (HCV) and hepatitis B surface antigen (HbsAg) and normal liver ultrasonography were included. The development of fatty changes over a 6-months period of treatment was the main outcome measurement assessed by ultrasonography.
Thirty-five of 70 patients developed fatty change during follow-up, in which nine were in grade one, 20 in grade two and six patients in grade three. Risk factors associated with the development of fatty change were elevation of triglycerides (2.4, 1.2-4.8), elevation of fasting blood sugar (FBS) and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) (3.4, 1.4-7.8). No relation was found between the development of fatty change and age (1.3, 0.87-2.00), menopause (1.13, 0.69-1.9), previous history of diabetes (2.4, 0.7-8.4), previous chemotherapy regimen and receptors type (c-erbB2, P53, progesterone receptor (PR), oestrogen receptor (ER)) and stage of breast cancer. Further, there was no relation between the development of fatty change and hypercholesterolemia, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), arterial hypertension and body mass index (BMI).
Tamoxifen was associated with a high risk of development of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis in patients with higher triglycerides and FBS and lower HDL. However, no relationship was found with the level of BMI, LDL, hypertension, overweight and obesity.
This study used CLSI broth microdilution to test the activity of telavancin and comparator antimicrobial agents against 67 methicillin (meticillin)-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) isolates. Twenty-six vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus (VISA) strains were among the isolates tested; all strains were susceptible to telavancin at < or = 1 microg/ml, whereas 12/26 (46%) of these isolates were nonsusceptible to daptomycin at the same concentration. All strains were susceptible to quinupristin-dalfopristin, while resistance was found to all other drugs tested. Telavancin demonstrated potent activity against all vancomycin-susceptible isolates as well as against heterogeneously VISA and VISA resistance phenotypes. In multistep resistance selection studies, telavancin yielded one stable mutant after 43 days in one MRSA strain out of the 10 MRSA strains tested with the MIC rising eightfold from 0.25 microg/ml (parent) to 2 microg/ml. MICs for this clone did not increase further when passages were continued for the maximum 50 days. In contrast, daptomycin selected stable resistant clones (MIC increase of >4x) after 14 to 35 days in 4 of 10 MRSA strains with MICs increasing from 1 to 2 microg/ml (parents) to 4 to 8 microg/ml (resistant clones). Sequencing analysis of daptomycin resistance determinants revealed point mutations in the mprF genes of all four stable daptomycin-resistant clones. Teicoplanin gave rise to resistant clones after 14 to 21 days in 2 of 10 MRSA strains with MICs rising from 1 to 2 microg/ml (parents) to 4 to 16 microg/ml (stable resistant clones). Linezolid selected stable resistant clones after 22 to 48 days in 2 of 10 MRSA strains with MICs rising from 2 to 4 microg/ml (parents) to 32 microg/ml (resistant clones). Vancomycin yielded no resistant clones in 10 MRSA strains tested; however, MICs increased two- to fourfold from 1 to 8 microg/ml to 2 to 16 microg/ml after 50 days. No cross-resistance was found with any clone/antimicrobial combination. The two enterococci developed resistance to daptomycin, and one developed resistance to linezolid. Single-step mutation frequencies for telavancin (<4.0 x 10(-11) to <2.9 x 10(-10) at 2x MIC) were lower than the spontaneous mutation frequencies obtained with the comparators.
We investigated the in vitro effect of As2O3 on proliferation, cell cycle regulation, and apoptosis in human myeloma cell lines. As2O3 significantly inhibited the proliferation of all of eight myeloma cell lines examined in a dose-dependent manner with IC50 of approximately 1-2 microM. DNA flow cytometric analysis indicated that As2O3 (2 microM) induced a G1 and/or a G2-M phase arrest in these cell lines. To address the mechanism of the antiproliferative effect of As2O3, we examined the effect of As2O3 on cell cycle-related proteins in MC/CAR cells in which both G1 and G2-M phases were arrested. Western blot analysis demonstrated that treatment with As2O3 (2 microM) for 72 h did not change the steady-state levels of CDK2, CDK4, cyclin D1, cyclin E, and cyclin B1 but decreased the levels of CDK6, cdc2, and cyclin A. The mRNA and protein levels of CDKI, p21 were increased by treatment with As2O3, but those of p27 were not. In addition, As2O3 markedly enhanced the binding of p21 with CDK6, cdc2, cyclin E, and cyclin A compared with untreated control cells. Furthermore, the activity of CDK6-associated kinase was reduced in association with hypophosphorylation of Rb protein. The activity of cdc2-associated kinase was decreased, which was accompanied by the up-regulation of cdc2 phosphorylation (cdc2-Tyr15 phosphorylation) resulting from reduction of cdc25B and cdc25C phosphatases. As2O3 also induced apoptosis in MC/CAR cells as evidenced by flow cytometric detection of sub-G1 DNA content and annexin V binding assay. This apoptotic process was associated with down-regulation of Bcl-2, loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential (delta psi(m)), and an increase of caspase-3 activity. These results suggest that As2O3 inhibits the proliferation of myeloma cells, especially MC/CAR cells, via cell cycle arrest in association with induction of p21 and apoptosis.
Rats were exposed for four weeks either to air or to vapours of chloroform, carbon tetrachloride or 1,1-dichloroethylene given either as a constant concentration (continuous profile) or as repeated exposures for 6 hr per day, 5 days per week (fluctuating profile). Vapour concentrations were used such that the total exposure (concentration x time) was the same for the two profiles. Within each group, some animals received the enzyme-inducing agents, phenobarbitone or 1,3-butanediol, in their drinking water. Separate experiments were conducted to determine the influence of enzyme inducers and vapour concentration on chlorocarbon uptake and metabolism. In the case of chloroform, hepatic injury was more severe in animals exposed to constant vapour concentration, while dichloroethylene was more toxic when given as a fluctuating profile, especially in butanediol-treated rats. Carbon tetrachloride hepatotoxicity was similar in the two exposure profiles but was exacerbated by butanediol treatment. Butanediol-treated animals in the fluctuating profile group showed evidence of developing cirrhosis. These results could not be fully explained on the basis of the effect of enzyme inducers and exposure profile on amount of agent metabolized. Both the amount of toxic metabolites and the temporal pattern of their formation appear to be important determinants of liver injury.
Prostate cancer is a leading solid tumor among men in the Western world. Androgens play an important role in the carcinogenesis and treatment of prostate cancer. CYP3A5 is a cytochrome P450 superfamily member which also has activity in testosterone metabolism. In this study, we looked for two-gene interactions associated with clinical characteristics of prostate cancer in the Finnish population. We used multifactor-dimensionality reduction for the identification of the two-gene interactions in androgen metabolism pathway genes together with clinical characteristics of prostate cancer among 754 genotyped prostate cancer patients. The CYP3A5*3/*3 and SRD5A2 A49T GG genotype interaction was associated with the clinical tumor stage T2-T4 (T-stage, TNM classification) with odds ratio (OR) 2.14, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.35-3.40. Patients with CYP3A5*3/*3 and KLK3 I179T CC/TC genotypes had increased OR 2.30, 95% CI 1.16-4.58 for metastatic disease. Further, two-gene interaction CYP3A5*3/*3 and KLK3 -252A > G AA was associated with Gleason scores >or=7 with OR 1.52, 95% CI 1.11-2.09. Prostate cancer patients with CYP3A5*3/*3 and KLK -252A > G GG/AG genotypes had decreased OR of 0.70 with 95% CI 0.50-0.98 for high prostate-specific antigen levels at diagnosis. For prostate cancer patients aged below 65 years, the OR for interaction of CYP3A5*1/*3 or *1/*1 and AKR1C3 Q5H CC genotypes was 1.84 with 95% CI 1.03-3.28. For prostate cancer, the best two-gene interaction included genotypes SRD5A2 V89L GG and AKR1C3 Q5H CC with OR 1.30, 95% CI 1.01-1.66. It remains to be clarified whether these polymorphism associations identified here are also present in other populations.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths and remains an important public health problem worldwide. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are newly identified regulators of tumorigenesis and tumor progression. However, the role of lncRNAs in lung cancer induced by environmental carcinogens remains largely unknown. In this study, an lncRNA microarray was used to compare the expression profiles of malignantly transformed 16HBE cells (16HBE-T) induced with anti-benzo[a]pyrene-trans-7,8-diol-9,10-epoxide (anti-BPDE) and normal 16HBE cells (16HBE-N). Using quantitative real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), lncRNA AF118081 was identified as the most significantly overexpressed lncRNA in 16HBE-T cells, lung cancer cells, and patient samples. Cell proliferation, colony formation, apoptosis, migration, and invasion were assayed in 16HBE-T cells following the knockdown of lncRNA AF118081 with small interfering RNA. AF118081 knockdown inhibited cell growth and tumor invasion. An in vivo (nude mouse) model was then used to assay tumor growth, and the downregulation of AF118081 clearly suppressed tumor growth, consistent with the results of the in vitro assays. Together, these findings identify a new oncogenic lncRNA, lncRNA AF118081, in malignantly transformed 16HBE cells. This enhances our understanding of lncRNAs as important regulatory elements in chemical carcinogenesis and potential targets of lung cancer therapies.
High density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C) concentration in the blood is independently and inversely associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease. Some of the cholesterol-lowering drugs (niacin, fibrates, and statins) incidentally raise HDL-C. These drugs are not effective in causing major changes in HDL-C. Since the discovery of human genetic cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) deficiency in a Japanese population with high levels of HDL-C and apolipoprotein A-I, CETP inhibition has become a novel strategy for raising HDL-C in humans. Mice, a species naturally lacking CETP, were transduced with the human CETP gene, which resulted in dose-related reductions in HDL-C. Rabbits, a species with naturally high levels of CETP, were fed a synthetic CETP inhibitor, JTT-705, leading to both a 90% increase in HDL-C and a 70% reduction in aortic atherosclerotic lesion area. Human intervention trials with a new potent and selective CETP inhibitor, torcetrapib, have taken place. In a phase I multidose trial, HDL-C increased by 91% with torcetrapib 120 mg twice daily. A phase II trial conducted with multiple combinations of torcetrapib and atorvastatin showed that the combination was well tolerated and doses 30 mg and higher of torcetrapib caused 8.3-40.2% changes from baseline HDL-C across the dose range of atorvastatin at 12 weeks. Recently the phase III clinical trial ILLUMINATE (Investigation of Lipid Level Management to Understand its Impact in Atherosclerotic Events) was prematurely terminated because of an increase in mortality in the torcetrapib/atorvastatin treatment arm compared with atorvastatin used alone. In companion studies no improvement in carotid or coronary atherosclerosis could be detected in patients treated with the torcetrapib/atorvastatin combination despite favorable changes in both low density lipoprotein (LDL)- and HDL-cholesterol levels. The future for CETP inhibition with drug therapy is now unclear, and must include a closer look at CETP inhibitor's effects on blood pressure and HDL itself. Accordingly, it was recently shown in 2 double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, phase I studies with the CETP inhibitor anacetrapib in healthy individuals and in patients with dyslipidemias that the drug increased HDL and reduced LDL, while having no effect on blood pressure.
Primary tumors of the heart are rare, but they are often associated with refractory arrhythmias. Vascular tumors of the heart comprise a small minority of primary cardiac tumors. In patients with structurally normal hearts, ventricular tachycardia (VT) originating from the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) can be sensitive to adenosine, vagal maneuvers, and calcium channel blockers. In this report, we describe a case of ventricular tachycardia originating from within a hemangioma in the RVOT that was ultimately controlled with verapamil.
This meta-analysis was conducted to evaluate the correlations of a common polymorphism (677C>T) in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene with risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
The following electronic databases were searched without language restrictions: Web of Science (1945∼2013), the Cochrane Library Database (Issue 12, 2013), MEDLINE (1966∼2013), EMBASE (1980∼2013), CINAHL (1982∼2013) and the Chinese Biomedical Database (CBM) (1982∼2013). Meta-analysis was performed using STATA statistical software. Odds ratios (ORs) with their 95% confidence intervals (95%CIs) were calculated.
Eight cohort studies met all inclusion criteria and were included in this meta-analysis. A total of 2,292 ESRD patients with CVD were involved in this meta-analysis. Our meta-analysis results revealed that the MTHFR 677C>T polymorphism might increase the risk of CVD in ESRD patients (TT vs. CC: OR = 2.75, 95%CI = 1.35∼5.59, P = 0.005; CT+TT vs. CC: OR = 1.39, 95%CI = 1.09∼1.78, P = 0.008; TT vs. CC+CT: OR = 2.52, 95%CI = 1.25∼5.09, P = 0.010; respectively). Further subgroup analysis by ethnicity suggested that the MTHFR 677C>T polymorphism was associated with an elevated risk for CVD in ESRD patients among Asians (TT vs. CC: OR = 3.38, 95%CI = 1.11∼10.28, P = 0.032; CT+TT vs. CC: OR = 1.44, 95%CI = 1.05∼1.97, P = 0.022; TT vs. CC+CT: OR = 3.15, 95%CI = 1.02∼9.72, P = 0.046; respectively), but not among Africans or Caucasians (all P>0.05).
Our findings indicate that the MTHFR 677C>T polymorphism may be associated with an elevated risk for CVD in ESRD patients, especially among Asians.
The proteinase-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2) is a member of a family of G protein-coupled receptors for proteases. Proteases cleave PARs within the extracellular N-terminal domains to expose tethered ligands that bind to and activate the cleaved receptors. PAR-2 is highly expressed in colon in epithelial and neuronal elements. In this study we show that PAR-2 activation prevents the development and induces healing of T helper cell type 1-mediated experimental colitis induced by intrarectal administration of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS) in mice. A role for PAR-2 in the protection against colon inflammation was explored by the use of SLIGRL-NH(2), a synthetic peptide that corresponds to the mouse tethered ligand exposed after PAR-2 cleavage. TNBS-induced colitis was dose-dependently reduced by the administration of SLIGRL-NH(2), whereas the scramble control peptide, LSIGRL-NH(2), was uneffective. This beneficial effect was reflected by increased survival rates, improvement of macroscopic and histologic scores, decrease in mucosal content of T helper cell type 1 cytokines, protein, and mRNA, and a diminished myeloperoxidase activity. SLIGRL-NH(2), but not the scramble peptide, directly inhibited IFN-gamma secretion and CD44 expression on lamina propria T lymphocytes. Protection exerted by PAR-2 in TNBS-treated mice was reverted by injecting mice with a truncated form of calcitonin gene-related peptide and by sensory neurons ablation with the neurotoxin capsaicin. Collectively, these studies show that PAR-2 is an anti-inflammatory receptor in the colon and suggest that PAR-2 ligands might be effective in the treatment of inflammatory bowel diseases.
Harlequin ichthyosis (HI) is one of the most devastating genodermatoses. Recently, ABCA12 mutations were identified as the cause of HI. A newborn Japanese male demonstrated the typical features of HI. The patient was treated with oral etretinate and his general condition has been good (now aged 1.5 years). This patient with moderate clinical severity was compound heterozygous for a novel de novo missense mutation 1160G > A (S387N) in exon 10 and a maternal deletion mutation 4158_4160delTAC (T1387del) in exon 28 of ABCA12. T1387del was a deletion of a highly conserved threonine residue within the first adenosine 5' triphosphate-binding domain and is thought to seriously affect the function of the ABCA12 protein. Conversely, the residue 387 is located outside the known active sites of ABCA12 and S387N is predicted not to lead to a serious functional deficiency in ABCA12. Electron microscopy revealed abnormal lamellar granules in the granular layer cells and a moderate number of lipid vacuoles in the cornified cells. Disturbed glucosylceramide transport was confirmed in the cultured keratinocytes from the patient. No de novo mutation in ABCA12 has yet been reported either in HI or lamellar ichthyosis. The present case suggested that a de novo ABCA12 mutation might underlie HI.
Two 65-year-old white men with coronary heart disease, given niacin therapy for dyslipidemia for 5 months, developed intense dental and gingival pain that was associated with increases in dose and that was relieved with discontinuance of niacin treatment. One individual who took crystalline niacin had beneficial effects on lipid levels, while the other person who took a delayed release preparation had little lipid effect. The cause of these previously unreported side effects of niacin therapy is uncertain but may be related to prostaglandin-mediated vasodilatation, hyperalgesia of sensory nerve receptors, and potentiation of inflammation in the gingiva with referral of pain to the teeth.
Moricizine, a recently approved phenothiazine antiarrhythmic agent, is reported to be associated with a low frequency of congestive heart failure. A 61-year-old man with a history of congestive heart failure and ischemic heart disease began taking moricizine 250 mg every 8 hours to suppress his monomorphic sustained ventricular tachycardia. After five doses he became progressively short of breath and was in pulmonary edema. Moricizine was discontinued, intravenous diuretics were administered, and the patient's clinical status stabilized. Twelve hours later, however, he developed polymorphic ventricular tachycardia and was not successfully resuscitated. Despite claims as to its safety, limited data strongly suggest that moricizine, like other antiarrhythmics, may be detrimental in patients with preexisting ventricular dysfunction, and should be prescribed with caution.
Interferon-alpha and ribavirin are widely used treatments for chronic hepatitis C. It is believed to be a cytokine made by T lymphocytes upon activation by foreign antigens. Complications of interferon and ribavirin therapy include systemic flulike symptoms, marrow suppression, emotional liability, auto immune reactions (especially auto immune thyroiditis) and miscellaneous side effects such as alopecia, rashes, diarrhea, numbness, and tingling of the extremities. With the possible exception of autoimmune thyroiditis, all these side effects are reversed upon dose lowering or cessation of therapy. We report a case of a 51-year-old man, with no previous history of vascular disease, who developed ischemic colitis after interferon-alpha and ribavirin therapy for chronic hepatitis C. In the literature, there have been only 2 published accounts associating interferon-alpha use with ischemic colitis in 2 patients. This report illustrates a better association of interferon-alpha and ribavirin with ischemic colitis.
The disturbed erythropoiesis in patients with refractory anaemia with ring-sideroblasts (RARS) is characterized by intramedullary apoptosis of erythroid precursors and increased iron accumulation in mitochondria. To gain insight into these pathophysiological mechanisms we compared the gene expression profile (GEP) of erythroid precursors from RARS patients to the GEP of normal erythroid precursors. Three hundred sixty four probe sets were up-, and 253 probe sets downregulated in RARS cells. Interestingly, Growth Differentiation factor 15 (GDF15), a cytokine from the TGFbeta family, was dramatically upregulated in all RARS patients. Measurement of GDF15 in the sera from twenty RARS patients confirmed this finding by showing significantly, 7.2-fold, increased protein levels (3254 +/- 1400 ng/ml vs. 451 +/- 87 ng/ml in normals). In vitro studies demonstrated erythroid-specific production of GDF15 and dependence on erythropoietin. Induction of apoptosis by arsenic trioxide, a drug which acts via reduction of the mitochondrial membrane potential, also stimulated GDF15 production. Downregulation of endogenous GDF15 production in erythoblasts by specific siRNA led to diminished erythroid differentiation. Taken together, our findings demonstrate a new role for GDF15 in normal erythropoiesis as well as in the ineffective erythropoiesis of RARS patients.
