Ifosfamide (ifo) is a commonly used drug in chemotherapy. It is metabolized to acrolein (acro) and chloroacetaldehyde (CAA), which are thought to be responsible for renal side effects. We studied the effects of ifo and cyclophosphamide (cyclo) as well as their metabolites, acro and CAA, on cellular protein content, necrosis, apoptosis and cytosolic calcium concentration using a human proximal tubule cell line. The protein content decreased during acro or CAA administration (15 to 300 micromol/l), but not during ifo or cyclo exposure over a time period of up to 72 h. Mild apoptosis was induced only by high acro (150, 300 micromol/l) and low CAA concentrations (15, 75 micromol/l) and only in a narrow time window (24 h). Necrosis was increased after exposure to acro or CAA at all concentrations. CAA was more potent than acro. Ifo and cyclo did not induce necrosis or apoptosis. Glutathione abolished CAA-induced cell death. Cytosolic calcium concentrations increased after acro or CAA administration and showed an oscillating pattern. Cytosolic Ca(2+) chelation did not prevent necrosis. We conclude that neither ifo nor cyclo induce cell damage, but that their metabolites acro and CAA induce cell death. This cell death occurs mainly by necrosis and not by apoptosis.
Aloe-emodin (AE; 1,8-dihydroxy-3-hydroxymethyl-9,10-anthracenedione) is one of the primary active compounds in total rhubarb anthraquinones (TRAs), which induce nephrotoxicity in rats. However, it is still not known whether AE has a similar effect on human kidney cells. In this study, 3-(4,5,-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assays showed that AE decreases the viability of HK-2 cells (a human proximal tubular epithelial cell line) in a dose- and time-dependent manner. AE induced G2/M arrest of cell cycle in HK-2 cells, which was detected with propidium iodide (PI) staining. This apoptosis was further investigated by Hoechst staining, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), DNA fragmentation, and Annexin V/PI staining. Apoptosis of the cells was associated with caspase 3 activation, which was detected by Western blot analysis and a caspase activity assay. In addition, changes in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) ultrastructure as observed by TEM showed the effects of AE on ER. Treatment with AE also resulted in an increase in eukaryotic initiation factor-2α (eIF-2α) phosphorylation, X-box binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA splicing, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation, glucose-regulated protein (GRP) 78 and CAAT/enhancer-binding protein-homologous protein (CHOP) accumulation. These results suggest that AE induces ER stress in HK-2 cells, which is involved in AE-induced apoptosis. In conclusion, AE induces apoptosis in HK-2 cells, and the ER stress is involved in AE-induced apoptosis in vitro. The implications of the toxic effects of AE for clinical use are unclear and these findings should be taken into account in the risk assessment for human exposure.
FK506-induced leukoencephalopathy is a well-known entity in adult organ transplant patients. The neurotoxicity of FK506 immunosuppression is frequently reversible, with either reduction or cessation of the drug. This neurologic syndrome is not well documented in children. We report the clinical and radiologic features in four pediatric cases of FK506 leukoencephalopathy. In two of the four patients this syndrome was reversible.
All-trans retinoic acid (tRA) and arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) induce non-cross-resistant complete clinical remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia with t(15;17) translocation and target PML-RARalpha, the leukemogenic protein, by different pathways suggesting a possible therapeutic synergism. To evaluate this possibility, this study examined the effect of As(2)O(3) on tRA-induced differentiation and, conversely, the effect of tRA on As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis. As(2)O(3) at subapoptotic concentrations (0.5 microM) decreased tRA-induced differentiation in NB4 cells but synergized with atRA to induce differentiation in tRA-resistant NB4 subclones MR-2 and R4 cells as measured by nitroblue tetrazolium reduction and tRA-inducible genes (TTGII, RARbeta, RIG-E). tRA cleaved PML-RARalpha into distinct fragments in NB4 but not in tRA-resistant MR-2 or R4 cells, whereas As(2)O(3) completely degraded PML-RARalpha in all 3 cell lines. As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis was decreased by tRA pretreatment of NB4 cells but not of R4 cells and was associated with a strong induction of Bfl-1/A1 expression, a Bcl-2 protein family member. Severe combined immunodeficient mice bearing NB4 cells showed an additive survival effect after sequential treatment, but a toxic effect was observed after simultaneous treatment with tRA and As(2)O(3). These data suggest that combined As(2)O(3) and tRA treatment may be more effective than single agents in tRA-resistant patients. Although in vitro data do not always translate to in vivo response, toxicity and potential drug antagonism may be diminished by decreasing the concentration of As(2)O(3) when given at the same time with therapeutic levels of tRA.
A total of 1,975 plasma diltiazem concentrations were obtained from 1,067 patients enrolled in a multicenter secondary intervention study of diltiazem after acute myocardial infarction. To evaluate the determinants and significance of diltiazem concentrations in this patient population, we related drug concentrations to a variety of clinical variables recorded on the case history forms. Multiple linear regression analysis showed that (1) time from the last drug dose, (2) drug dose taken, (3) patient height (an index of lean body weight), and (4) patient age were important determinants of plasma concentration. For an equivalent dose, plasma diltiazem concentrations in a 75-year-old patient were about double those of a 25-year-old patient. Total weight and drug dose prescribed did not significantly affect plasma concentrations. Whereas drug concentrations were higher (p = 0.01) among patients with left-sided heart failure, they were not altered by renal dysfunction, hepatic disease or beta blockers. Diltiazem concentrations were a significant determinant of diastolic arterial pressure (p less than 10(-9), but neither systolic pressure nor heart rate were significantly related to diltiazem concentration. The overall incidence of adverse experiences was not related to drug concentrations, but the occurrence of second- and third-degree atrioventricular block in the coronary care unit and the need for a temporary pacemaker were substantially higher among patients with a drug concentration greater than 150 ng/ml (7.4 and 1.9%, respectively) than among patients with lower concentrations (2.6% for atrioventricular block, 0.3% for pacemaker; p = 0.02 for each). The risk of atrioventricular block was particularly increased by high diltiazem concentrations in the face of acute inferior infarction. These results suggest that diltiazem's pharmacologic and clinical effects in a large population are concentration-related, and that the consideration of patient size, age, and left ventricular function in selecting a diltiazem dose may allow for effective drug therapy with a reduced likelihood of adverse effects.
The severe refractory type of status epilepticus is very rare in the pediatric population. Eight children with the severe refractory type of status epilepticus owing to presumed encephalitis are described. The age at the onset of status epilepticus of the eight study children ranged between 2.5 and 15 years. Seven of the eight children presented with fever several days prior to the onset of seizures. A comprehensive clinical and laboratory investigation failed to delineate a cause for their seizures. Burst suppression coma was induced by pentothal, midazolam, propofol, or ketamine in all of the children. The mean duration of anesthesia was 28 days (range 4-62 days), but the seizures persisted in spite of repeated burst suppression cycles in all of them. Two children died. Four of the surviving children continued to suffer from seizures, and cognitive sequelae were present throughout follow-up in four children. In summary, the severe refractory type of status epilepticus of the acute symptomatic type owing to relatively mild encephalitis carries a high mortality rate and poor morbidity in terms of seizures and cognition at follow-up.
Aminophylline, 285.7 +/- 2.19 mg/kg infused intravenously in unanaesthetized rats produced onset of seizures within 3.2 +/- 0.99 minutes. Seizures were repetitive and death occurred in 10.5 +/- 1.75 minutes. Pretreatment of rats with carbamazepine, sodium valproate and diazepam at doses that prevented electroshock induced seizures were effective in significantly postponing seizures and death, but did not reduce mortality. Concomitant EEG studies in aminophylline infused rats showed that cortical excitability evidenced by initial cortical spiking occurred at 42 secs and polyspiking at 165 seconds. Following diazepam, the initial cortical spike was delayed 50 fold, appearing after 36 minutes. Antiepileptic drugs and EEG monitoring may prove useful in patients with status asthmaticus receiving intravenous aminophylline.
The primary purpose of this 8-week double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of rosiglitazone 4 mg/day was to examine its effect on insulin sensitivity index (SI) and glucose utilization (SG) in clozapine-treated subjects with schizophrenia with insulin resistance.
Eighteen subjects were randomized and accessed with a Frequently Sampled Intravenous Glucose Tolerance Test (FSIVGTT) at baseline and at week 8 to estimate SG and SI.
Controlling for the baseline, comparing the rosiglitazone group with placebo group, there was a non-significant improvement in SG (0.016 +/- 0.006-0.018 +/- 0.008, effect size = 0.23, P = 0.05) with a trend of improvement in SI in the rosiglitazone group (4.6 +/- 2.8-7.8 +/- 6.7, effect size = 0.18, P = 0.08). There was a significant reduction in small low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) particle number (987 +/- 443-694 +/- 415, effect size = 0.30, P = 0.04).
Rosiglitazone may have a role in addressing insulin resistance and lipid abnormalities associated with clozapine.
Seventy patients hospitalized with chest pain after cocaine use were retrospectively evaluated to define the risk and clinical course of acute myocardial infarction (AMI). AMI developed in 22 patients (31%) and transient myocardial ischemia was seen in an additional 9 patients (13%). Coronary risk factors did not distinguish those who developed AMI from those who did not. The presenting electrocardiogram was abnormal in 20 of 22 patients who evolved AMI and in 19 of 48 of those who did not. Creatine kinase levels were elevated in 75% of the patients, including 65% of those who did not develop AMI, but creatine kinase-MB elevations were only observed in the AMI group. The route of cocaine administration did not predict AMI and there was no predilection for a particular coronary vascular bed. The length of time between drug use and onset of AMI pain was often quite prolonged (median interval, 18 vs 1 hour in the non-AMI group). Eight of the patients with AMI underwent cardiac catheterization and 4 had significant coronary narrowing.
Parathion (PS) and chlorpyrifos (CPF) are organophosphorus insecticides (OPs) that elicit acute toxicity by inhibiting acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Endocannabinoids (eCBs, N-arachidonoylethanolamine, AEA; 2-arachidonoylglycerol, 2AG) can modulate neurotransmission by inhibiting neurotransmitter release. We proposed that differential inhibition of eCB-degrading enzymes (fatty acid amide hydrolase, FAAH, and monoacylglycerol lipase, MAGL) by PS and CPF leads to differences in extracellular eCB levels and toxicity. Microdialysis cannulae were implanted into hippocampus of adult male rats followed by treatment with vehicle (peanut oil, 2 ml/kg, sc), PS (27 mg/kg) or CPF (280 mg/kg) 6-7 days later. Signs of toxicity, AChE, FAAH and MAGL inhibition, and extracellular levels of AEA and 2AG were measured 2 and 4 days later. Signs were noted in PS-treated rats but not in controls or CPF-treated rats. Cholinesterase inhibition was extensive in hippocampus with PS (89-90%) and CPF (78-83%) exposure. FAAH activity was also markedly reduced (88-91%) by both OPs at both time-points. MAGL was inhibited by both OPs but to a lesser degree (35-50%). Increases in extracellular AEA levels were noted after either PS (about 2-fold) or CPF (about 3-fold) while lesser treatment-related 2-AG changes were noted. The cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist AM251 (3mg/kg, ip) had no influence on functional signs after CPF but markedly decreased toxicity in PS-treated rats. The results suggest that extracellular eCBs levels can be markedly elevated by both PS and CPF. CB1-mediated signaling appears to play a role in the acute toxicity of PS but the role of eCBs in CPF toxicity remains unclear.
Glutamate-induced oxidative stress plays a critical role in the induction of neuronal cell death in a number of disease states. We sought to determine the role of the c-Jun NH(2) -terminal kinase (JNK)-p53-growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible gene (GADD) 45α apoptotic cascade in mediating glutamate-induced oxidative cytotoxicity in hippocampal neuronal cells.
HT22 cells, a mouse hippocampal neuronal cell line, were treated with glutamate to induce oxidative stress in vitro. Kainic acid-induced oxidative damage to the hippocampus in rats was used as an in vivo model. The signalling molecules along the JNK-p53-GADD45α cascade were probed with various means to determine their contributions to oxidative neurotoxicity.
Treatment of HT22 cells with glutamate increased the mRNA and protein levels of GADD45α, and these increases were suppressed by p53 knock-down. Knock-down of either p53 or GADD45α also prevented glutamate-induced cell death. Glutamate-induced p53 activation was preceded by accumulation of reactive oxygen species, and co-treatment with N-acetyl-cysteine prevented glutamate-induced p53 activation and GADD45α expression. Knock-down of MKK4 or JNK, or the presence of SP600125 (a JNK inhibitor), each inhibited glutamate-induced p53 activation and GADD45α expression. In addition, we also confirmed the involvement of GADD45α in mediating kainic acid-induced hippocampal oxidative neurotoxicity in vivo.
AND IMPLICATIONS Activation of the JNK-p53-GADD45α cascade played a critical role in mediating oxidative cytotoxicity in hippocampal neurons. Pharmacological inhibition of this signalling cascade may provide an effective strategy for neuroprotection.
This is a subproject of the Norwegian timolol myocardial infarction study carried out at one of the clinical centers. High risk patients surviving either a reinfarction or large initial infarction were randomized to placebo (44 pts) or timolol (37 pts). A 24 hour ECG was obtained the day before randomization (at baseline, 7-28 days after the acute attack) then 3 days, 1 month and 6 months after start of therapy. During this period the number of patients with one or more of ventricular couplets, bigemini, ventricular tachycardia or early cycle premature ventricular contractions (PVC) (i.e. complex ventricular arrhythmias) and the average number of PVC per hour increased significantly in the placebo group but not in the timolol group. The results indicate that there is an increased severity and incidence of ventricular arrhythmias in the first 6 months after myocardial infarction. Timolol effectively inhibited this trend. The importance of timolol as an antiarrhythmic agent may therefore be to prevent subclinical infarction extension and secondary ventricular arrhythmias related to the size of the myocardial damage.
A 31-year-old female who have snorted one "line" of cocaine hydrochloride (approximately 35 mg), for the first time in her life, was admitted to the hospital because of acute onset of right hemiplegia and left hemiparesis evolving into quadriplegia. Motor aphasia, right eye-ball divergent strabismus and right mouth recess lowering were also observed.
A first time mucosal administration of cocaine hydrochloride even in low dose can cause severe neurological complications like quadriplegia and aphasia. Cocaine-associated stroke can be a diagnostic problem in the emergency room. Unconscious patients or those with acute onset of neurological disorders can form a real diagnostic challenge, especially when there is no evidence of previous drug taking.
We describe 4 cases of delayed extrapyramidal disorder following acute dichlorvos poisonings. All patients were seriously poisoned since all exhibited profound coma and respiratory failure, and they were all tracheally intubated and mechanically ventilated. On admission, plasma cholinesterase activity was greaty decreased, < 10 micromol/ml/h at 37 C in all patients (< 10% of normal for our laboratory). Extrapyramidal symptoms occurred between 5 and 15 d and were characterized by dystonia of arms and legs, resting tremor, cogwheel rigidity, and hypereflexia. With bromocriptine therapy the features of extrapyramidal syndrome disappeared progressively with complete recovery in all patients. Our observations suggest a delayed extrapyramidal syndrome should be taken into account during the course of acute dichlorvos organophosphate poisonings.
Ergotamine has been associated with numerous vascular complications but only rarely with fibrosing disorders or valvular heart disease. Two patients are described in whom severe valvular dysfunction developed during ergotamine therapy for migraine headache. The surgically excised mitral and aortic valves were involved by a proliferative process that was strikingly similar to lesions described in patients with carcinoid heart disease and methysergide-associated valvular disease.
Drug-induced liver injury might be responsible for 1 of 600 to 3500 of all hospital admissions. About 2-3% of all drug adverse effects may be connected with the liver. There could be pure injury of heaptic cells or impairment of hepatocellular bile secretion. In our case there was cholestatic liver injury after the use of thiamazole with the complete regression after the discontinuation of the drug. For two years' the patient was treated with methyltiouracyl without any side effects. After 19 years, because of thyreotoxicosis, the methimazole was used. The acute cholestatic liver injury with the high serum bilirubin level (41.4 mg/dl) was observed. Despite the discontinuation of the drug the patient was deceased.
There are possible cross reactions among imidazolines in patients who are predispose to develop drug-induced liver failure. The doctors should pay much more attention to possible drug side effects.
Chronic GVHD (cGVHD) is a main cause of late death and morbidity after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation, but its pathogenesis remains unclear. We investigated the roles of Th subsets in cGVHD with the use of a well-defined mouse model of cGVHD. In this model, development of cGVHD was associated with up-regulated Th1, Th2, and Th17 responses. Th1 and Th2 responses were up-regulated early after BM transplantation, followed by a subsequent up-regulation of Th17 cells. Significantly greater numbers of Th17 cells were infiltrated in the lung and liver from allogeneic recipients than those from syngeneic recipients. We then evaluated the roles of Th1 and Th17 in cGVHD with the use of IFN-γ-deficient and IL-17-deficient mice as donors. Infusion of IFN-γ(-/-) or IL-17(-/-) T cells attenuated cGVHD in the skin and salivary glands. Am80, a potent synthetic retinoid, regulated both Th1 and Th17 responses as well as TGF-β expression in the skin, resulting in an attenuation of cutaneous cGVHD. These results suggest that Th1 and Th17 contribute to the development of cGVHD and that targeting Th1 and Th17 may therefore represent a promising therapeutic strategy for preventing and treating cGVHD.
A 76-year-old woman admitted to our hospital for jaundice had been treated for diabetes mellitus with insulin for 9 years and voglibose had been added for the 39 months preceding admission. Elevated serum bilirubin and transaminase concentration began to normalize with initiation of corticosteroid treatment 1 week after discontinuation of voglibose. In the in vitro testing of the patient's peripheral blood, lymphocytes showed stimulation by voglibose. In dramatic contrast to an initial liver biopsy specimen that demonstrated cholestasis with submassive and zonal necrosis, the follow-up specimen was normal 1 year later. We believe that patients treated with voglibose should be monitored long-term with monthly determinations of transaminases and bilirubin in serum.
An acute liver damage with jaun. dice and biochemical abnormalities developed in 16-year-old adolescent, affected by chronic hepatitis B, after 3 years of carbamazepine therapy. The maximum bilirubin concentration in the blood was 445 micromol/L and the highest activity of AST, ALT, PA, GTP were noted, 648 U/L, 1497 U/L, 312 U/L, 85 U/L respectively. INR was 1.59. The blood ammonia level was elevated to 60.9 micromol/L. The carbamazepine treatment was stopped and laboratory parameters improved.
Carbimazole, an antithyroid agent of the thioimidazole group, can induce unpredictable liver alterations, presumably by hypersensitivity. We describe the case of a hyperthyroid woman who suffered acute submassive cholestatic hepatitis in the course of treatment with this drug. We also review the other seven cases of carbimazole hepatotoxicity previously communicated in the literature.
Broad-spectrum cephalosporins are drugs of choice for the treatment of meningitis in communities which can afford them. The emergence of cephalosporin-resistant pneumococci demands the clinical trial of alternate agents. Carbapenems are active against the bacteria causing meningitis, but the use of imipenem-cilastatin was frustrated by drug-associated seizures. The safety and efficacy of meropenem, a new carbapenem, were compared to those of cefotaxime in a prospective randomized trial of 190 children with bacterial meningitis. Seizures occurred within 24 h before antibiotic therapy in 16 of 98 patients (16%) randomized to receive meropenem and in 6 of 92 patients (7%) randomized to receive cefotaxime. In patients without seizures before therapy, seizures occurred during therapy in 5 of 82 patients (6%) receiving meropenem and in 1 of 86 patients (1%) receiving cefotaxime (95% confidence interval: -0.7%, 10.6%). None were thought to be drug related. Twenty-four meropenem-treated patients (24%) and 11 cefotaxime-treated patients (12%) had neurological abnormalities before therapy. In patients without pretherapy neurological abnormalities, these abnormalities were present after treatment in 4 of 74 meropenem-treated patients (5%) and in 2 of 81 cefotaxime-treated patients (2%) (95% confidence interval: -3.2%, 9.1%). Of 75 meropenem-treated and 64 cefotaxime-treated patients with pretherapy positive cerebrospinal-fluid cultures, 68 and 59, respectively, had repeat lumbar punctures. Bacterial eradication was found to be 100% in both groups. Our data suggest that meropenem may be a carbapenem agent that is well tolerated and effective in the treatment of bacterial meningitis.
