We investigated the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure (PCE) on heart rate (HR) and heart rate variability (HRV) in the presence of orthostatic stress among near- and full-term neonates. PCE infants (n = 21) and controls (n = 23) were enrolled within 120 h of birth. ECG was recorded for an hour during quiet sleep, 30 min in supine position and then 30 min in an inclined position. Linear mixed models were used to analyze HR and HRV in the time domain and wavelet and power spectrum analyses in the frequency domain. PCE infants had tachycardia both before (p = 0.091) and after tilting (p = 0.015), but with a clear interaction between PCE and orthostatic stress (p = 0.049). Compared with controls, PCE infants had a delayed and prolonged reaction to orthostatic stress. There was also a pronounced interaction with regard to log-transformed SDDRR, a measure of HRV (p = 0.049). Controls experienced an instantaneous increase in log (SDDRR) followed by a prompt return to normal levels, while PCE infants had a gradual increase that did not dissipate quickly. Frequency-domain analyses also distinguished between the cocaine-exposed infants and the controls. Results suggest that the effects of PCE on the development of sympathetic and parasympathetic systems could lead to altered cardiovascular function.
Evidence is inconsistent or poorly understood for links between polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), 1,1'-dichloro-2,2'-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethylene (DDE), and organophosphate (OP) pesticides and adverse pregnancy outcomes, although they are known developmental toxicants. We measured biomarkers of maternal exposure to DDE, PCB, and OP metabolites in the third trimester of pregnancy among 404 mothers in a multiethnic cohort in New York City. We also determined maternal paraoxonase (PON1), butyrylcholinesterase (BuChe), and PON1Q192R gene variant. Higher multivariate-adjusted DDE levels (but not PCB) were associated with lower birth weight (-98 g/log10 DDE, p = 0.096) and head circumference (-0.54 cm/log10 DDE, p = 0.030). DDE and PCB levels were not related to birth length, Ponderal index, or gestational age. Birth length was shorter for mothers with PON192RR slow genotype compared with PON192QQ (p = 0.026), and head circumference was inversely associated with maternal PON1 activity (p = 0.004). With slow-activity PON1 or PON192, urinary diethylphosphates (SigmaDEPs) were associated with lower birth weight and dimethylphosphates (SigmaDMPs) with shorter birth length. No associations were found between birth outcomes and BuChe. In summary, we found suggestive relationships between prenatal environmental biomarkers and birth outcomes in this population. Maternal susceptibility factors including PON1 and maternal weight contributed to the observed effects.
Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis are common autoimmune thyroid disorders. Experimentally, 1,25(OH)(2) D(3) prevents Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Vitamin D serum levels in Graves' disease were found to be significantly lower than in nonautoimmune hyperthyroidism. The polymorphic vitamin D-binding protein (DBP) greatly facilitates vitamin D actions, and DBP alleles differ regarding their affinity for 1,25(OH)(2) D(3). Therefore, we investigated polymorphisms of the DBP gene for an association with thyroid autoimmunity. Families with an offspring affected by Graves' disease (95 pedigrees) or by Hashimoto's thyroiditis (92 pedigrees) encompassing 561 individuals of Caucasian origin were genotyped for three DBP polymorphisms [(TAAA)(N) in intron 8; StyI; and HaeIII in exon 11]. Indirect haplotyping and (extended) transmission disequilibrium testing were performed. There was a significant transmission disequilibrium of the intron 8 polymorphism in patients with Graves' disease (P < 0.03) but not of the exon 11 polymorphism. In contrast, neither the intron 8 nor the exon 11 polymorphism was associated with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Maternal and paternal transmission as well as allele frequencies in DQ2(+) and DQ2(-) patients did not differ in either disease. Therefore, allelic variants of the DBP gene confer susceptibility to Graves' disease but not to Hashimoto's thyroiditis in our population. These findings support a role of the vitamin D endocrine system in thyroid autoimmunity.
No definitive data are available about the possibility of predicting improvement in patients with neurocardiogenic syncope treated with beta blockers. Among 112 patients with syncope and a positive head-up tilt test (HUT), independent predictors for prevention of symptoms with beta blockers were determined using the Cox proportional hazards model. Each patient underwent HUT at 70 degrees for 20 minutes both in the drug-free state and during isoproterenol infusion given to increase the heart rate by at least 25%. Fifty-nine patients had a positive HUT during isoproterenol infusion and 53 in the drug-free state. All patients were then given esmolol infusion at 500 micrograms/kg per minute for 3 minutes followed by 300 micrograms/kg per minute maintenance dose. HUT was then repeated as previously described with or without isoproterenol, depending upon the initial positive response. Regardless of the response during esmolol, all patients were treated with metoprolol 50 to 100 mg twice daily. At follow-up, 36 patients experienced symptom relapse. Four of them had negative HUT on esmolol, whereas the remaining 32 did not respond to the acute infusion of esmolol. Only four patients with positive HUT on esmolol had a favorable response to metoprolol. Patients responding to metoprolol were older (55 +/- 12 years vs 42 +/- 15 years, P < 0.05). Response to metoprolol was predicted by a negative test on esmolol (P < 0.0001) and a positive HUT on isoproterenol (P < 0.001). Age older than 42 years was also associated with a higher likelihood of metoprolol success (P < 0.02).
Acute challenge with esmolol infusion appears to be an accurate predictor of response to chronic beta blockers, together with age and a positive HUT during low-dose isoproterenol infusion.
Autoimmune polyendocrinopathy-candidiasis-ectodermal dystrophy (APECED, OMIM 240300) is a rare autoimmune disease caused by mutations in the autoimmune regulator (AIRE) gene on chromosome 21q22.3. This monogenic disease provides an interesting model for studies of other common and more complex autoimmune diseases. The most common components of APECED are chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, hypoparathyroidism, and Addison's disease, but several other endocrine deficiencies and ectodermal dystrophies also occur and the phenotype varies widely. The AIRE genotype also varies; 42 different mutations have been reported so far. To understand the complexity of the phenotype, we studied the AIRE and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class II genotypes in a series of patients with APECED. The only association between the phenotype and the AIRE genotype was the higher prevalence of candidiasis in the patients with the most common mutation, R257X, than in those with other mutations. Addison's disease was associated with HLA-DRB1*03 (P = 0.021), alopecia with HLA-DRB1*04- DQB1*0302 (P < 0.001), whereas type 1 diabetes correlated negatively with HLA-DRB1*15-DQB1*0602 (P = 0.036). The same HLA associations have previously been established for non-APECED patients. We conclude that mutation of AIRE per se has little influence on the APECED phenotype, whereas, in contrast to earlier reports, HLA class II is a significant determinant.
Two patients presented with signs and symptoms of apparent zomepirac-induced anaphylactic shock. All recovered with appropriated therapy. The theories of the mechanisms by which nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs cause this serious adverse reaction are discussed.
A case of ocular toxicity of quinine is described. The effectiveness of a number of treatment modalities is evaluated in the light of its pathogenesis and potential for spontaneous recovery of sight.
A 49-year-old patient experienced chest discomfort while swallowing. On electrocardiogram, episodes of atrial tachyarrhythmia were recorded immediately after swallowing; 24-hour Holter monitoring recorded several events. The arrhythmia resolved after therapy with atenolol, but recurred a year later. The patient noticed that before these episodes he had been using an inhalator of salbutamol. After stopping the beta-agonist, and after a week with the atenolol, the arrhythmia disappeared.
Swallowing-induced atrial tachyarrhythmia (SIAT) is a rare phenomenon. Fewer than 50 cases of SIAT have been described in the literature. This article summarizes all the cases published, creating a comprehensive review of the current knowledge and approach to SIAT. It discusses demographics, clinical characteristics and types of arrhythmia, postulated mechanisms of SIAT, and different treatment possibilities such as medications, surgery, and radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFCA).
Salbutamol is presented here as a possible trigger for SIAT. Although it is difficult to define causality in a case report, it is logical to think that a beta-agonist like salbutamol (known to induce tachycardia) may be the trigger of adrenergic reflexes originating in the esophagus while swallowing and that a beta-blocker such as atenolol (that blocks the adrenergic activity) may relieve it.
A 72 year old female developed severe liver damage after intracranial surgery under isoflurane anesthesia. This patient showed a type of drug-induced liver dysfunction, and the result of delayed lymphocyte stimulation test was highly suggestive of isoflurane as the causative material, although influence of blood transfusion on the liver damage cannot be neglected completely.
Four of the six workmen who were engaged in laying an epoxy resin based floor developed an acute hepatic illness; in two of these men, the illness recurred on re-exposure a few months later, and their convalescence period was prolonged. It was concluded that methylenedianiline, which was used as the curing agent for the epoxy resin, was the likely hepatotoxin on the basis of marked similarities of these men's symptoms and signs to those described in other published reports about toxic exposure to this compound. To date, there is no evidence of long-term liver damage caused by this widely used industrial chemical.
Over-the-counter herbal and alternative medicines are classified as dietary supplements and, unlike drugs, are not rigorously regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration. Their potential adverse effects are often poorly characterized.
Red clover, dong quai, and Siberian ginseng are herbal compounds used for treatment of perimenopausal symptoms such as hot flashes. These compounds are known to contain coumarins, and thus carry the potential for hemorrhagic complications; however, no cases of intracranial hemorrhage have been reported.
We report a 53-year-old woman with spontaneous subarachnoid hemorrhage due to the use of an herbal supplement containing red clover, dong quai, and Siberian ginseng.
Methotrexate (MTX) is a cytostatic agent widely used in combination with other agents as adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer and is associated with cognitive impairment as a long-term side effect in some cancer patients. This paper aimed to identify a neurobiological mechanism possibly responsible for this cognitive impairment using an animal model. The first study explored the hypothesis that MTX reduces neuronal cell proliferation. A dose-dependent long-lasting decrease in hippocampal cell proliferation was shown with Ki-67 immunocytochemistry, following a single intravenous injection of MTX (37.5-300 mg/kg). Animals treated with MTX also showed a dose-dependent transient decrease in body weight gain. In the second study, the effect of MTX (250 mg/kg) on two spatial learning tasks was examined. Animals treated with MTX learned the Morris water maze task adequately; however, these animals showed a longer latency time to cross the platform location in the probe trial, reflecting an impairment of spatial memory function. In the novel object recognition task, animals treated with MTX failed to distinguish a novel object from a familiar one, indicating a decrease in the comparator function of the hippocampus. Our studies indicated that, in the rat, MTX has a dose-dependent negative effect on hippocampal cell proliferation, and on cognitive behavior. These findings suggest that adverse effects of certain cytotoxic agents on hippocampal cell proliferation may have a potential contributory role in cognitive impairment observed in humans after chemotherapy.
To compare the clinical efficacy of hyperbaric 0.5% ropivacaine and 0.5% bupivacaine in subarachnoid blockade for ambulatory surgery.
Randomized double-blind study of 90 patients undergoing lower abdominal surgery. Subarachnoid blockade was achieved with 0.5% ropivacaine (12.5 mg) or 0.5% bupivacaine (12.5 mg) in 10% glucose. We recorded age, sex, weight, latency, extension of motor and sensory blocks, duration of surgery, side effects and quality as perceived by the surgeon and the patient.
The two groups were similar with respect to latency time and extension of sensory block. Durations of motor (68.9 +/- 22.9 min) and sensory (127.0 +/- 24.3 min) blocks were significantly shorter with ropivacaine than with bupivacaine (133.3 +/- 29.4 and 174.9 +/- 25.5 min, respectively). Patients in the ropivacaine group also experienced a less intense motor block (Bromage 1, 11.1% vs. 93.3%) and fewer episodes of hypotension 0% vs. 17.7%) or bradycardia (4.4% vs. 8.8%) than those in the bupivacaine group. No neurotoxic effects or instances of postdural puncture headache were recorded.
Hyperbaric 0.5% ropivacaine offers certain advantages over hyperbaric 0.5% bupivacaine for subarachnoid block in outpatient surgery. Duration and intensity of the sensory-motor blockade is less with ropivacaine and fewer cardiovascular side effects develop.
Although nephrotoxicity is a common and well-recognized side effect of amphotericin B, hepatotoxicity is rare. We report on a 9-year-old girl with cystic fibrosis who developed fulminant renal and hepatic dysfunction following a short course of intravenous amphotericin B for a suspected aspergillus infection, although she did not have clinical evidence of invasive aspergillosis. The toxicity became apparent after changing to liposomal amphotericin. This association of renal and hepatotoxicity with liposomal amphotericin B has not previously been reported in children.
The objective of the present study was to evaluate the time course of changes in peripheral nerve insulin receptor (IR) signaling and compare observed findings with behavioral responses to noxious mechanical and thermal stimuli in streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats over 12 weeks of diabetes. Diabetic rats developed mechanical hyperalgesia, as indicated by decreased paw withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimuli that were detectable after 2 weeks of diabetes; they also developed thermal hypoalgesia, as indicated by increased tail flick latencies to thermal stimuli that were detectable at 1 week of diabetes. Western blot analysis revealed decreased phosphorylated: total IR protein ratio that was detectable as early as 2 weeks of diabetes, whereas phosphorylated:total Akt protein ratio was decreased at 2 weeks and increased at 12 weeks of diabetes with unchanged PI-3K protein levels. To our knowledge, the present study is the first to demonstrate that impaired peripheral nerve IR signaling, as indicated by decreased phosphorylated:total IR protein ratio, coincides with early mechanical hyperalgesia and thermal hypoalgesia in STZ-diabetic rats. This finding may improve understanding of how altered pain sensation develops rapidly in this model.
This study examined peripheral nerve IR signaling during the early course of altered nociception in STZ-diabetic rats. In diabetic rats, impaired peripheral nerve IR signaling is observed shortly after STZ injection, as is altered nociception. This finding suggests a possible role of impaired IR signaling in diabetic sensory neuropathy.
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) that display tumor-initiating properties have recently been identified. CD133, a surface glycoprotein linked to organ-specific stem cells, has been described as a marker of CSCs in different tumor types. We herein identify and characterize CSCs in human uterine carcinosarcoma (malignant mixed Müllerian tumor), which is one of the most aggressive and therapy-resistant gynecological malignancies and is considered to be of mesodermal origin. The CD133(+) population was increased in uterine carcinosarcoma, and this population showed biphasic properties in the primary tumor. CD133(+) cells predominantly formed spheres in culture and were able to differentiate into mesenchymal lineages. CD133(+) cells were more resistant to cisplatin/paclitaxel-induced cytotoxicity in comparison with CD133(-) cells. A real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis of the genes implicated in stem cell maintenance revealed that CD133(+) cells express significantly higher levels of Oct4, Nanog, Sox2, and Bmi1 than CD133(-) cells. Moreover, CD133(+) cells showed a high expression level of Pax2 and Wnt4, which are genes essential for Müllerian duct formation. These CD133(+) cells form serially transplantable tumors in vivo and the resulting CD133(+) tumors replicated the EpCAM, vimentin, and estrogen and progesterone receptor expression of the parent tumor, indicating that CSCs likely differentiated into cells comprising the uterine carcinosarcoma tissue. Moreover, strong CD133 expression in both epithelial and mesenchymal elements in primary tumor demonstrated significant prognostic value. These findings suggest that CD133(+) cells have the characteristics of CSCs and Müllerian mesenchymal progenitors.
Twenty-three calcium stone formers with idiopathic hypercalciuria were entered into an open study to examine the effects of flurbiprofen (Froben) on urinary calcium excretion. Five patients were withdrawn because of side effects. A statistically significant reduction in urinary calcium excretion was noted after 2 (P = 0.004) and 6 (P = 0.001) weeks' treatment. There was a significant increase in urinary calcium excretion after stopping the treatment (P = 0.0006). The results suggest that flurbiprofen reduces calcium excretion in the urine but the high incidence of side effects may limit its use in routine treatment of hypercalciuria.
We treated 25 patients with ureteral colic and urographically verified stones with 50 mg. indomethacin intravenously. Pain was relieved completely in 17 patients, while in 8 incomplete or no pain relief was achieved after the infusion of indomethacin. Patients completely relieved of pain had significantly higher levels of antidiuretic hormone in plasma before the infusion of indomethacin (18.2 plus or minus 3.4 pg./ml.) than patients with incomplete or no pain relief (7.2 plus or minus 1.3 pg./ml.) (p less than 0.01). These findings indicate that the volume status and/or the level of antidiuretic hormone may be of critical importance for pain relief after infusion of indomethacin in patients with ureteral colic.
Neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) expression is widely variable among affected infants and the reasons for this variability are largely unknown; mechanisms that predispose infants to NAS expression are not understood. It has been postulated that the regulatory problems of prenatally drug exposed infants are manifested in dysfunctional vagal regulation of autonomic processes. The current study examines whether cardiac vagal tone, an indicator of parasympathetic neuroregulation, provides a marker for autonomic dysregulation subsequently expressed as NAS in prenatally opioid-exposed newborns.
Heart period (HP) and cardiac vagal tone (V) were derived from electrocardiogram data collected from 64 methadone-exposed infants on postnatal days 1 and 3. The postpartum NAS course was assessed serially.
Infants with lower V on day 1 had significantly higher NAS symptomatology on day 3. Boys had more severe NAS symptoms than girls through the first 4 days of life and, among infants receiving pharmacologic treatment for NAS, boys required longer treatment course and hospitalizations. Greater poly-drug exposure, detected through toxicology screening throughout pregnancy, and cocaine use in particular, were associated with lower V and shorter HP (faster heart rate) in newborns. Multiple regression models accounted for 25-35% of the variance in NAS symptoms and duration of hospitalization in methadone-exposed infants. Significant predictors included infant sex, SSRI/SNRI use, and cigarette smoking.
Results support the hypothesis of a biologic vulnerability of autonomic regulatory functioning in methadone-exposed infants and greater male infant vulnerability to maternal methadone use.
Rosiglitazone and pioglitazone are thiazolidinediones used for treatment of noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. These compounds, along with troglitazone, were evaluated for the ability to induce cytochrome P450 enzymes (P450) in primary human hepatocyte cultures and to inhibit P450 in human microsomes. In induction studies, all three thiazolidinediones caused a dose-dependent increase in CYP3A4 activity and immunoreactive protein. While troglitazone was the most potent, rosiglitazone and pioglitazone generally exceeded troglitazone in absolute CYP3A4 activity achieved at concentrations > or =10 microM. A comparable concentration-dependent increase in CYP2B6 immunoreactive protein was observed with all three thiazolidinediones. Microarray analysis revealed rifampin > troglitazone > pioglitazone > rosiglitazone in terms of CYP3A4 mRNA induction potential with 10 microM compound. Inhibition studies conducted for CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, CYP2A6, and CYP2E1 showed troglitazone to be the most nonselective and potent inhibitor followed by rosiglitazone and pioglitazone. In vitro, the thiazolidinediones were strong inhibitors of CYP2C8, with K(i) values between 1.7 and 5.6 microM, and of CYP3A4, with K(i) values between 1.6 and 11.8 microM. Troglitazone, in addition, inhibited CYP2C9 (K(i) 0.6 microM). Although the inhibitory effects of the thiazolidinediones have not been demonstrated clinically, our results suggest there is potential for interactions with CYP2C8 substrates. This is the first report of in vitro induction of P450 enzymes by rosiglitazone and pioglitazone. While only the induction of CYP3A4 by troglitazone has been demonstrated in vivo, these results suggest that other thiazolidinediones may have the potential to cause clinically significant drug interactions at sufficiently high doses.
The tolerance and dependence after chronic medication with morphine are thought to be representative models for studying the plasticity, including the remodeling of neuronal networks. To test the hypothesis that changes in neuronal plasticity observed in opioid tolerance or dependence are derived from increased activity of the anti-opioid nociceptin system, the effects of chronic treatments with morphine were examined using nociceptin receptor knock-out (NOR(-/-)) mice and a novel nonpeptidic NOR antagonist, J-113397, which shows a specific and potent NOR antagonist activity in in vitro [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding assay and in vivo peripheral nociception test. The NOR(-/-) mice showed marked resistance to morphine analgesic tolerance without affecting morphine analgesic potency in tail-pinch and tail-flick tests. The NOR(-/-) mice also showed marked attenuation of morphine-induced physical dependence, manifested as naloxone-precipitated withdrawal symptoms after repeated morphine treatments. Similar marked attenuation of morphine tolerance was also observed by single subcutaneous (10 mg/kg) or intrathecal (1 nmol) injection of J-113397, which had been given 60 min before the test in morphine-treated ddY mice. However, the intracerebroventricular injection (up to 3 nmol) did not affect the tolerance. On the other hand, morphine dependence was markedly attenuated by J-113397 that had been subcutaneously given 60 min before naloxone challenge. There was also observed a parallel enhancement of NOR gene expression only in the spinal cord during chronic morphine treatments. Together, these findings suggest that the spinal NOR system develops anti-opioid plasticity observed on morphine tolerance and dependence.
IFN-inducible protein-10 (IP-10/CXCL10) is a potent chemoattractant for activated T lymphocytes and was reported recently to have several additional biologic activities. In this study, the pathophysiologic role of IP-10 in the glomerular visceral epithelial cell (podocyte) was investigated. In cultured podocytes subjected to recombinant IP-10 treatment, the expression of slit-diaphragm (SD) components nephrin and podocin clearly was heightened. Rats that had puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy and anti-nephrin antibody-induced nephropathy and were subjected to anti-IP-10 function-blocking antibody (anti-IP-10 mAb) treatment displayed a decrease in the protein level of SD components, as well as exacerbated proteinuria. For exploration of the mechanisms of this process, the interaction between IP-10 and the cell-cycle regulatory proteins was investigated. Cultured podocytes subjected to recombinant IP-10 treatment displayed an increase in the protein level of p27(Kip1), whereas the levels of cyclins E and A decreased. The expression of IP-10 and SD components was heightened by the treatment of siRNA of cyclin A, whereas these expressions were lowered by the treatment of siRNA of p27(Kip1). Proteinuric rats subjected to anti-IP-10 mAb treatment displayed a heightened expression of cyclin A from the early phase of the disease, which indicates that the anti-IP-10 mAb treatment exacerbates podocyte injury by disturbing the cell-cycle balance. These results raise the possibility that IP-10 could become a novel therapeutic target in nephrotic syndrome and several diseases with altered cell-cycle balance.
Retinoids are crucial in the regulation of fundamental cellular processes including terminal differentiation of both normal and malignant myeloid progenitors. The aim of this study was to identify and characterize retinoic acid (RA) target genes.
RTP801 is a recently cloned stress response gene that acts as a negative regulator of the mTOR pathway. Here we identified RTP801 as a novel early RA target gene in myeloid cells. RTP801 mRNA levels are induced in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell lines during RA-dependent differentiation and are differentially expressed during maturation of normal CD34(+) cells. The myeloid-specific, differentiation-related transcription factor C/EBPepsilon also induces RTP801 expression. Overexpression of RTP801 in the U937 leukemic cells leads to growth inhibition and apoptosis. Conversely, silencing of endogenous RTP801 by shRNA reduces RA-induced differentiation of the U937 cells. Downregulation of RTP801 also abrogates hypoxia-induced inhibition of mTOR in those cells.
Taken together, our data suggest that RTP801 is an important RA-regulated gene involved in myeloid differentiation, which could represent a therapeutic target in leukemia.
The effect on central myelin of Actinomycin D, an RNA--and, secondarily, a protein-synthesis inhibitor, has been studied by light and electron microscopy. The intracranial injection of this drug produced an extensive status spongiosus of the white matter in the cerebrum, cerebellum, brain stem and optic nerve within 48 h. The status spongiosus was due to vacuole formation within the myelin sheath and to enlargement of the extracellular space. Three types of vacuoles were observed: (a) the most common varieties formed between the inner tongue and the remainder of the myelin sheath; (b) a second variety formed by enlargement of the periaxonal space with separation of the axon from its myelin sheath, and (c) a less common type of vacuolization was due to splitting of the myelin lamellae at the interperiod line to form large intramyelinic vacuoles. Myelinic vacuoles were preceded by nuclear and cytoplasmic changes in oligodendrocytes, which included nucleolar segregation, disaggregation, and diminution in number of ribosomes. These changes were similar to those previously reported in a variety of cells exposed to Actinomycin D. It is suggested that myelin vacuoles result secondarily from the Actinomycin D inhibitory effect on oligodendroglial RNA--and protein-synthesis, rather than from a direct effect of this drug on the myelin sheath.
The premature infant is at increased risk of cerebral white matter injury. Melatonin is neuroprotective in adult models of focal cerebral ischemia and attenuates ibotenate-induced white matter cysts in neonatal mice. Clinically, melatonin has been used to treat sleep disorders in children without major side effects. The aim of this study was to investigate the protective and anti-inflammatory effects of melatonin in the immature brain following intrauterine asphyxia. Fetal sheep at 90 d of gestation were subjected to umbilical cord occlusion. Melatonin (20 mg/kg, n = 9) or vehicle (n = 10) was administered IV to the fetus, starting 10 min after the start of reperfusion and continued for 6 h. Melatonin treatment resulted in a slower recovery of fetal blood pressure following umbilical cord occlusion, but without changes in fetal heart rate, acid base status or mortality. The production of 8-isoprostanes following umbilical cord occlusion was attenuated and there was a reduction in the number of activated microglia cells and TUNEL-positive cells in melatonin treated fetuses, suggesting a protective effect of melatonin. In conclusion, this study shows that melatonin attenuates cell death in the fetal brain in association with a reduced inflammatory response in the blood and the brain following intrauterine asphyxia in mid-gestation fetal sheep.
We have previously shown heregulin (HRG)-alpha expression in human gastric fibroblasts and its stimulation of gastric epithelial cell growth. Although cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 has also been shown to stimulate growth factor production in these cells, the interaction between COX-2 and HRG remains unknown. Conditioned media (CM) from gastric fibroblasts incubated with PGE(2) or interleukin (IL)-1beta, a well known COX-2 inducer, were analyzed for their effect on erbB3 tyrosine phosphorylation in MKN28 gastric epithelial cells. HRG protein expression in fibroblast lysates and CM was also examined by western blot. HRG-alpha and HRG-beta mRNA expression in gastric fibroblasts and human gastric tissue was examined by real-time quantitative PCR. HRG and COX-2 expressions in surgical resections of human gastric ulcer tissue were examined immunohistochemically. CM from fibroblasts incubated with PGE(2), or IL-1beta, stimulated erbB3 phosphorylation in MKN28 cells. Preincubation of the fibroblasts with celecoxib, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, suppressed CM-induced erbB3 phosphorylation. This inhibition was reversed by exogenous PGE(2). As with erbB3 phophorylation, IL-1beta stimulated both HRG-alpha and HRG-beta mRNA expression, as well as HRG release into gastric fibroblast CM. IL-1beta-stimulated HRG expression and release were also inhibited by celecoxib, and exogenous PGE(2) restored this inhibitory effect, suggesting the activation of an IL-1beta-COX-2-PGE(2) pathway that culminates in the release of HRG from fibroblasts. HRG-alpha and HRG-beta mRNA levels were significantly higher in gastric ulcer tissue than in normal gastric mucosa. HRG immunoreactivity was found in interstitial cells of the gastric ulcer bed and coexpressed with COX-2. These results suggest that HRG might be a new member of the growth factor family involved in the COX-2-dependent ulcer repair process.
