Potentially serious cardiovascular changes occur in alcoholics as a results of carbimide-ethanol reactions (CERs). Hypotension and tachycardia often occur when blood acetaldehyde levels increase. Hypotension with bradycardia can also occur secondary to vagal stimulation, the results of retching or vomiting. Conservative procedures (e.g., modified Trendelenburg's position) are usually effective in reversing the hypotension but in severe reactions active treatment (intravenous fluids, O2, and drugs) may be indicated. Three case reports are presented to illustrate cardiovascular responses during CERs; for comparison, changes for one subject during a disulfiram reaction are also presented. Caution is recommended in screening alcoholics before treatment with carbimide or disulfiram so as to rule out cardiovascular, hepatic, or renal diseases.
A case of thoraco-abdominal rigidity leading to respiratory failure is described in the post-operative period in an elderly patient who received a moderate dose of fentanyl. This was successfully reversed by naloxone. The mechanisms possibly implicated in this accident are discussed.
A report of a case of prolonged apnoea after succicurarium in a female patient with abnormal pseudo-cholinesterases is followed by a presentation of a study of pseudo-cholinesterases in 12 members of the family. The value of the use of 4 tests of inhibition of cholinesterase activity in determining the genotype of an individual is emphasised.
This double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group study was designed to show that a pharmacokinetically enhanced formulation of oral amoxycillin-clavulanate (16:1, 2000/125 mg), twice daily, is at least as effective clinically and microbiologically as oral amoxycillin-clavulanate 1000/125 mg, three times daily, in the 10 day treatment of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in adults. The pharmacokinetically enhanced formulation is designed to provide higher serum concentrations of amoxycillin for a longer period than standard dosing to achieve coverage of Streptococcus pneumoniae isolates with amoxycillin-clavulanic acid minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) up to and including 4 mg/l. A total of 344 patients with CAP from 77 centres received amoxycillin-clavulanate 2000/125 mg twice daily for 10 days (169 patients) or amoxycillin-clavulanate 1000/125 mg three times daily for 10 days (175 patients). The most common pathogen isolated was S. pneumoniae (52.3% of patients, amoxycillin-clavulanate 2000/125 mg group; 46.8% of patients, amoxycillin-clavulanate 1000/125 mg group). In the clinical per-protocol (PP) population at test of cure (days 18-39), the clinical success rate in the amoxycillin-clavulanate 2000/125 mg group was at least as good as in the amoxycillin-clavulanate 1000/125 mg group (91.5 and 93.0%, respectively; 95% CI, -8.3, 5.4). The radiological and bacteriological success rates at test of cure for the PP populations were 92.4 and 90.6% in the amoxycillin-clavulanate 2000/125 mg group and 93.9 and 84.4% in the amoxycillin-clavulanate 1000/125 mg group, respectively. The clinical, bacteriological and radiological success rates at the end of therapy (days 11-17) for the PP populations were all over 85%. Both regimens were well tolerated, with no differences in adverse events between the groups. Amoxycillin-clavulanate 2000/125 mg, twice daily, is well tolerated and at least as effective clinically as amoxycillin-clavulanate 1000/125 mg, three times daily, in patients with CAP and may also be appropriate for the treatment of infections due to S. pneumoniae strains with high-level penicillin resistance.
Preinjury warfarin anticoagulation has been shown to increase the mortality of traumatic intracranial hemorrhage. We have evaluated the impact on patient mortality of the rapid triage of patients at risk for warfarin associated traumatic intracranial hemorrhage.
A "Coumadin Protocol" was implemented in January, 2001 in the Emergency Department that expedited triage of anticoagulated trauma patients to immediate physician evaluation. Patient outcomes during a 2 year period were compared with a matched control group of similarly injured, anticoagulated patients who were treated before protocol initiation.
Thirty-five patients were treated after implementation of the Coumadin Protocol. Mean time until warfarin reversal was 4.3 +/- 4.4 hours, and there was a 37% mortality. Twenty-two control patients had a mean time to reversal of 4.2 +/- 2.9 hours, with a 45% mortality (p = 0.610). Ten protocol patients were shown to have intracranial hemorrhage progression by computed tomography (CT) scan, with a 60% mortality rate. Seventeen patients had follow-up CT scan and showed no progression; only one of these patients (6%) died (p = 0.004). Hemorrhage severity based on the initial CT scan did not predict mortality or hemorrhagic progression.
We conclude from these data that a trauma center protocol for rapid identification of intracranial bleeding without a concomitant therapeutic protocol does not improve survival in head injured patients on preinjury warfarin.
Five consecutive cases of the NMS are presented, in all of which a catatonic state preceded the onset of the condition. Catatonia would appear to represent a highly significant risk factor for the NMS and a possible causal link between the two disorders is suggested.
Rats were used to study acute and subacute hepatotoxicity of 1,3-dibromobenzene (1,3-dBB). In the single-exposure experiment, maximum hepatic 1,3-dBB concentrations were found to occur 1 to 12 h after the exposure, depending on the dose. Maximum concentrations of covalently bound adducts were reached after 12 h. Depletion of hepatic glutathione (GSH) content occurred during the first 24 h following the exposure, but was not accompanied by changes in alanine aminotransferase (ALT) activity. The increased number of doses also did not result in necrotic lesions of the liver. In the subacute (28-day) experiment, higher hepatic GSH levels and increased blood serum gamma-glutamyltransferase (gamma-GT) activity were observed. Exposure to 1,3-dBB resulted in increased porphyrin excretion in urine, without accompanying increase in the removal of delta-aminolevulinic acid (AlA-U). The results indicate that subacute exposure to 1,3-dBB produces porphyrinuria in the rat.
The objective of this meta-analysis is to summarize the efficacy and tolerability of the new antipsychotics risperidone, olanzapine, sertindole and quetiapine in schizophrenia compared to placebo and conventional antipsychotics. The main results are: (1) All of the 4 new drugs are more effective than placebo, but the magnitude of the effect is only moderate [mean effect size, r, of all antipsychotics vs. placebo = 0.25, with a 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.22-0.28, n = 2477]. (2) According to the studies published to date, sertindole and quetiapine are as effective as haloperidol, and risperidone and olanzapine are slightly more effective than haloperidol in the treatment of global schizophrenic symptomatology. (3) With respect to negative symptoms, all new antipsychotics are more effective than placebo. However, contrary to widespread opinion, so is the 'conventional' antipsychotic haloperidol. Risperidone and olanzapine are slightly superior, sertindole is as effective and--according to the only study fully published to date--quetiapine is even slightly less effective than haloperidol in this regard. (4) All new antipsychotics are associated with less frequent use of antiparkinson medication than haloperidol, with risperidone appearing to have a slightly less favourable EPS-profile than the other new antipsychotics. The methodological limitations of this review, the generalizability of the results and expectations from future research are discussed.
Despite the availability of several new agents for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), sulfasalazine remains the mainstay because of both cost and experience with its use. Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is involved in folate metabolism and several polymorphisms have been described in the MTHFR gene. Of these, the 677C>T and 1298A>C polymorphisms have been associated with altered enzyme activity. To examine the association between 677C>T and 1298A>C MTHFR polymorphisms and sulfasalazine efficacy for the treatment of RA, a total of 117 RA patients treated with sulfasalazine (1 g daily; duration of treatment 17 +/- 5 months) were analyzed. The 677C>T and 1298 A>C polymorphisms were detected using a PCR-RFLP method. RA was diagnosed according to the criteria of the American College of Rheumatology (ACR). The remission of RA symptoms was evaluated according to the ACR 20% response criteria. Allele and genotype frequencies were compared by the two-sided Fisher exact test. The frequency of remission was 47.2% and 44.6% in carriers of 677T and 1298C alleles, compared to 40.7% and 42.0% in carriers of 677C and 1298A alleles, respectively. These differences were statistically non-significant. When the multivariate analysis was additionally adjusted for patients' age, gender and RA duration, the association of the MTHFR 677T allele with increased frequency of remission was statistically significant. Although RA remission rate in carriers of the MTHFR 677T and 1298C alleles was more frequently observed, it does not seem that 677C>T and 1298A>C MTHFR polymorphisms have a major influence on treatment outcome in RA patients treated with sulfasalazine.
Testosterone (T) supplementation increases skeletal muscle mass, circulating GH, IGF-I, and im IGF-I expression, but the role of GH and IGF-I in mediating T's effects on the skeletal muscle remains poorly understood. Here, we show that T administration increased body weight and the mass of the androgen-dependent levator ani muscle in hypophysectomized as well as castrated plus hypophysectomized adult male rats. T stimulated the proliferation of primary human skeletal muscle cells (hSKMCs) in vitro, an effect blocked by transfecting hSKMCs with small interference RNA targeting human IGF-I receptor (IGF-IR). In differentiation conditions, T promoted the fusion of hSKMCs into larger myotubes, an effect attenuated by small interference RNA targeting human IGF-IR. Notably, MKR mice, which express a dominant negative form of the IGF-IR in skeletal muscle fibers, treated with a GnRH antagonist (acyline) to suppress endogenous T, responded to T administration by an attenuated increase in the levator ani muscle mass. In conclusion, circulating GH and IGF-I are not essential for mediating T's effects on an androgen-responsive skeletal muscle. IGF-I signaling plays an important role in mediating T's effects on skeletal muscle progenitor cell growth and differentiation in vitro. However, IGF-IR signaling in skeletal muscle fibers does not appear to be obligatory for mediating the anabolic effects of T on the mass of androgen-responsive skeletal muscles in mice.
The role of oxidative stress in pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus was investigated by measuring lipid peroxidation level, nitrite content, GSH concentration, and superoxide dismutase and catalase activities in the hippocampus of Wistar rats. The control group was subcutaneously injected with 0.9% saline. The experimental group received pilocarpine (400 mg.kg(-1), subcutaneous). Both groups were killed 24 h after treatment. After the induction of status epilepticus, there were significant increases (77% and 51%, respectively) in lipid peroxidation and nitrite concentration, but a 55% decrease in GSH content. Catalase activity was augmented 88%, but superoxide dismutase activity remained unaltered. These results show evidence of neuronal damage in the hippocampus due to a decrease in GSH concentration and an increase in lipid peroxidation and nitrite content. GSH and catalase activity are involved in mechanisms responsible for eliminating oxygen free radicals during the establishment of status epilepticus in the hippocampus. In contrast, no correlations between superoxide dismutase and catalase activities were observed. Our results suggest that GSH and catalase activity play an antioxidant role in the hippocampus during status epilepticus.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, both nonselective and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) selective, delay gastric ulcer healing. Whether they affect esophageal ulcer healing remains unexplored. We studied the effects of the COX-2 selective inhibitor, celecoxib, on esophageal ulcer healing as well as on the cellular and molecular events involved in the healing process. Esophageal ulcers were induced in rats by focal application of acetic acid. Rats with esophageal ulcers were treated intragastrically with either celecoxib (10 mg/kg, once daily) or vehicle for 2 or 4 days. Esophageal ulceration triggered increases in: esophageal epithelial cell proliferation; expression of COX-2 (but not COX-1); hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and its receptor, c-Met; and activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2). Treatment with celecoxib significantly delayed esophageal ulcer healing and suppressed ulceration-triggered increases in esophageal epithelial cell proliferation, c-Met mRNA and protein expression, and ERK2 activity. In an ex vivo organ-culture system, exogenous HGF significantly increased ERK2 phosphorylation levels in esophageal mucosa. A structural analog of celecoxib, SC-236, completely prevented this effect. These findings indicate that celecoxib delays esophageal ulcer healing by reducing ulceration-induced esophageal epithelial cell proliferation. These actions are associated with, and likely mediated by, down-regulation of the HGF/c-Met-ERK2 signaling pathway.
Two siblings of juvenile parkinson's disease dystonic type (JPA Yokochi type 3) and hereditary progressive dystonia with marked diurnal fluctuation (Segawa, HPD) were reported. The family had consanguinity. The elder brother suffered from resting tremor of legs, left foot dystonia and left pes equinovarus at the age of 12 years and 5 months. At the age of 15, he developed tremor and rigidity of upper extremities. These symptoms did not show diurnal fluctuation and markedly responded to L-dopa treatment. He implicated wearing-off phenomenon at the age of 16, and on-off phenomenon and L-dopa-induced dyskinesia at the age of 18. He was diagnosed as JPA Yokochi type 3. The younger brother suffered from left pes equinovarus, right scoliosis and foot dystonia at the age of 8 years. These symptoms showed remarkable diurnal fluctuation, which ameliorated after sleep or rest and worsened afternoon. He noticed fine postural tremor of upper extremities at psychological tense state and right pes varus at the age of 16. He received L-dopa at the age of 17 and became to be remission. He was diagnosed as HPD. Since these two disorders related to basal ganglia show similar clinical symptoms mainly consisting of foot dystonia and similar clinicopharmacological response to L-dopa, it has been assumed that shared abnormalities in pathomechanism can exist between them. This study indicates that the same gene-regulated abnormality may participate in the development of these two disorders.
Oxidative stress plays a causative role in the development of hepatic fibrosis and apoptosis. Estradiol (E2) is an antioxidant, and idoxifene is a tissue-specific selective estrogen receptor modulator. We have previously demonstrated that E2 inhibits hepatic fibrosis in a rat model of hepatic fibrosis induced with dimethylnitrosamine (DMN), and suppresses activation of the nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB proinflammatory transcription factor in cultured rat hepatocytes undergoing oxidative stress. This study reports on the antioxidant and antiapoptotic role of idoxifene and E2 in the DMN model of hepatic fibrosis. The DMN model rats were administered with idoxifene or E2, and were examined activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and expression of Bcl-2 family proteins in the liver. During the course of hepatofibrogenesis after DMN treatment, serum levels of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), a biomarker for necrosis, and hepatic levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), an end product of lipid peroxidation, increased rapidly for 3 days. On day 14, serum LDH levels normalized, and hepatic fibrosis developed with increased levels of MDA and collagen and decreased production of SOD and GPx in the liver. Fibrotic liver also showed downregulation of Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L) expression and upregulation of Bad expression. Idoxifene and E2 suppressed DMN-mediated necrosis, lipid peroxidation, the loss of antioxidant enzyme activity, and proapoptotic status in Bcl-2 family protein expression as well as hepatic fibrosis. These findings indicate that, in addition to their antiinflammatory and antifibrotic action, idoxifene and E2 could enhance antioxidant and antiapoptotic activity in hepatic fibrosis in rats.
The therapeutically available quinolone antibiotic moxifloxacin has been used as a positive control for prolonging the QT interval in both clinical and non-clinical studies designed to assess the potential of new drugs to delay cardiac repolarization. Despite moxifloxacin prolonging QT, it has not been shown to cause torsades de pointes arrhythmias (TdP). Azithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic that has rarely been associated, clinically, with cases of proarrhythmia. As there is a lack of clinical data available, the cardiac safety of these drugs was assessed in a TdP-susceptible animal model by evaluating their repolarization and proarrhythmia effects.
In transfected HEK cells, the IC(50)s for I (hERG) were 45+/-6 and 856+/-259 microg ml(-1) for moxifloxacin and azithromycin, respectively. Intravenous administration of 2 and 8 mg kg(-1) moxifloxacin (total peak-plasma concentrations 4.6+/-1.5 and 22.9+/-6.8 microg ml(-1)) prolonged the QT(c) in 6 anaesthetized dogs with chronic AV block by 7+/-3 and 21+/-19%, respectively. Similar intravenous doses of azithromycin (total peak-plasma concentrations 5.4+/-1.3 and 20.8+/-4.9 microg ml(-1)) had no electrophysiological effects in the same dogs. The reference compound, dofetilide (25 microg kg(-1) i.v.) caused QT(c) prolongation (29+/-15%) and TdP in all dogs. Beat-to-beat variability of repolarization (BVR), quantified as short-term variability of the left ventricular monophasic action potential duration, was only increased after dofetilide (1.8+/-0.7 to 3.8+/-1.5 ms; P<0.05).
As neither moxifloxacin nor azithromycin caused TdP or an increase in the BVR, we conclude that both drugs can be used safely in clinical situations.
This retrospective study was performed on 92 patients diagnosed with acute renal failure (ARF) post discontinuous rifampicin treatment, admitted between 1974-2000, in Hemodialysis Center of 1st Timisoara Clinical County Hospital. The passage from the continuous treatment (7/7) to discontinuous RMP treatment triggered the ARF in 77 patients and the restart of the treatment after one year or more of treatment arrest, lead to ARF in 15 cases. The ARF symptomatology appeared in the first 12 hrs of treatment resumption in 14.13% cases and in 85.87% after 38.5 +/- 8.2 hrs. The most frequent symptoms were lumbar pain in 76.08%, nausea and vomiting in 60.86%, abdominal pain (52.17% of cases) flu-like (fever, chills, myalgia), jaundice, diarrhea, hypotension, confusion and hypertension in only 7.6% of cases. In 94.56% of cases renal symptoms appeared in normal kidneys. The renal injury evolution was favorable, with significant improvements after 20 days in serum and urine biological parameters. The antibodies anti-RMP were present in serum 55.43% of patients, in 80.39% of them, the presence of antibodies was related to high values of gamma-globulins. In 33.69% of patients sterile leukocyturia, considered a marker of interstitial nephritis, was present. The most frequent associated ARF complications were the hemolytic anemia emphasized by high levels of unconjugated bilirubin and positive Coombs' test in 93.3% of patients, and liver injuries, present in 41.69% of cases. Thrombocytopenia was registered in 27.7% of cases, infections in 28.6%, gastrointestinal complications in 11.95%, and cardiovascular complications in 9.78% of cases, these severe forms leading to the death of patients. The ARF post discontinuous rifampicin treatment presents a favorable evolution even when it is associated with other organ or systems complications. The ARF and associated complications are due to the specific immune system activation by rifampicin, and by direct toxic effects of rifampicin at tissues level.
Sera of dogs with gentamicin-induced uremia were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography system with strongly basic macroreticular anion exchange resin. Satisfactory separation of peaks was achieved with good reproducibility after deproteinization of sera with trichloroacetic acid at a final concentration of 3%, confirming that the system was suitable for qualitative analysis of uremic serum. The chromatograms showed that the number of peaks and the peak area had relation to concentrations of serum urea nitrogen or creatinine and severity of uremia. Four peaks were selected as suspected canine uremic peaks with high correlation to serum creatinine concentrations which were hardly influenced by extrarenal factors. The results suggested that these four fractions might contain uremic toxins.
The frequency of postoperative renal impairment after total hip and knee replacement was studied prospectively in 350 patients without signs of pre-existing renal disease. The first 278 patients were given dicloxacillin as prophylaxis against infection. In the remaining 72 patients dicloxacillin was excluded and gentamicin-impregnated cement was used as the only infection prophylaxis. In 35 patients in the first group (13 per cent), postoperative serum-creatinine was increased to pathological values. Thirteen of these patients were clinically affected, two had to be dialysed, and one died. In the second group there was no case of renal impairment. It is concluded that the systemic administration of antibiotics may be a cause of postoperative illness due to renal impairment.
Effects of 2-[2-(1-benzylpiperidin-4-yl)ethyl]-2,3-dihydro-9-methoxy-1H-pyrrolo[3,4-b]quinolin-1-one hemifumarate (T-82), a new quinoline derivative, on drug- and basal forebrain lesion-induced amnesia models were examined in rats. Scopolamine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) and cycloheximide (1.5 mg/kg, s.c.) shortened the step-through latency in the passive avoidance task. T-82 significantly ameliorated amnesia induced by scopolamine or cycloheximide at the dose of 0.03, 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, p.o., and 0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg, p.o., respectively. Basal forebrain lesions with ibotenic acid shortened the step-through latency in passive avoidance task. An acute (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, p.o.) or subacute (0.03-0.3 mg/kg, p.o., for 7 days) treatment of T-82 significantly reversed the shortened latency. These results suggest that T-82 may ameliorate the impairment of memory induced by acetylcholinergic dysfunction.
Three experiments examined the influence of pre-exposure to the cannabinoid receptor agonist CP 55940 ((-)-cis-3-(2-hydroxy-4-(1,1-dimethylheptyl)phenyl)-trans-4-(3-hydroxypropyl)cyclohexanol) on the sensitization of morphine-induced locomotor hyperactivity and self-administration in Lewis rats. In Experiment 1, rats received daily injections of vehicle or CP 55940 (0.1 mg/kg for 7 days then 0.2 mg/kg for a further 7 days). Four weeks later, the locomotor response to morphine (10 mg/kg s.c.) was tested once per day over a 3-h period for 14 consecutive days. Rats given morphine showed hypoactivity during the first hour following morphine but hyperactivity during the second and third hours. A progressive increase in hyperactivity to morphine was seen over the 14 days of administration, which was significantly greater in rats pre-treated with CP 55940. In Experiment 2, rats were given morphine (10 mg/kg) once a day for 14 days in combination with either vehicle, CP 55940 (0.1 mg/kg) or the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist SR 141716 (N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide hydrochloride) (3 mg/kg). Both CP 55940 and SR 141716 initially inhibited the hyperactive response to morphine, but these effects gradually wore off and by the end of 14 days, hyperactivity was similar in all morphine-treated groups. When tested 3 weeks later for their response to morphine (10 mg/kg) given alone, rats previously given the morphine/CP 55940 combination, but not the SR 141716/morphine combination, showed a greater locomotor stimulation than those previously exposed to morphine only. In Experiment 3, rats were pre-exposed to CP 55940 or vehicle for 14 days and were subsequently trained to self-administer morphine intravenously (1 mg/kg per lever press) for 14 days. Rats pre-exposed to CP 55940 self-administered a significantly greater number of morphine infusions than vehicle pre-exposed rats. However, both active and inactive ('dummy') lever presses were increased by cannabinoid pre-treatment. Overall, these results suggest that cannabinoid pre-exposure can lead to an exaggeration of morphine-induced hyperactivity and may alter the reinforcing effects of morphine in Lewis rats. The implications for 'gateway' theories of cannabinoid effects in humans are discussed.
Thyroid disease is common, and evidence of an association between organochlorine exposure and thyroid disease is increasing. The authors examined the cross-sectional association between ever use of organochlorines and risk of hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism among female spouses (n = 16,529) in Iowa and North Carolina enrolled in the Agricultural Health Study in 1993-1997. They also assessed risk of thyroid disease in relation to ever use of herbicides, insecticides, fungicides, and fumigants. Prevalence of self-reported clinically diagnosed thyroid disease was 12.5%, and prevalence of hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism was 6.9% and 2.1%, respectively. There was an increased odds of hypothyroidism with ever use of organochlorine insecticides (adjusted odds ratio (OR(adj)) = 1.2 (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.0, 1.6) and fungicides (OR(adj) = 1.4 (95% CI: 1.1, 1.8) but no association with ever use of herbicides, fumigants, organophosphates, pyrethroids, or carbamates. Specifically, ever use of the organochlorine chlordane (OR(adj) = 1.3 (95% CI: 0.99, 1.7), the fungicides benomyl (OR(adj) = 3.1 (95% CI: 1.9, 5.1) and maneb/mancozeb (OR(adj) = 2.2 (95% CI: 1.5, 3.3), and the herbicide paraquat (OR(adj) = 1.8 (95% CI: 1.1, 2.8) was significantly associated with hypothyroidism. Maneb/mancozeb was the only pesticide associated with both hyperthyroidism (OR(adj) = 2.3 (95% CI: 1.2, 4.4) and hypothyroidism. These data support a role of organochlorines, in addition to fungicides, in the etiology of thyroid disease among female spouses enrolled in the Agricultural Health Study.
Oxprenolol, a new beta-receptor blocking drug with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, was used to treat 63 episodes of cardiac arrhythmia occurring in 43 patients with acute myocardial infarction or myocardial ischaemia. The drug was most effective in abolishing ventricular ectopic beats and supraventricular tachycardia. The best method of administration was by continuous intravenous infusion and the most satisfactory bolus does was 6 mg. The main side effect was hypotension, which occurred in 59% of episodes of arrhythmia that had responded previously to intravenous administration. Oxprenolol was often effective in lignocaine-resistant arrhythmia. The two main advantages of oxprenolol over propranolol are the reduced likelihood of adversely affecting myocardial function and the diminished tendency to produce bronchospasm.
IL-17RC (interleukin-17 receptor-like) gene codes for a transmembrane protein, the full length of which inhibits apoptosis in prostate cancer cells. IL-17RC gene transcribes over a dozen different splice variants of mRNA. However, it is not known whether there are relevant protein isoforms. Here we report that different IL-17RC protein isoforms were detected by two different antibodies. The isoform as detected byanti-IL-17RC intracellular domain antibodies (anti-ICD) was expressed at higher levels in androgen-independent prostate cancer cell lines (PC3 and DU145) than in androgen-dependent prostatic cell lines (RWPE-1, pRNS-1-1, MLC-SV40, and LNCaP). In contrast, several isoforms as detected by anti-IL-17RC extracellular domain antibodies (anti-ECD) were expressed at significantly higher levels in androgen-dependent prostatic cell lines than in androgen-independent ones. Furthermore, immunohistochemical staining of prostate tissue microarrays showed that IL-17RC protein expression was significantly higher in androgen-independent prostate cancers than in androgen-dependent ones when anti-ICD was used, whereas the trend was reversed using anti-ECD. These observations provide evidence that IL-17RC protein isoforms are differentially expressed in prostatic cells and cancer tissues and may play a negative or positive role in the initiation and progression of prostate cancer.
Chronic beta-adrenergic receptor (beta-AR) blockade improves cardiac contractility and prolongs survival in patients with heart failure; however, the mechanisms underlying these favorable responses are poorly understood. Stress-induced activation of the sympathetic nervous system results in protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation of the calcium (Ca2+) release channel/cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2), required for cardiac excitation-contraction (EC) coupling, activating the RyR2 channel, and increasing cardiac contractility. The hyperadrenergic state of heart failure results in leaky RyR2 channels attributable to PKA hyperphosphorylation and depletion of the stabilizing FK506 binding protein, FKBP12.6. We tested the hypothesis that improved cardiac muscle function attributable to beta-AR blockade is associated with restoration of normal RyR2 channel function in patients with heart failure.
We assessed the effects of beta-AR blockade on left ventricular volume using isolated perfused hearts and beta-agonist responsiveness using muscle strips from patients undergoing transplantation. Twenty-four human hearts were examined, 10 from patients with heart failure treated with beta-AR blockers (carvedilol, metoprolol, or atenolol), 9 from patients with heart failure without beta-AR blocker treatment, and 5 normal hearts. RyR2 PKA phosphorylation was determined by back-phosphorylation, FKBP12.6 in the RyR2 macromolecular complex was determined by coimmunoprecipitation, and channel function was assayed using planar lipid bilayers. beta-AR blockers reduced left ventricular volume (reverse remodeling) and restored beta-agonist response in cardiac muscle from patients with heart failure. Improved cardiac muscle function was associated with restoration of normal FKBP12.6 levels in the RyR2 macromolecular complex and RyR2 channel function.
Improved cardiac muscle function during beta-AR blockade is associated with improved cardiac Ca2+ release channel function in patients with heart failure.
Eurystatins A and B, which are produced by Streptomyces eurythermus R353-21, potently inhibited Flavobacterium prolyl endopeptidase (PED) with IC50 values of 0.004 and 0.002 micrograms/ml, respectively, while no inhibition was observed against another 5 proteases, even at 100 micrograms/ml. The protective effect of eurystatins A and B against scopolamine (3 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced amnesia in rats was evaluated by the step-through one-trial passive avoidance method. When administered i.p. 30 min prior to the acquisition trial, both eurystatins A, at 2-8 mg/kg, and B, at 4-8 mg/kg, significantly protected rats from the amnesic effect of scopolamine without behavioral side effects.
The effect of segment-specific proximal tubular injury on spatio-temporal osteopontin (OPN) distribution was determined in two different nephrotoxic rat models to evaluate its conceivability with a possible role for OPN in acute renal failure (ARF). OPN gene expression was further determined in proximal and distal tubular cells to investigate the origin of increased renal OPN.
Renal OPN protein and mRNA expression were compared in the rat during mercuric-chloride- vs gentamicin-induced ARF using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization.
Mercuric chloride primarily induced tubular injury and subsequent cell proliferation in proximal straight tubules (PST), whereas gentamicin predominantly injured proximal convoluted tubules (PCT). In both models, the distribution of OPN protein was associated with increased OPN mRNA levels in proximal as well as distal tubular cells. However, upregulation was delayed in the proximal tubular segment suffering most from injury, i.e. PCT in gentamicin ARF vs PST in mercuric-chloride ARF. OPN immunostaining at the apical cell membrane from distal tubules was in contrast to perinuclear vesicular staining in proximal tubular cells.
OPN gene and protein expression is induced in both proximal and distal tubular cells during rat toxic ARF. The distinct subcellular localization in proximal vs distal tubular cells indicates differences in OPN processing and/or handling. The spatio-temporal distribution is consistent with a possible role in renal injury and regeneration.
