Four patients with Parkinson's disease and severe fluctuating responses to levodopa and oral dopamine agonists were treated with continuous administration of lisuride infusions, administered by means of an externally worn pump. Levodopa dosage ranged from 300 to 687 mg/day and was kept stable throughout the study. In addition increasing doses of lisuride were injected subcutaneously in the abdomen. Lisuride doses ranged from 41 to 104 micrograms/h. A marked improvement in mobility was observed in every patient while severe biphasic dyskinesais almost remitted in one of them. The most common side-effect was the presence of subcutaneous nodules appearing at the injection site. Two cases had mild hemorrhagic complications and one initially had nausea. One patient developed acute psychiatric disturbances severe enough to be excluded from the study. Our findings suggest that lisuride subcutaneous infusions can be useful in severily handicapped parkinsonian patients, however local and psychiatric side-effects may be a serious threat in the long-term care.
Thirteen patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and "on-off" fluctuations on oral levodopa plus dopa decarboxylase inhibitor (DDI) were treated with continuous (24 hour) subcutaneous lisuride infusions together with a reduced dose of levodopa (plus DDI). An improvement in motor performance was seen in 10 patients, with a mean increase in percentage of waking time spent "on" of 32 per cent (range 13-59 percent). However, adverse effects were common, especially psychiatric effects, leading to treatment withdrawal in 11 of 13 subjects after a mean of 40 days' treatment. Continuous lisuride infusion together with a small dose of levodopa (plus DDI) are effective treatment for "on-off" fluctuations in Parkinson's disease, but the frequency of adverse effects limits the number of patients who can be treated successfully with this technique.
Several studies indicate a specific relationship between bipolar disorder and stimulant use and abuse. It has generally been assumed that cocaine use represents self-enhancement or attempts to optimize one's level of hypomania, cyclothymia or hyperthymia. This topic required further examination among heroin abusers because cocaine abuse is commonly comorbid with heroin abuse.
Cocaine abuse by bipolar subjects was investigated in a group of 1090 treatment-seeking heroin addicts enrolled between 1994 and 2005. We collected data with 1) the Drug Addiction History Rating Scale; and 2) the Semi-structured Interview for Depression, which inquires systematically among others, about hypomania, cyclothymia, hyperthymia and depressive temperament. Subjects were aged 29+/-6 years, and predominantly male (76.2%).
Univariate and multivariate analyses provided correlations in favour of a link between current cocaine abuse and double diagnosis, with special relevance to the bipolar spectrum, as well as psychotic disorders (p<0.0001).
The modality of access to cocaine in different communities and the difficulty to distinguish cocaine use from abuse by the rating scale administered may have limited the interpretation of results.
If cocaine abuse precedes that of heroin or is concomitant, heroin may hypothetically serve as a "mood balancer" which transiently dampens subthreshold excitatory states and mood swings. Our data further suggest the need for a more complex model linking cocaine and bipolarity: subthreshold bipolarity, including hyperthymic and cyclothymic temperaments, seems to predispose to heroin addiction, but craving for the suppressed hypomania in turn could lead to cocaine abuse, which eventually unmasks a frank bipolar disorder - in some cases leading to mixed state, severe mania, as well as psychosis beyond mania. Prospective observations would shed further insight on this complex interface of major clinical and public health importance.
Combination therapy with interferon alpha (IFN-alpha) and ribavirin (RBV) or pegylated IFN-alpha (PEG-IFN-alpha)/RBV for chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection often causes anemia, prompting RBV dose reduction/discontinuation. This study assessed whether epoetin alfa could maintain RBV dose, improve quality of life (QOL), and increase hemoglobin (Hb) in anemic HCV-infected patients.
HCV-infected patients (n = 185) on combination therapy who developed anemia (Hb < or = 12 g/dL) were randomized into a U. S. multicenter, placebo-controlled, clinical trial of epoetin alfa, 40,000 U subcutaneously, once weekly vs. matching placebo. The study design used an 8-week, double-blind phase (DBP) followed by an 8-week, open-label phase (OLP), in which placebo patients were crossed over to epoetin alfa.
At the end of the DBP, RBV doses were maintained in 88% of patients receiving epoetin alfa vs. 60% of patients receiving placebo (P < 0.001). Mean QOL scores at the end of the DBP improved significantly on all domains of the Linear Analog Scale Assessment (LASA) and on 7 of the 8 domains of the Short Form-36, version 2 (SF-36v2). Mean Hb increased by 2.2 +/- 1.3 g/dL (epoetin alfa) and by 0.1 +/- 1.0 g/dL (placebo) in the DBP (P < 0.001). Similar results were demonstrated in patients who switched from placebo to epoetin alfa in the OLP. Epoetin alfa was well tolerated; the most common adverse effects were headache and nausea.
Epoetin alfa maintained RBV dose and improved QOL and Hb in anemic HCV-infected patients receiving combination therapy.
28 patients with Parkinson's disease showing complex "on-off" fluctuations in response to chronic levodopa plus dopa decarboxylase inhibitor (po) were treated with subcutaneous lisuride using a portable infusion pump. All patients improved initially during the first weeks of treatment. Four patients abandoned the trial within the first few weeks as a consequence of psychiatric complications (2 cases), inability to understand how to use the pump (one case) and subcutaneous nodule formation plus psychological rejections to wearing a pump (one case). All other 24 patients were treated for a minimum periods of 3 months (mean 9.6 months, maximum 24 months). The average daily dose of lisuride was 2.80 mg. The levodopa dose was reduced by 37%, but total withdrawal was not possible in any patient. Among the 18 patients who continued treatment at present, about 50% are independent and capable of undertaking most daily life activities. Psychiatric side-effects were present in 9 patients leading to permanent withdrawal in five. Subcutaneous lisuride infusions added to oral levodopa are clearly effective in patients with severe motor fluctuations. Careful selection of suitable patients and close monitoring is mandatory in order to obtain the best therapeutic results while reducing the risk of psychiatric adverse effects.
Two typical recurrent episodes of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) in the same patient are described. The first episode was caused by a sulpiride derivative, tiapride. This is the first case in which a drug of the benzamide group has been reported to have caused such adverse drug reaction. In the second episode, NMS occurred due to haloperidol in the lowest dose ever reported and was accompanied by highly excessive levels of various muscle enzymes. Involvement of hypothalamic and striatal dopamine system, and particularly of D-2 subtype receptors, is suggested by this case.
We used ciprofloxacin, a quinolone-derivative, to treat a lung infection due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa in an adult cystic fibrosis patient. On three different occasions the use of ciprofloxacin was associated with the development of an asymptomatic hematuria with red blood cell casts. The mechanism responsible for this hematuria is presently unknown, but clinicians should be aware of this potential adverse effect of ciprofloxacin.
The effects of subacute administration of chlorpromazine HCI (CPZ), erythromycine base and erythromycin estolate on the cholestatic response to intravenous taurolithocholate (TLC) and taurochenodeoxycholate (TCDC) in the rat were investigated. All three enhanced the recovery of bile flow after TCDC but not after TLC. Erythromycin base and estolate enhanced bile flow recovery after TCDC and potentiated the increase of plasma 5'-nucleotidase, as did CPZ. Neither erythromycin estolate nor CPZ precipitated a cholestatic response in rat maintained for 9-13 days on a diet supplemented with 0.05% lithocholic acid. It is concluded that the interaction of CPZ and erythromycins with bile salts is not based on the cholestatic properties of the drugs, and hence is not a practical way of distinguishing cholestatic from non-cholestatic drugs.
Apomorphine (0.12--2 mg/kg, SC) and d-amphetamine (1--8 mg/kg, IP) were each able, at certain doses, to potentiate the cataleptic state produced by the neuroleptic agent, haloperidol (1 mg/kg, IP). In subsequent biochemical experiments, in which the effects of combinations of apomorphine or d-amphetamine and haloperidol on brain monoamine levels were studied, this behavioural observation was seen to be related to an enhanced utilisation of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in certain brain regions. The results suggest not only the possible involvement of 5-HT in the production of catalepsy, but also that the effects of these 'classical' dopamine agonists on other central transmitter systems should be considered when interpreting their various behavioural responses.
The urodynamic effects of intrathecal neurokinin (NK) receptor blockade on L-dopa-induced bladder hyperactivity were investigated in a rat model.
Continuous cystometry was performed in normal, conscious, female Sprague-Dawley rats.
In rats pretreated with intraperitoneal carbidopa 50 mg./kg., intraperitoneal L-dopa 50 mg./kg. caused bladder hyperactivity that could be attenuated by intrathecal administration of the NK1 receptor selective antagonist SR 140,333 (2 nmol.), whereas the NK2 receptor selective antagonist SR 48,968 (2 nmol.) failed to do so. Combination of SR 140,333 (2 nmol.) and SR 48,968 (2 nmol.), which by itself decreased micturition pressure, practically abolished the L-dopa-induced hyperactivity.
The present results suggest that tachykinins, via stimulation of NK1 (and/or NK2) receptors, are involved in L-dopa-induced bladder hyperactivity, most probably at the spinal level. This implies tachykinin involvement in the supraspinal pathways that control the sacral parasympathetic center innervating the urinary bladder. It also implies that spinal NK receptors are a possible target for drugs aimed for elimination of bladder hyperactivity mediated via these pathways.
Both isoniazid (INH) and cefazolin (CEZ) can have serious adverse effects on the central nervous system (CNS), causing seizures. In this study, we investigated the effect of INH on the pharmacodynamics of CEZ-induced seizures in rats. Male Wistar rats pretreated with INH (150 mg/kg i.p.) or saline received an intravenous infusion of CEZ at 3.2 g/h/rat until the onset of seizures, then samples of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), blood (for serum), and brain were obtained immediately. The administration of INH was associated with a reduction in the total dose of CEZ required to produce seizures. The concentrations of CEZ in serum, brain, and CSF in INH-treated rats at the onset of seizures were significantly lower than those in control rats. In rats coadministered with pyridoxine (150 mg/kg s.c.), the concentration of CEZ in CSF at the onset of seizures was significantly higher than that in rats administered INH only. These results suggest that INH potentiates the sensitivity of the CNS to CEZ-induced seizures, and that the increased sensitivity is associated with the inhibition of vitamin B(6) metabolism by INH.
Proteases contribute to tumor invasion and metastasis via their potential to degrade basement membranes and extracellular matrix. Our aim was to compare the level of several proteases: urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA), matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP-2; 72-kDa type IV collagenase, also known as gelatinase A), MMP-11 [also known as stromelysin 3 (STR3)], and cathepsins B and L in resected non-small cell lung cancer. Between June 1996 and March 1998, samples of lung tumor tissues were taken from 119 surgically treated patients. Thirty out of the 119 tumor samples were matched with corresponding adjacent normal tissue. u-PA was measured by a commercially available immunoluminometric assay. Metalloproteinases and cathepsins have been evaluated at the RNA level by Northern blot and quantified with a PhosphorImager. Expression of these proteases was compared to the following clinicopathological parameters: pathological diagnosis, tumor size, exposure to asbestos, radiotherapy, neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, tumor-node-metastasis stage, lymph node involvement, presence of metastasis. u-PA, MMP-2, MMP-11/STR3, and cathepsin B were significantly increased in tumor (the tumor:normal ratio was on average increased by 5.4-, 2.2-, 83.5-, and 2.2-fold, respectively). The tumor:normal ratio of MMP-11/ STR3 was found to be significantly linked to the lymph node involvement (P < 0.05). Our results suggest that several proteases are involved in the invasive potential of non-small cell lung cancer and that the quantification of MMP-11/ STR3 could represent an useful prognostic marker.
Ouabain, an inhibitor of Na+ -K" -ATP'ase, has been administered intraventricularly to rats to study the effect of impairment of membrane transport mechanisms on the genesis of seizures. Running and leaping seizures occur rapidly after injection of ouabain in a low volume (10 microliter) when the maximal uptake of ouabain (39.8%) is the hippocampus. Generalized clonic-tonic seizures are induced by higher volume injections (50 microliter) associated with wider distribution of ouabain, including the cerebellum and brainstem. Ouabain was injected into cerebral cortex, caudate nucleus, dorsal hippocampus, fastigeal nucleus, ventrolateral mesencephalic reticular formation and cerebellar cortex. The cerebellar injections produced both running and leaping and generalized clonic-tonic seizures. It is suggested that this results from decreased inhibitory effect of vermal and paravermal Purkinje cells on intra-cerebellar nuclei, which alters cerebellar influence on the reticular formation and the limbic system. Diphenylhydantoin, phenobarbitone, phenacemide, carbamezepine and clonazepam but not ethosuximide are effective against generalized clonic-tonic seizures, suggesting that this is a model for "grand mal" but not "petit mal" seizure mechanisms. It is furthermore suggested that running and leaping are subcortical, probably limbic, seizures that are most relevant as a model for temporal lobe seizures.
Seven of 36 premature infants with birth weight less than 1,250 g who had been randomly assigned to either high-frequency ventilatory ventilation or conventional mechanical ventilation developed symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) after receiving prophylactic indomethacin, 0.2 mg/kg, i.v. 24 h after birth. Infants who developed symptomatic PDA were more likely to be white and male and have more severe pulmonary insufficiency than infants who did not develop symptomatic PDA. Serum indomethacin levels were similar in both groups of patients. There was no difference in the degree of suppression or subsequent recovery of endogenous eicosanoid biosynthesis between infants who did and did not develop symptomatic PDA. Compared to conventional mechanical ventilation, high-frequency oscillatory ventilation had no significant effect on endogenous eicosanoid biosynthesis. The susceptibility of white male infants to symptomatic PDA following prophylactic indomethacin may represent the influence of maturational factors on ductus patency. Cyclooxygenase products do not appear to be involved in mediating ductus patency when symptomatic PDA occurs immediately following administration of prophylactic indomethacin.
Most head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCCs) overexpress epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and EGFR inhibitors are routinely used in the treatment of HNSCC. However, many HNSCC tumors do not respond or become refractory to EGFR inhibitors. Autophagy, which is a stress-induced cellular self-degradation process, has been reported to reduce the efficacy of chemotherapy in various disease models. The purpose of this study is to determine if the efficacy of the EGFR inhibitor erlotinib is reduced by activation of autophagy via NOX4-mediated oxidative stress in HNSCC cells. Erlotinib induced the expression of the autophagy marker LC3B-II and autophagosome formation in FaDu and Cal-27 cells. Inhibition of autophagy by chloroquine and knockdown of autophagy pathway genes Beclin-1 and Atg5 sensitized both cell lines to erlotinib-induced cytotoxicity, suggesting that autophagy may serve as a protective mechanism. Treatment with catalase (CAT) and diphenylene iodonium (DPI) in the presence of erlotinib suppressed the increase in LC3B-II expression in FaDu and Cal-27 cells. Erlotinib increased NOX4 mRNA and protein expression by increasing its promoter activity and mRNA stability in FaDu cells. Knockdown of NOX4 using adenoviral siNOX4 partially suppressed erlotinib-induced LC3B-II expression, while overexpression of NOX4 increased expression of LC3B-II. These studies suggest that erlotinib may activate autophagy in HNSCC cells as a pro-survival mechanism, and NOX4 may play a role in mediating this effect.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of valsartan compared with atenolol on sexual behavior in hypertensive postmenopausal women.
A total of 120 postmenopausal women, aged 51 to 55 years, with mild to moderate hypertension (diastolic blood pressure [DBP] >/=95 and </=105 mm Hg) were enrolled. After a 4-week placebo period they were randomized to treatment with valsartan 80 mg (n = 60) or atenolol 50 mg (n = 60) once daily for 16 weeks, according to a parallel arm design. After 4 weeks of treatment the nonresponder patients (DBP >90 mm Hg) were given a double dose of each drug. Patients were checked at the end of the placebo period and every 4 weeks thereafter. At each visit, sitting blood pressure (BP) was measured by mercury sphygmomanometer (Korotkoff I and V). At baseline and after 16 weeks of treatment, patients were given a questionnaire that comprised 10 self-evaluations of various aspects of sexual desire, orgasmic response, and coital activity. The questions were presented in the form of a visual analog scale.
Both drugs significantly lowered BP without any difference between the two treatments. In the valsartan-treated women, the scores for three of the items related to libido significantly improved: sexual desire (+38%, P <.01), changes in behavior (+45%, P <.001), and sexual fantasies (+51%, P <.001) In contrast, in the atenolol-treated group the scores for the items "sexual desire" and "sexual fantasies" significantly worsened (-18%, P <.01 and -23%, P <.001, respectively).
These results suggest that in postmenopausal, sexually active hypertensive women, valsartan treatment improved sexual function at least in some respects, whereas atenolol worsened it. This may be relevant for quality of life in these patients and their compliance with antihypertensive therapy.
All-trans-retinoic acid is an effective agent to induce remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Unlike conventional chemotherapy, this drug exerts its effect by inducing differentiation of immature leukemic cells. A distinctive clinical syndrome characterized by fever, dyspnea, effusions, weight gain, and organ failure (the "retinoic acid syndrome") can occur during treatment with this drug. Postmortem studies have shown extensive organ infiltration by leukemic cells, and the early administration of corticosteroids can result in prompt resolution of symptoms. We describe a patient with APL in whom acute renal failure developed during treatment with all-trans-retinoic acid. Transient renal enlargement during a period of leukocytosis and a beneficial response to treatment with dexamethasone suggest that renal failure in this patient was probably related to the retinoic acid syndrome.
Propofol was used for the induction and maintenance of anesthesia in a patient undergoing a laparoscopic tubal ligation. This new anesthetic has not been associated with postoperative ventricular arrhythmias. This report demonstrates the occurrence of supraventricular tachycardia deteriorating to ventricular tachycardia in a patient who received propofol. Included is a discussion of the possible causes of this event.
The nephrotoxicity induced by immunosuppressant FK506 remains a serious clinical problem, and the underlying mechanism has not been completely understood. The present study was undertaken to determine the role of hydrogen peroxide in FK506-mediated cytotoxicity in a porcine renal proximal tubular cell line, LLC-PK1 cells, and human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells.
Cytotoxicity was estimated by crystal violet and lactate dehydrogenase release assays. The activity of reactive oxygen species (ROS) was detected by flow cytometry. FK506-induced cell death was examined in the presence of the hydrogen peroxide scavenger, catalase, or a scavenger of hydroxyl radicals, sodium benzoate. As a control, FK506-induced cell death was also measured in the presence of superoxide anion inhibitor, 4,5-dihydroxy-1,2-benzene disulfonic acid (Tiron), TEMPO, or overexpressed human manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD). Catalase was also used in tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-induced cell injury to determine whether the enzyme specifically protected cells against FK506-mediated cytotoxicity.
FK506 induced cell death in a dose-dependent manner and coincided with a dose-dependent increase in ROS activity. Abrogation of FK506-mediated ROS by catalase and N-acetylcysteine blunted FK506-induced cell death. Furthermore, overexpression of catalase, sodium benzoate, and deferoxamine inhibited the cytotoxic effect of FK506. In contrast, Tiron, TEMPO, or overexpression of human MnSOD failed to show cytoprotection. In fact, TEMPO or expression of MnSOD enhanced the effect of FK506. Catalase did not significantly affect TNF-alpha-induced cell injury.
Catalase is uniquely required in cellular protection against FK506 cytotoxicity, which suggests an important role for hydrogen peroxide in the cellular actions of FK506.
The alternative complement pathway (AP) is activated in individuals with lupus nephritis and in murine models of systemic lupus erythematosus, including MRL/lpr mice. A previous study from our laboratory evaluated the development of renal disease in MRL/lpr mice genetically deficient in factor B (Bf-/-), a protein necessary for AP activation. MRL/lpr Bf-/- mice developed less renal disease and had improved survival; however, these mice were also a different major histocompatibility complex (MHC) haplotype (H-2b) than their wild-type littermates (H-2k) due to the gene for Bf being located in the MHC gene complex. We undertook the current study to determine if the decreased renal disease in MRL/lpr Bf-/- mice was due to the lack of AP activation or the H-2b haplotype by studying the effects of factor D (Df) deficiency, a critical protein for AP activation, on disease development in MRL/lpr mice.
Df-deficient mice were backcrossed with MRL/lpr mice for four to nine generations. MRL/lpr H-2k Df-/-, Df+/-, and Df+/+ littermates were evaluated for disease development. Lack of AP activation in MRL/lpr Df-/- mice was determined by the zymosan assay. Serum creatinine levels were measured using a creatinine kit. Proteinuria and autoantibody levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Sections from one kidney were stained with fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) alpha-murine C3 or alpha-murine IgG to detect C3 and IgG deposition. The remaining kidney was cut in half with one half fixed, sectioned, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin and periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) to evaluate pathology and another half fixed in glutaraldehyde and examined via electron microscopy.
MRL/lpr Df-/- mice had similar glomerular IgG deposition, proteinuria and autoantibody levels, as Df+/+ and Df+/- littermates. However, glomerular C3 deposition, serum creatinine levels, and pathologic renal disease were significantly reduced in Df-/- mice. Despite the lack of renal disease in Df-/- mice, life span was not impacted by factor D deficiency.
The absence of Df and AP activation is protective against the development of proliferative renal disease in MRL/lpr mice suggesting the similar effect of Bf deficiency in MRL/lpr mice was also due to the lack of AP activation.
Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) modulates immune/inflammatory cells, promotes extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation, and is increased in fibrotic organs. Here we report the effects of administering a puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy (PAN)-specific TGF-beta neutralizing antibody on glomerulosclerosis in vivo.
Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent uninephrectomy (Nx) followed by intraperitoneal PAN at weeks 2, 6, 7 and 8. Rats were treated with either high (5 mg/kg body weight) (N= 9) or low (0.5 mg/kg body weight) (N= 7) dose TGF-beta antibody intraperitoneally three times weekly until sacrifice at week 10. A PAN untreated control group (N= 7) was dosed with an isotype specific, null antibody. The nephrectomy samples were studied as normal kidney control (NL) (N= 5). Rats undergoing left kidney Nx (N= 5) only were also included as age-matched control. Renal function and morphology were assessed, and molecular studies performed.
Systolic blood pressure was increased in parallel over time in all groups (at 10 weeks, control 137 +/- 10 mm Hg; high 129 +/- 4 mm Hg; low 137 +/- 3 mm Hg) (P= NS). Both TGF-beta antibody treatments decreased renal cortex mRNA expressions similarly for TGF-beta1, TGF-beta2, and collagen III (TGF-beta1, control 0.36 +/- 0.02 mm Hg; high 0.19 +/- 0.01 mm Hg; low 0.19 +/- 0.02 mm Hg; P < 0.01 low and high vs. control; TGF-beta2, control 0.38 +/- 0.03 mm Hg; high 0.19 +/- 0.02 mm Hg; low 0.20 +/- 0.03 mm Hg; P < 0.01 low and high vs. control; and collagen III, control 0.33 +/- 0.01 mm Hg; high 0.14 +/- 0.01 mm Hg; low 0.19 +/- 0.01 mm Hg; P < 0.01 low and high vs. control; P < 0.05 low vs. high, data expressed as mRNA normalized density units vs. 18S RNA). However, only low dose TGF-beta antibody improved renal function and sclerosis measured by serum creatinine and creatinine clearance (serum creatinine, control 2.3 +/- 0.5 mg/dL; high 2.5 +/- 0.5 mg/dL; low 0.8 +/- 0.1 mg/dL; P < 0.05 low vs. control and high; creatinine clearance, control 0.44 +/- 0.11 mL/min; high 0.70 +/- 0.26 mL/min; low 1.34 +/- 0.30 mL/min; P < 0.05 low vs. control, P= NS vs. high). In parallel, sclerosis index (0 to 4+ scale) was improved in low dose (control 2.67 +/- 0.27; high 2.37 +/- 0.30; low 1.78 +/- 0.24; P < 0.05 low vs. control). This improved function and structure was linked to decreased glomerular infiltrating macrophages (0 to 4+ score, control 2.3 +/- 0.2; high 1.8 +/- 0.4; low 0.8 +/- 0.1; P < 0.01 low vs. control; P < 0.05 low vs. high; P= NS high vs. control). Further, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) mRNA expression in renal cortex was attenuated after low dose TGF-beta antibody treatment compared to control and high dose group (PAI-1/glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) mRNA ratio, NL 0.18 +/- 0.003; control 0.45 +/- 0.03; high 0.40 +/- 0.04; low 0.23 +/- 0.01; P < 0.05 low vs. control and high). Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activity was maintained at higher levels in kidneys of the low dose TGF-beta antibody-treated group.
These results show an in vivo dose-response with an agent that blocks the biologic activity of TGF-beta. Higher dose of TGF-beta antibody was without beneficial effect, suggesting that TGF-beta-mediated effects on PAI-1 and macrophage influx are bimodal and closely regulated. Given that both antibody doses reduced the expression of TGF-beta isoforms and collagen III production, but only low dose ameliorated histologic sclerosis, it appears that pharmacologic effects of anti-TGF-beta antibody on matrix synthesis and degradation are not equivalent.
Some published cases of difficulty with micturition and urinary retention on tramadol resemble adverse effects that are well known to occur with other opiates.
Mevalonate metabolites are vital for a variety of key cellular functions with the biosynthetic products including cholesterol and farnesyl and geranylgeranyl isoprenoids. Inhibition of this pathway using lovastatin induces a potent apoptotic response in a specific subset of human tumor-derived cell lines, including head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC). In this study, we evaluated the potential of a number of chemotherapeutics that demonstrate activity in HNSCC, including an inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) to potentiate the cytotoxic effects of lovastatin.
We evaluated the cytotoxic effects of combining a variety of chemotherapeutics with lovastatin using the MTT assay and flow cytometry. The MCF-7 lovastatin-resistant breast adenocarcinoma cell line and the lovastatin-sensitive HNSCC cell lines SCC9 and SCC25 were tested. Expression levels of EGFR and ligand activated EGFR following lovastatin treatment were analyzed by Western blotting.
Pretreatment or concomitant treatment of 10 microM lovastatin did not significantly augment the effects of a variety of chemotherapeutic agents tested in these cell lines. Co-administration with actinomycin D or cycloheximide, drugs that inhibit RNA and protein synthesis, respectively, inhibited lovastatin-induced apoptosis in these cell lines. This suggests a requirement for the cellular functions disrupted by these chemotherapeutic agents in lovastatin-induced apoptosis of HNSCC cells. In contrast to the chemotherapeutics analyzed, the AG1478 tyrosine kinase inhibitor of the EGFR demonstrated additive cytotoxic effects in combination with lovastatin in HNSCC cells. Mevalonate metabolites may regulate EGFR function, suggesting that lovastatin may inhibit the activity of this receptor. Indeed, lovastatin treatment inhibited EGF-induced autophosphorylation of the EGFR in the SCC9 and SCC25 cell lines. Pretreatment of SCC9 and SCC25 cell lines for 24 h with 10 microM lovastatin, conditions that demonstrated significant inhibition of EGF-induced EGFR autophosphorylation, induced significant additive effects in combination with AG1478.
These results demonstrated the ability of EGFR pathway inhibitors to potentiate lovastatin-induced apoptosis and suggested that lovastatin may target the EGFR pathway in HNSCC cells.
Visual hallucinations are a rare event in chronic renal failure and not related to uremia per se. Unreported in the literature is visual hallucinations occurring in association with the new macrolide antibiotic, clarithromycin. We describe such a case in a patient with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) maintained on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). The combination of a relatively high dose of clarithromycin in face of chronic renal failure in a functionally anephric patient, with underlying aluminum intoxication, may have facilitated the appearance of this neurotoxic side effect. It is important to understand the pharmacokinetics of medications in face of chronic renal failure, the possibility of drug interactions, and how these factors should help guide medication therapy in the ESRD patient.
Fish are exposed to environmental selenium predominantly in the form of dietary selenomethionine (SeMet). The present study was designed to investigate the role of oxidative stress in the toxicity of SeMet using isolated hepatocytes of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) as the model experimental system. Cells were exposed to an increasing range of SeMet (0-1000 μM) over 24h, and the time-dependent effects on cell viability, response of enzymatic antioxidants, thiol redox, intracellular calcium balance and caspase-mediated apoptosis were evaluated. SeMet was found to be toxic only at the highest exposure dose (1000 μM), with ∼15% decrease in cell viability. Although modest increases in the activities of antioxidant enzymes were recorded following SeMet exposure, the ratio of reduced to oxidized glutathione decreased in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting a gradual progression towards an oxidative intracellular environment. The peroxidation of membrane lipids also increased with increasing SeMet exposure dose. In addition, a rapid increase in intracellular calcium level and the activation of caspase 3/7 enzymes were recorded at the highest exposure dose, indicating that SeMet at a high exposure dose causes cell death probably via apoptosis. Overall, our study demonstrated that oxidative stress plays a key role in the cytotoxicity of SeMet in fish.
Accidental intoxication with tramadol of a 6-month old infant was followed by severe cerebral depression. Studies on serum, cerebrospinal fluid, and urine drug levels indicated complete penetration of the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier by tramadol.
Adriamycin (ADR) has a broad spectrum of antitumoral activity but is ineffective against human brain tumors. However, such tumors can be sensitive to a combination of adriamycin and lipophilic antineoplastic agents such as the nitrosoureas. CCNU, a nitrosourea, induces cholestasis in the rat and ADR is predominantly excreted via the biliary route. We decided to investigate the effect of CCNU on the nephrotic syndrome induced by ADR. Female Wistar rats were injected with a single dose of 10 mg/kg ADR and 24 h later were force fed 20 mg/kg CCNU in a single dose. Animals were sacrificed 4, 8, 15, 21, 28 or 60 days after the injection of ADR. A high rate of fatality (60%) occurred after the 21st day of treatment. Biological changes (alkaline phosphatase, SGPT, bilirubin) and ultrastructural studies showed that CCNU and CCNU + ADR induced the same degree of cholestasis. With the administered dose, CCNU is not nephrotoxic, ADR induces a nephrotic syndrome and ADR + CCNU appeared more nephrotoxic. With ADR, visceral epithelial foot process fusion was seen on day 15 and tubulo-interstitial lesions and glomerulosclerosis on day 60. With ADR + CCNU fusion of the foot process was seen on day 4, glomerular vacuolation on day 8, tubulo-interstitial alterations on day 15 and glomerulosclerosis on day 60. For both ADR and ADR + CCNU wrinkling and thickening of the basement membrane of proximal tubular cells were seen on day 60. Lipid mesangial overload was seen with ADR and was more intense with ADR + CCNU on day 60. CCNU hepatoxicity modifies the excretion of ADR and the predominantly renal excretion of ADR seems to induce earlier renal alterations in ADR + CCNU-treated rats. This study supports the concept that lipid mesangial overload may play an important role in chronic progressive glomerulosclerosis and thus the ADR + CCNU combination appears to be an interesting model in which to study these relationships.
The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is important for the development of hypertension, and several antihypertensive drugs target this system. Our aim was to determine whether specific single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in RAAS genes were related to the blood pressure (BP) lowering effect of antihypertensive treatment.
Patients with mild to moderate primary hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy were randomized in a double-blind fashion to treatment with either the angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist irbesartan (n = 48) or the beta(1)-adrenergic receptor blocker atenolol (n = 49) as monotherapy. A microarray-based minisequencing system was used to genotype 30 SNPs in seven genes in the RAAS. These polymorphisms were related to the antihypertensive response after 12 weeks treatment.
The BP reductions were similar in the atenolol and the irbesartan groups. Presence of the angiotensinogen (AGT) -6A allele or the AGT 235T allele were both associated with the most pronounced systolic BP response to atenolol treatment (P =.001 when -6 AA+AG was compared with GG and P =.008 for presence of the 235T variant compared with 235 MM).
We found that SNPs in the angiotensinogen gene were associated with the BP lowering response to atenolol. This study is limited by a relatively small sample size, and the results should therefore be viewed as preliminary. Despite this limitation, these results illustrate the potential of using SNP genotyping as a pharmacogenetic tool in antihypertensive treatment.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) production by alveolar macrophages (AM) was evaluated in 17 rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients without interstitial lung disease (ILD, Group 1) and 14 RA patients with clinical ILD (Group 2) in comparison with 10 control subjects. AM after recovery by bronchoalveolar lavage were selected by adherence, and then supernatants were collected after 3 or 24 h of culture. Results showed no modification of IL-1 synthesis in either group of RA patients. Spontaneous TNF production was significantly increased in Group 2 (2.5 +/- 0.5 ng/ml) as well as in Group 1 (2.4 +/- 0.4 ng/ml) compared with control subjects (0.43 +/- 0.1 ng/ml, p less than 0.001). In addition, AM from patients untreated or treated exclusively by nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs produced similar levels of TNF, whereas those receiving corticosteroids, second-line drugs (such as sulfasalazine, aurothiomalate, and methotrexate), or the combination of both therapy regimens released significantly less TNF. Interestingly, TNF was not different in both groups, but Group 2 had a markedly increased ratio of local immune complex to albumin in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (0.47 +/- 0.12 versus 0.07 +/- 0.02 in Group 1; p less than 0.002). TNF thus appears an additional component of RA subclinical alveolitis in RA, but its prognostic value and its precise role in lung damage remain to be determined. Development of ILD requires certainly complex interactions of synergistic factors, possibly including local immune complexes detected in BAL fluids.
