Mercury (Hg) is a well-known neurotoxicant but its toxicity depends on the species present. A steady emergence of inorganic Hg in the brain following chronic and accidental exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) has suggested that MeHg can undergo demethylation. The objective of this study is to develop an in vitro model to study factors affecting Hg demethylation in the central nervous system. Astrocytes obtained from neonatal rat pups were cultured for 24h with 1 microM MeHg in the presence of two pro-oxidants, buthionine sulphoximine (BSO) and rotenone. The BSO treatment produced a 21% increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) content compared to the control (control vs. BSO; 100+/-1.35 vs. 121+/-1.52 relative fluorescence units (RFU)mg(-1) protein, p<0.001) but did not affect total Hg accumulation (control vs. BSO=86.5+/-4.14 ng mg(-1) vs. 95.7+/-9.26 ng mg(-1)). Rotenone increased ROS levels 107% (control vs. rotenone; 100%+/-1.35 vs. 207%+/-6.78RFU mg(-1)protein, p<0.001) and significantly increased the accumulation of total Hg (control vs. rotenone=86.5+/-4.14 ng mg(-1) vs. 124+/-3.80 ng mg(-1), p<0.001). There was no detectable demethylation in the control or BSO treated group, however, the rotenone treatment significantly increased the demethylation (control vs. rotenone=-1.86+/-5.57% vs. 16.3+/-2.68%, p<0.05). For the first time, we have demonstrated in an in vitro primary astrocyte culture model that MeHg can be converted to inorganic Hg and demethylation increases with oxidative stress. Our results provide a useful model to study demethylation of Hg in astrocytes and to explore potential ways to protect against Hg toxicity.
In addition to their antipyretic, anti-inflammatory, and pain-relieving effects, analgesics may interfere with blood pressure regulation. However, little prospective information is available on the association between analgesic use and the risk of hypertension.
We performed a prospective study of 80 020 women aged 31 to 50 years who participated in the Nurses' Health Study II and had no previous history of hypertension. Frequency of use (in days per month) of aspirin, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and acetaminophen was collected by mailed questionnaire in 1995. Incident cases of physician-diagnosed hypertension were identified by self-report on the 1997 biennial questionnaire.
During 164 090 person-years of follow-up, 1650 incident cases of hypertension were identified. At least 1 d/mo, 51.2% of the cohort used aspirin, 76.7% used NSAIDs, and 72.5% used acetaminophen. After adjusting for age, all 3 classes of analgesics were associated with an increased risk of incident hypertension (P<.001 for trend). After further adjustment for all 3 analgesics and other potential risk factors, only NSAIDs and acetaminophen (P<.001 for trend for both) were significantly associated with risk of hypertension. Compared with nonusers, the relative risk of hypertension for women taking NSAIDs 22 d/mo or more was 1.86 (95% confidence interval, 1.51-2.28) and for those taking acetaminophen 22 d/mo or more was 2.00 (95% confidence interval, 1.52-2.62).
Use of NSAIDs and use of acetaminophen were significantly associated with increased risk of hypertension, but aspirin use was not. A substantial proportion of hypertension in the United States, and the associated morbidity and mortality, may be due to the use of these medications.
Deletion of chromosome 22q11, the most common microdeletion detected in humans, is associated with a life-threatening array of birth defects. Although 90% of affected individuals share the same three megabase deletion, their phenotype is highly variable and includes craniofacial and cardiovascular anomalies, hypoplasia or aplasia of the thymus with associated deficiency of T cells, hypocalcemia with hypoplasia or aplasia of the parathyroids, and a variety of central nervous system abnormalities. Because ablation of neural crest in chicks produces many features of the deletion 22q11 syndrome, it has been proposed that haploinsufficiency in this region impacts neural crest function during cardiac and pharyngeal arch development. Few factors required for migration, survival, proliferation and subsequent differentiation of pharyngeal arch neural crest and mesoderm-derived mesenchyme into their respective cardiovascular, musculoskeletal, and glandular derivatives have been identified. However, the importance of epithelial-mesenchymal interactions and pharyngeal endoderm function is becoming increasingly clear. Fibroblast growth factor 8 is a signaling molecule expressed in the ectoderm and endoderm of the developing pharyngeal arches and known to play an important role in survival and patterning of first arch tissues. We demonstrate a dosage-sensitive requirement for FGF8 during development of pharyngeal arch, pharyngeal pouch and neural crest-derived tissues. We show that FGF8 deficient embryos have lethal malformations of the cardiac outflow tract, great vessels and heart due, at least in part, to failure to form the fourth pharyngeal arch arteries, altered expression of Fgf10 in the pharyngeal mesenchyme, and abnormal apoptosis in pharyngeal and cardiac neural crest. The Fgf8 mutants described herein display the complete array of cardiovascular, glandular and craniofacial phenotypes seen in human deletion 22q11 syndromes. This represents the first single gene disruption outside the typically deleted region of human chromosome 22 to fully recapitulate the deletion 22q11 phenotype. FGF8 may operate directly in molecular pathways affected by deletions in 22q11 or function in parallel pathways required for normal development of pharyngeal arch and neural crest-derived tissues. In either case, Fgf8 may function as a modifier of the 22q11 deletion and contribute to the phenotypic variability of this syndrome.
Lidocaine has been used in treatment of patients with refractory headache. Personal observations of neuropsychiatric toxicity in these patients led us to review our cases and the literature systematically for lidocaine side-effects, especially neuropsychiatric symptoms. In our series of 20 patients, side-effects were observed in all, the most frequent being neuropsychiatric (75%) and cardiological (50%). When reviewing published series on intravenous lidocaine use, reports of side-effects range from 0 to 100%, with neuropsychiatric symptoms being reported in 1.8-100%. Thirty-six case reports of lidocaine-induced psychiatric symptoms were also analysed. Psychiatric symptoms of toxicity were similar in most patients, despite their differing ages, pathologies, co-therapies and lidocaine dosages. In conclusion, lidocaine neuropsychiatric toxicity has a well-recognized stereotypical clinical presentation that is probably unrecognized in headache series. As lidocaine represents an emerging alternative therapy in headache, particularly in short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing, clinicians and patients should be aware of the extent of this problem.
We compared the effects of propofol and sevoflurane on bupivacaine-induced central nervous system and cardiovascular toxicity in rats. Thirty-four male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with 70% N2O/30% O2 plus the 50% effective dose (ED50) of propofol (propofol group, n = 12); 70% N2O/30% O2 plus ED50 of sevoflurane (sevoflurane group, n = 11); or 70% N2O/30% O2 (control group, n = 11). Bupivacaine was infused at a constant rate of 2 mg x kg(-1) x min(-1) while electrocardiogram, electroencephalogram, and invasive arterial pressure were continuously monitored. The cumulative doses of bupivacaine that induced dysrhythmias, seizures, and 50% reduction of heart rate were larger in the propofol and sevoflurane groups than in the control group. The cumulative dose of bupivacaine that induced a 50% reduction in the mean arterial blood pressure was larger in the propofol group than in the sevoflurane and control groups. The margin of safety, assessed by the time between the onset of dysrhythmias and 50% reduction of mean arterial blood pressure, was wider in the propofol group than in the sevoflurane group. We conclude that propofol and sevoflurane attenuate bupivacaine-induced dysrhythmias and seizures and that propofol has a wider margin of safety than sevoflurane.
In anesthetized patients, dysrhythmias may be the only warning sign of intravascular injection of bupivacaine. Because propofol has a wider margin of safety than sevoflurane, life-threatening cardiovascular depression may be prevented by stopping the injection of bupivacaine at the onset of dysrhythmias during propofol anesthesia.
In two separate experiments, 2.0 mg of 3-amino-1-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-2) was applied to the back of female CD-1 mice twice weekly for 5 weeks followed by application of 2.5 micrograms of 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) twice weekly for 47 weeks. Skin squamous cell papillomas and carcinomas developed in 6 of 20 mice (30%) in Experiment 1 and in 3 of 19 mice (16%) in Experiment 2. In contrast, application of 2.0 mg of Trp-P-2 twice weekly for 52 weeks did not produce any skin tumors. These data suggest that Trp-P-2 acts primarily as an initiator, not as a complete carcinogen, for mouse skin.
Using two strains of Salmonella enteritidis, one susceptible and one resistant to ampicillin, we studied the efficacies of ampicillin, gentamicin, ampicillin plus gentamicin, ofloxacin, and cefotaxime for the treatment of experimental salmonella endocarditis. Rabbits were treated for 3 days with dosages of antibiotic selected to achieve concentrations in serum equivalent to those obtained in humans during therapy. Aortic salmonella endocarditis seemed to be very difficult to treat, and all antimicrobial regimens failed to achieve the complete sterilization of cardiac vegetations. In vitro studies did not accurately predict the in vivo response to therapy, and no correlations regarding the synergistic activity of the combination of ampicillin plus gentamicin were observed. For the ampicillin-susceptible S. enteritidis isolate, ampicillin and cefotaxime produced the greatest reduction in the number of organisms in vegetations, with no significant differences between them. For the ampicillin-resistant strain, the combination of ampicillin with gentamicin produced a synergistic effect that was not anticipated by the in vitro studies. Both cefotaxime and ofloxacin were effective in reducing the number of microorganisms in the vegetations, although the reduction produced by cefotaxime was less that that produced against the ampicillin-susceptible strain. Monotherapy with gentamicin exhibited only modest activity against the ampicillin-susceptible S. enteritidis strain.
To investigate the mechanisms by which bezafibrate retarded the progression of coronary lesions in the Bezafibrate Coronary Atherosclerosis Intervention Trial (BECAIT), we examined the relationships of on-trial lipoproteins and lipoprotein subfractions to the angiographic outcome measurements.
BECAIT, the first double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized serial angiographic trial of a fibrate compound, showed that progression of focal coronary atherosclerosis in young survivors of myocardial infarction could be retarded by bezafibrate treatment.
A total of 92 dyslipoproteinemic men who had survived a first myocardial infarction before the age of 45 years were randomly assigned to treatment for 5 years with bezafibrate (200 mg three times daily) or placebo; 81 patients underwent baseline and at least one post-treatment coronary angiography.
In addition to the decrease in very low density lipoprotein (VLDL) cholesterol (-53%) and triglyceride (-46%) and plasma apolipoprotein (apo) B (-9%) levels, bezafibrate treatment resulted in a significant increase in high density lipoprotein-3 (HDL3) cholesterol (+9%) level and a shift in the low density lipoprotein (LDL) subclass distribution toward larger particle species (peak particle diameter +032 nm). The on-trial HDL3 cholesterol and plasma apo B concentrations were found to be independent predictors of the changes in mean minimum lumen diameter (r=-0.23, p < 0.05), and percent (%) stenosis (r = 0.30, p < 0.01), respectively. Decreases in small dense LDL and/or VLDL lipid concentrations were unrelated to disease progression.
Our results suggest that the effect of bezafibrate on progression of focal coronary atherosclerosis could be at least partly attributed to a rise in HDL3 cholesterol and a decrease in the total number of apo B-containing lipoproteins.
Our objective was to investigate the interactions between common polymorphisms in ABCB1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5 genes and the lipid-lowering efficacy and safety of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor simvastatin.
One hundred sixteen hypercholesterolemic patients were prospectively screened by physical examination, medical history, and clinical laboratory evaluation and were included in this study. Subjects entering the study were treated with 20 mg/d simvastatin. Plasma lipid and lipoprotein levels were measured before treatment, after 2 months of treatment, and after 6 months of treatment. Ninety-nine patients completed the 6-month follow-up and were included in the association analysis for treatment efficacy. Seventeen subjects who had adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to simvastatin (ADR group) could not complete the 6-month follow-up and were included in the association analyses for safety. Myalgia was observed in 15 of 17 subjects and was the only ADR included in the association analyses, but other common ADRs were also observed. Myalgia was defined as proximal or diffuse muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness, or both pain and weakness, with normal or slightly increased serum creatine phosphokinase levels. ABCB1 (1236C>T, 2677G>A/T, and 3435C>T), CYP3A4 (-392A>G), and CYP3A5 (6986A>G) allele variants were determined by polymerase chain reaction and restriction mapping.
After adjustment for covariates, carriers of the ABCB1 1236T variant allele had a greater reduction in total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol with simvastatin treatment, as compared with homozygotes with the wild-type allele (-29.0% [95% confidence interval (CI), -25.9 to -32.5] versus -24.2% [95% CI, -19.0 to -29.3] [P = .042] and -39.6% [95% CI, -35.8 to -44.0] versus -33.8% [95% CI, -27.4 to -40.2] [P = .042], respectively). Similar results were observed for the 2677G>A/T polymorphism and haplotype data. The 1236T, 2677non-G, and 3435T alleles were less frequent in ADR cases than in the non-ADR group (P < .05 for all single-nucleotide polymorphisms). Haplotype analyses also demonstrated a reduction of the T-non-G-T haplotype frequency (20%) in patients in whom myalgia developed during simvastatin treatment, as compared with the non-ADR group (41.4%) (P = .03). No significant associations were observed between the CYP3A4 -392A>G and CYP3A5*3 allele variants and the efficacy or tolerability of simvastatin.
Our data suggest an association of ABCB1 gene polymorphisms and the efficacy and safety of simvastatin.
We examined the effects of oral administration of vitamin E, an antioxidant, on endothelium-dependent vasodilation in patients with coronary spastic angina.
We have recently reported that endothelium-dependent vasodilation is impaired in patients with coronary spastic angina (CSA). Furthermore, it is known that oxidative stress may play an important role in the impairment of endothelium-dependent vasodilation in cardiovascular diseases.
With the ultrasound technique, flow-dependent vasodilation of the brachial arteries during reactive hyperemia was examined before and after treatment for a month with either oral administration of vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol acetate, 300 mg/day) or placebo, which is randomly assigned, in patients with CSA (n=60).
Before treatment, patients with CSA had impaired flow-dependent vasodilation, lower plasma levels of alpha-tocopherol and higher plasma levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), as compared with age- and sex-matched control subjects (n=60) (flow-dependent vasodilation: 3.1+/-1.8 vs. 7.1+/-2.5%, p < 0.001; alpha-tocopherol levels: 8.9+/-1.8 vs. 10.8+/-1.8 microg/ml, p < 0.001). In patients with CSA, treatment with vitamin E restored flow-dependent vasodilation (3.1+/-1.7 vs. 8.3+/-2.0%, p < 0.001), and this improvement was associated with the decreases in plasma TBARS levels and anginal attacks.
The results indicate that vitamin E treatment improved endothelium-dependent vasodilation and decreased plasma TBARS levels in patients with CSA. Thus, increased oxidative stress may contribute to endothelial dysfunction and anginal attacks in patients with CSA.
Immunological tolerance can be achieved in animals by exposure of newborn to a foreign antigen. Depending on the dose and timing of the antigenic challenge, tolerance has been reported to result in clonal deletion, anergy or active suppression. In this latter case, regulatory T cells prevent autoimmunity by suppressing the reactivity of pathogenic self-reactive T cells. We have previously reported the generation of a neonatal, mercury-specific, and dominant tolerance to autoimmunity induced by mercury salts in rats. Chronic exposure to mercury salts can lead to SLE-like autoimmune responses, mediated by autoreactive CD4+ Th2 cells, that regulate and are followed by a resistant state mediated by protective CD8+ T cells. The aim of the study was to compare the resistance to the neonatal tolerance to mercury disease, and to further characterize the CD8+ T cells endowed with regulatory capacity in the neonatal tolerance model. We report here that resistance to mercury disease is long lasting and not mercury-specific, suggesting that different CD8+ T cells are involved in resistance and neonatal tolerance, and that regulatory CD8+ Tc1 cells generated in tolerance are required to control the CD8- cell population from developing Th2-mediated autoimmunity. Upon mercury recall, CD8+ CD45RC(high) T cells, that represent the Tc1 subset in the rat, expanded and were polarized towards IFNgamma production. Interestingly, identical results were obtained with the CD8+ CD25+T cell population. Substantial amounts of FasL gene expression were detected in CD8+ T lymphocytes upon recall with the tolerogen. AICD may be one of the regulatory mechanisms used by these regulatory CD8+ Tc1 cells that control neonatal tolerance to a Th2-mediated autoimmune disorder.
A 36-year-old male with systemic lupus erythematosus developed aseptic meningitis after ingestion of ibuprofen. He was unconscious, had a universal rash, high fever and a pathological CSF. Being severely ill he was treated with high doses of corticosteroids and plasmapheresis and recovered within a week.
To clarify the interaction between anxiety-like behavior produced by corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and the 5-HT system, we investigated the effects of intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of CRF on an elevated plus-maze performance as indices of anxiety, measuring extracellular levels of 5-HT in the ventral hippocampus using an in vivo brain dialysis method in rats. The time spent in the open arms of the maze and the number of open arm entries were decreased in a dose-dependent manner by the administration of CRF (0.3-1.0 microg/rat). These effects of CRF were prevented by pretreatment with a 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.). In biochemical studies, CRF increased 5-HT release about 150-250% above baseline in the ventral hippocampus and this elevation was significantly inhibited by a CRF receptor antagonist, alpha-Helical CRF(9-41) (50 mug/rat), and 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.). These results suggested that the anxiety-like effect produced by CRF may have involved increased 5-HT transmission in the ventral hippocampus. Taken with the evidence for hypersecretion of CRF in patients with depression and anxiety-related disorders, our findings lead to the intriguing hypothesis that interaction between CRF and 5-HT, especially in the ventral hippocampus, plays a role in the etiology of affective and anxiety disorders.
To examine the putative seizure-protective properties of felbamate in an animal model of self-sustaining status epilepticus (SSSE).
SSSE was induced by 30-min stimulation of the perforant path (PPS) through permanently implanted electrodes in free-running male adult Wistar rats. Felbamate (FBM; 50, 100, and 200 mg/kg), dizepam (DZP; 10 mg/kg), or phenytoin (PHT; 50 mg/kg) were injected i.v. 10 min after SSSE induction. Electrographic manifestations of SSSE and the severity of SSSE-induced neuronal injury were analyzed.
Felbamate injected during the early stages of SSSE (10 min after the end of PPS), shortened the duration of seizures in a dose-dependent manner. Total time spent in seizures after FBM and 290 +/- 251 min (50 mg/kg), 15.3 +/- 9 min (100 mg/kg), and 7 +/- 1 min (200 mg/kg), whereas control animals spent 410 +/- 133 min seizing. This effect of FBM was stronger than that of DZP (10 mg/kg, 95 +/- 22 min) and comparable to that of PHT (50 mg/kg, 6.3 +/- 2.5 min). In the applied doses, FBM (200 mg/kg) was more effective than PHT (50 mg/kg) or DZP (10 mg/kg) in shortening seizure duration and decreasing spike frequency, when administered on the pleateau of SSSE (injection 40 min after the end of PPS). Anticonvulsant action of FBM was confirmed by milder neuronal injury compared with control animals.
Felbamate, a clinically available AED with a moderate affinity for the glycine site of the NMDA receptor, displayed a potent seizure-protective effect in an animal model of SSSE. These results suggest that FBM might be useful when standard AEDs fail in the treatment of refractory cases of SE.
Three double-blind, placebo controlled studies found isocarboxazid (40-50 mg/day) to be efficacious and safe for the treatment of atypical depression. The few instances of liver function elevations were generally borderline; one patient had a marked increase of both SGOT and SGPT (with normal bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase) at Week 6 which normalized over the next several months. Another patient had a mild, temporary hypertensive reaction after eating cheese but did not require any treatment alterations. Drops in both systolic and diastolic blood pressures, as well as orthostatic changes, were common but generally mild and well-tolerated. The most frequently noted side effects were dizziness, headache, dry mouth, insomnia, and constipation. Clinical adverse reactions tended to be mild and to respond to dosage decreases. Isocarboxazid appears to be an underutilized and potentially valuable agent for the treatment of depressed patients.
Twenty-three children surviving more than 5 years from the diagnosis of leukemia, lymphoma, or malignant histiocytosis were evaluated for clinical evidence of central nervous system disease. Severe impairment, consisting of seizures, paraplegia, and dementia was present in 4, all of whom received methotrexate (MTX) and other agents for 2 to 7 years. Brain biopsies in 3 of these children showed white-matter gliosis and no evidence of viral or other infections or leukemic infiltrates. Of the remaining children 10/19 were found to have mild clinical or EEG abnormalities. All had received i.v. MTX with other drugs for 2-6 years; 5 did not receive cranial irradiation. Common to all impaired patients was the administration of intravenous methotrexate in relatively high doses over a prolonged period of time. Impairment in nervous system function may present as a spectrum of deficiencies, with the most severe resulting in death, or as in the 4 patients described here, profound dementia and dependence. Less dramatic changes in functioning, may, however, result from various combinations of chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Methods of assessing their etiology and impact on survivors need now to be devised.
Overuse and abuse of antibiotics can increase the risk of cancer. Chloramphenicol can inhibit both bacterial and mitochondrial protein synthesis, causing mitochondrial stress and decreased ATP biosynthesis. Chloramphenicol can accelerate cancer progression; however, the underlying mechanisms of chloramphenicol in carcinogenesis and cancer progression are still unclear. We found that chloramphenicol can induce matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-13 expression and increase MMP-13 protein in conditioned medium, resulting in an increase in cancer cell invasion. Chloramphenicol also activated c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI-3K)/Akt signaling, leading to c-Jun protein phosphorylation. The activated c-Jun protein has been proven to activate binding to the MMP-13 promoter and also upregulate the amount of MMP-13. Both the SP 600125 (JNK inhibitor) and LY 294002 (PI-3K/Akt inhibitor) can inhibit chloramphenicol-induced c-Jun phosphorylation, MMP-13 expression, and cell invasion. Overexpression of the dominant-negative JNK and PI-3K p85 subunit also negate chloramphenicol-induced responses. Other antibiotics that cause mitochondrial stress and a decrease in ATP biosynthesis also induce MMP-13 expression. These findings suggest that chloramphenicol-induced PI-3K/Akt, JNK phosphorylation, and activator protein 1 activation might function as a novel mitochondrial stress signal that result in an increase of MMP-13 expression and MMP-13-associated cancer cell invasion. The findings of this study confirms that chloramphenicol, and other 70S ribosomal inhibitors, should be administered with caution, especially during cancer therapy.
Mutations in the copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene produce an animal model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a fatal neurodegenerative disorder. To test a new therapeutic strategy for ALS, we examined the effect of caspase inhibition in transgenic mice expressing mutant human SOD1 with a substitution of glycine to alanine in position 93 (mSOD1(G93A)). Intracerebroventricular administration of zVAD-fmk, a broad caspase inhibitor, delays disease onset and mortality. Moreover, zVAD-fmk inhibits caspase-1 activity as well as caspase-1 and caspase-3 mRNA up-regulation, providing evidence for a non-cell-autonomous pathway regulating caspase expression. Caspases play an instrumental role in neurodegeneration in transgenic mSOD1(G93A) mice, which suggests that caspase inhibition may have a protective role in ALS.
A 52-year-old female developed a sensorimotor polyneuropathy while on treatment with disulfiram. Electron microscopic examination of a sural nerve biopsy disclosed occasional axons distended by intermediate filaments. Identical changes can be induced in animals by carbon disulfide (CS2), a metabolite of disulfiram. Our findings suggest that disulfiram neurotoxicity is mediated by CS2 and is exerted on the distal axon.
DNA methyltransferase 1, 3a, and 3b affect DNA methylation, and it is thought that they play an important role in the malignant transformation of various cancers. The current study was designed to analyze DNA methyltransferase expression by immunohistochemistry in a series of 94 Tunisian sporadic breast carcinomas. Results were correlated to clinicopathologic parameters and promoter methylation status of 8 tumor suppressor genes (BRCA1, BRCA2, RASSFA1, TIMP3, CDH1, P16, RARβ2, and DAPK). Overexpression of DNA methyltransferase 1, 3a, and 3b was detected in 46.8%, 32%, and 44.7% of cases, respectively. A significant correlation was found between DNA methyltransferase 1 overexpression and Scarff-Bloom-Richardson histologic grade III (P = .01). DNA methyltransferase 3a overexpression was significantly associated with menopausal status (P = .01), Scarff-Bloom-Richardson histologic grade III (P = .0001), estrogen (P = .04) and progesterone (P = .007) receptor negativity, and HER2 overexpression (P = .004). However, DNA methyltransferase 3a overexpression was found less frequently in the luminal A intrinsic breast cancer subtype (9.7%) than in luminal B (53%), HER2 (41%), and triple-negative (50%) subtypes (P = .001). DNA methyltransferase 3b overexpression shows significant correlation with promoter hypermethylation of BRCA1 (P = .03) and RASSFA1 (P = .04) and with the hypermethylator phenotype (more than 4 methylated genes, P = .01). These data suggest that overexpression of various DNA methyltransferases might represent a critical event responsible for the epigenetic inactivation of multiple tumor suppressor genes, leading to the development of aggressive forms of sporadic breast cancer.
Lovastatin has been used to treat hypercholesterolemia through blocking the mevalonate biosynthesis pathway. Inhibition of mevalonate synthesis may result in antiproliferation and cell apoptosis. The aim of the present study was to examine the apoptotic effect of lovastatin in human ARO cells and delineate its underlying molecular mechanism. Our results showed that lovastatin dose- and time-dependently induced apoptosis in ARO cells. Pretreatment with cycloheximide dose-dependently suppressed lovastatin-induced apoptosis, suggesting that de novo protein synthesis is required for lovastatin effect on the induction of apoptosis in ARO cells. Treatment of the cells with 50 microM lovastatin induced cytochrome c translocation from mitochondria to cytosol; increases in caspase-2, -3, and -9 activity; and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase degradation in a time-dependent manner. However, administration of mevalonate or geranylgeraniol, but not farnesol, dose-dependently prevented lovastatin-induced poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase degradation and the occurrence of apoptosis, but treatment with geranylgeranyl transferase inhibitor, GGTI-298, which blocks the geranylgeranylation, induced an increase in the percentage of the apoptotic cells. These data suggest that geranylgeranylation is required for survival of the lovastatin-treated ARO cells. To support this notion, we demonstrate that lovastatin dose-dependently decreased the translocation of RhoA and Rac1, but not Ras, from cytosol to membrane fraction. Moreover, the lovastatin-induced translocation inhibitions in RhoA and Rac1 were prevented by mevalonate and geranylgeraniol but not farnesol. In conclusion, our data suggest that lovastatin induced apoptosis in ARO cells by inhibiting protein geranylgeranylation of the Rho family but not farnesylation of the Ras family.
Erythrocyte-bound immunoglobulins have been characterized by a PVP-potentiated antiglobulin test in 11 patients who had developed antibodies after treatment with alpha-methyldopa. Serologic profiles were recognized that could distinguish between the hemolyzing and nonhemolyzing patients: IgM antibodies together with the first component of complement (C1q) were demonstrated on erythrocytes of all eight hemolyzing patients. By contrast, these immunoproteins were absent from the cells of nonhemolyzing patients and became undetectable when the hemolyzing patients recovered. IgG and its subclasses were variably present on erythrocytes of all patients regardless of hemolytic activity. Eluates prepared from erythrocytes of the hemolyzing patients were shown to contain both IgG and IgM, and fixes C1q, C3, and C4. Eluates from the nonhemolyzing patients contained only IgG. The IgM antibodies differed from the commonly occurring cold agglutinins in that they were warm-reactive and were mainly concentrated on the patients' cells rather than being free in the serum. Because of their nonagglutinating property, it is suggested that they are monomeric IgM. It is concluded that the high affinity, warm-reactive IgM and not the IgG antibodies are primarily responsible for clinically manifest anemia in patients receiving alphamethyldopa and that the hemolytic activity is probably mediated by the classic pathway of complement activation.
Recombinant cytokines such as stem cell factor (SCF) are currently being tested for the ability to ameliorate 3'azido-3'deoxythymidine (AZT) induced anemia in AIDS patients. Recently, we demonstrated that SCF and hemin in vitro greatly increased the resistance of burst-forming units erythroid (BFU-E) to AZT. We therefore attempted to ameliorate AZT-induced anemia in vivo using SCF and hemin in immunodeficient LP-BM5 infected (MAIDS) mice. SCF and hemin were administered with oral AZT for 3 wk and the effects on erythropoiesis examined. Hemin significantly increased hematocrits of AZT-treated mice and control mice. However, SCF and SCF-hemin combinations failed to raise hematocrits. Reticulocyte numbers were significantly consistently increased only in hemin-treated mice receiving AZT. The numbers of CFU-E were increased in bone marrow of AZT-treated mice receiving hemin. Therefore, SCF did not enhance the erythropoietic effect of hemin in AZT-treated immunodeficient mice.
To examine the efficacy of atypical neuroleptics for decreasing craving and drug relapses during protracted withdrawal in individuals dually diagnosed with schizophrenia and cocaine dependence.
We conducted a 6-week, open-label pilot study comparing risperidone with typical neuroleptics in a sample of withdrawn cocaine-dependent schizophrenia patients.
Preliminary results suggest that individuals treated with risperidone had significantly less cue-elicited craving and substance abuse relapses at study completion. Further, they showed a trend toward a greater reduction in negative and global symptoms of schizophrenia.
Atypical neuroleptics may help reduce craving and relapses in this population. Future research should include more rigorous double-blind placebo-controlled studies with this class of medications.
