Prenatal exposures to organophosphate pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls have been associated with abnormal neonatal behavior and/or primitive reflexes. In 1998-2002, the Mount Sinai Children's Environmental Health Center (New York City) investigated the effects of indoor pesticide use and exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls on pregnancy outcome and child neurodevelopment in an inner-city multiethnic cohort. The Brazelton Neonatal Behavioral Assessment Scale was administered before hospital discharge (n = 311). Maternal urine samples were analyzed for six dialkylphosphate metabolites and malathion dicarboxylic acid. A random subset of maternal peripheral blood samples from the entire cohort (n = 194) was analyzed for polychlorinated biphenyls and 1,1'-dichloro-2,2'-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethylene. Malathion dicarboxylic acid levels above the limit of detection were associated with a 2.24-fold increase in the number of abnormal reflexes (95% confidence interval: 1.55, 3.24). Likewise, higher levels of total diethylphosphates and total dialkylphosphates were associated with an increase in abnormal reflexes, as was total dimethylphosphates after paraoxonase expression was considered. No adverse associations were found with polychlorinated biphenyl or 1,1'-dichloro-2,2'-bis(4-chlorophenyl)ethylene levels and any behavior. The authors uncovered additional evidence that prenatal levels of organophosphate pesticide metabolites are associated with anomalies in primitive reflexes, which are a critical marker of neurologic integrity.
We report on two fatal cases of accidental intrathecal vincristine instillation in a 5-year old girl with recurrent acute lymphoblastic leucemia and a 57-year old man with lymphoblastic lymphoma. The girl died seven days, the man four weeks after intrathecal injection of vincristine. Clinically, the onset was characterized by the signs of opistothonus, sensory and motor dysfunction and ascending paralysis. Histological and immunohistochemical investigations (HE-LFB, CD-68, Neurofilament) revealed degeneration of myelin and axons as well as pseudocystic transformation in areas exposed to vincristine, accompanied by secondary changes with numerous prominent macrophages. The clinical course and histopathological results of the two cases are presented. A review of all reported cases in the literature is given. A better controlled regimen for administering vincristine and intrathecal chemotherapy is recommended.
The reported immunomodulatory effects of transfusion raise concern about the potential for virus activation and tumor growth in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients. In the absence of "standards" of transfusion practice for such patients, a survey of transfusion policies among institutions specializing in the care of HIV-infected patients was performed to delineate current practices.
A survey developed by the Transfusion Practices Committee of the American Association of Blood Banks was sent to 47 AIDS clinical trial units and 14 regional hemophilia centers in North America.
Forty-three percent of centers completed the survey. Most centers observed more than 200 HIV-infected patients each. The key findings were that 1) 81 percent of centers used identical red cell transfusion criteria for HIV-infected and noninfected patients; 2) 52 percent used recombinant human erythropoietin as initial treatment for zidovudine-induced anemia, while 46 percent used recombinant human erythropoietin for anemia not associated with zidovudine; 3) 35 percent of centers used white cell-reduced blood components in lieu of cytomegalovirus (CMV)-seronegative components when administering transfusion(s) to CMV-seronegative patients; 4) 27 percent gamma-radiated cellular components, but no case of graft-versus-host disease had been observed; 5) > 85 percent of centers used monoclonal factor VIII for pediatric and adult hemophiliacs infected with HIV; 6) approximately one-third of centers routinely white cell-reduced cellular components; and 7) the most common reasons for white cell reduction included reduction of febrile reactions and CMV risk, reduction of platelet alloimmunization, and delay of immunomodulatory consequences of transfusion.
There is marked heterogeneity in transfusion practice for HIV-infected patients. Modification of cellular components to achieve different objectives is routine in many centers.
Iron deficiency (ID) results in ventricular hypertrophy, believed to involve sympathetic stimulation. We hypothesized that with ID 1) intravenous norepinephrine would alter heart rate (HR) and contractility, 2) abdominal aorta would be larger and more distensible, and 3) the beta-blocker propanolol would reduce hypertrophy.
1) 30 CD rats were fed an ID or replete diet for 1 week or 1 month. Norepinephrine was infused via jugular vein; pressure was monitored at carotid artery. Saline infusions were used as a control. The pressure trace was analyzed for HR, contractility, systolic and diastolic pressures. 2) Abdominal aorta catheters inflated the aorta, while digital microscopic images were recorded at stepwise pressures to measure arterial diameter and distensibility. 3) An additional 10 rats (5 ID, 5 control) were given a daily injection of propanolol or saline. After 1 month, the hearts were excised and weighed.
Enhanced contractility, but not HR, was associated with ID hypertrophic hearts. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures were consistent with an increase in arterial diameter associated with ID. Aortic diameter at 100 mmHg and distensibility were increased with ID. Propanolol was associated with an increase in heart to body mass ratio.
ID cardiac hypertrophy results in an increased inotropic, but not chronotropic response to the sympathetic neurotransmitter, norepinephrine. Increased aortic diameter is consistent with a flow-dependent vascular remodeling; increased distensibility may reflect decreased vascular collagen content. The failure of propanolol to prevent hypertrophy suggests that ID hypertrophy is not mediated via beta-adrenergic neurotransmission.
This series of experiments suggests that a relationship exists between convulsive doses of lidocaine and central depletion of 5-HT and DA. Since DA and usually 5-HT are regarded as central inhibitory transmitters, this study further supports the postulate that lidocaine's convulsive activity is by inhibition of central inhibitory pathways-possibly a dopaminergic or tryptaminergic pathway or both.
Provocation of various seizure types including epileptic negative myoclonus and generalised atonic seizures is rarely observed in children treated with carbamazepine (CBZ). Provocation of the latter seizure types by oxcarbazepine (OXC) is not described in the literature. We report a four year-old boy with symptomatic epilepsy caused by left-sided cerebral atrophy of unknown origin who developed numerous daily drop attacks when exposed to OXC. Polygraphic analysis revealed secondary generalised precentral sharp-slow waves frequently associated with a silent period lasting for 100-150 ms in the electromyogram recorded from the deltoid and neck muscles. These seizures stopped promptly within 36 hours after discontinuation of OXC. This case demonstrates that OXC, similar to CBZ, can provoke epileptic negative myoclonus in some children with focal epilepsies. [Published with videosequences].
Microinjections of putative enkephalin releasors, veratridine (0.2 micrograms), L-Tyr-D-Arg (1 microgram) and physostigmine (1 microgram) into the nucleus ambiguus (NA) induced naloxone-reversible bradycardia in chloralosed dogs. In addition, microinjections of compounds known to inhibit enkephalin degradation: D-phenylalanine (10 micrograms), puromycin (20 ng), Gly-Gly-Phe-Met (0.5 micrograms), and captopril (20 ng) induced a naloxone-reversible bradycardia. These results are compatible with the view that an enkephalinergic mechanism is involved in the central vagal control of the heart. These experiments provide evidence that enkephalins are tonically released from nerve terminals located in the NA and that enkephalinase, amino-peptidase and possibly angiotensin I-converting enzyme, could be involved in their catabolism in vivo.
Kainic acid-induced seizures in the rat brain cause severe brain damage that is thought to result, in part, from oxidative stress. In this study, we examine the consequences of systemic administration of kainic acid on expression of several genes that encode proteins thought to play roles in protection from oxidative stress, including metallothionein-I, and -III. Kainic acid causes an increase in metallothionein-I and heme oxygenase-I mRNAs, as well as an increase in c-fos, heat shock protein-70, and interleukin-1 beta mRNAs. The induction of these mRNAs is seizure dependent, and is greater in brain areas with extensive damage (e.g. piriform cortex) than in areas with minimal damage (e.g. frontal cortex and cerebellum). In contrast, little or no change in mRNA for metallothionein-III, manganese superoxide dismutase, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase, glutathione-s-transferase ya subunit or glutathione peroxidase occur. The prolonged and robust concordant induction of the metallothionein-I and heme oxygenase-I genes may reflect the oxidative stress produced by kainic acid-induced seizures. In addition, the induction of interleukin-1 beta gene expression suggests an inflammatory response in brain regions damaged by kainic acid-induced seizures. Delineating the regulation of genes associated with oxidative and inflammatory responses can contribute to a fuller understanding of seizures and associated brain damage.
More than 3 decades after Jones and Smith (1973) reported on the devastation caused by alcohol exposure on fetal development, the rates of heavy drinking during pregnancy remain relatively unchanged. Early identification of fetal alcohol exposure and maternal abstinence led to better infant outcomes. This study examined the utility of biometry for detecting alcohol-related fetal growth impairment.
We obtained fetal ultrasound measures from routine ultrasound examinations for 167 pregnant hazardous drinkers who were enrolled in a brief alcohol intervention study. The fetal measures for women who quit after learning of their pregnancies were compared with measures for women who continued some drinking throughout the course of their pregnancies. Because intensity of alcohol consumption is associated with poorer fetal outcomes, separate analyses were conducted for the heavy (average of >or=5 drinks per drinking day) alcohol consumers. Fetal measures from the heavy-exposed fetuses were also compared with measures from a nondrinking group that was representative of normal, uncomplicated pregnancies from our clinics. Analyses of covariance were used to determine whether there were differences between groups after controlling for influences of gestational age and drug abuse.
Nearly half of the pregnant drinkers abstained after learning of their pregnancies. When women reportedly quit drinking early in their pregnancies, fetal growth measures were not significantly different from a non-alcohol-exposed group, regardless of prior drinking patterns. Any alcohol consumption postpregnancy recognition among the heavy drinkers resulted in reduced cerebellar growth as well as decreased cranial to body growth in comparison with women who either quit drinking or who were nondrinkers. Amphetamine abuse was predictive of larger cranial to body growth ratios.
Alterations in fetal biometric measurements were observed among the heavy drinkers only when they continued drinking after becoming aware of their pregnancies. Although the reliance on self-reported drinking is a limitation in this study, these findings support the benefits of early abstinence and the potential for ultrasound examinations in the detection of fetal alcohol effects.
In patients with Wilson's disease (WD), depression is a frequent psychiatric symptom. In vivo neuroimaging studies suggest that depression and other neuropsychiatric disorders are associated with central serotonergic deficits. However, in vivo measurements of serotonergic neurotransmission have not until now been performed in patients with this copper deposition disorder. The present prospective study revealed that depressive symptomatology is related to an alteration of presynaptic serotonin transporters (SERT) availability as measured by [123I]-2beta-carbomethoxy-3beta-(iodophenyl)tropane ([123I]beta-CIT) and high-resolution single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). SERT imaging with [123I]beta-CIT-SPECT could therefore become a useful tool for diagnosis and therapy monitoring in depressed WD patients.
Polymorphisms within genes responsible for estrogen catabolism could alter cellular levels of genotoxic 4-hydroxylated catechol estrogens and antiangiogenic 2-methoxyestradiol, thus influencing risk of developing ovarian cancer. We carried out a population-based case-control study of 310 epithelial ovarian cancer cases and 585 controls in African-American and Caucasian women ages 35 to 54 years from Seattle, Atlanta, and Detroit metropolitan areas. Subjects were interviewed and genotyped for CYP1A1 m1, m2, m3, and m4; CYP1B1 Arg(48)Gly, Ala(119)Ser, Val(432)Leu, and Asn(453)Ser; COMT Val(158)Met; UGT1A1 A(TA)nTAA; and SULT1A1 Arg(213)His polymorphisms. Unconditional logistic regression was used to calculate odds ratios (OR). Haplotypes were inferred and analyzed using models based on expectation-maximization with progressive ligation and Bayesian coalescence theory. CYP1B1 Leu(432) carriers were at increased risk of ovarian cancer, with an adjusted OR of 1.5 (95% confidence interval, 1.1-2.3) compared with Val(432) homozygotes. The most common CYP1B1 haplotype was Arg(48)-Ala(119)-Val(432)-Asn(453). All other haplotypes with frequencies >5% contained the Leu(432) allele. In diplotype analyses, relative to women homozygous for Arg(48)-Ala(119)-Val(432)-Asn(453), women with diplotypes containing at least one Leu(432) allele had adjusted ORs ranging from 1.3 to 2.2. Among women homozygous for COMT Met(158), carriers of CYP1B1 Leu(432) had a 2.6-fold increase in risk relative to CYP1B1 Val(432) homozygotes (95% confidence interval, 1.1-5.9). This latter result is opposite in direction from a similar analysis conducted by other investigators in a different study population. No association of ovarian cancer risk was observed with any of the other polymorphisms examined, either alone or in combination.
Effective and safe pharmacological interventions for hyperlipidemia remains badly needed. By incorporating the key pharmacophore of fibrates into the natural scaffold of resveratrol, a novel structural compound ZBH was constructed. In present study, we found ZBH reserved approximately one third of the sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) activation produced by resveratrol at in-vitro enzyme activity assay, directly bound to and activated all three peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) subtypes respectively in PPAR binding and transactivation assays. Moreover, ZBH (EC₅₀, 1.75 µM) activate PPARα 21 fold more efficiently than the well-known PPAR pan agonist bezafibrate (EC₅₀ 37.37 µM) in the cellular transactivation assays. In the high fat diet induced hyperlipidemic hamsters, 5-week treatment with ZBH significantly lowered serum triglyceride, total cholesterol, LDL-C, FFA, hyperinsulinemia, and improved insulin sensitivity more potently than bezafibrate. Meanwhile, serum transaminases, creatine phosphokinase and CREA levels were found not altered by ZBH intervention. Mechanism study indicated ZBH promoted the expression of PPARα target genes and SIRT1 mRNA. Hepatic lipogenesis was markedly decreased via down-regulation of lipogenic genes, and fatty acid uptake and oxidation was simultaneously increased in the liver and skeletal muscle via up-regulation of lipolysis genes. Glucose uptake and utilization was also significantly promoted in skeletal muscle. These results suggested that ZBH significantly lowered hyperlipidemia and ameliorated insulin resistance more efficiently than bezafibrate in the hyperlipidemic hamsters primarily by activating of PPARα, and SIRT1 promotion and activation. ZBH thus presents a potential new agent to combat hyperlipidemia.
We investigated whether adjusting the oral busulfan (BU) dosage on the basis of early pharmacokinetic data to achieve a targeted drug exposure could reduce transplant-related complications in children with advanced hematologic malignancies. Twenty-five children received a preparative regimen consisting of thiotepa (250 mg/m2 i.v. daily for 3 days), BU (40 mg/m2 per dose p.o. every 6 h for 12 doses), and cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg i.v. daily for 2 days) and then underwent allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Busulfan clearance and area under concentration time-curve (AUC) were determined after the first dose using a one-compartment pharmacokinetic (PK) model with first-order absorption. The initial PK analysis was successfully completed after the first BU dose in 21 patients (84%). A final AUC of 1000-1500 microM x min/dose was targeted and subsequent doses were modified as necessary to achieve this value. Fourteen of the 25 patients (56%) required dose adjustment. Follow-up PK analysis was completed in 21 patients and 16 of these achieved the targeted BU exposure for the course of therapy. Interpatient variability in BU clearance was high (up to five-fold). The most frequent regimen-related toxicities were cutaneous and gastrointestinal (stomatitis and diarrhea). Only one patient developed hepatic veno-occlusive disease. Our study demonstrates the feasibility of adjusting the oral BU dose in individual pediatric patients. Although toxicity associated with BU seemed to be reduced, this conclusion is tempered by the fact that the overall regimen-related toxicity (RRT) remains substantial and reflected the effects of all agents used in the preparative regimen.
It has been demonstrated that N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]acetamide (NFTA), when fed with the diet, causes transitional carcinomas in rats. An important step in the mechanism of NFTA-induced carcinogenesis is endogenous metabolic activation to an ultimate carcinogen. We have proposed that the enzyme complex prostaglandin H synthase (PHS) is involved in the activation of certain renal and urinary tract carcinogens. This proposal was assessed by examining the activation of the 5-nitrofuran renal carcinogen NFTA and its deacetylated analogue 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)thiazole (ANFT) by PHS. Ram seminal vesicular and rabbit renal inner medullary microsomes were used as a source of PHS. Both NFTA and ANFT were activated by PHS to bind microsomal protein. Both microsomal preparations activated ANFT to bind DNA. However, only ram seminal vesicular microsomes activated NFTA to bind DNA. The rate of ANFT binding to macromolecules was considerably greater than NFTA with both microsomal preparations. Although activated ANFT was shown to bind several different homopolynucleotides, a preference for binding polyguanylic acid was demonstrated. Glutathione inhibition of carcinogen binding to macromolecules was shown to be due to the formation of a thioether conjugate. Deacetylation of NFTA was demonstrated in both tissues with deacetylation significantly exceeding acetylation of ANFT to NFTA in the kidney. Thus, renal PHS activation of both NFTA and ANFT was demonstrated with the rate of ANFT activation being considerably greater than NFTA. The conversion of NFTA to ANFT by intact tissue suggests that ANFT may contribute to NFTA renal carcinogenesis.
To evaluate the potential role of Nimesulide, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, in proliferation and apoptosis of gastric adenocarcinoma cells SGC7901.
Cell counts and MTT assay were used to quantify the influence of Nimesulide in the proliferation of SGC7901 cells. Transmission electron microscopy and flow cytometry were used to observe the induction of Nimesulide the apoptosis of SGC7901 cells and influence in the distribution of cell cycle. The expression of P27(kip1) protein was observed by immunocytochemical staining.
SGC-7901 Cells treated with Nimesulide at various concentrations exhibited a profound dose- and time-dependent reduction in the proliferation rate over the 72 h test period. The highest survival rate of the cells was 78.7 %, but the lowest being 22.7 %. Nimesulide induced apoptosis of the cells in a dose-dependent and non-linear manner and increased the proportion of cells in the G(0)/G(1) phase and decreased the proportion in the S and G(2)/M phase of the cell cycle. Meanwhile, Nimesulide could up-regulate the expression of P27(kip1) protein.
The induction of apoptosis and cell cycle arrest are both anti-proliferative responses that likely contribute to the antineoplastic action of nimesulide on SGC-7901 cells. The up-regulation of P27(kip1) gene may contribute to the accumulation of these cells in the G(0)/G(1) phase following treatment with Nimesulide. Selective COX-2 inhibitor may be a new channel of the chemoprevention and chemotherapy for gastric carcinoma.
Peginterferon and ribavirin combination therapy for the treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) is well known to be associated with significant adverse effects. Sensorineural hearing loss, that in most cases is unilateral, has been reported as a consequence of therapy with both non-pegylated and pegylated interferon (pegIFN) but is not a well-known adverse effect. We report a 45-year-old Caucasian woman who developed acute sensorineural hearing loss 2 mo after starting therapy with pegIFN-alpha 2b and ribavirin for the treatment of chronic HCV, genotype 1a. She did not report the hearing loss to the hepatitis clinic until 1 mo, later whereupon therapy was promptly discontinued. Although her serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) normalized and her HCV-RNA became undetectable after 12 wk of pegIFN and ribavirin therapy, after discontinuation, her HCV-RNA became detectable with significant elevations of serum ALT. Four months after initial discontinuation, the patient re-commenced pegIFN and ribavirin combination therapy. After 44 of 48 wk of therapy, the patient's liver biochemistry has normalized and the HCV-RNA is undetectable. She has not developed worsening of her hearing loss and hearing on the left-side is unaffected. Both patients and physicians should be aware that sensorineural hearing loss may occur with pegIFN therapy. Our experience suggests that re-institution of therapy is not always associated with further hearing impairment.
The Valsartan Antihypertensive Long-term Use Evaluation (VALUE) study compares cardiovascular outcomes in 15,314 eligible patients from 31 countries randomized to valsartan or amlodipine-based treatment.
The blood pressure (BP) trends are analyzed in 13,449 of VALUE study patients who had baseline BP and 24 months BP and treatment data.
In a cohort of 12,570 patients, baseline 24 and 30 months BP, but not 30 months treatment data, were available. Of 13,449 patients, 92% (N = 12,398) received antihypertensive therapy at baseline. The baseline BP was 153.5/86.9 mm Hg in treated compared to 168.1.8/95.3 mm Hg in 1051 untreated patients. After 6 months both groups had indistinguishable BP values. At 12 months the BP decreased to 141.2/82.9 mm Hg (P <.0001 for systolic BP and diastolic BP versus baseline), at 24 months to 139.1/80 mm Hg (P <.0001 v 12 months), and to 138/79 mm Hg at 30 months (P <.0001 v 24 months). The systolic BP control (<140 mm Hg) at 30 months increased from 21.9% at baseline to 62.2%, the diastolic BP (< 90 mm Hg) from 54.2% to 90.2% and the combined control (<140 and <90 mm Hg) from 18.9% to 60.5%. At 24 months 85.8% of patients were on protocol drugs: monotherapy = 39.7%, added hydrochlorothiazide = 26.6%, add-on drugs = 15.1%, and protocol drugs in nonstandard doses = 4.3%.
The achieved BP control exceeds values reported in most published large-scale trials. The VALUE study is executed in regular clinical settings and 92% of the patients received antihypertensive drugs at baseline. When an explicit BP goal is set, and a treatment algorithm is provided, the physicians can achieve better control rates than in their regular practice.
5-Ethynyluracil (776C85) is a potent mechanism-based inactivator of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), the enzyme that catalyzes the rapid catabolism of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Because catabolism is the major route for 5-FU clearance, we studied the effect of 5-ethynyluracil on the pharmacokinetics and toxicity of continuous i.v. 5-FU infusion in the dog. 5-FU at 40 mg/kg/24 hr resulted in a steady-state plasma 5-FU concentration of 1.3 microM and was fatal with dogs dying from apparent neurotoxicity. 5-Ethynyluracil lowered the total clearance of 5-FU from 9.9 to 0.2 L/hr/kg and enabled 1.6 mg/kg/24 hr 5-FU to achieve a steady-state plasma 5-FU concentration of 2.4 microM with no apparent toxicity. 5-FU at 4 mg/kg/24 hr achieved a steady-state plasma 5-FU concentration of 5.3 microM and produced only mild gastrointestinal disturbances in 5-ethynyluracil-treated dogs. Thus, a catabolite of 5-FU appears to be responsible for the 5-FU-induced neurotoxicity in dogs.
The potent alpha and beta adrenergic actions of epinephrine are probably mediated through an increase in free intracellular calcium concentration. Despite an absence of experimental evidence, many clinicians administer epinephrine with calcium to augment its cardiovascular effects. We evaluated the effects of calcium on epinephrine's pressor response in both normal and endotoxin-treated rats by administering epinephrine to animals made hypercalcemic with calcium chloride or hypocalcemic with the calcium chelator EGTA. EPI, given in incremental doses of 10, 20 and 50 micrograms/kg, produced incremental increases in mean arterial pressure. Calcium chloride infused i.v. at a rate of 50 mg/ml/hr significantly (P less than .05) blunted (50% decrease) the hypertensive response to 50 micrograms/kg epinephrine in normal animals. In endotoxin-treated rats, calcium chloride at 50 mg/ml/hr significantly blunted the hypertensive response to 10 micrograms/kg (73% decrease), 20 micrograms/kg (62% decrease) and 50 micrograms/kg (50% decrease) epinephrine. Endotoxemia plus calcium chloride at 25 mg/ml/hr also significantly blunted (30% decrease) the hypertensive response to 50 micrograms/kg EPI. By contrast, hypocalcemia produced by EGTA (30 mg/ml/hr) had no effect on epinephrine's hypertensive effects in normal or endotoxemic rats. Since calcium chloride significantly diminishes epinephrine's hypertensive effects in both normal and endotoxin-treated rats, the clinical use of calcium chloride along with epinephrine may not have a sound experimental basis.
SB-243213 (5-methyl-1-[[-2-[(2-methyl-3-pyridyl)oxy]-5-pyridyl]carbamoyl]-6-trifluoromethylindoline hydrochloride) is a new, selective 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)2C receptor inverse agonist. SB-243213 has high affinity for the human 5-HT2C receptor (pK(i) 9.37) and greater than a 100-fold selectivity over a wide range of neurotransmitter receptors, enzymes and ion channels. In in vitro functional studies, SB-243213 acted as an inverse agonist at the human 5-HT2C receptor with a pK(b) of 9.8. In in vivo studies, SB-243213 was a potent inhibitor of central 5-HT2C receptor-mediated function in rats, blocking meta-chlorophenylpiperazine-induced hypolocomotion with an ID50 of 1.1 mg/kg p.o. and a long duration of action (>8 h). In rats, SB-243213 exhibited anxiolytic-like activity in both the social interaction and Geller-Seifter conflict tests. Importantly, unlike diazepam, chronic administration of SB-243213 did not result in the development of either tolerance to the anxiolytic-like effects or withdrawal anxiogenesis. Furthermore, in rodents, SB-243213 did not affect seizure threshold, did not increase body weight or induce catalepsy, but attenuated the haloperidol-induced catalepsy. SB-243213 did not affect amphetamine-, MK-801- or phencyclidine-induced hyperactivity. In conclusion, SB-243213 may possess an improved anxiolytic profile compared to benzodiazepines. SB-243213 also modulates dopaminergic transmission, lacks pro-psychotic properties and may have utility in the treatment of schizophrenia and motor disorders.
1. The pharmacological properties have been examined of FCC5 (2-N-carboxamidinonormianserin) and FCC13 (2-N-carboxamidonormianserin), two novel analogues of mianserin. 2. FCC5 or FCC13 (100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) caused long-lasting (greater than 1 h) abolition of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and histamine-induced bronchoconstriction in the anaesthetized guinea-pig. Both analogues had no effect (up to 1 mg/kg, i.v.) on bronchoconstriction caused by acetylcholine (25-50 micrograms/kg, i.v.). 3. The pressor effects of 5-HT in pithed rats were significantly attenuated by FCC5 (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.) or FCC13 (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.). 4. Oedema in the rat hind paw caused by intraplantar 5-HT was inhibited by FCC5 (ID50 0.76 mg/kg, i.p.; 2.7 mg/kg, p.o.) or FCC13 (ID50 0.65 mg/kg, i.p.; 5.8 mg/kg, p.o.). 5. In the central nervous system (CNS), FCC13 caused antagonism of 5-HT activity. It inhibited: (i) L-5-hydroxytryptophan (L-5-HTP)-induced head twitches in mice (ID50 1.85 mg/kg, i.p.), (ii) fenfluramine-induced facilitation of flexor reflex activity (FRA) in spinalized decerebrate rats (SDR) (IC50 0.57 mg/kg, i.p.). 6. FCC5 (less than or equal to 30 mg/kg, i.p. and less than or equal to 3 mg/kg, i.p., respectively) had no effect in either test. In contrast to mianserin, it also had no overt central actions as (less than or equal to 30 mg/kg, i.p.) had no effect on: (i) morphine-induced catalepsy (MIC) or (ii) clonidine-induced facilitation of FRA in SDR. However, high doses of FCC13 inhibited MIC (ID50 20 mg/kg, i.p.), but had no effect on (ii) (less than or equal to 10 mg/kg, i.p.). 7. Thus, FCC5 and FCC13 are potent, orally active H1 and 5-HT receptor antagonists. However, in contrast to FCC13 and mianserin, FCC5 did not cause CNS-mediated effects.
Dysregulations of apoptosis have been widely recognized as important events in multi-stage carcinogenesis. Bcl-x, a member of the Bcl-2 family, is known to act as a regulator of apoptosis. The present study was conducted to assess the role of altered Bcl-x protein expression in exogenous and endogenous hepatocarcinogenesis in rats. In the short-term exogenous models, male Fischer 344 rats, 6 weeks old, were given a single intraperitoneal injection of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) at a dose of 200 mg / kg body weight, partially hepatectomized at the end of week 3, administered phenobarbital at a concentration of 0.05% from the end of week 2 for 6 weeks, and sacrificed. In the livers, glutathione S-transferase (GST-P)-positive, putative preneoplastic lesions were induced, and Bcl-x protein expression was decreased in 24.7% of such lesions. The incidence of GST-P-positive lesions with decreased Bcl-x increased depending on the size of the lesions; 18.9%, 32.4% and 86.5% in the lesions smaller than 0.03, between 0.03 and 0.3, and larger than 0.3 mm(2), respectively. In GST-P-positive lesions larger than 0.3 mm(2), both apoptosis induction and cell proliferation activity were enhanced when Bcl-x protein expression was decreased. In the long-term exogenous models, rats were given 10 mg / kg of DEN, partially hepatectomized 4 h after treatment, administered 0.5 mg / kg of colchicine at the end of days 1 and 3, subjected to a selection procedure, and sacrificed at the end of week 45. Hepatocellular carcinomas were induced with the decreased Bcl-x protein expression. In the endogenous model, rats were fed a choline-deficient, L-amino acid-defined diet for 16 or 80 weeks and sacrificed. Bcl-x protein expression was decreased both in GST-P-positive lesions and hepatocellular carcinoma. These results suggest that this decrease of Bcl-x protein might serve as an indicator of the advanced form of preneoplastic lesions, and that this decrease could also be associated with a potential to progress into carcinoma in both exogenous and endogenous hepatocarcinogenesis of rats.
Patients with gastrointestinal and hepatobiliary disorders, either congenital or acquired early in childhood, are at high risk for various endocrine and metabolic abnormalities.
A 27-year-old woman with Alagille's syndrome presented with progressive jaundice and gait disturbances following surgery and ingestion of oral contraceptives. On physical examination, short stature, facial dysmorphism and neuromuscular symptoms such as polyneuropathy and spinocerebellar ataxia were noted. Serum concentrations of total bilirubin (54 mg/dl) and alkaline phosphatase were markedly increased, whereas serum levels of haptoglobin, zinc, vitamin D and E were decreased. Although prehepatic or intrahepatic etiologies of jaundice were more likely in this patient, posthepatic etiologies were ruled out by abdominal ultrasound and endoscopic retrograde cholangio-pancreaticography. Based on a working diagnosis of acute drug-induced cholestasis, treatment with high doses of lipid-soluble vitamins and ursodeoxycholic acid was initiated. In response to therapy, her abnormal laboratory results normalized and her neurologic symptoms markedly improved.
This clinicopathological conference of a patient with Alagille's syndrome illustrates the clinical presentation and therapy of metabolic and endocrine complications in chronic cholestasis.
Chronic arsenic exposure has been linked to elevated blood pressure and cardiovascular diseases, while statins reduce the incidence of cardiovascular disease predominantly by their low density lipoprotein-lowering effect. Besides, statins have other beneficial effects, including antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. We evaluated whether atorvastatin, a widely used statin, can ameliorate arsenic-induced increase in blood pressure and alteration in lipid profile and also whether the amelioration could relate to altered NO and ROS signaling. Rats were exposed to sodium arsenite (100ppm) through drinking water for 90 consecutive days. Atorvastatin (10mg/kg bw, orally) was administered once daily during the last 30days of arsenic exposure. On the 91st day, blood was collected for lipid profile. Western blot of iNOS and eNOS protein, NO and 3-nitrotyrosine production, Nox-4 and p22Phox mRNA expression, Nox activity, ROS generation, lipid peroxidation and antioxidants were evaluated in thoracic aorta. Arsenic increased systolic, diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure, while it decreased HDL-C and increased LDL-C, total cholesterol and triglycerides in serum. Arsenic down-regulated eNOS and up-regulated iNOS protein expression and increased basal NO and 3-nitrotyrosine level. Arsenic increased aortic Nox-4 and p22Phox mRNA expression, Nox activity, ROS generation and lipid peroxidation. Further, arsenic decreased the activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase and depleted aortic GSH content. Atorvastatin regularized blood pressure, improved lipid profile and attenuated arsenic-mediated redox alterations. The results demonstrate that atorvastatin has the potential to ameliorate arsenic-induced hypertension by improving lipid profile, aortic NO signaling and restoring vascular redox homeostasis.
Silymarin (SIL), a standardized plant extract containing about 60% polyphenole silibinin, is used as a hepatoprotective agent. Its antifibrotic potential in chronic liver diseases has not been explored. Therefore, we applied SIL to adult Wistar rats that were subjected to complete bile duct occlusion (BDO) by injection of sodium amidotrizoate (Ethibloc). This treatment induces progressive portal fibrosis without significant inflammation. Rats with sham-operation that received SIL at 50 mg/kg/d (n = 10) and rats with BDO alone (n = 20) served as controls, whereas groups of 20 animals were fed SIL at a dose of 25 and 50 mg/kg/d during weeks 1 through 6 or doses of 50 mg/kg/d during weeks 4 through 6 of BDO. Animals were sacrificed after 6 weeks for determination of blood chemistries, total and relative liver collagen (as hydroxyproline [HYP]), and the serum aminoterminal propeptide of procollagen type III (PIIINP). BDO in untreated rats caused an almost ninefold increase in total liver collagen (16.1 +/- 3.1 vs. 1.8 +/- 0.4 mg HYP, P < .001). SIL at 50 mg/kg/d reduced total HYP by 30% to 35%, either when given from week 1 through 6 or from week 4 through 6 after BDO (10.6 +/- 2.7 and 10.2 +/- 3.9 mg HYP, both P < .01 vs. BDO alone), whereas 25 mg/kg/d were ineffective. Because SIL at 50 mg/kg/d also reduced the collagen content per gram of liver tissue, it acted as a true antifibrotic agent. The single value of PIIINP at killing paralleled the antifibrotic activity of SIL with 11.6 +/- 3.8 and 9.9 +/- 3.7 vs. 15.3 +/- 5.2 microg/L in both high-dose groups (P < .05 and P < .01, respectively, vs. rats with BDO alone). Except for a decreased alkaline phosphatase and a lower histological fibrosis score in the groups that received SIL, clinical-chemical parameters were not different among all groups with BDO. We therefore conclude that 1) BDO with Ethibloc is a suitable model to test for pure antifibrotic drugs because it induces progressive rat secondary biliary fibrosis without major inflammation; 2) oral SIL can ameliorate hepatic collagen accumulation even in advanced (biliary) fibrosis; and 3) PIIINP appears to be a suitable serum marker to monitor the inhibition of hepatic fibrogenesis in this model of biliary fibrosis.
