The metastasis-suppressing role of the NM23 gene in the metastatic spread of solid tumors is still debated. We examined the role of NM23 in tumor development and metastatic dissemination by using transgenic mice that lack mouse NM23 (NM23-M1) in two mouse models of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that recapitulate all steps of tumor progression.
We induced HCC in mice that contained (NM23-M1(+/+)) or lacked (NM23-M1(-/-)) NM23-M1 by diethylnitrosamine injection or by a crossing scheme that transferred a transgene that leads to liver expression of simian virus 40 large T antigen (ASV mice). We used microscopic examination and immunohistochemistry to analyze tumor progression. Expression of Nm23 protein isoforms (Nm23-M1 and Nm23-M2) and several tumor markers was analyzed in the primary tumor and in metastases by Western blotting. The statistical significance of differences in the incidence of Nm23-M2 overexpression in null mice relative to that in wild-type mice was tested by a one-sided Fisher's exact test. The statistical significance of differences in the incidence of metastases was examined using one-sided chi-square tests. All other statistical tests were two-sided.
In both models, Nm23-M1 and/or Nm23-M2 were overexpressed in the primary liver tumors compared with nontumor liver tissue; however, the lack of the NM23-M1 gene had no effect on primary tumor formation in either model. ASV mice developed pulmonary metastases that were positive for the Hep-Par 1 antibody, which recognizes a specific hepatocyte antigen, whereas the few pulmonary nodules that developed in diethylnitrosamine-injected mice were negative for this antigen. Statistically significantly more ASV/NM23-M1(-/-) mice than ASV/NM23-M1(+/+) mice developed lung metastases (69.2% versus 37.5%; difference = 31.7%, 95% confidence interval = 13.1% to 50.3%; P<.001). In ASV/NM23-M1(+/+) mice, immunohistochemical staining for Nm23-M1 was highly heterogeneous among the primary liver tumors, but weak or negative among lung metastases.
The lack of NM23-M1 expression promotes metastasis in the SV40 animal model of liver carcinogenesis.
The aim of our study was to define the potential role of virologic response at 12 months of treatment (VR12) in predicting subsequent virologic and clinical outcomes in adefovir (ADV)-treated lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B.
Two hundred and four patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) treated with ADV monotherapy were included. Serum HBV DNA was quantified by real-time polymerase chain reactions. VR12 was defined as a HBV DNA level of less than 4 log(10) copies/mL after 12 months of ADV treatment.
VR12 was observed in 110 of the 204 patients (54%). The mean HBV DNA reductions from baseline after 12 months of ADV treatment were 3.8 and 1.9 log(10) copies/mL in patients with and without VR12, respectively (p<0.001). The hepatitis B "e" antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion rates in patients with and without VR12 were 32% and 14% at 12 months treatment, respectively (p=0.018), and 40% and 27% at 24 months of treatment (p=0.032). The genotypic mutation rates to ADV in patients with and without VR12 were 0% and 6% at 12 months of treatment, respectively (p=0.033), and 21% and 42% at 24 months (p=0.012). The rates of viral breakthrough in patients with and without VR12 were 0% and 7% at 12 months of treatment, respectively (p=0.072), and 9% and 25% at 24 months (p=0.006).
Patients without VR12 may need to switch to or add on other potent antiviral drugs in their medical regimens.
In a double-blind study, 57 patients were anaesthetized with either Althesin, thiopentone, or fentanyl combined with diazepam for cystoscopies. One and a half and four hours after the administration of anaesthesia, the patients were investigated with an objective neuropsychological method, continuous Reaction Time, and with a subjective rating scale. Beecher's Mood Scale. One week later the patients answered a questionnaire about side-effects experienced during the days following anaesthesia. At the 1 1/2 h investigation, the patients were cerebrally affected, both subjectively and objectively. The CNS-dysfunction was different for the three anaesthetics. After administration of thiopentone, the patients experienced the highest degree of subjective effects but had the smallest reaction time prolongation. Fentanyl-diazepam gave the least subjective effects, but the highest degree of cerebral affection in the reaction time measurements. The effects of Althesin were intermediate. Four hours after anaesthesia, the reaction time prolongations had disappeared, except for Althesin, and only patients who had thiopentone registered subjective effects. The number of side-effects was greatest and most prolonged following thiopentone. About 25% of the patients reported that side-effects had persisted more than 1 day after anaesthesia.
The present studies were conducted to changes arising from mercury poisoning in the central nervous system (CNS), with a focus on determining the receptors and neurotransmitters involved. Currently, little is known regarding the neurological basis of the cardiopulmonary effects of mercury poisoning. We evaluated changes in systolic arterial pressure (SAP), diastolic arterial pressure (DAP), respiratory rate (RR) and heart rate (HR) following a 5 μl intracisternal (i.c) injection of mercuric chloride (HgCl(2)) and the participation of the autonomic nervous system in these responses. 58 animals were utilized and distributed randomly into 10 groups and administered a 5 μL intracisternal injection of 0.68 μg/kg HgCl(2) (n=7), 1.2 μg/kg HgCl(2) (n=7), 2.4 μg/kg HgCl(2) (n=7), 60 μg/kg HgCl(2) (n=7), 120 μg/kg HgCl(2) (n=3), saline (control) (n=7), 60 μg/kg HgCl(2) plus prazosin (n=6), saline plus prazosin (n=6), 60 μg/kg HgCl(2) plus metilatropina (n=4) or saline plus metilatropina (n=4)HgCl(2). Anesthesia was induced with halothane and maintained as needed with urethane (1.2 g/kg) administered intravenously (i.v.) through a cannula placed in the left femoral vein. The left femoral artery was also cannulated to record systolic arterial pressure (SAP), diastolic arterial pressure (DAP) and heart rate (HR). A tracheotomy was performed to record respiratory rate. Animals were placed in a stereotaxic frame, and the cisterna magna was exposed. After a stabilization period, solutions (saline or HgCl(2)) were injected i.c., and cardiopulmonary responses were recorded for 50 min. Involvement of the autonomic nervous system was assessed through the i.v. injection of hexamethonium (20 mg/kg), prazosin (1 mg/kg) and methylatropine (1 mg/kg) 10 min before the i.c. injection of HgCl(2) or saline. Treatment with 0.68, 1.2, 2.4 μg/kg HgCl(2) or saline did not modify basal cardiorespiratory parameters, whereas the 120 μg/kg dose induced acute toxicity, provoking respiratory arrest and death. The administration of 60 μg/kg HgCl(2), however, induced significant increases (p<0.05) in SAP at the 30°, 40° and 50° min, timepoints and DAP at the 5°, 10°, 20°, 30°, 40° and 50° timepoints. RR was significantly decreased at the 5°, 10°, 20°, 40° and 50° min timepoints; however, there was no change in HR. Hexamethonium administration, which causes non-specific inhibition of the autonomic nervous system, abolished the observed cardiorespiratory effects. Similarly, prazosin, a α(1)-adrenoceptor blocker that specifically inhibits sympathetic nervous system function, abolished HgCl(2) induced increases in SAP and DAP without affecting HR and RR. Methylatropine (1 mg/Kg), a parasympathetic nervous system inhibitor, exacerbated the effects of HgCl(2) and caused slow-onset respiratory depression, culminating in respiratory arrest and death. Our results demonstrate that increases in SAP and DAP induced by the i.c. injection of mercuric chloride are mediated by activation of the sympathetic nervous system.
A premature infant exposed to carbamazepine in utero had a markedly undersized brain on cranial ultrasonogram. Postmortem examination of the brain revealed no evidence of hypoxic-ischemic injury, hemorrhage, infarction, congenital infection, or calcification. The normal cortical gyral pattern, normal residual germinal matrix, and normal cortical lamination suggested the diagnosis of a radial microbrain form of micrencephaly.
Uterine leiomyomas (fibroids) are the most common pelvic tumors in women. We assessed the potential therapeutic utility of Ro 41-0960, a synthetic catechol-O-methyl transferase inhibitor (COMTI), in the Eker rat.
We randomized uterine fibroid-bearing Eker rats for treatment with Ro 41-0960 (150 mg/kg/12 h) versus vehicle for 2 and 4 weeks. The fibroids were measured by caliper and subjected to histological evaluation. Urinary levels of 2-hydroxy estrogen (E(2)), 16-hydroxy E2 and DPD (osteoporosis marker) and serum liver enzymes were evaluated. Expressions of Cyclin D1, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), Poly [ADP-ribose] polymerase1 (PARP1), tumor suppressor gene (P53) and transforming growth factor (TGFβ3) were assessed in fibroids using immunohistochemical analysis or RT-PCR. Apoptosis was confirmed using terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL).
Ro 41-0960-treated rats exhibited fibroid volumes of 86 ± 7% and 105 ± 12% of initial burden, at 2 and 4 weeks post-treatment, respectively, significantly lower than control group (240 ± 15% and 300 ± 18%; P< 0.01). Ro 41-0960 increased the urinary 2-hydroxy E2/16-hydroxy E(2) ratio, level of p53 mRNA and TUNEL positivity (P< 0.05) and decreased PARP1, PCNA and cyclin D1 proteins and TGFβ3 mRNA (P< 0.05). Ro 41-0960 did not change normal tissue histology, liver functions or urinary DPD level.
Ro 41-0960 (COMTI) arrested growth/shrunk uterine fibroids in Eker rats. This result may be related to modulation of estrogen-dependent genes involved in apoptosis, proliferation and extracellular matrix deposition via accumulation of 2-hydroxy estrogen. The efficacy and safety of Ro 41-0960 in rats suggest its candidacy for treatment of uterine fibroids.
Three different beta-galactosidase gene mutations--a 273Trp----Leu (mutation F) in both families, 482Arg----His (mutation G) in one family, and 509Trp----Cys (mutation H) in the other family--were identified in three patients with Morquio B disease who were from two unrelated families. Restriction-site analysis using StuI, Nsp(7524)I or RsaI confirmed these mutations. In human fibroblasts, mutation F expressed as much as 8% of the normal allele's enzyme activity, but the other mutations expressed no detectable enzyme activity. We conclude that the unique clinical manifestations are specifically associated with mutation F, a common two-base substitution, in this disease.
Ayurveda means "the science of life". Ayur means "life" and Veda means "knowledge or science". It is the oldest medical system in the world. Its origins can be traced as far back as 4500 BC, to four ancient books of knowledge, (the "Vedas") and it is still officially recognized by the government of India. The present study was aimed at investigating the effects of Anwala churna (Emblica officinalis Gaertn.), an Ayurvedic preparation on memory, total serum cholesterol levels and brain cholinesterase activity in mice. Anwala churna was administered orally in three doses (50, 100 and 200 mg/kg) for fifteen days to different groups of young and aged mice. Elevated plus maze and passive avoidance apparatus served as the exteroceptive behavioral models for testing memory. Diazepam-, scopolamine- and ageing-induced amnesia served as the interoceptive behavioral models. Total serum cholesterol levels and brain cholinesterase activity also estimated. Anwala churna (50, 100 and 200 mg/kg, p.o.) produced a dose-dependent improvement in memory scores of young and aged mice. Furthermore, it reversed the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) and diazepam (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Interestingly, brain cholinesterase activity and total cholesterol levels were reduced by Anwala churna administered orally for 15 days. Anwala churna may prove to be a useful remedy for the management of Alzheimer's disease on account of its multifarious beneficial effects such as, memory improving property, cholesterol lowering property and anticholinesterase activity.
This study was designed to detect whether nanobacteria (NB) reside in urine and bladder tissue samples of patients with interstitial cystitis/painful bladder syndrome (IC/PBS) and whether antibiotic therapy targeting these organisms is effective in reducing NB levels and IC/PBS symptoms.
Twenty-seven IC/PBS patients underwent cystoscopy. Bladder biopsies and urine samples were obtained and cultured for NB, which were identified by indirect immunofluorescent staining and transmission electron microscopy.
Eleven bladder samples showed growth of microbes that were identified to be similar to NB. Homologous study of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene suggested that the NB could be the pathogen. For enrolled 11 patients, NB levels decreased dramatically after tetracycline treatment, and they reported significant reduction in the severity of IC/PBS symptoms.
A high prevalence of NB was observed in female IC/PBS, and anti-NB treatment effectively improved the symptoms, which suggest that NB may cause some cases of IC/PBS.
Prophylactic antibiotics are frequently administered during anesthesia to reduce the incidence of infection. The most common organisms revealed in wound infections are staphylococci. Vancomycin is the antibiotic of choice for resistant staphylococcal infections and bacterial endocarditis in patient allergic to penicillin. We had a case of tibial osteomyelitis, while undergoing removal of implants under spinal anesthesia developed hypotensions, bradycardia, consciousness change and skin erythematous macular rash after 0.1% vancomycin slow infusion for 10 min. After appropriate management, the patient recovered well and was discharged on the following day. Our report is intended to alert our colleagues that vancomycin can cause hypotension secondary to histamine release, direct myocardial depression and direct peripheral vasodilation. Even cardiac arrest had been reported in the literatures.
The purpose of our study was to evaluate the activity and toxicity of a sequential chemo-radiotherapeutic treatment on the basis of an earlier report by The Johns Hopkins Oncology Center.
Eighteen patients with histologically diagnosed malignant gliomas entered the study. Fifteen patients had glioblastoma multiforme (83%). BCNU (40 mg/sqm/die) and Cisplatin (40 mg/sqm/die) were administered concurrently for 3 days every 3-4 weeks. Radiotherapy consisted of 45 Gy whole cranial irradiation plus a 15 Gy boost on the preoperative volume.
Thirteen patients had measurable disease and were evaluable for response. After chemotherapy we obtained 3 CRs (complete remission) and 4 PRs (partial remission) (RR (response rate 54%). Three PRs were converted to CRs after radiotherapy, for a complete remission rate of 46% (6/13). The median duration of response was 10 months. The median survival of the entire patients population was 9 months with 33% survival rates at 1 year. Hematological toxicity grade 4 in one patient and grade 3 in two patients were the major complications due to chemotherapy.
Our sequential chemo-radiotherapeutic regimen appears to have significant activity in adults with newly diagnosed high-grade gliomas.
The antidepressant mirtazapine antagonizes central presynaptic alpha2-adrenergic auto- and heteroreceptors resulting in increased central norepinephrine and serotonin activity. Histamine H2 receptors are also antagonized, as are postsynaptic serotonin 5-HT2 and 5-HT3 receptors, leading to serotonergic activity primarily via 5-HT1A receptors. Based on the case report of a patient who developed mania with higher than recommended dosage of mirtazapine, we review the literature on the atypical nature of manic symptoms with mirtazapine. Eight subjects, including those in our study, were identified as having developed mirtazapine-induced mania with atypical features, consisting of dysphoria, irritability, insomnia, psychomotor agitation and abnormal gait. Predisposing features may have included the presence of underlying brain dysfunction and certain selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor-mirtazapine combinations. Dysphoric mania with atypical features may be induced by mirtazapine, providing support for a common hypothesis such as 'central norepinephrine hyperactivity' as the basis for development of mania with mirtazapine.
Levomepromazine 0.1 mg/kg or droperidol 0.15 mg/kg for induction of neurolept anaesthesia were compared in a double-blind prospective study of 60 patients undergoing upper abdominal surgery. On the morning after surgery, eight of 30 patients (26.7%) who received droperidol remembered having had unpleasant anxiety, or nightmarish or panicky experiences during induction of anaesthesia, whereas only one of 30 patients (3.3%) receiving levomepromazine experienced such unpleasant adverse effects (P less than 0.01). During anaesthesia, the patients induced with levomepromazine needed somewhat less fentanyl, had somewhat less pain intensity, during the first 3 h after surgery, and they required the first postoperative dose of morphine 1.5 h later than the patients receiving droperidol (P less than 0.02). There was no difference in the number of patients receiving naloxone at the end of anaesthesia in the two groups. However, 21 of 30 patients (70%) in the levomepromazine group and only seven of 30 patients (23.3%) in the droperidol group were given physostigmine for arousal at the end of anaesthesia (P less than 0.01). There was no difference between the two groups in the occurrence of postoperative nausea, restlessness, hallucinations, or sedation in the recovery ward. This study shows that levomepromazine is superior to droperidol for induction of neurolept anaesthesia because it gives less psychic adverse effects, more analgesia, and a deeper sedation, which is easily reversed with physostigmine at the end of anaesthesia.
Fruits of Momordica charantia L.-cucurbitaceae have been frequently used in folk medicine for rapid healing of cutaneous lesions and peptic ulcer, especially in Western Anatolia in Turkey.
The anti-ulcerogenic effect of the oily extract of Momordica charantia fruits was investigated in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Animals were separated into six groups. Distilled water (control group), famotidine (40 mg/kg), oily extracts (5 and 10 ml/kg), and vehicles (olive oil -5 and 10 ml/kg) were given orally (gavage). Thirty minutes later indomethacin (25 mg/kg) was administrated to all the groups. Six hours later, animals were killed with decapitation. For each stomach, ulcerated and total areas were measured (mm2). The ulcer indexes for each stomach and the ulcer inhibition rates for each group were calculated, after which the stomachs were evaluated pathologically (polymorphonuclear leukocytes infiltration).
Ulcer inhibition rates were as follows: famotidine -91.54%, oily extract (5 ml/kg) -53.80%, oily extract (10 ml/kg) -98.04%, vehicle (olive oil -5 ml/kg) -18.40%, and vehicle (olive oil -10 ml/kg) -88.02%. According to polymorphonuclear leukocytes infiltration, oily extract (10 ml/kg) and vehicle (10 ml/kg) had similar effects to famotidine.
The olive oil extract of M. charantia fruit did show a protective effect macroscopically.
The aim of the reported trial was to investigate the safety and efficacy of memantine in mild to moderate vascular dementia (VaD). This was a 28-week, double-blind, parallel, randomized controlled trial of memantine 20 mg daily versus placebo which was conducted in 54 centres in the UK. Memantine is a uncompetitive, moderate affinity N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. Patients with a diagnosis of probable VaD and Mini Mental State Examination total scores between 10 and 22 were eligible for inclusion. Primary efficacy parameters were the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-cog) and the Clinical Global Impression of Change (CGI-C). A total of 579 patients were randomized and 548 patients with at least one post-baseline efficacy assessment qualified for the intent-to-treat analysis. At endpoint, memantine was shown to improve cognition relative to placebo in VaD: the change of ADAS-cog from baseline differed by a mean of -1.75 points (95% confidence intervals -3.023 to -0.49) and a median of 2 points between the two groups, while CGI-C ratings showed no significant differences between treatment groups. A total of 77% of all memantine-treated patients experienced adverse event, versus 75% of the placebo-treated patients, dizziness being the most frequent adverse event (11% versus 8%, respectively). Memantine was well tolerated and safe.
A case of angina pectoris revealed by nicotine patch treatment is described in a patient who continued to smoke and subsequently suffered a myocardial infarction. The various side effects of nicotine and its derivatives are recalled. The action of nicotine on coronary vasomotricity and its mediators is discussed.
Malondialdehyde determination in serum from schizophrenic patients before and after treatment with chlorpromazine showed that, after treatment, patients had significantly lower values than before. The antioxidant properties of chlorpromazine can be related to its effect on the level of serum lipid peroxides and possibly to its neuroleptic action.
Although daily ingestion of high-dose vitamin C is generally regarded as largely innocuous, fatal nephrotoxicity can occur in some rare circumstances. We report a case where the patient, who chose to forgo any advanced conventional medical intervention (dialysis and mechanical ventilation), had failed to disclose his use of high-dose vitamin C and subsequently died. Intra-renal oxalate crystal deposition was demonstrated at autopsy. Directed enquiry with the family then revealed his high-dose vitamin C usage. Even though fully-informed discussion was limited by incomplete prospective disclosure, it remains the prerogative of any competent patient to decline any treatment, including those that may be considered life-saving.
Daunorubicin (DNR) is an anthracyline antibiotic used in the treatment of a variety of human cancers. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced in the metabolism of DNR have severe cardiotoxicity which consequently compromises its clinical use as anticancer drug. This study aimed to investigate the effect of DNR administration on both cardiac and hepatic tissues, and the possible protective role of zinc on the cardiotoxicity and hepatotoxicity produced by DNR. Administration of 10 or 20 mg/kg DNR to Sprague-Dawley rats, increases serum creatine kinase activity, and blood troponin T levels (as cardiotoxicity indices), alanine aminotransferase activity (as hepatotoxicity index), as well as cardiac and hepatic 2-thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (as an index of lipid peroxidation). Treatment with 20 mg/kg Zn prior to DNR, dramatically induced metallothionein-1 (MT-1) mRNA and MT protein in both heart and liver while DNR alone induced MT, but to a much lower degree than Zn. The analysis of MT protein isoforms revealed that MT-1 was the form induced, while metallothionein-2 (MT-2) levels remained practically unchanged. The increases in both MT protein and MT-1 mRNA ran parallel with the reduction of cardiac and hepatic toxicities. Our results indicate that MT induction by Zn is a highly effective approach in preventing cardiotoxicity and hepatotoxicity caused by DNR. These animal data suggest the use of Zn to reduce DNR-induced cardiotoxicity and hepatotoxicity in the chemotherapy of cancer patients.
The sulphur and nitrogen mustards are strong alkylating agents, which induces inflammations of the skin including blistering right up to ulcerations. Depending on the severity, the wounds may need weeks to heal. In the past it was shown that sulphur mustard has a destructive effect on endothelial precursor cells, which have been shown to play a pivotal role in the wound healing reaction by inducing neovascularisation. However, for these alkylating agents as well as for sulphur mustard nothing is known about their effects on endothelial precursors. Therefore, we investigated and compared the influence of Chlorambucil on proliferation, apoptosis and differentiation of endothelial cells in intact mouse embryoid bodies (EB). EBs were treated at different developmental stages and with different periods of Chlorambucil treatment. It was found that in each developmental stage and under each treatment period's Chlorambucil has an extremely negative effect on the vascularisation with a vessel reduction of around 99%. Of particular importance was the negative effect of treatment around day 3 of the development. On this day we found 377 vessels under control conditions but only 1.6 vessels under 24h treatment of Chlorambucil. At this point in time many endothelial precursors can be found in the EB. Moreover, a negative effect on all stem cells was evident at this point in time, shown by an extreme reduction in EB size with 17.9 mm(2) for the control and only 1.55 mm(2) under Chlorambucil treatment. This negative effect on the vascularisation, on endothelial precursors but also on stem cells in general is of possible importance for impaired wound healing.
Verapamil is an effective and relatively-safe antihypertensive drug. Serious adverse effects are uncommon and mainly have been related to the depression of cardiac contractility and conduction, especially when the drug is combined with beta-blocking agents. We report a case in which myocardial infarction coincided with the introduction of captopril and the withdrawal of verapamil in a previously asymptomatic woman with severe hypertension. Possible mechanisms that involve a verapamil-related increase in platelet and/or vascular alpha 2-adrenoreceptor affinity for catecholamines are discussed.
Heavy metal toxicity represents an uncommon but clinically significant medical condition, which if unrecognized or inappropriately treated results in significant morbidity and mortality. Among heavy metals, mercury is recognized as a potent and widely distributed toxicant having the ability to accumulate at various levels of food chain besides possessing ability to cross placental and blood-brain barrier. Symptom picture of mercury (Hg 2+ ) toxicity is characterized mainly by a series of renal disorders. Mechanism of inorganic mercury toxicity includes production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) capable of damaging lipids in membrane, proteins or enzymes in tissues, and DNA to induce oxidative stress as balance between generation, and elimination of ROS is essential for maintaining the functional integrity of a cell. Mitigation of endogenous mercury depends as a part on the presence of antioxidants such as glutathione - most abundant intracellular non-protein thiol that plays a central role in the maintenance of cellular redox status by quenching free radicals generated during oxidative stress. Ability of a cell to survive the threat posed by endogenous mercury represents a biological adaptation fundamental to survival. This review describes the current understanding and the mechanisms involved by different forms of mercury in eliciting their toxicity in kidney along with the knowledge of major intracellular reductant that plays important role in the mitigation of mercury toxicity for the maintenance of homeostasis within the body of living organisms.
Cocaine increases the level of circulating catecholamines by blocking the catecholamine reuptake receptors. The effect of intrauterine cocaine exposure on cardiac output was studied in 15 full-term newborn infants whose mothers used cocaine during pregnancy. A total of 22 healthy nonexposed full-term infants served as a control group. On the first day of life, cardiac output (183 +/- 12 vs 235 +/- 13 mL/kg per minute, mean +/- SD; P less than .05) and stroke volume (1.3 +/- 0.1 vs 1.9 +/- 0.1 mL/kg, mean +/- SD; P less than .005) were lower and arterial blood pressure (60 +/- 2 vs 41 +/- 2 mmHg, mean +/- SD; P less than .001) higher in the infants exposed to cocaine. On day 2, cardiac output, stroke volume, and mean arterial blood pressure were similar, probably because of the gradual excretion of cocaine and its metabolites by the infant. It was speculated that an increase in plasma norepinephrine levels is responsible for the cardiovascular effects of intrauterine cocaine exposure.
Acute renal failure is a rare adverse reaction of antibiotic therapy with quinolones seldom seen in young patients. We report an 18-year-old young woman with cystic fibrosis who experienced a pronounced decline in renal function after oral treatment with ciprofloxacin for 3 weeks. Withdrawal of the drug led to normalization of renal function after 10 days.
Several clinical studies implicated oxidative stress in the pathophysiology of both psychosis and dementia. As dementia is commonly associated with psychosis, antipsychotic medications are of importance in the pharmacotherapy of dementia particularly as a number of antipsychotics were reported to demonstrate neuronal pro-oxidant and/or antioxidant properties. Impairment of learning and memory, as the most characteristic manifestation of dementia, could be induced in experimental animals by acute administration of scopolamine (SCO) with a resultant elevation in brain oxidative status. This study investigated the potential pro-oxidant and/or antioxidant activity of the antipsychotic drug zuclopenthixol acetate, as its effect on brain oxidative status has yet to be evaluated. A 2 x 3 between-subjects factorial design was used to investigate the simultaneous and interactive effects of zuclopenthixol (0.7 and 1.4 mg/kg i.p.) and SCO on rat brain malondialdehyde, glutathione, glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase levels/activities. Results revealed a significant pro-oxidant effect for both zuclopenthixol and SCO alone conditions. In addition, combined treatment of zuclopenthixol and SCO was found to be significantly different compared to either treatment conditions with regard to their effect on different brain oxidative stress indices. Such findings may have valuable implications in the pharmacotherapy of both psychosis and dementia.
Our earlier family history studies of individuals with autism found a high incidence of major affective disorder, especially bipolar disorder, and unusual talents or intellectual abilities among family members. We now describe a subgroup of such families, selected from a large clinical experience, illustrating specific features of major affective disorder, special talents or intellectual ability, and familial patterns of trait transmission, with the additional feature of oculocutaneous albinism in some cases. These observations, suggesting parent-of-origin and gain-of-function effects, considered together with recent genetic findings in the literature, suggest a genetic hypothesis possibly unifying disparate observations found in families of individuals with autism.
