Metoclopramide, a substituted benzamide derivative, was orally administered to a patient with intractable hiccups. Dysphoria, akathisia, depressed mood with suicidal ideation, insomnia, racing thoughts, and labile affect were seen following the administration of metoclopramide. The episode met criteria for an organic affective syndrome. It is suggested that the mental status of patients undergoing metoclopramide therapy be monitored, since these symptoms have not been previously reported.
Report of four cases of extrapyramidal effects following the treatment of hyperemesis gravidarum with neuroleptica (Triflupromazin). A short list is made of the common preparations and their neuroleptic potency. The pathophysiological theory is mentioned and the simple and very effectfull therapy with anti-parkinsonism-drugs.
The authors investigated the spectrum of tumors and Trp53 mutations in genetically engineered models using the FVB/N mouse that expressed the hepatitis B virus genome and/or carried a Trp53 null and wildtype allele and/or were exposed to aflatoxin B1. Liver tumor incidence was increased when all three risk factors were present. Without aflatoxin B1 exposure, neither Trp53 haploinsufficiency nor HBV expression affected liver tumor development. Liver tumor prevalence increased with aflatoxin B1 exposure (p < .001), as thirteen of fourteen mice with liver tumors were initiated with aflatoxin B1. Liver tumors were more frequent in males (12/190) than females (2/170). Seventy-three mice developed sarcomas. Trp53 haploinsufficiency was associated with increased sarcoma incidence in males and females (p < .001). In Trp53 haploinsufficient mice, the HBV transgene increased the risk of sarcoma in males and females (p < .001). Lymphoma was significantly increased in Trp53 haploinsufficient FVB/N mice. There was no loss of heterozygosity at the wildtype Trp53 locus in twenty-five sarcomas or four hepatocellular tumors examined. No mutations were identified in the mRNA (exons 2-11) of Trp53 in six liver neoplasms or twenty-four sarcomas. In this model system, HBV expression affected only hepatocellular neoplasia in association with both aflatoxin B1 initiation and p53 haploinsufficiency.
Dose-response curves for amiloride and spironolactone were defined in 15 hypertensive patients treated with bendroflumethiazide (bendrofluazide). The relative potency amiloride:spironolactone in correcting hypokalemia was 2.8:1, an estimate significantly lower than the 5:1 potency currently accepted. The relative potency for reduction of plasma sodium was 3.9:1 (amiloride:spironolactone). Amiloride was disproportionately potent in lowering serum bicarbonate, and the data do not suggest that these drugs elevate plasma potassium simply by correcting metabolic alkalosis. Changes in blood pressure were confounded by the presence of carryover effect between treatment phases. Both drugs increased plasma angiotension II and aldosterone, but the rise in aldosterone with spironolactone was smaller than expected from concurrent plasma angiotension II and potassium concentrations. This was consistent with a partial block of aldosterone biosynthesis by spironolactone. The activity of spironolactone did not require the presence of hyperaldosteronism. In a smaller study potassium chloride induced a significant log dose-response on plasma potassium, but the effect was small in absolute terms. At least 64 mmole potassium chloride was needed to match the effect of 20 mg amiloride or 56 mg spironolactone.
Neovascularisation is a key step in tumour growth and establishment of distant metastases. We have recently demonstrated that the thienopyridine SR 25989 an enantiomer of the anti-aggregant clopidogrel (Plavix) lacking anti-aggregant activity, inhibits endothelial cell proliferation in vitro by increasing the expression of endogenous thrombospondin-1, a natural potent inhibitor of angiogenesis. The anti-angiogenic effect of SR 25989 was further assessed in vitro in a quantitative assay of angiogenesis comprising a fragment of rat aorta embedded in a fibrin gel and in vivo in a pulmonary metastatic model using C57BL/6 mice inoculated in the foot pad with the highly metastatic melanoma cell line B16 F10. SR 25989 induced a dose dependent inhibition of spontaneous microvessel development in vitro reaching half maximal inhibition at around less than 50 microM and caused platelet derived growth factor induced angiogenesis to regress as a function of thienopyridine concentration. In vivo, SR 25989 did not alter significantly the growth rate of the primary tumour in the foot pad and did not inhibit development of inguinal nodes which appeared after amputation. However, the number and size of lung metastases were reduced in treated animals when examined at the time of sacrifice. In addition, the few metastases over 1 mm3 did not show any neovascularisation, as confirmed by negative von Willebrand immunostaining and in contrast to intense vascularisation seen in metastases developed by control mice. These results confirm that SR 25989 possesses potent anti-angiogenic properties and is able to inhibit metastatic dissemination and growth. The lack of effect on the primary tumour and inguinal nodes illustrates the complexity of the mechanisms involved in tumoural neo-angiogenesis and points out the possibility for distinct processes leading to neovascularisation in primary tumour as opposed to metastases.
Brittle cornea syndrome (BCS) is an autosomal-recessive disorder characterized by a thin cornea that tends to perforate, causing progressive visual loss and blindness. Additional systemic symptoms such as joint hypermotility, hyperlaxity of the skin, and kyphoscoliosis place BCS among the connective-tissue disorders. Previously, we assigned the disease gene to a 4.7 Mb interval on chromosome 16q24. In order to clone the BCS gene, we first narrowed the disease locus to a 2.8 Mb interval and systematically sequenced genes expressed in connective tissue in this chromosomal segment. We have identified two frameshift mutations in the Zinc-Finger 469 gene (ZNF469). In five unrelated patients of Tunisian Jewish ancestry, we found a 1 bp deletion at position 5943 (5943 delA), and in an inbred Palestinian family we detected a single-nucleotide deletion at position 9527 (9527 delG). The function of ZNF469 is unknown. However, a 30% homology to a number of collagens suggests that it could act as a transcription factor involved in the synthesis and/or organization of collagen fibers.
A 58-year-old man with variant angina who had no history suggestive of sinus node dysfunction experienced palpitation with pulse deficit after 8 days of diltiazem treatment, 240 mg per day. Electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed frequent occurrence of sinoatrial block. After discontinuation of diltiazem, an ambulatory ECG demonstrated gradual reduction of the occurrence of sinoatrial block, and no recurrence 8 hours after the last dose of the drug. One should note that diltiazem induces not only sinus node suppression and atrioventricular conduction disturbance, but also sinoatrial block.
Lengthening of the Q-T interval and proarrhythmia are adverse effects associated with antimalarial agents. Also, lengthening of the Q-T interval is a definite outcome when patients are administered with an overdose of primaquine. Inhibition of potassium current I (Kr) and resultant QT prolongation is suggested as the reason behind drug-induced arrhythmias. The present study investigated the molecular mechanisms of voltage-dependent inhibition of human Ether-a-go-go Related Gene (hERG) delayed rectifier K(+) channels expressed in HEK-293 cells by primaquine. Primaquine inhibited hERG current in a concentration-dependent manner with the half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) of 21.5 microM. The voltage-dependent inhibition of hERG current resulted in the activation curve to be shifted to a negative voltage after primaquine exposure in a dose-dependent manner. Blockade of hERG by primaquine was also found to be time-dependent, occurring rather rapidly. Blockade of wild-type hERG channel by primaquine was similar to those of both the S6 residue hERG mutants (F656A and Y652A) and the pore region mutants (T623A). In conclusion, these results indicate that primaquine preferentially inhibits the hERG potassium channel, but blockade of hERG channel by primaquine may not be related to the S6 residue or the pore region, but may be induced through other pathways such as binding other region or effect by drug binding receptor which indicates a need for further exploration.
Ncx (Enx, Hox11L.1)-deficient (Ncx-/-) mice develop mega-ileo-ceco-colon with a larger number of neuronal cells in the enteric ganglia. We investigated mechanisms related to this abnormality and directed our attention to the effects on gastrointestinal tract functions.
The number of NADPH diaphorase or cuprolinic blue-positive neuronal cells in the enteric ganglia was examined during growth of the mice. Neuronal cell death of enteric ganglia was assayed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling. Function of the gastrointestinal tract was determined by measuring excretion time of the barium chloride given into the stomach.
The number of neuronal cells decreased in control mice older than 2 weeks, and neuronal cell death was evident in the ganglia. However, the number of neuronal cells did not decrease in Ncx-/- mice, and cell death was rare. Excretion time of barium chloride was prolonged in all Ncx-/- mice examined and was improved by the administration of an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase.
Ncx participates in cell death of enteric neurons. Motor abnormality of the gastrointestinal tract in Ncx-/- mice may be attributed to the large number of neuronal cells.
To assess the validity of inducing ototoxicity in rats by applying a sponge soaked in kanamycin and furosemide on the round window.
Basic, randomized, nonblind experimental study.
Animal models of cochlear damage and reliable methods of local drug delivery are fundamental to study hearing loss and to design new therapies.
Four experimental groups of six Wistar rats with different methods of drug administration were used: (1) injection of subcutaneous kanamycin (400 mg/kg) and intravenous furosemide (100 mg/kg); (2) local application of a sponge soaked in saline close to the round window; (3) animals for which the sponge was soaked in a solution containing kanamycin (200 mg/mL) and furosemide (50 mg/mL); and (4) sham-operated rats. The tympanic bulla was exposed using a ventral approach, and a bullostomy was performed to visualize the round window membrane. Cochlear function was assessed by measuring the auditory brainstem response, and hearing thresholds in response to click and tone burst stimuli were determined as peak and interpeak latencies. At the end of the study, cochlear histology was analyzed.
Systemic administration of kanamycin and furosemide induced profound hearing loss and severe hair cell damage. Local delivery of these ototoxic drugs caused comparable damage but avoided the systemic side effects of the drug. Sham-operated and saline control animals did not experience functional alterations.
Situating a sponge soaked in kanamycin and furosemide on the round window membrane through the ventral approach is a reliable method to provoke local ototoxicity in rats.
Recent reports have suggested that the use of indomethacin for tocolysis may independently increase the risk for major adverse neonatal events such as intraventricular hemorrhage and necrotizing enterocolitis. The objective of this study was to determine whether this potential risk of indomethacin is outweighed by the benefit of delivery delay at gestational ages < 32 weeks.
We constructed separate decision trees to compare strategies of tocolysis with indomethacin versus no tocolysis for hypothetic cohorts of patients with idiopathic preterm labor at 24, 26, 28, 30, and 32 weeks' gestation. Probabilities for these decision models, including estimates of indomethacin efficacy and the potential for increase in adverse neonatal events with indomethacin, were obtained from the medical literature. The primary outcome was the number of expected adverse neonatal events per 1000 women for each strategy at each gestational age.
In the base case analysis tocolysis with indomethacin was a more favorable strategy than no tocolysis across all gestational ages that we studied. As expected, the difference in the number of events between the two strategies declined with advancing gestational age because of a decreasing baseline risk for adverse neonatal events as gestational age increased. The models at 26, 28, 30, or 32 weeks were not sensitive to our estimates of indomethacin efficacy, nor to our estimates of baseline neonatal morbidity or steroid efficacy, or to the relative increase in some neonatal morbidities with indomethacin use.
On the basis of current estimates, the benefits of indomethacin outweigh the potential risks to the neonate at gestational ages < or = 32 weeks. Thus the use of indomethacin for tocolysis at these ages is a reasonable strategy.
Many studies have shown that niacin and Cr exert combined effects. Significant beneficial effects in serum lipid levels following Cr supplementation have been reported. Niacin decreases total plasma levels of cholesterol, triglycerides, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and increases high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. In this study, 12-mo-old female Swiss albino rats were used. They were randomly divided into four groups. The animals of group I (control) were fed with pellet chow. Group II was fed with pellet chow and treated with 250 microg/kg CrCl3.6H2O and 100 mg/kg niacin for 45 d, by the gavage technique. The rats of group III were fed with lipogenic diet consisting of 2% cholesterol, 0.5% cholic acid, and 20% sunflower oil added to the pellet chow and given 3% alcoholic water for 60 d. Group IV was fed with the same lipogenic diet, and 15 d after, the experimental animals were made hyperlipemic; they were treated with 250 microg/kg CrCl3.6H2O and 100 mg/kg niacin by gavage technique for 45 d. On d 60, liver and blood samples were taken from the animals. The sections were examined under light and electron microscopes. Serum total lipid and cholesterol levels were determined by spectrophotometric methods. The aim of the present study was to examine whether combined treatment with Cr and niacin have beneficial effects on the liver of animals fed with lipogenic diet. In this study, beneficial effects of combined treatment with niacin and Cr(III) were evaluated. We conclude that a combination of Cr and niacin decrease total cholesterol and total lipid levels in serum significantly. In addition, it can be said that niacin and Cr can regenerate some of the hepatocytes. This study reveals that combined treatment is a better specific drug in hyperlipemia.
The authors neurologically examined 36 patients who had been maintained on lithium therapy for periods ranging from 6 months to 7 years to determine the presence of parkinson-like side effects. Only a few patients demonstrated rigidity, including cogweel rigidity, and this was at a low level of severity. These results do not support the previously reported frequent occurrence of cogwheel rigidity in patients on lithium maintenance.
Caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) is a natural product with potent anti-inflammatory, antitumor and antioxidant activities and attenuates inflammation and lipid peroxidation induced by ischemia-reperfusion injury. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of CAPE on isoproterenol (ISO) -induced myocardial infarction.
A randomized controlled experimental design was used in this study. Rats were divided into four groups and treated with saline, CAPE, ISO and ISO+CAPE. Rats were treated with CAPE (10 micromol kg/day i.p.) or saline starting 3 days before injecting ISO (150 mg /kg s.c., 24 hours). Seven days later, rats were sacrificed and the hearts were excised for biochemical analyses and microscopic examination. One-way ANOVA test with post hoc multiple comparisons using LSD method were used for statistical analysis of the data.
The administration of ISO alone resulted in higher myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, lipid peroxidation, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) than in the control. The enzyme activities did not change in rat given CAPE alone. CAPE treatment prevented the increase in MPO activity and malondialdehyde, but did not affect the activities SOD and CAT enzymes.
In light of these results, we conclude that CAPE prevents MPO-and lipid peroxidation-mediated myocardial injury via inhibition of neutrophil's MPO activity.
Using canine coronary artery ligation/reperfusion and adrenaline arrhythmia models, we determined the effects of azimilide, a class III antiarrhythmic agent, E-1-[[(5-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-furanyl) methylene]-amino]-3-[4-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)butyl]-2,4-imidazolidi nedione dihydrochloride. The coronary ligation/reperfusion arrhythmia experiments were divided into two groups, one using low heart rate halothane-anesthetized and the other using high heart rate pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs. Azimilide (6 mg kg(-1) + 0.1 mg kg(-1) min(-1) i.v.) prolonged the corrected QT interval (QTc), decreased the heart rate and suppressed the premature ventricular complexes during ligation (35 +/- 17 beats/30 min as compared with 909 +/- 246 in the control group), and also suppressed ventricular fibrillation induced by coronary ligation/reperfusion in the two groups (1/8 halothane-anesthetized dogs as compared with 7/8 dogs in the control group and 2/8 pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs as compared with 8/8 dogs in the control group). In adrenaline arrhythmia, azimilide hastened the onset of adrenaline arrhythmias and also aggravated the arrhythmias, showing proarrhythmic effects.
Both oxytocin and vasopressin cause potent and long-lasting vasoconstriction of uterine arteries from several species, including humans, and the resulting tissue ischemia is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of primary dysmenorrhea. We have studied the effects of oxytocin and vasopressin in isolated resistance arteries (diameter, 90-120 microm) from non-pregnant rat uteri using two potent and selective receptor antagonists, SR 49059, a selective vasopressin V1A antagonist, and atosiban, a selective oxytocin antagonist. Uterine arteries with intact endothelium were mounted in a microvessel chamber, and pressurized to 75 mm Hg to allow the development of myogenic tone. Both vasopressin and oxytocin elicited a concentration-dependent vasoconstriction with a similar maximum effect (i.e., total vessel occlusion). The EC50 was 0.44 +/- 0.02 and 25 +/- 3.1 nM for vasopressin and oxytocin, respectively. Thus, vasopressin was 57-fold more potent than oxytocin. Schild analysis indicated that SR 49059 yielded a similar pA2 value against vasopressin-induced (pA2 = 8.96 +/- 0.60) or oxytocin-induced (pA2 = 9.06 +/- 0.23) contractions, suggesting that both agonists activated the vasopressin V1A receptor. In addition, atosiban (10(-7) M), a selective antagonist of the oxytocin receptor in the rat, did not antagonize the effect of vasopressin and oxytocin, showing that the oxytocin receptor is not involved in the response. In conclusion, these results suggest that V1A receptor stimulation is responsible for the vasoconstricting effects of both vasopressin and oxytocin in small diameter resistance arteries from the rat uterus.
To explore the effect of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) to activate mesenchymal stem cells of skeletal muscle for rescuing bone marrow failure.
The study was performed on lethal rat acute aplastic anemia model induced by combined 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and busulfan. The rh-BMP-2 was implanted into the thigh muscle of the rats at 3 days before aplastic anemia was induced. In the control group the rats were implanted with agar into the thigh muscle. The blood picture, pathologic changes and the mortality in two groups were observed. At the same time, rh-BMP-2 were implanted into the thigh muscle of normal Kun-min mice for dynamic control observation of the implantation local morphological changes, colony forming units-spleen (CFU-S) and stem cell growth factor (SCF) expression of the stroma cells of ectopic ossicles induced by BMP.
At 7 days after BMP implantation in the mice the mesenchymal cells around BMP in muscle proliferated, and appeared in bone marrow to form an ectopic ossicles. The SCF expression of stroma cells in ectopic ossicles were higher than that of self-bone marrow. 56.3% of BMP-treated aplastic rats were survived over 3 months and its hematopoiesis was completely reconstituted and the histo-morphological picture of the spleen and bone marrow were recovered to normal. But in the control group only one of 23 rats was survived, the remainder died of hematopoietic failure.
BMP-implantation into the skeletal muscle could rescue the bone marrow hematopoietic failure. The mechanism might be related to the BMP activated auto-mesenchymal cells of skeletal muscles to direct hematopoietic cell differentiation. In our hands it might create a new pathway for utilization of auto-muscle derived mesenchymal cells to reconstitute hematopoiesis.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the possible effects of a paclitaxel containing chemotherapy on different neuropsychological parameters in women with ovarian cancer.
Twenty-eight women with histologically documented epithelial ovarian carcinoma and treated with a combination chemotherapy consisting of paclitaxel and carboplatin entered the study. The patients were tested with a battery of different neuropsychological tests before, after 3 cycles and at the end of the chemotherapy.
Twenty of the 28 patients responded to the chemotherapy (71%). Eleven patients (39%) developed peripheral neurotoxicity. The median values of 6 tests performed before the first chemotherapy cycle scored out of the normal range. These patients with deviant test results at the beginning of the paclitaxel/carboplatin infusions did not deteriorate during chemotherapy. We found a statistically significant improvement of the alphabetical cross out test from the first to the third measurement (mean increase = 4.07; 95% confidence interval = [0.99; 7.15]) (p < 0.05), indicating an improvement of the short-term attention, the concentration and the constancy of working during chemotherapy. The other tests failed to show statistically significant changes during chemotherapy (p > 0.05).
According to our results, a chemotherapy consisting of paclitaxel/carboplatin caused no signs of acute central nervous toxicity or neuropsychological deterioration.
Adrenomedullin (AM), a hypotensive peptide originally isolated from human pheochromocytoma, has been reported to regulate renal functions. In patients with glomerulonephritis, the serum levels of AM are elevated as well as hypertensive agents norepinephrine (NE) and angiotensin II (AII). The effects of AM on the NE- or AII-induced pressor effects and renal blood flow responses, however, are not well clarified. We examined the effects of AM on blood pressure and renal blood flow induced by NE or AII in anesthetized rats. Arterial blood pressure and renal blood flow were measured using a calibrated pressure transducer and a laser Doppler flowmeter, respectively. Drugs were injected into the tail vein with a syringe. Intravenous administration of AM (1-3 nmol/kg) decreased the arterial blood pressure in anesthetized rats in a dose-dependent manner, whereas it did not affect the renal blood flow. NE or AII administration in anesthetized rats caused both increases in blood pressure and decreases in renal blood flow. Simultaneous administration of AM with NE or All prevented the increasing effects of blood pressure and inhibited the decreases in renal blood flow caused by NE or AII. These findings suggest that AM may have a protective role against the pressor effects and decrease in renal blood flow caused by NE or AII.
The antiarrhythmic properties of the opiate antagonist naloxone have been reported in a variety of models of arrhythmia. To determine the generality and the possible central involvement of its antiarrhythmic activity, the effects of naloxone were assessed against cardiac arrhythmias induced by intravenous bolus injections of picrotoxin. Naloxone at doses of 0.33 and 1 mg/kg significantly reduced the incidence and severity of picrotoxin-induced arrhythmias in a dose-related manner, without alteration of blood pressure and heart rate. The results demonstrate the antiarrhythmic efficacy of naloxone in an additional animal model. They further suggest that the antiarrhythmic actions of naloxone may be mediated by the central nervous system via both the autonomic and GABAergic pathways.
Parkinsonian patients are treated with dopamine replacement therapy (typically, intermittent administration of the dopamine precursor L-DOPA); however, this is associated with the onset of abnormal involuntary movements, which seriously impair the quality of life. The molecular mechanisms underlying abnormal involuntary movements represent an intense field of investigation in the area of neurobiology of disease, although their aetiology remains unclear. Apart from the fine cellular mechanisms, the pathways responsible for the generation of abnormal involuntary movements may involve changes in neurotransmitter systems. A potential candidate is noradrenaline, since a severe loss of this neurotransmitter characterizes Parkinson's disease, and noradrenergic drugs produce a symptomatic relief of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. In previous studies we found that pulsatile dopamine release, in the absence of the physiological noradrenaline innervation, produces motor alterations and ultrastructural changes within striatal neurons. In the present study we demonstrate that a unilateral damage to the noradrenaline system anticipates the onset and worsens the severity of L-DOPA-induced contralateral abnormal involuntary movements in hemi-parkinsonian rats. Similarly, ubiquitin-positive striatal ultrastructural changes occur in unilaterally dopamine-depleted, noradrenaline-deficient rats following chronic L-DOPA administration. This study confirms a significant impact of the noradrenergic system in the natural history of Parkinson's disease and extends its role to the behavioural and morphological effects taking place during pulsatile dopamine replacement therapy.
Hesperidin has been shown to possess cardioprotective and anti-diabetic potential. Hitherto, its molecular mechanism on isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial dysfunction in diabetes is still not explored. Hence, for the first time we sought to investigate whether hesperidin exerts any beneficial effect on the pathophysiology of myocardial infarction (MI) in diabetes through the PPAR-γ pathway by assessing a variety of indices e.g., apoptosis, hemodynamic, biochemical and histoarchitectural changes. Diabetes was induced by a single dose of STZ (50 mg/kg IP). Diabetic rats received either hesperidin (100 mg/kg/day orally), the PPAR-γ antagonist GW9662 (1 mg/kg/day IP), or both for 14 days with concurrent administration of ISO (85 mg/kg SC) on days 13 and 14. ISO-STZ rats resulted in severe myocardial dysfunction (decreased ±LVdP/dt and increased LVEDP). In addition, augmented myocardial thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances and serum troponin-I with a concomitant decrease in level of glutathione and activities of catalase, superoxide dismutase antioxidants with cardiac injury biomarkers creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme, lactate dehydrogenase were seen. Morphological studies of the ISO-STZ challenged myocardium exhibited severe necrosis, edema and inflammatory changes. In Western blot analysis, Bcl-2 and PPAR-γ expression were decreased where as Bax expression was significantly increased, suggesting role of apoptosis in myocardial dysfunction. Interestingly, hesperidin treatment positively modulated these parameters as validated by improved hemodynamic and left ventricular functions, fortified endogenous anti-oxidant defence system and improved structural integrity of the myocardium. However, significant effects were lowered in animals treated with hesperidin plus GW9662. Moreover, down-regulated PPAR-γ and Bcl-2 expressions in myocardial infarcted diabetic hearts were increased by hesperidin treatment. Hence, for the first time the present study suggests that, hesperidin reduces oxidative stress, apoptosis and improves cardiac function via the PPAR-γ pathway.
Heparin induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis (HITT) is a rare but dangerous complication related to the application of unfractionated heparin or low molecular weight heparin. Due to an antibody dependent in vivo platelet activation, severe thromboembolic episodes may occur. We present the case of a patient with HITT following implantation of an aortobifemoral graft secondary to bilateral common iliac artery stenoses. An arterial clot developed and led to a partial occlusion of the graft to the right external iliac artery. Heparin was replaced by Lepirudin, a recombinant hirudin. A bolus of 0.4 mg/kg body weight was given, thereafter 0.15 mg/kg body weight per hour was administered continuously i.v. to maintain the aPTT 2- to 2.5-fold above the baseline value. The platelet count (minimum 47 G/l) normalised within two days. During thrombectomy of the right common femoral artery we used Lepirudin intraoperatively (bolus injection of 0.2 mg/kg body weight) to prevent any further platelet and coagulation activation during the clamping phase. Six months later the patient underwent two further bypass operations due to severe stenoses of both superficial femoral arteries. Due to the high risk of thromboembolism if HITT recurred, a bolus of 0.2 mg/kg body weight of Lepirudin was given during each intervention. No bleeding complications occurred. In addition Lepirudin appeared to decrease platelet consumption in the absence of active thrombosis. Direct thrombin inhibitors such as Lepirudin possess no heparin-like immunological properties and seem to have become the therapeutic "gold-standard" in patients with HITT. Our experience suggests that the repetitive intraoperative use of Lepirudin is safe and effective.
The organic compound ethylmercurithiosalicylate (thimerosal), which is primarily present in the tissues as ethylmercury, has caused illness and several deaths due to erroneous handling when used as a disinfectant or as a preservative in medical preparations. Lately, possible health effects of thimerosal in childhood vaccines have been much discussed. Thimerosal is a well-known sensitizing agent, although usually of no clinical relevance. In rare cases, thimerosal has caused systemic immune reactions including acrodynia. We have studied if thimerosal might induce the systemic autoimmune condition observed in genetically susceptible mice after exposure to inorganic mercury. A.SW mice were exposed to 1.25-40 mg thimerosal/l drinking water for 70 days. Antinucleolar antibodies, targeting the 34-kDa protein fibrillarin, developed in a dose-related pattern and first appeared after 10 days in the two highest dose groups. The lowest observed adverse effect level (LOAEL) for antifibrillarin antibodies was 2.5 mg thimerosal/l, corresponding to an absorbed dose of 147 microg Hg/kg bw and a concentration of 21 and 1.9 microg Hg/g in the kidney and lymph nodes, respectively. The same LOAEL was found for tissue immune-complex deposits. The total serum concentration of IgE, IgG1, and IgG2a showed a significant dose-related increase in thimerosal-treated mice, with a LOAEL of 5 mg thimerosal/l for IgG1 and IgE, and 20 mg thimerosal/l for IgG2a. The polyclonal B-cell activation showed a significant dose-response relationship with a LOAEL of 10 mg thimerosal/l. Therefore, thimerosal induces in genetically susceptible mice a systemic autoimmune syndrome very similar to that seen after treatment with inorganic mercury, although a higher absorbed dose of Hg is needed using thimerosal. The autoimmune syndrome induced by thimerosal is different from the weaker and more restricted autoimmune reaction observed after treatment with an equipotent dose of methylmercury.
Human recombinant erythropoietin (rHuEpo) that is used for the treatment of the chemotherapy-induced anaemia in cancer patients was shown to cause detrimental effects on the course of disease due to increased adverse events inflicting patient's survival, potentially related to rHuEpo-induced cancer progression. In this study, we elucidate the effect of rHuEpo administration on breast cancer cell proliferation and gene expression after cisplatin (cDDP) induced cytotoxicity.
Two breast carcinoma models, MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cell lines, were used differing in oestrogen (ER) and progesterone (PR) receptors and p53 status. Cells were cultured with or without rHuEpo for 24 h or 9 weeks and their growth characteristics after cDDP treatment were assessed together with expression of genes involved in the p53-signaling pathway.
Short-term exposure of breast cancer cells to rHuEpo lowers their proliferation and reduces cDDP cytotoxic potency. In contrast, long-term exposure of MCF-7 cells to rHuEpo increases proliferation and predisposes MCF-7 cells to cDDP cytotoxicity, but has no effect on MDA-MB-231 cells. MDA-MB-231 cells show altered level of ERK phosphorylation, indicating involvement of MAPK signalling pathway. Gene expression analysis of p53-dependent genes and bcl-2 gene family members confirmed differences between long and short-term rHuEpo effects, indicating the most prominent changes in BCL2 and BAD expression.
Proliferation and survival characteristics of MCF-7 cells are reversely modulated by the length of the rHuEpo exposure. On the other hand, MDA-MB-231 cells are almost irresponsive to long-term rHuEpo, supposedly due to the mutated p53 and ER(+)/PR(-) status. The p53 and ER/PR status may predict tumour response on rHuEpo and cDDP treatment.
The salubrious effects of 3-Formylchromone (3-FC) against nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) mediated early hepatocellular carcinogenesis was investigated in vivo by this study. Male Wistar rats were administered three interspersed intraperitoneal injections of NDEA (200 mg/kg body weight) until sixth week, followed by, thrice a week oral dose of 3-FC (25 mg/kg body weight) from the seventh week to eleventh week. Oral supplementation of Wistar rats with 3-FC prevented the increase in serum marker enzymes (AST, ALT, LDH) and serum pre-neoplastic marker (γ-GT) induced by NDEA. Biochemical observations were found to be further correlated with histological studies, indicating the potential of 3-FC to mediate suppression of hepatic damage/pre-neoplastic lesions. Argyrophilic nucleolar organizer region (AgNOR) staining was done in histology sections to confirm the anti-proliferative potential of 3-FC against NDEA-induced early hepatocellular carcinogenesis. RT-PCR and immunoblot analysis was done to find the modulations in the gene transcript/protein level expression of pre-neoplastic marker (GST-pi), proliferation marker (PCNA), apoptotic mediators (PPARγ, NFκB-p65 and p53). 3-FC was found to favorably modulate the expressions of GST-pi, PCNA, PPARγ, NFκB-p65, p53 clearly confirming the anti-proliferative and apoptotic potential of 3-FC. Further, the apoptotic effect of 3-FC against NDEA-induced early hepatocellular carcinogenesis was confirmed by caspase-3 activity assay and DNA fragmentation analysis. Based on these findings, it is concluded that 3-FC possesses hepatoprotective, anti-pre-neoplastic, anti-proliferative and apoptosis inducing capability against NDEA-induced early hepatocellular carcinogenesis.
