Mitoxantrone is an approved drug for patients with worsening relapsing-remitting, secondary progressive and progressive relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS). From a cohort of 820 MS patients, 52 (6%) were treated with this drug between December 1991 and April 2003. Mitoxantrone was administered at a dose of 12 mg/m(2) once a month for three months and then at three-month intervals to reach a total cumulative dose of 144 mg/m(2). The left ventricular ejection fraction was checked by radionuclide ventriculography prior to treatment and every six months. Treatment was stopped if the ejection fraction was below 50% in two consecutive ventriculographies performed one to three months apart. Cardiotoxicity during the course of the treatment was not observed. However, three patients developed congestive heart failure 24, 39 and 80 months after the last dose of mitoxantrone. Other cardiac causes were excluded. Two of these patients had been treated previously with cyclophosphamide. All patients first recovered on medical treatment, but two worsened a few months later. One patient remained severely symptomatic in spite of optimal medical treatment. Although mitoxantrone is generally well tolerated and reduces progression of disability and clinical exacerbations, our observation of a delayed cardiotoxicity makes necessary a long-term follow-up of MS patients treated with this drug.
Naloxone is a pure opioid antagonist specifically indicated for respiratory depression due to opioid exposure. There is not enough data on safety of naloxone, especially in extremely preterm neonates. We report the case of a preterm neonate (gestation 27 weeks and 3 days, birth weight 485 g) who developed cardiac arrest following treatment with naloxone (dose 100 mcg/kg) for a tenfold morphine overdose on day 7 while being ventilated for respiratory distress syndrome. Asystolic cardiac arrest occurred immediately after administering naloxone and required full resuscitation, including adrenaline and external chest compression. Recovery from the cardiac arrest was complete. However, the neonate died on day 45 of life due to unrelated causes. Reports of similar adverse effects of the drug in adults as well as data from animal models raise concerns about safety of naloxone, especially in preterm neonates, given the lack of data on the pharmacokinetics of the drug in this high-risk population. Possible explanations for the adverse event under such a scenario include an idiosyncratic reaction, hypoxia, direct myocardial depressant effect and sympathoadrenal interactions. Awareness of this rare but potentially lethal complication of naloxone is necessary to optimise the response to such an adverse event.
The effects of muscimol, aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA), diamino-n-butyric acid (DABA), baclofen, bicuculline, picrotoxin, strychnine, diazepam, phenobarbitone and phenytoin on cimetidine-induced seizures were studied in mice. Cimetidine (400-1000 mg/kg, i.p.) induced dose-dependent tonic convulsion. Muscimol, AOAA and DABA effectively protected mice against cimetidine-induced seizures. Bicuculline and picrotoxin significantly potentiated the seizures induced by cimetidine and effectively antagonized the protective effects of muscimol, AOAA and DABA against the seizures. Diazepam and phenobarbitone significantly protected the mice against cimetidine-induced seizures while phenytoin and strychnine did not significantly alter the seizures. These results indicate that the attenuation of central gamma-aminobutyric acid neurotransmission may underlie cimetidine-induced seizures in mice.
Thalidomide alone or in combination with steroids has significant activity in multiple myeloma (MM). However, given its teratogenic potential, analogs have been synthesized, retaining the anti-MM activity without these side effects. We examined the anti-MM activity of two thalidomide analogs, CPS11 and CPS49. Direct cytotoxicity of the drugs on myeloma cell lines and patient myeloma cells was examined using thymidine uptake. Tumor cell apoptosis was evaluated by flow cytometry as well as Western blotting for caspase and PARP cleavage. Cellular signaling events were examined by immunoblotting for phosphorylated proteins. Both drugs inhibit proliferation of several MM cell lines sensitive and resistant to conventional therapies. They decrease secretion of IL-6, IGF, and VEGF by marrow stromal cells. Importantly, they inhibit proliferation of MM cells adherent to stromal cells. These drugs induce caspase-mediated apoptosis in MM cell lines, as well as patient MM cells. They inhibit the PI3K/Akt and JAK/STAT (signal transducers and activators of transcription) pathways in MM cells and are antiangiogenic in matrigel-based assays. CPS11 and CPS49 have potent antimyeloma activity and can overcome protective effects of the tumor microenvironment. They have potent antiangiogenic activity and direct effect on bone marrow stroma. These encouraging preclinical data provide the basis for further evaluation in the clinic.
The pharmacological investigation of the ergot alkaloid of the group of clavines elymoclavine isolated from Claviceps sp. cp. II showed the following: LD50 for mice for 24 hours was 350 (228 divided by 535) mg/kg and for rats--145 (81 divided by 258) mg/kg; elymoclavine induced a dose-dependent stereotypy in rats and mice which was antagonized by haloperidol and pimozide; it prevented the development of haloperidol catalepsy in rats and produced rotations contralateral to the striatal lesions with 6-OHDA which were antagonized by pimozide and partly by cyproheptadine. Elymoclavine increased the exploratory activity of rats in open field as this effect was antagonized by haloperidol and was essentially influenced by many substances acting on different transmitter systems (NA, DA, GABA). Elymoclavine inhibited the picroroxin and electroshock convulsive seizures but potentiated the pentylenetetrazol ones in mice as these effects were differently influenced by pimozide, haloperidol, 5-HT, atropine and phentolamine. The observed effects of elymoclavine are mainly due to its DAergic agonistic action. It seems, however, that influences on other transmitter receptors also underlie the mechanism of action of this ergot alkaloid.
A 10-year-old girl is described with pure photosensitive complex partial seizures which consisted of a frightening visual phenomenon of seeing "shadow people," then staring blankly with lip smacking and sometimes becoming limp. The seizures were triggered by bright sunlight. With the institution of phenytoin therapy, her seizure frequency increased dramatically without any clinical evidence of toxicity and her phenytoin blood levels were within the therapeutic range. Discontinuation of phenytoin led to a return to baseline seizure frequency. The mechanism by which antiepileptic drugs may aggravate seizures is still not understood; therefore, awareness of this phenomenon is crucial for early diagnosis and appropriate treatment.
Systemic and renal hemodynamics are affected by prostaglandin production during endotoxemia. To study indomethacin effects on endotoxinemia in a neonatal piglet model, sixteen 7-10 day old piglets were anesthetized, ventilated, and catheterized. Mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and urine output were continuously monitored. Endotoxin (0.06 mcg/kg) was injected after baseline measurements. We studied two groups with either endotoxinemia alone (n = 7) or an additional indomethacin infusion (0.2 mg/kg per h, n = 9). HR, MAP, renal blood flow (RBF), systemic and renal vascular resistance (SVR, RVR), cardiac index (CI), and glomerular filtration rate (GFR), were obtained at baseline, at 1, 2 and 3 h. We observed a drop in CI and an increase in SVR and HR within 3 h of endotoxinemia, while MAP remained unchanged. These effects were prevented by indomethacin. RVR was not altered significantly. Endotoxinemia triggered a drop of RBF in both control (P < 0.01) and intervention group (P < 0.05). In the intervention group, drop of GFR, urine volume, and paraaminohippuric acid clearance were apparent signs of nephrotoxicity (P < 0.01, <0.05, and <0.01). In conclusion, indomethacin maintains hemodynamic parameters during endotoxinemia at the expense of nephrotoxicity. We speculate that indomethacin counteracts the renoprotective effect of prostaglandins.
Telavancin is a lipoglycopeptide bactericidal against gram-positive pathogens.
Two methodologically identical, double-blind studies (0015 and 0019) were conducted involving patients with hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) due to gram-positive pathogens, particularly methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Patients were randomized 1:1 to telavancin (10 mg/kg every 24 h) or vancomycin (1 g every 12 h) for 7-21 days. The primary end point was clinical response at follow-up/test-of-cure visit.
A total of 1503 patients were randomized and received study medication (the all-treated population). In the pooled all-treated population, cure rates with telavancin versus vancomycin were 58.9% versus 59.5% (95% confidence interval [CI] for the difference, -5.6% to 4.3%). In the pooled clinically evaluable population (n = 654), cure rates were 82.4% with telavancin and 80.7% with vancomycin (95% CI for the difference, -4.3% to 7.7%). Treatment with telavancin achieved higher cure rates in patients with monomicrobial S. aureus infection and comparable cure rates in patients with MRSA infection; in patients with mixed gram-positive/gram-negative infections, cure rates were higher in the vancomycin group. Incidence and types of adverse events were comparable between the treatment groups. Mortality rates for telavancin-treated versus vancomycin-treated patients were 21.5% versus 16.6% (95% CI for the difference, -0.7% to 10.6%) for study 0015 and 18.5% versus 20.6% (95% CI for the difference, -7.8% to 3.5%) for study 0019. Increases in serum creatinine level were more common in the telavancin group (16% vs 10%).
The primary end point of the studies was met, indicating that telavancin is noninferior to vancomycin on the basis of clinical response in the treatment of HAP due to gram-positive pathogens.
The antinociceptive effects of the endocannabinoids (ECs) are enhanced by inhibiting catabolic enzymes such as fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). The physiological relevance of the metabolism of ECs by other pathways, such as cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2) is less clear. To address this question we compared the effects of local inhibition of FAAH versus COX2 (URB597 and nimesulide, respectively) on inflammatory hyperalgesia and levels of endocannabinoids and related molecules in the hindpaw. Inflammatory hyperalgesia was measured following intraplantar injection of carrageenan. Effects of intraplantar injection of URB597 (25 microg and 100 microg) or nimesulide (50 microg) on hyperalgesia and hindpaw levels of anandamide (AEA), 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2AG) and N-palmitoylethanolamine (PEA) were determined. Although both doses of URB597 increased levels of AEA and 2AG in the carrageenan inflamed hindpaw, only the lower dose of URB597 attenuated hyperalgesia (P<0.05). Nimesulide attenuated both hyperalgesia and hindpaw oedema (P<0.001, P<0.01, respectively) and increased levels of PEA (P<0.05) in the hindpaw. Since both AEA and PEA are ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha), the effects of the PPARalpha antagonist GW6471 on nimesulide- and URB597-mediated effects were studied. GW6471, but not a PPARgamma antagonist, blocked the inhibitory effects of nimesulide and URB597 on hyperalgesia. Our data suggest that both COX2 and FAAH play a role in the metabolism of endocannabinoids and related molecules. The finding that PPARalpha antagonism blocked the inhibitory effects of nimesulide and URB597 suggests that PPARalpha contributes to their antinociceptive effects in the carrageenan model of inflammatory hyperalgesia.
The effect of verapamil, 0.2 mg/kg i.v. over 30 s, on the amount of epinephrine required to elicit a reproducible ventricular arrhythmia during 0.9% halothane in oxygen anesthesia was investigated in two groups of dogs after three consecutive doses of verapamil given at 90 (group I) and 120 min (group II) intervals, respectively. Verapamil caused a stepwise cumulative increase in the arrhythmogenic dose of epinephrine in both groups despite plasma verapamil levels that declined to low levels (28 and 22 ng/ml, respectively) between doses. Control epinephrine arrhythmogenic doses were 2.89 +/- 0.54 and 2.74 +/- 0.19 microgram/kg/min (mean +/- SEM), respectively, for groups I and II, and rose to 4.58 +/- 0.72 and 4.55 +/- 0.30 microgram/kg/min after the first verapamil dose, to 6.20 +/- 0.74 and 6.13 +/- 0.40 microgram/kg/min after the second verapamil dose, and 8.16 +/- 0.85 and 8.09 +/- 0.95 microgram/kg/min after the third verapamil dose, respectively. All postverapamil epinephrine arrhythmogenic dose values were significantly elevated above control and above the preceding values, although there was no significant difference between the two groups. Changes in heart rate or blood pressure were similar among the three doses of verapamil in each group. These results can be interpreted to indicate that, unlike hemodynamic effects that appear to parallel plasma verapamil concentrations, the protective effects of verapamil against halothane--epinephrine ventricular arrhythmias may not be accurately reflected by plasma verapamil levels and may be significantly present when plasma levels are too low to cause measurable hemodynamic effects.
The incidence of secondary malignancies following chemotherapy is progressively increasing, mostly due to prolonged survival of patients treated for primary cancer. So far, only 3 cases of solid cancer following busulphan administration have been reported. We describe the case of a patient who developed a renal cancer after 4 years of busulphan treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia. Immunosuppression rather than mutagenesis seems to be responsible for the emergence of second solid cancers in patients receiving busulphan.
Amongst 149 cases of reflex sympathetic dystrophy syndrome (RSDS), 25 (16.8%) were being treated with barbiturates at the time the RSDS symptoms began. This group is unusual by the frequent absence of provocative events (32%), a high number of diseased joints, bilaterality (76%), involvement of upper limbs (76%) and Dupuytren's disease (52%). Swift and complete recovery depends mostly on barbiturate withdrawal. These data support the idea that barbiturates may be the principal initiating event in some RSDS. Since unfavorable progress is seen with persistent use of barbiturates, this medication should be recognised early in the course of the disease in order to prevent severe sequels.
A patient suffered a myocardial injury as a manifestation of anaphylactic reaction to amoxicillin-clavulanic acid administration. A cardiologic study (ergometry and catheterization) showed no obstructive coronary disease and prick test to amoxicillin was positive. Anaphylaxis may cause myocardial injury and the mechanism is likely to be vasospasm induced by mast cells and basophil mediators.
A patient with multiple myeloma had pancytopenia after treatment with melphalan and prednisone and died of an interstitial pneumonia. Post-mortem examinations showed cytomegalic cells in the lungs. Lung tissue showed a high titer of cytomegalovirus. Only when other causes have been ruled out by microbiologic, serologic, and histologic examinations should melphalan be believed to cause respiratory illness.
Nicotine reduces beta-amyloidosis and has a beneficial effect against Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying mechanism is not clear. The abnormal interactions of beta-amyloid (Abeta) with metal ions such as copper and zinc are implicated in the process of Abeta deposition in AD brains. In the present study, we investigated the effect of nicotine on metal homeostasis in the hippocampus and cortex of APP(V717I) (London mutant form of APP) transgenic mice. A significant reduction in the metal contents of copper and zinc in senile plaques and neuropil is observed after nicotine treatment. The densities of copper and zinc distributions in a subfield of the hippocampus CA1 region are also reduced after nicotine treatment. We further studied the mechanism of nicotine-mediated effect on metal homeostasis by using SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing the Swedish mutant form of human APP (APPsw). Nicotine treatment decreases the intracellular copper concentration and attenuates Abeta-mediated neurotoxicity facilitated by the addition of copper, and these effects are independent of the activation of nicotinic acetylcholine-receptor. These data suggest that the effect of nicotine on reducing beta-amyloidosis is partly mediated by regulating metal homeostasis.
Excessive inflammatory responses can emerge as a potential danger for organisms' health. Physiological balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory processes constitutes an important feature of responses against harmful events. Here, we show that cannabinoid receptors type 1 (CB1) mediate intrinsic protective signals that counteract proinflammatory responses. Both intrarectal infusion of 2,4-dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (DNBS) and oral administration of dextrane sulfate sodium induced stronger inflammation in CB1-deficient mice (CB1(-/-)) than in wild-type littermates (CB1(+/+)). Treatment of wild-type mice with the specific CB1 antagonist N-(piperidino-1-yl)-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (SR141716A) mimicked the phenotype of CB1(-/-) mice, showing an acute requirement of CB1 receptors for protection from inflammation. Consistently, treatment with the cannabinoid receptor agonist R(-)-7-hydroxy-Delta(6)-tetra-hydrocannabinol-dimethylheptyl (HU210) or genetic ablation of the endocannabinoid-degrading enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) resulted in protection against DNBS-induced colitis. Electrophysiological recordings from circular smooth muscle cells, performed 8 hours after DNBS treatment, revealed spontaneous oscillatory action potentials in CB1(-/-) but not in CB1(+/+) colons, indicating an early CB1-mediated control of inflammation-induced irritation of smooth muscle cells. DNBS treatment increased the percentage of myenteric neurons expressing CB1 receptors, suggesting an enhancement of cannabinoid signaling during colitis. Our results indicate that the endogenous cannabinoid system represents a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of intestinal disease conditions characterized by excessive inflammatory responses.
A cortico-subcortico-cerebellar neural circuit has been postulated to be important in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. This study investigated whether there are synaptic changes in the cerebellum to accompany its putative involvement in the disorder. We measured the expression of three synaptic proteins (synaptophysin, complexin I and complexin II) in the cerebellar cortex of 16 subjects with schizophrenia and 16 controls using in situ hybridisation histochemistry and immunoautoradiography. Complexin I and II are expressed predominantly by inhibitory and excitatory neurones respectively. In schizophrenia, synaptophysin mRNA was decreased, as was complexin II and its mRNA. Complexin I mRNA and protein levels were unaltered. Expression of the mRNAs in the rat cerebellum was unaffected by 2 weeks administration of antipsychotic drugs (haloperidol, chlorpromazine, risperidone, olanzapine or clozapine). We conclude that there is synaptic pathology in the cerebellum in schizophrenia. By disrupting neural circuits, the alterations may contribute to the cerebellar dysfunction thought to occur in the disorder.
Since cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL) is a self healing disease, an ideal therapy should be rapidly effective, easily administered, cheap, available at all times at all centers and should have no side effects.
To determine the efficacy and safety of intralesional 7% hypertonic saline in comparison to intralesional sodium stibogluconate against L. donovani CL.
Intralesional hypertonic saline (HS) and sodium stibogluconate (SSG) were randomly allocated to 154 patients (229 lesions); these were followed-up for 18 months.
The M:F ratio was 1.8:1 (99:55). The average age of our population was 32 years. SSG was given to 87 patients (136 lesions); HS was given to 67 patients (93 lesions). SSG showed a 100% cure rate within one to six injections (average 3.24); HS showed a 92.2% cure rate within one to 10 injections (average 5.27). The average duration of treatment with SSG and HS was 5.11 and 8.78 weeks respectively. There was no difference in efficacy for both therapies with regard to ulcers or papules, and small or large, exposed or unexposed lesions. There was no association between the rapidity of clinical response and the duration and location of lesions. There were no local or systemic side effects except pain during injection. The lesions in the two groups showed post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation after treatment. During 18 months of follow-up there were no recurrences and no visceralization.
The most effective therapy for Leishmania donovani cutaneous leishmaniasis was intralesional SSG (average 3.24 injections). HS was effective, but needed an average of 5.27 injections in total per lesion. HS was cheap, with no risk of systemic side effects and was easily available at all centers.
Everolimus (RAD001, Novartis), an oral derivative of rapamycin, inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), which regulates many aspects of cell growth and division. A phase I/II study was done to determine safety and efficacy of everolimus in patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies.
Two dose levels (5 and 10 mg orally once daily continuously) were evaluated in the phase I portion of this study to determine the maximum tolerated dose of everolimus to be used in the phase II study.
Twenty-seven patients (9 acute myelogenous leukemia, 5 myelodysplastic syndrome, 6 B-chronic lymphocytic leukemia, 4 mantle cell lymphoma, 1 myelofibrosis, 1 natural killer cell/T-cell leukemia, and 1 T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia) received everolimus. No dose-limiting toxicities were observed. Grade 3 potentially drug-related toxicities included hyperglycemia (22%), hypophosphatemia (7%), fatigue (7%), anorexia (4%), and diarrhea (4%). One patient developed a cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis requiring a skin graft. One patient with refractory anemia with excess blasts achieved a major platelet response of over 3-month duration. A second patient with refractory anemia with excess blasts showed a minor platelet response of 25-day duration. Phosphorylation of downstream targets of mTOR, eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein 1, and/or, p70 S6 kinase, was inhibited in six of nine patient samples, including those from the patient with a major platelet response.
Everolimus is well tolerated at a daily dose of 10 mg daily and may have activity in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome. Studies of everolimus in combination with therapeutic agents directed against other components of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt/mTOR pathway are warranted.
Airway remodeling in chronic asthma is characterized by increased smooth muscle mass that is associated with the reduction of the bronchial lumen as well as airway hyperresponsiveness. The development of agents that inhibit smooth muscle growth is therefore of interest for therapy to prevent asthma-associated airway remodeling. All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) suppresses growth of vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) from the systemic and pulmonary circulation. The present study investigated the effects of ATRA on human bronchial (airway) SMCs. Human bronchial SMCs were found to express mRNAs for retinoic acid receptor (RAR)-alpha, -beta, -gamma, and retinoid X receptor (RXR)-alpha, -beta, but not RXR-gamma. Although ATRA was not effective in inhibiting proliferation or in inducing apoptosis in airway SMCs, we found that ATRA (0.2-2 microM) inhibited the SMC migration in response to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), as determined in a modified Boyden chamber assay. Both RAR and RXR agonists also blocked PDGF-induced airway SMC migration. ATRA also inhibited PDGF-induced actin reorganization associated with migration. PDGF-induced actin reorganization and migration were blocked by inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K) and Akt. However, migration was blocked by inhibitors of the MEK/ERK pathway, with no effect on cytoskeletal reorganization. ATRA suppressed PDGF-induced Akt activation without influencing ERK activation. RAR was found to form protein-protein interactions with the p85 PI3K subunit. These results suggest that retinoic acid inhibits airway SMC migration through the modulation of the PI3K/Akt pathway.
Parkinson's disease, encephalitis lethargica, multiple sclerosis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients all display two distinct types of symptoms. Some of these are due directly to a deficiency of dopamine and are quickly reduced by laevodihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA). The second set, however, are the result of neurological damage caused by metabolites of dopamine, which include dopachrome and other chrome indoles that are both hallucinogenic and neurotoxic. If this hypothesis is correct, three corollaries follow. Patients of all four disorders should display excessive oxidative stress, natural methyl acceptors should delay development and elevated antioxidant supplementation, given with L-DOPA, ought to prolong the "honeymoon" period in which the benefits of the drug out weigh its subsequent disadvantages. A literature review suggests that all three corollaries are probably correct.
A randomized double blind study was performed to evaluate the tolerance and the acceptance of mefloquine alone (Lariam) compared to a combined drug regimen consisting of mefloquine, sulfadoxine and pyrimethamine (MSP; Fansimef) in the prophylaxis of malaria. 175 Europeans travelling to different malaria endemic areas received either mefloquine alone (250 mg/week) or its combination with sulfadoxine (500 mg/week) plus pyrimethamine (25 mg/week). One person taking mefloquine and two taking MSP discontinued the drug intake because of moderate clinical side effects. Mild and moderate adverse clinical reactions predominantly concerning the gastro-intestinal tract and the autonomous nervous system were reported with a significantly higher occurrence in the MSP group. With both prophylactic regimens, reversibly elevated liver enzyme activities (glutamate oxalate transaminase and glutamate pyruvate transaminase [GPT]) were observed after prophylaxis. The increase of GPT serum activity correlated significantly with relatively high GPT levels before prophylaxis in both groups. This finding suggests a limited use of both regimens in cases of liver dysfunction. One case of mefloquine-resistant Plasmodium falciparum malaria was observed from West Africa; this patient was cured by a standard regimen of chloroquine.
To report a case and describe a practical approach to treating dyslipidemia in a very-high-risk patient with elevated lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)].
Pharmacist-managed lipid clinic, from November 2006 to July 2007. PATIENT DESCRIPTION: A 50-year-old white woman with a recent history of multiple myocardial infarctions presented for management of dyslipidemia.
At baseline, the patient had elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (TC), and Lp(a) (306 nmol/L) levels and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels. Early initiation of combination therapy with a statin and niacin extended release (ER) titration was started. After 3 months, despite progressive weight gain caused by dietary indiscretion, LDL-C decreased by 24% and TG and TC levels reached goal. Lp(a) levels did not change. Niacin ER titration continued, pravastatin was maximized, and ezetimibe 10 mg daily was started. Despite dramatic 9-month weight gain (68 lb total), LDL-C and HDL-C reached goal and Lp(a) levels decreased by 33% (204 nmol/L) after niacin ER maximization.
Lp(a) is an emerging risk factor in cardiovascular disease (CVD). Elevated Lp(a) (>30 mg/dL) has been implicated as both an independent and an additive risk factor for CVD and stroke, particularly in women. In this case, the patient did not reach the optimal goal (<30 mg/dL) but did experience more than 30% reduction in Lp(a) levels. Although multiple factors, including subclinical hypothyroidism, hormonal changes, and renal disease, increase Lp(a) levels, few beneficial treatment options exist (i.e., estrogen and niacin). Although the exact mechanism of action is unknown, niacin ER has been documented to reduce Lp(a) by 36% to 38%. Some effect of ezetimibe on Lp(a) in this patient cannot be ruled out.
This case illustrates a practical use of currently available therapy options to address Lp(a) as a secondary cardiovascular risk factor. Niacin is a preferred option for Lp(a) lowering in very-high-risk patients with coronary heart disease and dyslipidemia. The importance of moderate reductions in Lp(a) is not known.
Silibinin, an effective anti-cancer and chemopreventive agent, has been shown to exert multiple effects on cancer cells, including inhibition of both cell proliferation and migration. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for these effects are not fully understood. We observed that silibinin significantly induced the expression of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-activated gene-1 (NAG-1) in both p53 wild-type and p53-null cancer cell lines, suggesting that silibinin-induced NAG-1 up-regulation is p53-independent manner. Silibinin up-regulates early growth response-1 (EGR-1) expression. The ectopic expression of EGR-1 significantly increased NAG-1 promoter activity and NAG-1 protein expression in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, down-regulation of EGR-1 expression using siRNA markedly reduced silibinin-mediated NAG-1 expression, suggesting that the expression of EGR-1 is critical for silibinin-induced NAG-1 expression. We also observed that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are generated by silibinin; however, ROS did not affect silibinin-induced NAG-1 expression and apoptosis. In addition, we demonstrated that the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase) signal transduction pathway is involved in silibinin-induced NAG-1 expression. Inhibitors of p38 MAP kinase (SB203580) attenuated silibinin-induced NAG-1 expression. Furthermore, we found that siRNA-mediated knockdown of NAG-1 attenuated silibinin-induced apoptosis. Collectively, the results of this study demonstrate for the first time that up-regulation of NAG-1 contributes to silibinin-induced apoptosis in cancer cells.
The acute cardiotoxic potential of single dosages of FddA (2'-fluoro-2',3'-dideoxyadenosine) and FddI (2'-fluoro-2',3'-dideoxyinosine) was investigated in 6- to 9-week-old rats. Both nucleoside analogs were administered orally at 1000 and 2000 mg/kg and intravenously at 500 or 1000 mg/kg. For comparative purposes, additional groups of rats received 2'-deoxyadenosine or the 2-fluororibose moiety common to both the FddA and FddI molecules. The effects of two adenosine receptor antagonists, caffeine and theophylline, on the cardiotoxicity induced by FddA were also investigated. Deaths occurred within a few hours to a few days in FddA-treated rats given 2000 mg/kg orally or 500 mg/kg intravenously and in FddI-treated rats given 1000 mg/kg intravenously. Microscopic examination of the hearts revealed myocardial degeneration and necrosis for all rats that died and myocardial fibrosis for many survivors. No deaths or cardiac lesions were observed after administration of 2'-deoxyadenosine or the 2-fluororibose moiety. FddA was more cardiotoxic than FddI in rats at equivalent dosages administered either orally or intravenously. Based on the anatomic findings, all deaths were attributed to cardiac lesions. The administration of high, oral dosages of caffeine and theophylline accentuated the acute cardiotoxicity of FddA in rats.
