Propofol may produce amnesia by affecting encoding. The hypothesis that propofol weakens encoding was tested by measuring regional cerebral blood flow during verbal encoding.
Seventeen volunteer participants (12 men; aged 30.4 +/- 6.5 yr) had regional cerebral blood flow measured using H2O positron emission tomography during complex and simple encoding tasks (deep vs. shallow level of processing) to identify a region of interest in the left inferior prefrontal cortex (LIPFC). The effect of either propofol (n = 6, 0.9 microg/ml target concentration), placebo with a divided attention task (n = 5), or thiopental at sedative doses (n = 6, 3 microg/ml) on regional cerebral blood flow activation in the LIPFC was tested. The divided attention task was expected to decrease activation in the LIPFC.
Propofol did not impair encoding performance or reaction times, but impaired recognition memory of deeply encoded words 4 h later (median recognition of 35% [interquartile range, 17-54%] of words presented during propofol vs. 65% [38-91%] before drug; P < 0.05). Statistical parametric mapping analysis identified a region of interest of 6.6 cm in the LIPFC (T = 7.44, P = 0.014). Regional cerebral blood flow response to deep encoding was present in this region of interest in each group before drug (T > 4.41, P < 0.04). During drug infusion, only the propofol group continued to have borderline significant activation in this region (T = 4.00, P = 0.063).
If the amnesic effect of propofol were solely due to effects on encoding, activation in the LIPFC should be minimal. Because LIPFC activation was not totally eliminated by propofol, the amnesic action of propofol must be present in other brain regions and/or affect other memory processes.
The prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor indomethacin was given orally or intravenously to pregnant ewes. This resulted in a significant rise in the fetal pulmonary-to-systemic arterial mean blood pressure difference across the ductus arteriosus, presumably secondary to constriction of the ductus arteriosus. In five experiments the pressure difference could be promptly but temporarily reversed by the administration of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) into the fetal inferior vena cava. Fetal lungs from study and control animals were fixed by perfusion at measured pulmonary arterial mean blood pressure, and fifth-generation resistance vessels were studied. The medial width/external diameter ratio was significantly increased in the study vs the control lungs due to increased smooth muscle and decreased external diameter. In addition, study fetuses had acute degenerative myocardial changes in the tricuspid valve papillary muscles, the right ventricular free wall and the interventricular septum. Similar changes were not seen in control fetuses. Indomethacin administration during pregnancy causes constriction of the fetal ductus arteriosus, fetal pulmonary arterial hypertension, and right ventricular damage. If severe, this may cause rapid fetal death. If less severe, in the newborn infant, this mechanism may be one cause of persistent pulmonary hypertension due to vasoconstriction and increased pulmonary arterial smooth muscle and/or tricuspid insufficiency due to papillary muscle infarction.
Droperidol and ondansetron have previously been found to prolong the QT interval in the treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting. However, this adverse effect has never been confirmed and compared with both drugs under controlled conditions. The objective was to study the effects of droperidol and ondansetron alone or in combination on QT interval duration in healthy subjects.
Sixteen healthy volunteers, eight males and eight females, were enrolled in this prospective, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. Subjects received 1 mg droperidol, 4 mg ondansetron, 1 mg droperidol plus 4 mg ondansetron, or a placebo, intravenously in a crossover design. Fridericia-corrected QT interval (QTcF) and plasma concentrations were measured repeatedly during 10 h at each study period. The primary endpoint was the maximal placebo time-matched and baseline-subtracted QTcF prolongation (DeltaDeltaQTcF).
Compared with placebo, both droperidol and ondansetron significantly prolonged the QTcF interval. DeltaDeltaQTcF prolongation was 25 +/- 8 ms after droperidol, significantly greater than the 17 +/- 10-ms prolongation with ondansetron (P = 0.014). The combination of droperidol and ondansetron significantly increased the mean maximal DeltaDeltaQTcF by 28 +/- 10 ms. The combination induced greater QTcF prolongation compared with ondansetron alone (P = 0.001), but not with droperidol alone (P = 0.33). There was no significant pharmacokinetic interaction between droperidol and ondansetron.
Under controlled conditions, both droperidol and ondansetron either alone or in combination induced significant marked QTc interval prolongation. However, the combination of both drugs did not significantly increase QTc prolongation compared with that induced by droperidol alone.
In this report, we describe a case of phyllodes tumor of the prostate with a high value of prostate-specific antigen (PSA). A 47-year-old man with symptoms of hematospermia presented with a steadily elevated serum PSA value of 60.76 ng/mL (normal range, < 4 ng/mL). A needle biopsy revealed atypical stromal cells without any evidence of malignancy. After radical prostatectomy, the tumor measured 2.9 cm in diameter and consisted of a single nodule composed of irregular, elongated epithelial ducts and atypical stromal cells with enlarged, occasionally multinucleated, pleomorphic, or hyperchromatic nuclei. Immunohistochemistry showed that the atypical stromal cells were positive for vimentin, androgen receptor, estrogen receptor, progesterone, and 5α-reductase, but negative for MIB-1, PSA, SMA, p53, desmin, CD34, c-kit, CD10, S-100, and EGFR. Excess PSA might be secreted by hyperplastic luminal cells driven by 5α-reductase-positive stromal and epithelial cells. Array-comparative genomic hybridization (array CGH) for genomic alterations revealed a gain of 11p13, which includes the WT1 gene, and a loss of 1p36.23 and 12p12.1. After surgery, the serum PSA value rapidly decreased to within the normal range; no recurrence or distant metastasis was noted after 2 years of follow up.
During the last four years ten premature infants developed renal calcifications while receiving long-term furosemide therapy. The drug was used in infants with present ductus arteriosus and later in the same infants with chronic lung disease. They had received furosemide in a dose of at least 2 mg/kg/day for at least 12 days before calcifications were noted on abdominal roentgenograms. Calcifications included small flecks, isolated stones, staghorn calculi, and nephrocalcinosis. Analysis of stones received from our infants showed calcium oxalate and calcium phosphate. Infants who were not receiving furosemide had no calcifications. The infants with renal calcifications had rates of calcium excretion ten to 20 times that of normal, age-matched premature infants in our nursery. When chlorothiazide was given to the infants, in addition to furosemide, a four- to 15-fold decrease in calcium excretion and a radiologic dissolution of the renal calcifications were documented. It is concluded that furosemide, in doses of at least 2 mg/kg/day for at least 12 days can be associated with renal calcifications. The probable mechanism of the stone formation is hypercalciuria, primarily caused by furosemide.
An increased amount of deep sleep has been shown to be associated with antisocial personality disorder. This phenomenon has also been observed in a habitually violent female offender with schizophrenia and alcohol dependence.
To evaluate sleep patterns in this patient and compare them with those of healthy, pro-social women of similar age, and in the same patient over time after treatment.
Multiple measures of sleep were taken over two consecutive nights with the presenting patient and with three age-matched healthy women. One year after the patient was established on atypical antipsychotic (quetiapine), and antidepressant (SSRI) medication (citalopram) her sleep evaluation was repeated. In each case only the second night's recordings were used in analyses.
The patient differed significantly from the three healthy women on most sleep measures. After a year on the medication, the patient's sleep had improved and the non-REM sleep measures had come into the normal range. She had also shown a sustained clinical and behavioural improvement.
The literature suggests that both drugs had a part to play in the improvements in sleep, symptomatology and behaviour. The possibility that improvement in deep sleep is secondary to citalopram and that it is this that was specifically associated with violence reduction seems worthy of further study.
The purpose of this study was to compare patient satisfaction with the topical immune system modulator tacrolimus to topical clobetasol during treatment for vulvovaginal erosive lichen planus.
Subjects who had been diagnosed with vulvovaginal erosive lichen planus between June 2000 and May 2001 received a mail survey regarding clinical satisfaction and response to treatment with clobetasol and tacrolimus. Satisfaction was assessed with a 100-mm visual analogue scale (very unsatisfied, 0; very satisfied, 100). Satisfaction was compared with the use of a paired t-test.
Nineteen subjects met the inclusion criteria; 17 subjects (89%) returned completed surveys. Sixteen of the 17 women reported clobetasol therapy, and 11 of the 17 subjects acknowledged the use of tacrolimus therapy. All but 1 of the women who received tacrolimus had been treated previously with clobetasol therapy. All subjects reported experiencing sexual pain before their initial examination. After treatment with clobetasol, 2 of 16 women reported pain-free intercourse. Two additional women reported pain-free intercourse after switching to tacrolimus therapy. Ten subjects who had used both treatments rated tacrolimus therapy as significantly more satisfactory than clobetasol therapy (63 vs 38 mm; P=.03).
The use of topical tacrolimus improves satisfaction and may result in better clinical outcomes than therapy with clobetasol for the treatment of vulvovaginal erosive lichen planus.
Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene) is a naturally occurring compound shown to decrease the incidence of thromboembolic disease. Although considerable data are available as to the inhibitory effect of resveratrol on the platelet aggregation and thrombopoiesis in human, its underlying mechanism, at the cellular level, has not been rigorously studied. In this experiment, we studied the effect of resveratrol and 1-[6-[[17-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl]amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione, a phospholipase C inhibitor (U-73122) on the thromboxane A2 receptor agonist (9,11-dideoxy-11 alpha,9 alpha-epoxymethanoprostaglandin F(2 alpha), U46619)-induced platelet aggregation, platelet P-selectin expression, and the activity of phospho-phospholipase C beta 3 (P-PLC beta 3) and total-phospholipase C beta 3 (T-PLC beta 3), which play key roles in the signal transduction system of platelet in human. It was found that resveratrol blocked platelet aggregation and platelet P-selectin expression induced by U46619 in a concentration-dependent manner. U-73122 and resveratrol had additive effect in inhibiting platelet aggregation and platelet P-selectin expression. Resveratrol (final concentration was 50 microM) could reduce the ratio of P-PLC beta 3 to T-PLC beta 3. Taken together, these results show that resveratrol suppresses U46619-induced platelet aggregation and P-selectin expression partly through the decrease of the activity of phospholipase C beta of platelets.
The effects of the nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) on blood pressure (BP), systemic vascular resistance (SVR), and left ventricular (LV) performance were determined in eight patients with essential hypertension. LV systolic and diastolic performance were assessed by first-pass radionuclide cineangiography at rest and during upright bicycle exercise after initial and long-term BP reduction. After initial treatment, end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) increased in association with an increase in stroke volume (SV), cardiac output (CO), and peak ejection rate. After long-term treatment, LVEDV decreased, SV and CO returned to pretreatment values, early diastolic filling fraction increased, and time to peak filling rate decreased. These hemodynamic changes are consistent with an initial predominant effect of vasodilation on LV function. With long-term treatment, the effects on LV diastolic performance are consistent with a positive lusitropic effect of nifedipine GITS. Nifedipine GITS is an effective agent for control of hypertension; its hemodynamic effects are consistent with both an effect on SVR due to decreased vascular smooth muscle contraction and a direct lusitropic effect on myocardial function.
Edaravone is a potent scavenger of hydroxyl radicals and attenuates oxidative damage-related neurodegenerative diseases. Previous studies suggest that oxidative stress plays a key role in the pathogenesis of diabetes. The present study examined the effect of edaravone on diabetes in multiple low-dose streptozotocin-treated mice. Mice treated with low-doses of streptozotocin for five consecutive days showed progressive hyperglycemia and an increased incidence of diabetes. Daily treatment with edaravone during the streptozotocin injections counteracted the multiple low-dose streptozotocin-induced hyperglycemia in a dose-dependent manner. Edaravone protected against the multiple low-dose streptozotocin-induced reduction in pancreatic insulin. The suppressive effects of edaravone were also observed when it was administered after the last injection of streptozotocin. Histochemical examination showed that multiple low-dose streptozotocin treatment caused mononuclear cell infiltration in pancreatic islets, followed by hyperglycemia, and that edaravone significantly inhibited the multiple low-dose streptozotocin-induced insulitis. Multiple low-dose streptozotocin treatment also increased the lipid peroxidation product thiobarbituric acid reactive substance in pancreatic tissues of mice, and this effect was completely inhibited by edaravone. These findings suggest that edaravone, even after streptozotocin treatment, counteracts the development of multiple low-dose streptozotocin-induced diabetes by scavenging free radicals, which are possible mediators of the immune destruction of islet beta cells.
Nonketotic hyperglycinemia (NKH) is an inborn error of metabolism characterized by accumulation of glycine in body fluids and various neurological symptoms. NKH is caused by deficiency of the glycine cleavage multi-enzyme system with three specific components encoded by GLDC, AMT, and GCSH. We undertook the first comprehensive screening for GLDC, AMT, and GCSH mutations in 69 families (56, six, and seven families with neonatal, infantile, and late-onset type NKH, respectively). GLDC or AMT mutations were identified in 75% of neonatal and 83% of infantile families, but not in late-onset type NKH. No GCSH mutation was identified in this study. GLDC mutations were identified in 36 families, and AMT mutations were detected in 11 families. In 16 of the 36 families with GLDC mutations, mutations were identified in only one allele despite sequencing of the entire coding regions. The GLDC gene consists of 25 exons. Seven of the 32 GLDC missense mutations were clustered in exon 19, which encodes the cofactor-binding site Lys754. A large deletion involving exon 1 of the GLDC gene was found in Caucasian, Oriental, and black families. Multiple origins of the exon 1 deletion were suggested by haplotype analysis with four GLDC polymorphisms. This study provides a comprehensive picture of the genetic background of NKH as it is known to date.
Exposure to methamphetamine is associated with long-lasting reductions in markers for dopaminergic neurons in preclinical models and in humans. These changes may be associated with alterations in brain electrical activity and in cognition.
The sample included 9 methamphetamine-dependent subjects and 10 non-drug-using volunteers. Methamphetamine-dependent subjects were hospitalized for 4 days to document abstinence; non-drug-using volunteers were studied as outpatients. EEGs were recorded in the eyes-closed resting state, and absolute EEG power in each frequency band (0.5-4 Hz, 4-8 Hz, 8-12 Hz, and 12-20 Hz) was measured using a fast Fourier transform. EEG power was log-transformed prior to analysis. Cognition was measured using computerized reaction time tasks.
Within the methamphetamine-dependent group only, increased theta quantitative EEG (QEEG) power correlated significantly with reaction time on tasks that were more difficult or that were degraded by fatigue. Increased theta QEEG power also correlated with reduced accuracy on a working memory task.
Increased QEEG power in the theta band is associated with worse performance on reaction time tasks in the methamphetamine-dependent sample but not in the non-drug-using volunteers.
Methamphetamine dependence is associated with pathological alterations in brain electrical activity and in cognitive performance. QEEG appears to provide a sensitive measure of methamphetamine-associated alterations in brain function.
The typical symptoms and signs of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) consist of fever muscle rigidity (stiffness, myoclonus, rod-like), alterations of consciousness (confusion, agitation, aggression, or catatonia), autonomic nervous system disturbances (i.e., hypertension, tachycardia, tachypnea, profuse sweating, and urine incontinence), abnormal blood tests such as low serum electrolytes, elevated serum creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) level, and leukocytosis. Muscle rigidity is often associated with myonecrosis, myoglobinuria, and elevated serum CPK. The mortality among NMS cases is in the 10 to 70% range depending on the severity of the symptoms and time of therapeutic approach. Mandatory therapy should include removal of causative agents, correction of body fluid and electrolytes, administration of benzodiazepine, clonazepam and bromocriptine (dopamine agonist), proved life-saving medications. The authors reported herein six cases with unusual clinical features of NMS. Four of them had been on antipsychotic for a year before becoming anorexic, dehydrated, agitated, and violent with paranoid delusion. One instance with underlying delirium tremens developed NMS after receiving haloperidol (30 mg IV) in addition to diazepam (200 mg IV) within 24 hours. Another patient was found to suffer from severe NMS after receiving bupropion (Dopamine inhibitor antidepressant) 300 mg/day. All patients displayed cardinal signs and symptoms of NMS in addition to dehydration and pallor. They were treated in the psychiatric ward and recovered rapidly from NMS after receiving clonazepam and bromocriptine and removal of the offending agents.
The molecular pathology of bladder cancer has been the subject of considerable interest, and current efforts are targeted toward elucidating the interrelationships between individual somatic gene loss and both etiologic and prognostic factors. Mutation of the TP53 gene has been associated with more invasive bladder cancer, and evidence suggests that TP53 mutation, independent of stage, may be predictive of outcome in this disease. However, there is no consensus in the literature that bladder carcinogen exposure is associated with inactivation of the TP53 gene. Work to date has been primarily hospital based and, as such, subject to possible bias associated with selection of more advanced cases for study. We examined exposure relationships with both TP53 gene mutation and TP53 protein alterations in a population-based study of 330 bladder cancer cases in New Hampshire. Tobacco smoking was not associated with TP53 alterations. We found a higher prevalence of TP53 inactivation (i.e., mutation and nuclear accumulation) among hair dye users (odd ratio [OR] = 4.1; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.2-14.7), and the majority of these mutations were transversions. Men who had "at risk" occupations were more likely to have mutated TP53 tumors (OR = 2.9; 95% CI 1.1-7.6). There also was a relative absence of TP53 mutation (OR = 0.4; 95% CI 0.0-2.9) and TP53 protein alterations (OR = 0.6; 95% CI 0.3-1.4) in bladder cancers from individuals with higher arsenic exposure. Our data suggest that there is exposure-specific heterogeneity in inactivation of the TP53 pathway in bladder cancers and that integration of the spectrum of pathway alterations in population-based approaches (capturing the full range of exposures to bladder carcinogens) may provide important insights into bladder tumorigenesis.
Forty-three postmenopausal females with advanced breast cancer were studied in a prospective comparative trial of estrogen vs. an anti-estrogen (tamoxifen) therapy with a crossover to the alternative hormone with progressive disease. Ten of 19 patients (53%) responded to primary tamoxifen therapy and six of 24 (25%) responded to primary estrogen therapy. Crossover responses were observed in seven of 19 (37%) on the secondary tamoxifen therapy and in two of 10 (20%) on secondary estrogen therapy, and were not related to the response to the primary hormonal maneuver. Responses were related to the presence of estrogen receptor protein (ERP), particularly for tamoxifen therapy, although responses were observed in three of six ERP negative patients receiving estrogen and in seven of 25 (28%) of patients with an unknown ERP status. Complications were observed in 35 instances with estrogen therapy and in only five instances with tamoxifen therapy. Initial hormonal therapy with tamoxifen in postmenopausal patients with advanced breast cancer and ERP status positive or unknown is superior to primary estrogen treatment. Secondary therapy and response to estrogen or tamoxifen is not necessarily predicted by the initial hormone response, and crossover to the alternative therapy is generally indicated.
The strong inflammatory agent lipopolysaccharide (LPS) has been shown to cause bone lysis in vivo. However, the etiology of LPS-induced bone destruction is still elusive. Here, we show that LPS stimulates the induction of CXCL2 in bone marrow macrophages (BMMs), osteoclast precursors, at the transcription level even in the absence of the synthesis of new proteins including interferon β. Reactive oxygen species were involved in the secretion of CXCL2 but not in the mRNA expression. CXCL2 mRNA induction by LPS was mediated by p38, JNK, and NFκB signaling pathways. Moreover, c-Fos and p65 were directly recruited to CXCL2 promoter. The conditioned medium from LPS-treated BMMs could enhance migration of osteoclast precursors, which was blocked by treatment with CXCL2-neutralizing antibody or CXCR2 receptor antagonist. The blockade of CXCL2 also reduced LPS-induced osteoclastogenesis. More significantly, CXCL2-neutralization prevented bone destruction in mice treated with LPS. Therefore, CXCL2 might be a useful therapeutic target for inflammatory bone destructive diseases.
The physiopathology of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LIDs) is unclear. Presynaptic pharmacokinetic and postsynaptic pharmacodynamic mechanisms may be involved. We have analyzed several clinical and pharmacological parameters, as well as the status of the presynaptic dopamine nigrostriatal pathway by using DaTSCAN, in 14 patients with Parkinson disease who developed early and severe LID despite using low doses of levodopa and 10 patients without this complication despite the use of high levodopa doses. Patients were matched for age at onset, duration, and severity of Parkinson disease. Statistically significant differences were observed only in the duration of LID during the levodopa challenge. However, clear differences were also observed in weight and sex distribution (women with low weight predominate in the group with dyskinesia), severity and duration of LID, and total levodopa dosage. The pattern of response to levodopa and the uptake of (123I)N-w-fluoropropyl-2[beta]-carbomethoxy-3[beta]-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane were similar in both groups. These results indicate that the development of LID needs additional contributions beyond nigrostriatal denervation. Factors related to sex and body weight could play an important role. However, these findings should be considered cautiously because of the limited statistical power of the study.
Metallothioneins (MT) are potent scavengers of free radicals that are silenced in primary hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) of human and rodent origin. To examine whether loss of MT promotes hepatocarcinogenesis, male Mt-1 and Mt-2 double knockout (MTKO) and wild-type (WT) mice were exposed to diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and induction of HCC was monitored at 23 and 33 weeks. The size and number of liver tumors, the ratio between liver and body weight, and liver damage were markedly elevated in the MTKO mice at both time points compared with the WT mice. At 23 weeks, MTKO mice developed HCC whereas WT mice developed only preneoplastic nodules suggesting that loss of MT accelerates hepatocarcinogenesis. MTKO tumors also exhibited higher superoxide anion levels. Although NF-κB activity increased in the liver nuclear extracts of both genotypes after DEN exposure, the complex formed in MTKO mice was predominantly p50/65 heterodimer (transcriptional activator) as opposed to p50 homodimer (transcriptional repressor) in WT mice. Phosphorylation of p65 at Ser276 causing its activation was also significantly augmented in DEN-exposed MTKO livers. NF-κB targets that include early growth response genes and proinflammatory cytokines were significantly upregulated in MTKO mice. Concurrently, there was a remarkable increase (∼100-fold) in Pai-1 expression; significant increase in c-Jun, c-Fos, c-Myc, Ets2, and ATF3 expressions; and growth factor signaling that probably contributed to the increased tumor growth in MTKO mice. Taken together, these results demonstrate that MTs protect mice from hepatocarcinogen-induced liver damage and carcinogenesis, underscoring their potential therapeutic application against hepatocellular cancer.
Since tamoxifen is widely used in breast cancer treatment and has been proposed for the prevention of breast cancer, its endometrial iatrogenic effects must be carefully examined. We have investigated the association between endometrial cancer and tamoxifen use or other treatments in women treated for breast cancer in a case-control study. Cases of endometrial cancer diagnosed after breast cancer (n = 135) and 467 controls matched for age, year of diagnosis of breast cancer and hospital and survival time with an intact uterus were included. Women who had received tamoxifen were significantly more likely to have endometrial cancer diagnosed than those who had not (crude relative risk = 4.9, p = 0.0001). Univariate and adjusted analyses showed that the risk increased with the length of treatment (p = 0.0001) or the cumulative dose of tamoxifen received (p = 0.0001), irrespective of the daily dose. Women who had undergone pelvic radiotherapy also had a higher risk (crude relative risk = 7.8, p = 0.0001). After adjusting for confounding factors, the risk was higher for tamoxifen users (p = 0.0012), treatment for more than 3 years (all p < 0.03) and pelvic radiotherapy (p = 0.012). Women who had endometrial cancer and had received tamoxifen had more advanced disease and poorer prognosis than those with endometrial cancer who had not received this treatment. Our results suggest a causal role of tamoxifen in endometrial cancer, particularly when used as currently proposed for breast cancer prevention. Pelvic radiotherapy may be an additional iatrogenic factor for women with breast cancer. Endometrial cancers diagnosed in women treated with tamoxifen have poorer prognosis. Women who receive tamoxifen for breast cancer should be offered gynaecological surveillance during and after treatment. A long-term evaluation of the risk-benefit ratio of tamoxifen as a preventive treatment for breast cancer is clearly warranted.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of risperidone in children and adults with Tourette syndrome.
This was an 8-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. The primary outcome measure was the Total Tic score of the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale (YGTSS).
Thirty-four medication-free subjects (26 children and 8 adults) ranging in age from 6 to 62 years (mean = 19.7 +/- 17.0 years) participated. YGTSS Total Tic scores were similar at baseline (26.0 +/- 5.1 for risperidone vs 27.4 +/- 8.5 for placebo). After 8 weeks of treatment (mean daily dose of 2.5 +/- 0.85), the 16 subjects on risperidone showed a 32% reduction in tic severity from baseline, compared to a 7% reduction for placebo patients (n = 18) (F[2,64] = 6.07; p = 0.004). The 12 children randomized to risperidone showed a 36% reduction in tic symptoms compared to an 11% decrease in the 14 children on placebo (F[2,48] = 6.38; p = 0.004). Two children on risperidone showed acute social phobia, which resolved with dose reduction in one subject but resulted in medication discontinuation in the other. A mean increase in body weight of 2.8 kg was observed in the risperidone group compared to no change in placebo (F[2,64] = 10.68; p = 0.0001). No extrapyramidal symptoms and no clinically significant alterations in cardiac conduction times or laboratory measures were observed.
Risperidone appears to be safe and effective for short-term treatment of tics in children or adults with Tourette syndrome. Longer-term studies are needed to evaluate the durability of efficacy and safety over time.
Paxillin (PXN) gene mutations are associated with lung adenocarcinoma progression and PXN is known to be a target gene of microRNA-218 (miR-218). On this basis, we hypothesized that PXN overexpression via miR-218 suppression may promote tumor progression and metastasis and that PXN may predict survival and relapse in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Expression of miR-218 and PXN in 124 surgically resected lung tumors were evaluated by real-time PCR and immunohistochemical analysis. The prognostic value of miR-218 and PXN expression on overall survival (OS) and relapse-free survival (RFS) was analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier test and Cox regression analysis. miR-218 expression in lung tumors was negatively associated with PXN expression. Multivariate analyses showed that PXN and miR-218 might independently predict OS and RFS, respectively, in NSCLC. Moreover, patients with low miR-218 combined with PXN-positive had the worst OS and RFS among the 4 combinations. In a cell model, PXN was negatively regulated by miR-218 and cell proliferation, invasion, and soft agar colony formation were enhanced by PXN overexpression induced by miR-218 suppression. Taken together, our findings suggest that PXN overexpression induced by miR-218 suppression is an independent predictor of survival and relapse in NSCLC, highlighting PXN as a potential therapeutic target to improve clinical outcomes in this disease.
To study the protective effects and mechanisms of astragaloside (AST) and astragalus saponin I (ASI) on the memory impairment in senescent rats treated by glucocorticoid (GC).
Y maze test was performed to determine the effects of AST and ASI on memory impairment of hydrocortisone(HC)-induced senescent rats. Using Ca2+ sensitive fluorescent indicator (Furo-2), free intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) was measured by double wavelength fluorescence sepectrophotometer in thymocytes and hippocampal neurons induced dexamethasone (DEX). And apoptosis was detected by DNA gel electrophoresis and flow cytometry.
Compared with HC control, AST and ASI can improve the memory of the senescent rats treated by HC, lower [Ca2+]i and suppress apoptosis of thymocytes and hippocampal neurons induced by DEX.
AST and ASI can delay the aging in rats treated by HC, and its mechanism may includ lowering[Ca2+]i and suppressing the apoptosis of thymocytes and hippocampal neurons.
This study was conducted to clarify the resistance profile of a novel mutation pattern emerging during lamivudine (3TC) therapy and showing cross-resistance to adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) in a patient with chronic hepatitis B.
Successful suppression of hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication by sequential therapy of 9 MU thrice weekly interferon (IFN) and 3TC was followed by genotypical resistance detected at month 28 of therapy (month 19 of lamivudine treatment). ADV was added to 3TC therapy on month 44 of antiviral treatment. Neither alanine aminotransferase normalization nor a stable decrease in HBV viral load was observed, although ADV was used for more than 40 months. The HBV pol region was amplified from serum samples obtained before and after ADV treatment. The complete genome was cloned into a TA vector. PCR products and 7-10 clones from each cloned vector were sequenced. A novel mutation, A181S, in the reverse transcriptase gene leading to a conversion of W172C in the overlapping surface antigen gene was detected along with a M2041 mutation. The complete genome comprising the A181S+M2041 pattern was cloned into an expression vector and its in vitro susceptibility to 3TC, ADV, tenofovir (PMPA), clevudine (L-FMAU) and emtricitabine (FTC) were determined in transiently transfected Huh7 cells. This mutation pattern displayed more than 1000-fold resistance to the nucleoside analogues 3TC and FTC and approximately sixfold resistance to L-FMAU, while it confers 28.23- and 5.57-fold resistance for the nucleotide analogues ADV and PMPA, respectively.
A new mutation pattern, A181S+M2041, arising under lamivudine treatment confers cross-resistance to ADV both in vivo and in vitro.
