Previous research has documented effects of both physical and social environmental exposures on childhood asthma. However, few studies have considered how these two environments might interact to affect asthma.
This study aimed to test interactions between chronic exposure to traffic-related air pollution and chronic family stress in predicting biologic and clinical outcomes in children with asthma.
Children with asthma (n = 73, 9-18 years of age) were interviewed about life stress, and asthma-relevant inflammatory markers [cytokine production, immunoglobulin E (IgE), eosinophil counts] were measured. Parents reported on children's symptoms. Children completed daily diaries of symptoms and peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) measures at baseline and 6 months later. Exposure to traffic-related air pollution was assessed using a land use regression model for nitrogen dioxide concentrations.
NO(2) by stress interactions were found for interleukin-5 (beta for interaction term = -0.31, p = 0.02), IgE (interaction beta = -0.29, p = 0.02), and eosinophil counts (interaction beta = -0.24, p = 0.04). These interactions showed that higher chronic stress was associated with heightened inflammatory profiles as pollution levels decreased. Longitudinally, NO(2) by stress interactions emerged for daily diary symptoms (interaction beta = -0.28, p = 0.02), parent-reported symptoms (interaction beta = -0.25, p = 0.07), and PEFR (interaction beta = 0.30, p = 0.03). These interactions indicated that higher chronic stress was associated with increases over time in symptoms and decreases over time in PEFR as pollution levels decreased.
The physical and social environments interacted in predicting both biologic and clinical outcomes in children with asthma, suggesting that when pollution exposure is more modest, vulnerability to asthma exacerbations may be heightened in children with higher chronic stress.
The kidneys of newborn rats, which are both morphologically and physiologically immature, have been shown to be relatively insensitive to the nephrotoxic effects of several chemicals. To examine the specificity of these age-related differences, pups received sc injections of either 20 mg/kg of amphotericin B or 250 mg/kg folic acid, two known nephrotoxins in adult animals, on postnatal Day 1, 8, or 15. Renal function was examined by a basal clearance test and a hydropenia challenge at 1, 2, or 5 (6 in the case of amphotericin B) days after treatment. We observed no difference in degree of renal toxicity with age, but repair of renal damage tended to proceed slower at the youngest age. Amphotericin treatment produced uremia, increased fractional excretion of water and sodium, a decreased fractional excretion of urea, and a diminished hydropenia response but no change in creatinine clearance and no renal pathology. The observed pattern of renal toxicity may be attributed to an inability to maintain urea gradients in the distal segment of the nephron. Folic acid treatment resulted in greatly increased kidney weights with marked pathology, uremia with decreased creatinine clearance, increased fractional excretion of water, and a decreased hydropenia response. Unlike the renal toxicity observed following amphotericin treatment, renal toxicity from folic acid appears to be a nonspecific response to cell injury within the renal tubules. The data indicate that, in general, neonates do not possess a relative insensitivity to nephrotoxins and that renal physiological measurements which can be performed in neonatal rats are useful in evaluating and interpreting alterations in renal function.
The purpose of this study was to examine the association of tobacco smoke and environmental lead exposure with conduct disorder (CD).
The National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 2001-2004 is a nationally representative cross-sectional sample of the noninstitutionalized U.S. population. We examined the association of prenatal tobacco, postnatal tobacco, and environmental lead exposure with CD in children 8-15 years of age (n = 3,081). We measured prenatal tobacco exposure by parent report of cigarette use during pregnancy, and postnatal tobacco using serum cotinine levels. We assessed lead exposure using current blood lead concentration. Parents completed the Diagnostic Interview Schedule for Children to determine whether their children met criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th edition (DSM-IV ) for CD.
Overall, 2.06% of children met DSM-IV criteria for CD in the past year, equivalent to 560,000 U.S. children 8-15 years of age. After adjustment, prenatal tobacco exposure was associated with increased odds for CD [odds ratio (OR) = 3.00; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.36-6.63]. Increased blood lead levels (fourth vs. first quartile) and serum cotinine levels (fifth vs. first quintile) were associated with an 8.64-fold (95% CI, 1.87-40.04) and 9.15-fold (95% CI, 1.47-6.90) increased odds of meeting DSM-IV CD criteria. Increasing serum cotinine levels and blood lead levels were also associated with increased prevalence of CD symptoms (symptom count ratio, lead: 1.73; 95% CI, 1.23-2.43; symptom count ratio, cotinine: 1.97; 95% CI, 1.15-3.40).
These results suggest that prenatal tobacco exposure and environmental lead exposure contribute substantially to CD in U.S. children.
It has been proposed that there are paradoxical sleep windows (PSW) during which REM sleep is required for effective learning. Thus, rats deprived of REM sleep during 0-4 (but not 5-8) h after training show impaired learning of a radial maze task. As cholinergic (ACh) systems are active during REM sleep and may be involved in learning, this experiment investigated the effects on learning of pharmacological manipulation of the cholinergic system during the period identified as the PSW. Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned to groups that were physically deprived of REM for 4 h either immediately after training or beginning 4 h after training or treated with the ACh receptor antagonist scopolamine (0-0.4 mg/kg at 0 and 2 h after training or 0.006 mg/kg at 4 and 6 h after training) on each of 9 days of radial maze training. Post-training REM deprivation (0-4 h but not 5-8 h after training) and scopolamine dose-dependently impaired learning. Results suggest that REM sleep and intact ACh neurotransmission are required during the PSW for rats to learn the radial maze task.
Acetaminophen (APAP) produces proximal tubular necrosis in Fischer 344 (F344) rats. Recently, p-aminophenol (PAP), a known potent nephrotoxicant, was identified as a metabolite of APAP in F344 rats. The purpose of this study was to determine if PAP formation is a requisite step in APAP-induced nephrotoxicity. Therefore, the effect of bis(p-nitrophenyl) phosphate (BNPP), an acylamidase inhibitor, on APAP and PAP nephrotoxicity and metabolism was determined. BNPP (1 to 8 mM) reduced APAP deacetylation and covalent binding in F344 renal cortical homogenates in a concentration-dependent manner. Pretreatment of animals with BNPP prior to APAP or PAP administration resulted in marked reduction of APAP (900 mg/kg) nephrotoxicity but not PAP nephrotoxicity. This result was not due to altered disposition of either APAP or acetylated metabolites in plasma or renal cortical and hepatic tissue. Rather, BNPP pretreatment reduced the fraction of APAP excreted as PAP by 64 and 75% after APAP doses of 750 and 900 mg/kg. BNPP did not alter the excretion of APAP or any of its non-deacetylated metabolites nor did BNPP alter excretion of PAP or its metabolites after PAP doses of 150 and 300 mg/kg. Therefore, the BNPP-induced reduction in APAP-induced nephrotoxicity appears to be due to inhibition of APAP deacetylation. It is concluded that PAP formation, in vivo, accounts, at least in part, for APAP-induced renal tubular necrosis.
Arsenic is one of the most common environmental contaminants. Long-term exposure to arsenic causes human bronchial epithelial cell (HBEC) malignant transformation and lung cancer. However, the mechanism of arsenic lung carcinogenesis is not clear, and the migratory and invasive properties of arsenic-transformed cells (As-transformed cells) have rarely been studied.
This study was designed to investigate the migratory and invasive behavior of As-transformed HBECs and the underlying mechanism.
As-transformed p53lowHBECs were generated by exposing p53-knockdown HBECs to sodium arsenite (2.5 μM) for 16 weeks. Cell migration was assessed by transwell migration and wound-healing assay. Cell invasion was evaluated using Matrigel-coated transwell chambers. Gene overexpression, small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdowns, and pharmacological inhibitors were used to determine the potential mechanism responsible for enhanced cell migration and invasion.
Transwell migration and invasion assays revealed that As-transformed p53lowHBECs were highly migratory and invasive. Akt (also known as protein kinase B) and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2) were strongly activated in As-transformed p53lowHBECs. Stable expression of microRNA 200b in As-transformed p53lowHBECs abolished Akt and Erk1/2 activation and completely suppressed cell migration and invasion. Pharmacological inactivation of Akt but not Erk1/2 significantly decreased cell migration and invasion. Inhibition of Akt reduced the expression of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition-inducing transcription factors zinc-finger E-box-binding homeobox factor 1 (ZEB1) and ZEB2. siRNA knockdown of ZEB1 and ZEB2 impaired As-transformed p53lowHBEC migration and invasion.
Akt activation plays a critical role in enabling As-transformed HBEC migration and invasion by promoting ZEB1 and ZEB2 expression.
Copper deficiency induces a dramatic decrease of superoxide dismutase activity and leads to alteration of antioxidant defense systems.
and
Experiments were conducted in weanling male, intact and ovariectomized female rats, fed either a copper-adequate or copper-deficient diet for seven weeks, in order to determine whether endogenous estrogen could modulate oxidative stress and the severity of copper-deficiency.
Feeding male rats a copper-deficient diet induced typical signs of copper deficiency, such as decreased hepatic copper, growth retardation, anemia, heart hypertrophy, pancreas atrophy and hypercholesterolemia. Furthermore, copper deficiency increased the amount of lipid peroxidation products in the heart, liver and pancreas following in vitro iron induction. Although levels of hepatic copper in copper-deficient females were similar to those of their male counterparts, the females were partially protected from the adverse effects of the deficiency (no growth retardation, less severe anemia, lesser extent of lipid peroxidation). Thus, female rats are provided with a greater degree of protection against oxidative damage than males. However, females did not appear to be protected against pancreas atrophy, heart enlargement and hypercholesterolemia induced by copper deficiency. This observed partial protection of females was lost after ovariectomy as shown by decreased body weight and hematocrit, heart enlargement and higher tissue peroxidation in ovariectomized females compared to intact females.
The results suggest that the partial protection of copper deficient females is related to the antioxidant properties of estrogens. The protective action of estrogen against oxidative stress is of particular importance when antioxidant defenses are decreased as shown in this experimental model.
Heparin or heparin-derived molecules have been demonstrated to have a renoprotective activity in a number of experimental nephropathies and anti-fibrotic effect on pulmonary fibrosis induced by Bleomycin. However, the effectiveness of low anticoagulant activity heparin (LAAH) in the treatment of liver fibrosis has not been well defined. We are here demonstrating by both biochemical and morphological methods that long term LAAH administering can considerably decrease the hepatic fibrosis in rats elicited by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) or injection of porcine serum. And its inhibition of fibrosis may be associated with the intervention of ERK signal transduction pathway and down-regulation of AP-1 activity in hepatic stellate cells.
LAAH were given to rats that subjected to CCl(4) or porcine serum injection induced liver fibrosis regimens up to 10 weeks. Immunohistochemical stainings for collagen types I and III plus image analysis as well as measurement of hydroxyproline content in the livers were carried out to evaluate the fibrosis of livers in rats. The activated HSCs (strong positive immunohistochemical staining for alpha-smooth actin) in the livers were counted under microscopy. The activities of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in HSCs in vitro were estimated by the Western blot. Activator protein-1 (AP-1) activity in nuclear proteins of HSCs was measured by the electrophoresis motility shift assay (EMSA).
The immunohistochemical staining plus image analysis showed that LAAH administration could reduce the contents of collagen types I and III to 16.48% and 27.94% of those in saline administration control in livers of rats treated with CCl(4) or 30.98% and 35.43% of those in saline administration control in livers of rats subjected to injection of porcine serum. Meanwhile, LAAH could decrease the content of hydroxyproline in the livers of rats treated with CCl(4) or injection of porcine serum by 32.83% or 32.41%, respectively. Long-term administration of LAAH can remarkably reduce the alpha-SMA positive cells only in the fibrotic livers induced by CCl(4). In vitro studies of HSCs showed that LAAH could inhibit the PDGF-BB augmented both expression and phosphorylation of ERK proteins and AP-1 activity in a dose-dependent manner.
Long-term administering LAAH can suppress the hepatic fibrosis either induced by CCl(4) or injection of porcine serum. The mechanism of its anti-fibrotic effect may partly be related to the inference of ERK signal transduction pathway and AP-1 activity in activated hepatic stellate cells.
Organic and/or functional heart lesions sometimes resulting in sudden death have been described in psychiatric patients treated with neuroleptics. As selenium has been suggested previously to play a role in the development of such lesions, the present study was undertaken to determine whether a correlation could be found between heart lesions induced by neuroleptics and changes in blood selenium as well as myocardial tissue concentrations in the rabbit. Twelve NZW adult rabbits were treated intramuscularly with both levomepromazine (3 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) and risperidone (1 mg kg(-1) once every other week) for 3 months, and compared with 12 saline-treated controls. Blood samples were drawn before and at the end of the study. Tissue samples from the heart, liver and kidneys were obtained at the end of treatment, and the hearts were examined histologically. Heart lesions including disorganization of cardiac fibers, myolysis, interstitial and endocardial fibrosis, and necrosis were noted in treated animals, but not in controls. There was a 20% decrease in selenium blood levels and a 50% decrease in selenium myocardial tissue levels in treated animals compared with controls (P < 0.001). In contrast, no differences in selenium levels in liver and kidneys were found across the experimental groups. These results suggest a possible correlation between selenium depletion and neuroleptics-induced heart lesions.
Trofosfamide (Ixoten; Baxter Oncology, Germany) is an alkylating agent that, as with other oxazaphosphorine derivatives, has to be activated by hepatic cytochrome P450 oxidases. The bioavailability is nearly 100% after oral application, and the main metabolites are 4-hydroxytrofosfamide, and 4-hydroxyifosfamide. The main side-chain metabolites ifosfamide and cyclophosphamide can be further activated by oxidation and formation of their respective phosphoramide mustards. Oral continuous low-dose therapy has been the most widely used schedule. The toxicity profile consists mainly of dose-dependent hematotoxicity and, rarely, hemorrhagic cystitis. Nausea and vomiting are infrequently seen. Higher grades of nephrotoxicity or neurotoxicity--side-effects that typically limit the use of ifosfamide-have not been reported with low-dose continuous trofosfamide treatment. We report herein a case of a 83-year-old female patient with a disseminated malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor treated with trofosfamide developing pulmonal toxicity. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of exogenous allergic alveolitis after exposure to this drug.
Androgens are critical for specifying prostate development, with the fetal prostate sensitive to altered hormone levels and endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) that exhibit estrogenic or antiandrogenic properties. Prostatic inflammation (prostatitis) affects 9% of men of all ages, and > 90% of cases are of unknown etiology.
In this study we aimed to evaluate effects of in utero exposure to the antiandrogenic EDC vinclozolin, during the period of male reproductive tract development, on neonatal, prepubertal, and postpubertal prostate gland function of male offspring.
Fetal rats were exposed to vinclozolin (100 mg/kg body weight) or vehicle control (2.5 mL/kg body weight) in utero from gestational day 14 (GD14) to GD19 via oral administration to pregnant dams. Tissue analysis was carried out when male offspring were 0, 4, or 8 weeks of age.
In utero exposure to vinclozolin was insufficient to perturb prostatic development and branching, although expression of androgen receptor and mesenchymal fibroblast growth factor-10 was down-regulated. Prostate histology remained normal until puberty, but 100% of animals displayed prostatitis postpubertally (56 days of age). Prostatic inflammation was associated with phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NFkappaB) and postpubertal activation of proinflammatory NFkappaB-dependent genes, including the chemokine interleukin-8 and the cytokine transforming growth factor-beta1. Significantly, inflammation arising from vinclozolin exposure was not associated with the emergence of premalignant lesions, such as prostatic intra-epithelial neoplasia or proliferative inflammatory atrophy, and hence mimics nonbacterial early-onset prostatitis that commonly occurs in young men.
These data are the first to unequivocally implicate EDCs as a causative factor and fill an important knowledge gap on the etiology of prostatitis.
Metachondromatosis (MC) is a rare, autosomal dominant, incompletely penetrant combined exostosis and enchondromatosis tumor syndrome. MC is clinically distinct from other multiple exostosis or multiple enchondromatosis syndromes and is unlinked to EXT1 and EXT2, the genes responsible for autosomal dominant multiple osteochondromas (MO). To identify a gene for MC, we performed linkage analysis with high-density SNP arrays in a single family, used a targeted array to capture exons and promoter sequences from the linked interval in 16 participants from 11 MC families, and sequenced the captured DNA using high-throughput parallel sequencing technologies. DNA capture and parallel sequencing identified heterozygous putative loss-of-function mutations in PTPN11 in 4 of the 11 families. Sanger sequence analysis of PTPN11 coding regions in a total of 17 MC families identified mutations in 10 of them (5 frameshift, 2 nonsense, and 3 splice-site mutations). Copy number analysis of sequencing reads from a second targeted capture that included the entire PTPN11 gene identified an additional family with a 15 kb deletion spanning exon 7 of PTPN11. Microdissected MC lesions from two patients with PTPN11 mutations demonstrated loss-of-heterozygosity for the wild-type allele. We next sequenced PTPN11 in DNA samples from 54 patients with the multiple enchondromatosis disorders Ollier disease or Maffucci syndrome, but found no coding sequence PTPN11 mutations. We conclude that heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in PTPN11 are a frequent cause of MC, that lesions in patients with MC appear to arise following a "second hit," that MC may be locus heterogeneous since 1 familial and 5 sporadically occurring cases lacked obvious disease-causing PTPN11 mutations, and that PTPN11 mutations are not a common cause of Ollier disease or Maffucci syndrome.
Recent experimental and epidemiological evidence suggests that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are effective in the prevention of colorectal cancer. However, the toxicity associated with the long-term use of most classical NSAIDs has limited their usefulness for the purpose of cancer chemoprevention. Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients, in particular, are sensitive to the adverse side effects of NSAIDs, and these patients also have an increased risk for the development of intestinal cancer. 5-Aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) is an anti-inflammatory drug commonly used in the treatment of IBD and may provide protection against the development of colorectal cancer in these patients. To directly evaluate the ability of 5-ASA to suppress intestinal tumors, we studied several formulations of 5-ASA (free acid, sulfasalazine, and Pentasa) at multiple oral dosage levels [500, 2400, 4800, and 9600 parts/million (ppm)] in the adenomatous polyposis coli (Apc) mouse model of multiple intestinal neoplasia (Min). Although the ApcMin mouse is not a model of colitis-associated neoplasia, it is, nonetheless, a useful model for assessing the ability of anti-inflammatory agents to prevent tumor formation in a genetically preinitiated population of cells. We used a study design in which drug was provided ad libitum through the diet beginning at the time of weaning (28 days of age) until 100 days of age. We included 200 ppm of piroxicam and 160 ppm of sulindac as positive controls, and the negative control was AIN-93G diet alone. Treatment with either piroxicam or sulindac produced statistically significant reductions in intestinal tumor multiplicity (95% and 83% reductions in tumor number, respectively; P < 0.001 versus controls). By contrast, none of the 5-ASA drug formulations or dosage levels produced consistent dose-progressive changes in polyp number, distribution, or size, despite high luminal and serum concentrations of 5-ASA and its primary metabolite N-acetyl-5-ASA. Thus, 5-ASA does not seem to possess direct chemosuppressive activity against the development of nascent intestinal adenomas in the ApcMin mouse. However, because intestinal tumor development in the ApcMin mouse is driven by a germline mutation in the Apc gene rather than by chronic inflammation, we caution that these findings do not definitively exclude the possibility that 5-ASA may exert a chemopreventive effect in human IBD patients.
Delayed gastrointestinal (GI) recovery after bowel resection is associated with longer hospital stays and increased health care costs. Alvimopan (Entereg), a peripherally acting mu-opioid receptor antagonist, accelerates GI recovery after bowel-resection surgery. We undertook a study to evaluate the economic impact of alvimopan in clinical practice.
We conducted a retrospective matched cohort study using data from a large national hospital database and identified adults who had undergone small-bowel or large-bowel resection with primary anastomosis. The patients were discharged between January 1, 2009, and June 30, 2009. The surgery was performed at a hospital where alvimopan was used at least once during the study period. We matched each alvimopan patient ("user") with two controls ("non-users"). The primary outcome of total hospital costs (including the cost of alvimopan) and secondary outcomes of cost components and length of stay were compared between groups.
The final study cohort included 480 alvimopan patients and 960 matched controls. The mean total hospital cost was $12,865 for alvimopan patients, compared with $13,905 for controls, for a difference of $1,040 (P = 0.033). There was a non-significant trend toward lower ileus-related costs between groups ($83 for alvimopan vs. $114 for controls, P = 0.086). Pharmacy and diagnostic radiology costs did not differ significantly. The mean length of stay was 5.6 days for alvimopan patients and 6.5 days for controls (P < 0.001).
Patients receiving alvimopan capsules had significantly lower total hospital costs compared with controls. Along with other initiatives to improve quality and reduce costs of surgical care, alvimopan might be a good choice for use in the perioperative management of patients who undergo segmental bowel resection with primary anastomosis.
To investigate the mechanism of Chinese herbal recipe Weichang'an (WCA) in inducing cell apoptosis of human gastric cancer grafted onto nude mice.
The high performance liquid chromatography was used for monitoring the stability of WCA. A human gastric cancer cell line SGC-7901 grafted in nude mouse was used as the animal model. The mice were divided into untreated group and two experimental groups. Animals in the two experimental groups received either WCA over a 34-day period or 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) over a 6-day period starting at the 8th day after grafting. Animals in the untreated group received normal saline on an identical schedule. Animals were killed 41 days after being grafted. To assess the effect of the treatment on tumor, the tumor weight was determined by the electron balance immediately after the animals were killed. SP immunohistochemical method was used to detect the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in grafts. Apoptotic indices (AI) of the tumor cells were examined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate fluorescence nick end labeling (TUNEL) method. SP method was also used to detect the expressions of cleaved caspase-3, caspase-8 and caspase-9. SYBR green dye I real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (real-time quantitative [corrected] PCR) was used to assess the related gene alterations in mRNA level. The expressions of phospho-Stat3 (Tyr705) and bcl-2 proteins were detected by using SP method.
Compared with the untreated group, tumor growth was significantly inhibited by treatment of WCA or 5-FU (P<0.01, respectively). The tumor inhibition rate in the WCA-treated group was 48.70% and that in the 5-FU-treated group was 60.10%. The average labeling index (LI) for PCNA in the WCA-treated group and 5-FU-treated group was significantly decreased as compared with that in the untreated group, respectively. The AI of human gastric cancer grafted in the nude mice detected by using TUNEL method was significantly increased to (9.72+/-4.51)% in the WCA-treated group, while it was (2.45+/-1.37)% in the untreated group. 5-FU-treated group was also found a significantly increased AI compared with the untreated group. The expressions of cleaved caspase-3 and caspase-9 in the WCA-treated group and 5-FU-treated group were significantly increased as compared with those in the untreated group. But caspase-8 showed no significant alteration either in the WCA-treated group or in the 5-FU-treated group. The expression levels of Stat3 (2(-)delta delta C(T))=0.16) and bcl-2 (2(-)delta delta C(T))=0.10) detected by using real-time quantitative [corrected] PCR were lower in the WCA-treated group than those in the untreated group. The expressions of phospho-Stat3 (Tyr705) and bcl-2 in the WCA-treated group were significantly decreased as compared with those in the untreated group.
Chinese herbal recipe WCA can inhibit gastric cancer cell SGC-7901 growth in vivo, induce gastric cancer cell apoptosis and suppress the cell proliferation. WCA induces apoptosis through the caspase-9 and caspase-3 pathway in vivo. Its mechanism might be involved in the down-regulation of Stat3 and bcl-2 genes.
Existing data suggest that conventional C(H)OP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone) regimen may not be intensive enough to achieve molecular response, as measured by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) evidence of translocation (14;18)(q32:q21) for follicular lymphoma. This study was undertaken to study the molecular response rate of follicular lymphoma to C(H)OP-based therapy and to analyze prognostic factors for molecular response.
Twenty patients with pretreatment PCR evidence of t(14;18)(q32; q21) and at least one posttreatment PCR analysis after the initiation of the treatment with C(H)OP with or without radiation therapy constituted the basis for this analysis. The random effects logistic model was used to analyze the data. The following factors were investigated for their relationship to molecular response: gender, age, beta2-microglobulin, use of radiation therapy, Ann Arbor stage, and international Prognostic Index for malignant lymphoma.
Median follow-up was 56 months (range, 23-153 months). A total of 135 PCR results were available, 33 from bone marrow and 102 from peripheral blood. Overall, there was a clear and steady decreasing trend toward loss of PCR positivity with increasing time aftertreatment. By univariate analysis, stage > or = 3, stage = 4, International Prognostic Index > or = 2, and no radiation therapy were adverse factors for molecular response. On multivariate analysis, Ann Arbor stage IV and no radiation therapy were independent risk factors for PCR positivity, both for the peripheral blood data analyzed alone and for all data combined.
It is possible to achieve molecular response with C(H)OP with or without radiation therapy in patients with follicular lymphoma. Response rate depends on the Ann Arbor stage and radiation therapy.
To explore the association of brain-derived neurotrophic-factor (BDNF) Val66Met polymorphism with both baseline health related quality of life (HRQOL) scores and improvement in HRQOL scores in Chinese major depressive patients treated with fluoxetine.
Patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) took fluoxetine (20 mg/day) for 6 weeks. The HRQOL was measured with the Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36 (SF-36) at baseline and at 6th week. Patients were genotyped for Val66Met polymorphism of BDNF gene.
There was a significant association between social function (SF) and BDNF Val66Met polymorphism, and patients with Met/Met genotype had better SF (compared with Val/Val P = 0.004; compared with Val/Met P = 0.005). A significant association was found between improvement in SF and BDNF Val66Met polymorphism, and patients with Met/Met genotype had poorer improvement in SF (compared with Val/Val P = 0.010; compared with Val/Met P = 0.001). Similar association was found between improvement in mental component summary (MCS) and BDNF Val66Met polymorphism, and patients with Met/Met genotype had poorer improvement in MCS (compared with Val/Val P = 0.066; compared with Val/Met P = 0.006).
These results indicate that there may be association between BDNF Val66Met polymorphism and both baseline HRQOL (SF) scores and improvement in HRQOL (SF, MCS) scores in Chinese major depressive patients treated with fluoxetine.
The cation [Cr3O(O2CCH2CH3)6(H2O)3]+ has been shown in vitro to mimic to the oligopeptide chromodulin's ability to stimulate the tyrosine kinase activity of insulin receptor and shown in healthy and type 2 diabetic model rats to increase insulin sensitivity and decrease plasma total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglycerides concentrations. However, the degree to which the complex is absorbed after gavage administration to rats had not been previously determined. The biomimetic cation at nutritional supplement levels is absorbed with greater than 60% efficiency, and at pharmacological levels, it is absorbed with greater than 40% efficiency, an order of magnitude greater absorption than that of CrCl3, Cr nicotinate, or Cr picolinate, currently marketed nutritional supplements. The difference in degree of absorption is readily explained by the stability and solubility of the cation.
Although fluoxetine has been shown to be both efficacious and well tolerated, few data are available on the use of this drug in patients with preexisting heart disease and in the elderly. The authors report a case of an elderly patient in whom atrial fibrillation and bradycardia developed shortly after she began treatment with fluoxetine. The dysrhythmias recurred on rechallenge with the drug. A review of the pertinent literature is presented and possible pathophysiologic mechanisms are discussed.
N-propargyl-1-(R)aminoindan (rasagiline) is a new and selective irreversible MAO-B inhibitor, currently being considered as the mesylate salt for potential therapy in certain neurological disorders. It has been studied in animal models of cognition and motor dysfunction. Its ability to restore normal motor activity was determined in models of acute drug-induced dopaminergic dysfunction: Its effects in improving cognition and memory deficits was studied in adult and senescent rats that had been exposed to prolonged hypoxia, then subjected to the passive and active avoidance tests. In alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (alpha-MpT)-induced hypokinesia (100-120 mg/kg, i.p.) pretreatment with rasagiline at 2.5 mg/kg i.p. restored motor activity to control level. But pretreatment with reserpine abolished the protective effect of rasagiline. Rasagiline at 0.5 mg/kg/day was protective against alpha-MpT also in hypoxia-lesioned rats. In haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats (1.5 mg/kg, s.c.) or mice (4-6 mg/kg s.c.), rasagiline improved recovery of normal locomotion, gait and coordination at 0.4-2.4 mg/kg i.p. and 1.8-1.5 mg/kg i.p., respectively. In amphetamine-induced stereotypy (0.6 mg/kg s.c., rasagiline potentiated this effect at 1.5 mg/kg i.p. In hypoxia-induced impairment of memory and learning, rasagiline at 0.32-0.5 mg/kg/day per os improved performance of adult rats in passive and active avoidance, and of senescent rats in active avoidance. Selegiline was either ineffective or less effective at equivalent doses. Racemic N-propargyl-1-aminoindan (AGN-1135), besides being of lower potency, had a different dose-dependency than rasagiline in antagonizing haloperidol-induced catalepsy or alpha-MpT-induced hypokinesia. 1-(R)aminoindan ((R)AI), a metabolite of rasagiline, in relatively high doses produced effects that were distinct in certain respects from those of rasagiline.
We have found four mutations in the human gene encoding the beta-subunit of rod cGMP phosphodiesterase (PDE beta) that cosegregate with autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa, a degenerative disease of photoreceptors. In one family two affected siblings both carry allelic nonsense mutations at codons 298 and 531. Affected individuals have abnormal rod and cone electroretinograms. PDE beta is the second member of the phototransduction cascade besides rhodopsin that is absent or altered as a cause of retinitis pigmentosa, suggesting that other members of this pathway may be defective in other forms of this disease.
Droperidol is a known effective adjunctive agent for sedation/analgesia during endoscopic procedures, particularly in patients who are difficult to sedate with narcotics and benzodiazepines alone. However, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) warning about potential droperidol-related fatal cardiac arrhythmias, issued in December 2001, led to concern about its safety in current clinical practice.
In this study, we evaluated the effects of droperidol on the Bazett's corrected QT interval (QTcB) administered to patients undergoing ERCP and frequency of cardiac arrhythmias.
We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of patients who, at our institute, underwent ERCP while under sedation/analgesia and who received droperidol. Our protocol for patients who are considered to be candidates for droperidol use includes obtaining an ECG before and 1 to 3 hours after the procedure.
From April 2002 to October 2004, 6292 ERCPs were performed, of which 3113 patients with normal baseline QTcB (2001 women, 1112 men) received droperidol. Mean dosages were 4.3 mg (range, 1.25-10 mg) in women and 4.5 mg (range, 1.25-13.75 mg) in men. A total of 233 patients (7.48%; 133 women, 100 men) developed QTcB prolongation. Mean increases of the QTcB above the upper limit of normal were 16 milliseconds in women (range, 1-194 milliseconds) and 22 milliseconds in men (range, 1-310 milliseconds). Of these, 15 patients (0.48%; 8 women, 7 men) had marked prolongation of the QTcB (defined QTcB, >500 milliseconds). No serious dysrhythmias occurred.
Droperidol at usual doses during sedation/analgesia may precipitate QTcB prolongation above the normal range. However, no QT-related arrhythmias were noted in this study. Clinically significant cardiac events are probably rare with droperidol, despite documented QTcB effects. Baseline electrocardiogram for excluding patients with prolonged baseline QTcB and 1 to 3 hours afterward monitoring appears adequate when using droperidol. The study is still too small to detect very infrequent arrhythmia events.
Self-injurious behaviour (SIB) is a debilitating behaviour disorder that can have life-threatening consequences. It is often exhibited in intellectually handicapped and autistic populations, and it has been modeled with pharmacological manipulations in animals. We have characterized the induction of SIB using high doses of caffeine and pemoline in rats. Caffeine only produced very mild SIB in a small proportion of the rats, when administered repeatedly at very high doses (140-185 mg/kg/day). All the caffeine-treated rats showed profound signs of caffeine-toxicity at these doses, and lower doses did not induce any self-injury. On the other hand, pemoline was effective across a range of doses (100-300 mg/kg/day), including doses that did not produce overt signs of toxicity (100-200 mg/kg/day). The topography of the tissue injury sites (tail vs. paws and ventrum) differed between caffeine and pemoline treatments, and across doses of pemoline. The speed of onset, the incidence, and the severity of SIB occurred in a dose-orderly manner across the pemoline doses, and there was substantial individual variability in the induction of SIB when a moderately high dose (200 mg/kg/day) was used. These individual differences in vulnerability to self-injure are reminiscent of the fact that some humans with specific neurobiological disorders express SIB and some individuals with those same disorders do not. Accordingly, the pemoline model of SIB may be useful to investigate the neurobiological basis of factors that contribute to etiology of SIB.
Several heavy metals have been shown to have toxic effects on the peripheral and central auditory system. Cadmium (Cd2+) is an environmental contaminant showing a variety of adverse effects. Given the current rate of release into the environment, the amount of Cd2+ present in the human body and the incidence of Cd2+-related diseases are expected to increase.
The overall aim of this study was to gain further insights into the mechanism of Cd2+-induced ototoxicity.
Cell viability, reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), cytochrome c (cyt c), phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (p-ERK), caspases, morphologic change, and functional changes in HEI-OC1 cells, rat cochlear explants, and mouse cochlea after Cd2+ exposure were measured by flow cytometry, immunohistochemical staining, Western blot analysis, and auditory brainstem response (ABR) recording. Mechanisms underlying Cd2+ototoxicity were studied using inhibitors of different signaling pathways, caspases, and antioxidants.
Cd2+ exposure caused cell death, ROS generation, MMP loss, cyt c release, activation of caspases, ERK activation, apoptosis, and finally auditory threshold shift. Cd2+ toxicity interfered with inhibitors of cellular signaling pathways, such as ERK and c-jun N-terminal kinase, and with caspase inhibitors, especially inhibitors of caspase-9 and caspase-3. The antioxidants N-acetyl-l-cysteine and ebselen showed a significant protective effect on the Cd2+ toxicity.
Cd2+ is ototoxic with a complex underlying mechanism. However, ROS generation may be the cause of the toxicity, and application of antioxidants can prevent the toxic effect.
Liver cancer is a heterogeneous disease in terms of etiology, biologic and clinical behavior. Very little is known about how many genes concur at the molecular level of tumor development, progression and aggressiveness. To explore the key genes involved in the development of liver cancer, we established a rat model induced by diethylnitrosamine to investigate the gene expression profiles of liver tissues during the transition to cirrhosis and carcinoma.
A rat model of liver cancer induced by diethylnitrosamine was established. The cirrhotic tissue, the dysplasia nodules, the early cancerous nodules and the cancerous nodules from the rats with lung metastasis were chosen to compare with liver tissue of normal rats to investigate the differential expression genes between them. Affymetrix GeneChip Rat 230 2.0 arrays were used throughout. The real-time quantity PCR was used to verify the expression of some differential expression genes in tissues.
The pathological changes that occurred in the livers of diethylnitrosamine-treated rats included non-specific injury, fibrosis and cirrhosis, dysplastic nodules, early cancerous nodules and metastasis. There are 349 upregulated and 345 downregulated genes sharing among the above chosen tissues when compared with liver tissue of normal rats. The deregulated genes play various roles in diverse processes such as metabolism, transport, cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell adhesion, angiogenesis and so on. Among which, 41 upregulated and 27 downregulated genes are associated with inflammatory response, immune response and oxidative stress. Twenty-four genes associated with glutathione metabolism majorly participating oxidative stress were deregulated in the development of liver cancer. There were 19 members belong to CYP450 family downregulated, except CYP2C40 upregulated.
In this study, we provide the global gene expression profiles during the development and progression of liver cancer in rats. The data obtained from the gene expression profiles will allow us to acquire insights into the molecular mechanisms of hepatocarcinogenesis and identify specific genes (or gene products) that can be used for early molecular diagnosis, risk analysis, prognosis prediction, and development of new therapies.
The development of experimental animal models has played an invaluable role in understanding the mechanisms of neurosensory deafness and in devising effective treatments. The purpose of this study was to develop an adult mouse model of ototoxic drug-induced hearing loss and to compare the ototoxicity in the adult mouse to that in the well-described guinea pig model. Mice are a powerful model organism, especially due to the large availability of antibodies, probes and genetic mutants. In this study, mice (n=114) and guinea pigs (n=35) underwent systemic treatment with either kanamycin or cisplatin. Auditory brainstem responses showed a significant threshold shift in guinea pigs 2 weeks after the beginning of the ototoxic treatment, while there was no significant hearing impairment recorded in mice. Hair cells and neuronal loss were correlated with hearing function in both guinea pigs and mice. These results indicate that the mouse is not a good model for ototoxicity, which should be taken into consideration in all further investigations concerning ototoxicity-induced hearing loss.
Nonalcoholic steatosis is an important hepatic complication of obesity linked to mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance. Furthermore, lipoic acid has been reported to have beneficial effects on mitochondrial function. In this study, we analyzed the potential protective effect of lipoic acid supplementation against the development of nonalcoholic steatosis associated with a long-term high-fat diet feeding and the potential mechanism of this effect. Wistar rats were fed on a standard diet (n=10), a high-fat diet (n=10) and a high-fat diet supplemented with lipoic acid (n=10). A group pair-fed to the latter group (n=6) was also included. Lipoic acid prevented hepatic triglyceride accumulation and liver damage in rats fed a high-fat diet (-68%±11.3% vs. obese group) through the modulation of genes involved in lipogenesis and mitochondrial β-oxidation and by improving insulin sensitivity. Moreover, this molecule showed an inhibitory action on electron transport chain complexes activities (P<.01-P<.001) and adenosine triphosphate synthesis (P<.05), and reduced significantly energy efficiency. By contrast, lipoic acid induced an increase in mitochondrial copy number and in Ucp2 gene expression (P<.001 vs. obese). In summary, this investigation demonstrated the ability of lipoic acid to prevent nonalcoholic steatosis induced by a high-fat intake. Finally, the novelty and importance of this study are the finding of how lipoic acid modulates some of the mitochondrial processes involved in energy homeostasis. The reduction in mitochondrial energy efficiency could also explain, at least in part, the beneficial effects of lipoic acid not only in fatty liver but also in preventing excessive body weight gain.
