Subacute transient cerebral dysfunction following high-dose methotrexate occurred during neo-adjuvant chemotherapy for an eighteen-year-old male with osteosarcoma in his right femur. The variety of symptoms including hemiparesis and hesitancy of speech occurred 8 days after an administration of high-dose methotrexate (10 g/m2). Evaluations including CT scan of the brain, hemogram and blood chemistry revealed no abnormal findings. The patient found it difficult to sit, speak and eat, but was not confused. He improved in a few days without any specific treatment or residual sequelae. This syndrome was transient and did not recur when he had two additional HD-MTX treatments. The cause of this syndrome remains unknown and does not seem to be predictable. It is, thus, necessary for oncologists to take due care with regard to this syndrome in HD-MTX chemotherapy.
Carbamylcholine, a nonselective muscarinic receptor agonist, and sabcomeline and xanomeline, functional M(1) receptor-selective agonists with high M(2) receptor affinities, were used to explore the relationship of the M(2) receptor affinity of these agonists to mouse atrial bradycardia and to understand the relationship of the high and low M(2) receptor affinity states to carbamylcholine-induced mouse atrial bradycardia. All three agonists produced bradycardia with sabcomeline (pEC(50) = 6.7) more potent than either carbamylcholine (pEC(50) = 5.9) or xanomeline (pEC(50) = 5.1). Sabcomeline and carbamylcholine produced a rapid, concentration-related bradycardia, which was antagonized by atropine with pK(B) values of 8.6 and 8.9, respectively. In addition, sabcomeline antagonized carbamylcholine-induced bradycardia (pK(B) = 7.48), indicating that sabcomeline was a partial agonist at M(2) receptors. In contrast, xanomeline (up to 10(-5) M), did not antagonize carbamylcholine-induced bradycardia, and atropine (3.0 x 10(-8) M) did not antagonize xanomeline-induced bradycardia, suggesting that xanomeline-induced bradycardia was not mediated by M(2) receptors. Analysis of receptor occupancy curves indicated that bradycardia resulted from the interaction of carbamylcholine with the low- rather than high-affinity state of the M(2) receptor and that sabcomeline was a partial agonist at M(2) receptors in mouse atria. In contrast, similar analysis for xanomeline using the receptor affinity of xanomeline at M(2) receptors (1.8 x 10(-8) M) was not consistent with classical receptor theory. These data document that 1) the low-affinity state of the M(2) receptor is responsible for muscarinic-induced atrial bradycardia, 2) sabcomeline was an M(2) receptor partial agonist, and 3) xanomeline-induced bradycardia was not mediated by activation of M(2) muscarinic receptors.
Methamphetamine (m-AMPH) treatment produces long-lasting damage to striatal and cortical monoaminergic terminals and may also injure nonmonoaminergic cortical neurons. Evidence suggests that both dopamine (DA) and glutamate (GLU) play crucial roles in producing this damage. We used quantitative autoradiography to examine [3H]mazindol ([3H]MAZ) binding to striatal DA transporters and [3H]GLU binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the striatum and cortex 1 week and 1 month after a neurotoxic regimen of m-AMPH. Rats received m-AMPH (4 mg/kg) or saline (SAL) (1 ml/kg) in four s.c. injections separated by 2 h intervals. One week after m-AMPH, the ventral and lateral sectors of the striatum showed the greatest decreases in both [3H]MAZ and [3H]GLU binding, while the nucleus accumbens (NA) showed no significant decreases. One month after m-AMPH, striatal [3H]MAZ binding was still significantly decreased, while NMDA receptor binding had recovered. Surprisingly, the parietal cortex showed a m-AMPH-induced increase in NMDA receptor binding in layers II/III and IV 1 week after m-AMPH and only in layers II/III 1 month after m-AMPH. The prefrontal cortex showed no m-AMPH-induced changes in NMDA receptor binding at either time point. This is the first demonstration that a regimen of m-AMPH that results in long-lasting damage to DA terminals can alter forebrain NMDA receptor binding. Thus, repeated m-AMPH treatments may produce changes in glutamatergic transmission in selected striatal and cortical regions.
A case is reported of complete obstruction of a solitary kidney induced by epsilon-aminocaproic acid used to treat significant idiopathic bleeding. The pharmacology and complications of epsilon-aminocaproic acid are also reviewed.
Differences between the side effect profiles of clomipramine (CMI) and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors may be important factors in both treatment outcome and patient selection in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Safety and efficacy data from an industry-sponsored, multicenter clinical trial of CMI were analyzed previously using tabular and multiple regression methods. Good response, defined as at least a 35% drop in final scores on the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS), was associated with a later age of OCD onset and certain early side effects that may reflect a sensitivity of responders to CMI's serotonergic actions. The authors conducted a similar analysis of data from an industry-sponsored clinical trial of fluoxetine in OCD. Fluoxetine response did not seem to be associated with age of OCD onset. Good response to both drugs was associated with initial nervousness and sexual complaints. The common side effects of fluoxetine (headache, nausea, and gastrointestinal complaints) did not seem to be associated with treatment response. Slight differences in the protocols of the two clinical trials yielded patient populations that were different in factors found to be associated with treatment outcome: subjects in the fluoxetine study had lower scores on the Y-BOCS, higher scores on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, and an earlier age of OCD onset.
Carbamazepine-induced mania is described in two case reports of prepubertal boys, one of whom also developed manic symptoms after receiving imipramine and dextroamphetamine. The structural and chemical similarities between carbamazepine and polycyclic antidepressants are discussed and it is suggested that caution and close observation be employed when using carbamazepine to treat children who have been identified as being at risk for developing this adverse effect.
Kayser-Fleischer (K-F) ring seen in Wilson's disease (WD) is due to copper deposition in the Descemet's membrane in the sclero-corneal junction. Although believed to be pathognomic of WD, it may be seen in many other hepatic conditions and intraocular copper-containing foreign bodies. The K-F ring detected in pre-symptomatic cases of WD may lead to speedy diagnosis and early management. Co-relation of K-F ring in WD to the disease severity, disappearance with successful treatment, reappearance with non-compliant treatment may aid in optimum management of WD. The importance of K-F ring detection in first-degree relatives of the index case cannot be over-emphasized.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that function as master regulators of posttranscriptional gene expression with each miRNA negatively regulating hundreds of genes. Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a mitogenic lipid present within the ovarian tumor microenvironment and induces LPA receptor activation and intracellular signaling cascades like ERK/MAPK, leading to enhanced cellular proliferation. Here, we show that in SKOV-3 and OVCAR-3 cells, LPA stimulation at concentrations ranging from 1 nmol/L to 20 μmol/L for 30 to 60 minutes increases miR-30c-2*, and this effect is mediated through a combination of receptors because knock down of multiple LPA receptors is required for inhibition. The epidermal growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor also increase miR-30c-2* transcript expression, suggesting a broader responsive role for miR-30c-2*. Thus, we investigated the functional role of miR-30c-2* through ectopic expression of synthetic miRNA precursors of mature miRNA or antagomir transfection and observed that microRNA-30c-2* reduces, and the antagomir enhances, cell proliferation and viability in OVCAR-3, cisplatin-insensitive SKOV-3 and chemoresistant HeyA8-MDR cells. Ectopic expression of miR-30c-2* reduces BCL9 mRNA transcript abundance and BCL9 protein. Consistent with this observation, miR-30c-2* ectopic expression also reduced BCL9 luciferase reporter gene expression. In comparison with IOSE cells, all cancer cells examined showed increased BCL9 expression, which is consistent with its role in tumor progression. Taken together, this suggest that growth factor induced proliferation mediates a neutralizing response by significantly increasing miR-30c-2* which reduces BCL9 expression and cell proliferation in SKOV-3 and OVCAR-3 cells, likely as a mechanism to regulate signal transduction downstream.
We report the case of a 35-year-old man presenting with a delayed and prolonged coma due to an intentional overdose with disulfiram without simultaneous alcohol ingestion. The clinical features--comprising a severe toxic encephalopathy with coma and convulsions, in combination with a quadriparesis outlasting the loss of consciousness--are summarized, and the physiopathology is reviewed.
In three cases, following cardiac surgery operations, the appearance of a sudden loss of consciousness followed by an epileptic - like crisis was recorded. The accidents have a relationship with an administration of lignocaine in the form of a perfusion. Description of the observations and discussion of the toxicity of the product.
The complete liver carcinogen 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) promoted the outgrowth of large neoplastic liver nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas in diethylnitrosamine-treated rats. 2-AAF did not alter the overall proliferative activity of normal hepatocytes, but suppressed binucleation and induced, on a long-term basis, an increase in proliferative activity and in the fraction of diploid hepatocytes relative to control animals. The analogue 4-acetylaminofluorene (4-AAF) was much less effective than 2-AAF as a promoter of large nodules and carcinomas, but promoted the outgrowth of medium-sized nodules (1 < 2.5 mm). While 2-AAF specifically stimulated the growth of cells in enzyme-altered foci, the cells responding to 4-AAF were more randomly distributed throughout the liver tissue. In contrast to 2-AAF, 4-AAF strongly stimulated the growth (DNA synthesis) of normal hepatocytes, but like 2-AAF it suppressed binucleation and caused a long-term increase in the proliferative activity and in the fraction of diploid hepatocytes. Other liver tumour promoters (cyproterone acetate, alpha-hexachlorocyclohexane, methylclofenapate) likewise stimulated the growth and suppressed the binucleation of normal hepatocytes. All hepatocellular ploidy classes were affected virtually equally by mitogenic stimulation, but at low proliferation rates the mononuclear cells were more proliferative than the binuclear cells. Since this difference could be eliminated by increasing the mitogen dose, it would seem that mononuclear cells may be somewhat more sensitive towards mitogens than binuclear cells. In contrast to previously reported results [Styles et al. (1990) Carcinogenesis, 11, 1149-1152], methylclofenapate was not found to specifically stimulate binuclear hepatocytes. Our results indicate that liver tumour promoters in general tend to induce a non-binucleating, non-polyploidizing hepatocellular growth pattern, similar to that observed during liver regeneration. 4-AAF is confirmed to be, at best, a very weak promoter of liver carcinogenesis, but appears to be an effective promoter of benign tumours.
The normal epithelial cell-specific-1 (NES1)/Kallikrein 10 gene is proposed to be a novel putative tumor suppressor gene in several malignant diseases. The role of NES1 gene in gastric cancer has not been fully understood. Our study revealed that CpG island hypermethylation plays an important role in the downregulation of NES1 mRNA expression in gastric cancer. In situ hybridization showed that loss or reduction of NES1 mRNA expression is associated with differentiation level during tumor progression suggesting that NES1 inactivation might contribute to the malignant progression of human gastric cancers.
We examined the effects of thyroid status on cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript and agouti-related peptide expression in the rat hypothalamus. Hypo- and hyperthyroidism were induced in adult male rats, and the mRNA content of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript and agouti-related peptide was determined using in situ hybridization. Hyperthyroidism induces a reduction in cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript mRNA levels in the paraventricular nucleus, without any change in the arcuate and dorsomedial nuclei and in the lateral hypothalamic area. On the other hand, hypothyroidism had not effect on cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript expression in any of these nuclei. Agouti-related peptide expression in the arcuate nucleus was not affected by the thyroid status. These data indicate that the increments in food intake in hyperthyroidism could be mediated, at least in some extent, by a decreased expression, at the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, of the anorexigenic cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript peptides.
Nicotine is the psychoactive substance responsible for tobacco dependence. It is also a therapeutic used to aid smoking cessation. Cytochrome P450 (CYP)2A6 is the human hepatic enzyme that mediates most of nicotine's metabolic inactivation to cotinine. Genetic variation in the CYP2A6 gene can increase or decrease enzyme activity through altering the protein's expression level or its structure and function. This article reviews CYP2A6 genetic variation and its impact on in vivo nicotine kinetics, including a description of the individual variants, different phenotyping approaches for assessing in vivo CYP2A6 activity and other sources of variation in nicotine metabolism such as gender. In addition, the effect of CYP2A6 polymorphisms on smoking behavior and tobacco-related lung cancer risk are briefly described. Furthering knowledge in this area will improve interpretation of studies examining smoking behavior, as well as those using nicotine as a therapeutic agent.
The Tg737 gene was investigated for gross alterations in a series of rodent/human liver tumors and human tumorigenic cell lines. The Tg737 gene was found to be altered in approximately 40% of the rodent chemically-induced liver tumors, 40% of the human liver tumors, and in liver, kidney and pancreatic human tumor cell lines. Ectopic re-expression of the Tg737 gene in a Tg737 deleted mouse liver tumor cell line resulted in suppression of tumorigenic growth, without altering in vitro cell culture growth. Treatment of mice which are either homozygous normal or heterozygous deleted at the Tg737 locus with the carcinogen diethylnitrosamine resulted in an increase in preneoplastic foci formation in the Tg737 heterozygous deleted mice. Ectopic expression of the Tg737 gene results in multinucleated cells, loss of Tg737 gene expression results in the proliferation of liver stem cells (oval cells) without concomitant differentiation, and reexpression of the Tg737 gene reestablished responsiveness to external differentiation factors. We believe this is the first report demonstrating tumor suppression activity for a tetratricopeptide repeat gene family member and provides insights into the function of this family of genes in mammalian cells.
In patients with biliary type pain after cholecystectomy, morphine often precipitates pain and may induce rises in plasma concentrations of liver enzymes because of exaggerated or prolonged rises in intrabiliary pressure. In this study, changes in plasma concentrations of catecholamines and histamine were determined after the administration of morphine in patients with and without a two-fold or greater rise in the plasma concentration of aspartate aminotransferase at four hours. Those showing rises in aminotransferase had higher concentrations of noradrenaline at 40 and 60 minutes after morphine and higher concentrations of dopamine at 40 minutes after morphine. The two groups had similar concentrations of adrenaline and histamine. Attempts to inhibit rises in aminotransferase after morphine by pretreatment with histamine, serotonin and alpha-receptor blockers were largely unsuccessful, although inhibition was observed with phenoxybenzamine in two of five patients. Higher plasma concentrations of noradrenaline and dopamine before and soon after induction of pain in patients showing rises in aminotransferase are consistent with sympathetic activation but heterogeneity appears to exist in the response to alpha-receptor blockade.
Streptozotocin-induced tumours in the kidneys of experimental animals have been shown to be histologically similar to human renal cell carcinoma. We report the ultrastructural features of renal tumours induced in 15 mice by a single intravenous bolus of 2.5% streptozotocin administered in a dose of 250 mg streptozotocin/kg mouse body weight. Animals were sacrificed 232-361 days after the administration of streptozotocin. On examination both kidneys from each animal contained 1-4 dysplastic tubules and 1-3 discrete tumours per kidney. Twelve dysplastic proximal convoluted tubules showing varying degrees of epithelial atypia and nine tumours exhibiting either a papillary or solid architecture were examined. Dysplastic epithelial cells and tumours of papillary and solid type exhibited complex cell borders with well-developed junctional complexes. The majority of cells contained surface microvilli, and in some cells microvilli-lined intracytoplasmic lumina were observed. Occasional dysplastic epithelial cells and tumour cells contained double-membrane vesicles 120-200 nm in diameter. These were similar to the intracytoplasmic vesicles characteristic of human chromophobe renal cell carcinoma. Intracytoplasmic collections of glycogen granules and flocculant protein were identified in both dysplastic and neoplastic cells, and where prominent they resulted in compression of cytoplasmic organelles. Coated vesicles were commonly observed. These were free within the cytoplasm and were also seen budding from strands of rough endoplasmic reticulum. The distribution of these vesicles suggested a role in protein transport from the rough endoplasmic reticulum. It is concluded that while streptozotocin-induced renal tumours have some ultrastructural features in common with human chromophobe renal cell carcinoma, the overall ultrastructural morphology differs significantly from that described for the various histological types of human renal cell carcinoma.
Administration of chlorpromazine and fluphenazine decanoate to a pregnant woman caused many neurological signs in the baby, which persisted for nine months. The dilemma of prescribing phenothiazines for a pregnant woman is discussed.
Digitalis tolerance in dogs anesthetized with enflurane, isoflurane, fluroxene, methoxyflurane, and diethyl ether was compared with that in dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital. Ouabain dosage needed to cause ventricular tachycardia was significantly higher than that of pentobarbital with all agents except fluroxene, as was the LD50. The relative potency of these anesthetics in converting ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia to sinus rhythm, in order of descending effectiveness, was: diethyl ether, methoxyflurane, enflurane, fluroxene, isoflurane, pentobarbital.
Although anthracycline antibiotics are among the most useful chemotherapy agents, the risk of producing cardiomyopathy and the absence of a reliable noninvasive technique to predict subclinical cardiomyopathy remain a major problem. We retrospectively reviewed our experience with anthracyclines over a 5-year period. Cardiomyopathy developed in 6 of 112 patients (5.3%) treated with anthracyclines and was fatal in 5 of the 6 patients. Our incidence and mortality rates are higher than those previously reported.
The effect of deletion of the nitric oxide synthase 1 gene (NOS1(-/-)) on radiosensitivity was determined. In vitro, long-term cultures of bone marrow stromal cells derived from NOS1(-/-) were more radioresistant than cells from C57BL/6NHsd (wild-type), NOS2(-/-) or NOS3(-/-) mice. Mice from each strain received 20 Gy thoracic irradiation or 9.5 Gy total-body irradiation (TBI), and NOS1(-/-) mice were more sensitive to both. To determine the etiology of radiosensitivity, studies of histopathology, lower esophageal contractility, gastrointestinal transit, blood counts, electrolytes and inflammatory markers were performed; no significant differences between irradiated NOS1(-/-) and control mice were found. Video camera surveillance revealed the cause of death in NOS1(-/-) mice to be grand mal seizures; control mice died with fatigue and listlessness associated with low blood counts after TBI. NOS1(-/-) mice were not sensitive to brain-only irradiation. MnSOD-PL therapy delivered to the esophagus of wild-type and NOS1(-/-) mice resulted in equivalent biochemical levels in both; however, in NOS1(-/-) mice, MnSOD-PL significantly increased survival after both thoracic and total-body irradiation. The mechanism of radiosensitivity of NOS1(-/-) mice and its reversal by MnSOD-PL may be related to the developmental esophageal enteric neuronal innervation abnormalities described in these mice.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that mediates the toxicity of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin. However, the role of the AHR in normal physiology is still an area of intense investigation. For example, this receptor plays an important role in certain immune responses. We have previously determined that the AHR can mediate repression of acute-phase genes in the liver. For this observation to be therapeutically useful, selective activation of the AHR would likely be necessary. Recently, the selective estrogen receptor ligand WAY-169916 has also been shown to be a selective AHR ligand. WAY-169916 can efficiently repress cytokine-mediated acute-phase gene expression (e.g., SAA1) yet fail to mediate a dioxin response element-driven increase in transcriptional activity. The goals of this study were to structurally modify WAY-169916 to block binding to the estrogen receptor and increase its affinity for the AHR. A number of WAY-169916 derivatives were synthesized and subjected to characterization as AHR ligands. The substitution of a key hydroxy group for a methoxy group ablates binding to the estrogen receptor and increases its affinity for the AHR. The compound 1-allyl-7-trifluoromethyl-1H-indazol-3-yl]-4-methoxyphenol (SGA 360), in particular, exhibited essentially no AHR agonist activity yet was able to repress cytokine-mediated SAA1 gene expression in Huh7 cells. SGA 360 was tested in a 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-mediated ear inflammatory edema model using C57BL6/J and Ahr(-/-) mice. Our findings indicate that SGA 360 significantly inhibits TPA-mediated ear swelling and induction of a number of inflammatory genes (e.g., Saa3, Cox2, and Il6) in C57BL6/J mice. In contrast, SGA 360 had no effect on TPA-mediated ear swelling or inflammatory gene expression in Ahr(-/-) mice. Collectively, these results indicate that SGA 360 is a selective Ah receptor modulator (SAhRM) that exhibits anti-inflammatory properties in vivo.
The subchronic inhalation toxicity of silver nanoparticles was studied in Sprague-Dawley rats. Eight-week-old rats, weighing approximately 253.2 g (males) and 162.6 g (females), were divided into four groups (10 rats in each group): fresh-air control, low dose (0.6 x 10(6) particle/cm(3), 49 microg/m(3)), middle dose (1.4 x 10(6) particle/cm(3), 133 microg/m(3)), and high dose (3.0 x 10(6) particle/cm(3), 515 microg/m(3)). The animals were exposed to silver nanoparticles (average diameter 18-19 nm) for 6 h/day, 5 days/week, for 13 weeks in a whole-body inhalation chamber. In addition to mortality and clinical observations, body weight, food consumption, and pulmonary function tests were recorded weekly. At the end of the study, the rats were subjected to a full necropsy, blood samples were collected for hematology and clinical chemistry tests, and the organ weights were measured. Bile-duct hyperplasia in the liver increased dose dependently in both the male and female rats. Histopathological examinations indicated dose-dependent increases in lesions related to silver nanoparticle exposure, including mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate, chronic alveolar inflammation, and small granulomatous lesions. Target organs for silver nanoparticles were considered to be the lungs and liver in the male and female rats. No observable adverse effect level of 100 microg/m(3) is suggested from the experiments.
Neuroprotein changes in the spinal cord of rodents with aliphatic gamma-diketone axonopathy induced by 2,5-hexanedione (2,5-HD) are compared with those reported previously in aromatic gamma-diketone-like axonopathy induced by 1,2-diacetylbenzene (1,2-DAB). Sprague-Dawley rats were treated intraperitoneally with 500 mg/kg/day 2,5-HD, equimolar doses of 2,3-hexanedione (negative control), or an equivalent amount of saline containing 50% dimethyl sulfoxide (vehicle), 5 days a week, for 3 weeks. Analysis of the lumbosacral proteome by 2-dimensional differential in-gel electrophoresis and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight/tandem mass spectrometry revealed 34 proteins markedly modified by 2,5-HD of which neurofilament triplet L, gelsolin, protein disulfide isomerase, glutathione S-transferase, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (reduced) dehydrogenase 1 alpha, pyruvate kinase, and fatty acid synthase were also modified by 1,2-DAB. The expression of proteins involved in maintaining the physical integrity of the cytoskeleton or controlling the redox and protein-folding mechanisms was reduced, whereas that of proteins supporting energy metabolism was mainly increased. The similarity of the neuroproteomic patterns of 2,5-HD and 1,2-DAB axonopathy suggests common biomarkers and/or mechanisms of neurotoxicity associated with exposure to their parent chemicals, namely the industrial solvents n-hexane and 1,2-diethylbenzene, respectively.
Idiosyncratic drug-induced liver injury (DILI) is a major clinical problem for drug development. It is generally known that DILI is mainly caused by hepatic glutathione (GSH) depletion. The glutathione S-transferase activity of rodent is higher than that of human, which could make the prediction of DILI more difficult. Recently, we reported that an experimental rat model of GSH-depletion displayed high susceptibility to acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity. To deplete GSH, we used an adenovirus vector with short hairpin RNA against gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase heavy chain subunit (AdGCSh-shRNA). In this study, we further investigated the usefulness of this rat model for determining drug-induced sensitive acute and subacute toxicity. Rats were administered diclofenac and flutamide which have been reported as idiosyncratic hepatotoxic drugs. In the acute (6 or 24h) or subacute (7 days) toxicity tests, rats were administered the drugs once or once a day for a week, respectively. Plasma biochemical markers for hepatotoxicity were measured. The 6 and 24h toxicity test of diclofenac, and the 24h and 7 days toxicity tests of flutamide showed significant ALT elevations. Additionally, the 24h toxicity test of flutamide showed a slight bilirubin elevation, and histological hepatotoxicity. The 7 days toxicity test of flutamide also demonstrated histological hepatotoxicity. In conclusion, this rat model would contribute to evaluating acute and subacute DILI in preclinical drug development.
Methamphetamine, a commonly seen substance of abuse, has been reported to exert detrimental effect on bodily function including the cardiovascular system although its mechanism of action is poorly understood. This study was designed to examine the direct impact of methamphetamine on isolated whole heart and single cardiomyocyte contractile function. Murine hearts and isolated cardiomyocytes from adult FVB mice were exposed to various concentrations of methamphetamine for 30min prior to the assessment of mechanical function using a Langendroff apparatus and an IonOptix Myocam system, respectively. Cardiac contractile properties analyzed included maximal velocity of left ventricular pressure development and decline (+/-dP/dt), peak shortening amplitude (PS), maximal velocity of shortening/relengthening (+/-dLdt), time-to-PS (TPS), time-to-90% relengthening (TR(90)), resting and electrically stimulated increase of intracellular Ca(2+) as well as intracellular Ca(2+) decay. Our results revealed that acute methamphetamine exposure depressed +/-dP/dt, PS and rise of intracellular Ca(2+) without affecting +/-dLdt, TPS, TR(90), resting intracellular Ca(2+) and intracellular Ca(2+) decay. Furthermore, methamphetamine nullified the adrenergic agonist norepinephrine-elicited positive cardiomyocyte contractile response, including elevated PS, +/-dLdt and shortened TR(90) without affecting TPS. Western blot analysis showed unchanged expression of sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA2a) and phospholamban, associated with upregulated Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchanger levels following acute methamphetamine exposure. In addition, methamphetamine promoted overt cardiomyocyte protein damage evaluated by carbonyl formation. Taken together, these results demonstrate direct cardiac depressant effect of methamphetamine in myocardium and isolated cardiomyocytes, possibly associated with protein damage and dampened adrenergic response.
A status epilepticus was observed in a 22 year old female patient during endotoxinshock. The status epilepticus was treated with a high dosage of diazepame. The EEG showed a burst suppression pattern, in our case mixed by anoxia and diazepame. The burst-suppression pattern and the clinical suspicion of delayed degradation of diazepame caused by toxic hepatic failure suggested the therapy of forced diuresis. This therapy was followed by decreasing suppression periods, indicating the dominante influence of the hypnotic drug. This result shows the diagnostic as well as the therapeutic value of forced diuresis in this case.
Strategies for prevention of liver graft reinfection by hepatitis B virus (HBV) have been developed during recent years. Initially, passive immunoprophylaxis with high titre HBV immunoglobulin (HBIg), followed by lamivudine prophylaxis, and then the combination of lamivudine and HBIg have been employed. However, suboptimal use of the combination may be associated with failure of prophylaxis reflected by the emergence of HBV species with genetic changes that confer resistance to lamivudine and HBIg. Reinfection of the graft by HBV can be associated with rapid development of liver failure.
A 43 year old HBV infected man received lamivudine before transplantation, and lamivudine and HBIg after transplantation. Despite prophylaxis, graft reinfection and severe hepatitis were observed. The observed serological evolution and genetic sequencing of the emergent HBV species suggested selection of lamivudine resistant and surface antigen escape mutants consecutively. Adefovir treatment began after the development of graft failure.
A rapid exponential decline in serum HBV titre was observed. Liver function tests normalised and signs of liver failure resolved.
The use of HBIg and lamivudine permits prevention of graft reinfection by HBV for the majority of patients. Adefovir, a potent inhibitor of lamivudine resistant HBV, should be used when failure of prophylaxis is associated with graft hepatitis.
