Further studies on the effect of various compounds of the rat bladder after treatment with cyclophosphamide are reported. The results show that N-acetyl cysteine is a highly effective drug for the prevention of cyclophosphamide cystitis. N-acetyl cysteine does not significantly impair the anti-tumour effect of cyclophosphamide.
Bupropion, a unique, non-nicotine smoking cessation aid and an effective antidepressant, is well known to produce seizures following overdosing in humans. However, the experimental background for the usefulness of antiepileptic drugs in the protection against bupropion-induced convulsions has not been established yet. Therefore, we tested if the antiepileptic drugs were able to protect mice against clonic convulsions induced by intraperitoneally (i.p.) administered bupropion in the CD97 dose (139.5 mg/kg). Among 13 tested drugs, clonazepam showed the greatest potency (dose-dependent full protection; ED50 = 0.06 mg/kg, i.p.). No signs of locomotor impairment were observed in the rotarod test after anticonvulsive doses of clonazepam, resulting in a broad therapeutic window and favorable protective index (PI) (33.3). Gabapentin produced dose-dependent protection against convulsions at nontoxic doses (up to 1000 mg/kg), having PI>29. Diazepam in a very high dose showed full protection but its PI (1.7) was much less favorable than that of clonazepam. The PI values for ethosuximide, phenobarbital and valproate were slightly higher than unity and lower than 2, and for topiramate and felbamate were lower than unity. Phenytoin, carbamazepine, and lamotrigine as well as tiagabine failed to block the convulsant effects of bupropion even at doses that caused severe motor impairment. Our results encourage clinical testing of clonazepam against seizures developing after bupropion overdose.
To report a fatal case of refractory status epilepticus precipitated by flumazenil use in a mixed benzodiazepine-tricyclic antidepressant overdose.
A 39-year-old woman was brought to the emergency room (ER) in a stupor from a suspected suicidal overdose of an unknown mixture of drugs. Past medical history included seizures and psychiatric disorders managed with benzodiazepine and tricyclic antidepressants. Initial ER electrocardiogram showed a QRS interval of 136 milliseconds. The patient developed refractory seizures after being given flumazenil. Lorazepam, phenytoin, and phenobarbital were administered; however, seizures persisted for 4 hours, resulting in rhabdomyolysis, acute renal failure, severe brain damage, and death.
Flumazenil should be used with caution in patients with chronic benzodiazepine use, prior seizure history, or when a mixed overdose is suspected. Flumazenil may unmask tricyclic antidepressant-induced seizures by antagonizing the antiepileptic effect of concomitantly ingested benzodiazepine. In this patient seizures occurred within two minutes of flumazenil administration. As benzodiazepine-induced central nervous system depression is rarely life-threatening, the use of flumazenil must be balanced against potential risk.
Seizure risk factors should be assessed in all patients in whom flumazenil use is considered. If risk factors are present, the benefit of flumazenil use is outweighed by the potential risk. If flumazenil is used, resulting seizures may require larger doses of benzodiazepine.
Acute puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) in rats is characterized by heavy proteinuria associated with renal hypercellularity. The role of apoptosis in the resolution of renal hypercellularity was investigated in PAN. To study the participation of apoptosis in PAN, renal tissues were collected from nephrotic and control rats on weeks 1, 2 and 7 after a single puromycin aminonucleoside injection. Apoptosis was evaluated by light and electron microscopy. Apoptotic DNA fragmentation was detected by TUNEL staining. Renal tissues were also evaluated by the presence of leukocyte common antigen (LCA), ED1 (macrophages) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) with corresponding monoclonal antibodies. An increased number of apoptotic (TUNEL+) cells was observed in the glomerulus at week 1. Electron microscopy analysis showed glomerular apoptosis mainly in endothelial cells. In the interstitium and tubules, increased apoptosis was observed at weeks 1 and 2. Increased apoptosis was accompanied with increased LCA+, ED1+ and PCNA+ cells in the interstitium and with increased PCNA+ cells in tubules. There was a high significant correlation between the number of apoptotic cells and the number of interstitial LCA+, ED1+ and PCNA+ cells. Tubular PCNA expression was correlated with tubular apoptosis. We also observed significant correlation between glomerular, interstitial and tubular apoptosis with proteinuria during the nephrosis. Double staining analysis showed that about 13% of interstitial or tubular apoptotic cells were positive for PCNA. All these values returned to normal by week 7. These results indicate that apoptosis is involved in the repairing process of this disease model.
Beside its antiarrhythmic properties, which in particular are used for the treatment of atrial fibrillation, quinidine is known to have alpha-adrenoceptor blocking properties. On the other hand, atrial fibrillation is reported to cause activation of the sympathetic nervous system which, in turn, reduces coronary blood flow when the coronary reserve is already compromised. Therefore, we tested the effect of quinidine (3 mg/kg i.v.) on the coronary vasculature during electrical stimulation of cardiac sympathetic nerves in the presence and absence of a stenosis on the left circumflex coronary artery. In 7 anesthetized dogs the end-diastolic distal coronary resistance during cardiac sympathetic nerve stimulation in the presence of a severe stenosis on the left circumflex coronary artery increased by 18% before, and decreased by 17% after administration of quinidine. We conclude that quinidine inhibits the vasoconstriction of poststenotic coronary arteries during cardiac sympathetic nerve stimulation and thus might prevent a poststenotic stress-induced myocardial ischemia.
(1) On the basis of previous findings that cannabinoids inhibit the function of human and rat 5-HT(3) receptors in vitro, we investigated whether cannabinoid receptor agonists also modulate the activity of the rat peripheral 5-HT(3) receptors on the terminals of cardiopulmonary afferent C-fibres in vivo. (2) In urethane-anaesthetized rats, pre-treated intravenously (i.v.) with the CB(1) receptor antagonist SR 141716A (3 micro mol kg(-1)) and with the beta(1)/beta(2) adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol (0.3-0.4 micro mol kg(-1)), bolus injection of the serotonin 5-HT(3) receptor agonist phenylbiguanide (3-10 micro g kg(-1), i.v.) or the vanilloid VR1 receptor agonist capsaicin (3-10 micro g kg(-1), i.v.) caused an immediate decrease in heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure (the von Bezold-Jarisch reflex). (3) The phenylbiguanide-induced bradycardia was dose-dependently attenuated by the cannabinoid receptor agonists CP 55,940 (0.1-1 micro mol kg(-1), i.v.) and WIN 55,212-2 (0.1-3 micro mol kg(-1), i.v.) 20 min after injection, but not by the inactive S-(-)enantiomer of the latter, WIN 55,212-3 (1 micro mol kg(-1), i.v.). The inhibition was reversible within 30 min. The extent of inhibition by the highest doses of cannabinoid receptor agonists amounted to about 50%. Both cannabinoid receptor agonists failed to affect the capsaicin-evoked bradycardia. (4) In conclusion, our results demonstrate that cannabinoid receptor agonists modulate the von Bezold-Jarisch reflex by inhibiting peripheral serotonin 5-HT(3) receptors in rats in vivo. An analogous mechanism of cannabinoid receptor agonists may be assumed to be involved in other serotonin 5-HT(3) receptor-mediated responses.
An elderly, mildly demented, hypertensive male patient developed hypersomnolence on administration of propranolol for treatment of hypertension; no other cause for hypersomnolence was detected. Upon replacement of propranolol with atenolol, he felt better but continued to be quite somnolent. When atenolol was discontinued, he reported to have lack of sleep. On readministration of subtherapeutic doses of the same beta-adrenergic blocking agents, he once again experienced excessive sleepiness. By discontinuing beta-blocking agents and introducing captopril, he felt much better, became pleasant and talkative, and blood pressure was well controlled. Beta antagonists are important drugs in the management of many cardiovascular problems. Propranolol, a lipophilic beta-blocking agent, and atenolol, a hydrophilic beta-blocking agent, are two of the major agents currently used clinically in the United States. Numerous neuropsychiatric side-effects of the beta-adrenergic blocking drugs have been reported, but hypersomnolence is not readily recognized as one of them.
This study examined the relationship between dobutamine facilitation of ventricular tachyarrhythmia (VT) inducibility with programmed electrical stimulation (PES) and dobutamine stress-induced myocardial ischemia.
Twenty patients with prior myocardial infarction and cardiac arrest or sustained VT but no sustained VT induced at baseline electrophysiologic testing underwent repeat PES during dobutamine infusion. Ischemia (new or worsened wall-motion abnormality) was documented by echocardiography performed in conjunction with PES. Eight patients were receiving Class I or III antiarrhythmic drugs and seven beta-blockers. Dobutamine facilitated induction of sustained VT in 16 patients (80%) and provoked ischemia in 13 patients (65%). Induction of VT was associated with ischemia in 9 patients (56%). VTs associated with ischemia were induced at higher dobutamine doses (26 +/- 11 vs 11 +/- 10 microg/kg per min, P = 0.02) than were VTs without ischemia (n = 7). Among 13 patients with provoked ischemia, 9 (69%) had VTs induced and 4 remained noninducible. The onset of ischemia occurred at the same dose as induction of VT in 5 patients and at a lower dose in 4 patients. Monomorphic VT (318 +/- 59 ms) was induced in 13 patients, of whom 8 (62%) had ischemia. The ECG morphology of VT suggested an origin in a myocardial segment that demonstrated initial viability at low doses then ischemic dysfunction at higher doses preceding VT induction in 7 (88%) of 8 patients.
Dobutamine enhances inducibility of sustained VTs during PES. The temporal and anatomic association of dobutamine-induced ischemia and VT suggests that at high dobutamine doses, ischemia may contribute to ventricular arrhythmia inducibility in some patients.
The ability of various drugs to prevent the onset of status epilepticus induced by administration of the muscarinic agonist, pilocarpine, to lithium-pretreated rats was determined. Motor limbic seizures and status epilepticus occurred in 100% of rats administered pilocarpine (30 mg/kg, s.c.) 20 h after pretreatment with lithium (3 meq/kg, i.p.). The latency to spike activity and to status epilepticus was 20 +/- 1 min and 24 +/- 1 min, respectively. Atropine, diazepam, phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, paraldehyde, and L-phenylisopropyladenosine (L-PIA) prevented all phases of seizure activity induced by lithium/pilocarpine treatment. The initiation of status epilepticus was significantly prolonged by pretreatment with sodium valproate. These findings indicate that the seizures induced by administration of lithium and pilocarpine accurately model generalized tonic-clonic epilepsy. The anticonvulsant activity of L-PIA was prevented by prior treatment with the adenosine antagonist, theophylline. The latency to spike and seizure activity was decreased by theophylline, indicating that endogenous adenosine may have a tonic inhibitory influence on cholinergic neurons. Atropine, diazepam, phenobarbital, phenytoin, sodium valproate, L-PIA, and carbamazepine did not interrupt seizure activity when administered 60 min after pilocarpine (approximately 35 min after initiation of status epilepticus). When rats were administered paraldehyde at this time, status epilepticus was rapidly terminated and all rats survived. Thus, status epilepticus induced by lithium and pilocarpine provides a seizure model that is not responsive to conventional anticonvulsants.
The authors report the clinical, echocardiographic, and pathologic findings in two patients treated with more than 5 mg of pergolide daily who developed symptomatic severe heart failure due to restrictive valvular disease. They also describe the echocardiographic data of another eight patients taking similar doses of pergolide presenting no clinical signs of heart failure. The findings suggest a possible role of high doses of pergolide in inducing restrictive valvular disease.
There is a close interaction between Type 2 Diabetes, obesity and liver disease. We have studied the effects of the two most abundant Stevia-derived steviol glycosides, stevioside and rebaudioside A, and their aglycol derivative steviol on liver steatosis and the hepatic effects of lipotoxicity using a mouse model of obesity and insulin resistance. We treated ob/ob and LDLR-double deficient mice with stevioside (10 mg⋅kg(-1)⋅day-1 p.o., n = 8), rebaudioside A (12 mg⋅kg(-1)⋅day-1 p.o., n = 8), or steviol (5 mg⋅kg(-1)⋅day(-1) p.o., n = 8). We determined their effects on liver steatosis and on the metabolic effects of lipotoxicity by histological analysis, and by combined gene-expression and metabolomic analyses. All compounds attenuated hepatic steatosis. This could be explained by improved glucose metabolism, fat catabolism, bile acid metabolism, and lipid storage and transport. We identified PPARs as important regulators and observed differences in effects on insulin resistance, inflammation and oxidative stress between Stevia-derived compounds. We conclude that Stevia-derived compounds reduce hepatic steatosis to a similar extent, despite differences in effects on glucose and lipid metabolism, and inflammation and oxidative stress. Thus our data show that liver toxicity can be reduced through several pathophysiological changes. Further identification of active metabolites and underlying mechanisms are warranted.
It is expected that nanoparticular matters will be increasingly used for industrial and medical applications. Since it is known that nanoparticles exhibit unique and potential hazardous properties due to their small size, toxicity studies, risk assessment and risk management are of great interest. We focussed on adverse effects on human blood. Processes which warrant special attention are clotting, reactions triggering inflammatory and immune responses and hemolysis. Starting with the determination of size and surface charge in different media we assessed the effect of size and surface charge on induction of coagulation, thrombocyte activation, complement activation, granulocyte activation and hemolysis. We used polystyrene particles as model because they are available in different sizes but constant surface charges. The presence of salts and of protein in the dispersion solution increased particle size and neutralized surface charge. Positively charged particles formed aggregates in buffered solution. Interference of the particles with assays based on fluorescence associated cell sorting was identified. Positive surface charge induced activation of complement. Small size caused thrombocyte and granulocyte activation, and hemolysis. A characterization of particle size and surface charge in the solutions used for the experiments appears important for interpretation of the results. The size dependency of adverse effects in human blood is not linear; negatively charged particles larger than 60 nm hydrodynamic diameter appear to be considerably less hematotoxic than smaller ones.
Ezetimibe blocks intestinal absorption of sterols via interaction with the Neimann-Pick C1-Like 1 (NPC1L1) transporter and is approved for use in the treatment of primary hyperlipidemia (heterozygous familial and non-familial), homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, and homozygous sitosterolemia. A recently completed randomized clinical trial [simvastatin and ezetimibe in aortic stenosis (SEAS)] testing the effectiveness of Vytorin (a combination of simvastatin and ezetimibe) in patients with aortic stenosis reported an unexpected safety finding: an increase in overall cancer incidence and cancer-associated mortality (all types) in the treated groups relative to the placebo control. A subsequent meta-analysis utilizing a much larger database from two ongoing clinical trials indicated that the observed findings in the SEAS trial were likely due to chance and not a true drug-induced effect. Nonetheless, it has been suggested by various commentators on the SEAS trial that ezetimibe may be carcinogenic. The extensive nonclinical database for ezetimibe was used to test the hypothesis that ezetimibe may be a direct or indirect carcinogen. Using two different in silico approaches, ezetimibe showed no structural alerts for genetic toxicity or carcinogenicity. Ezetimibe was not genotoxic in two reverse mutation assays, one in vitro clastogenicity assay, and two mouse micronucleus assays. No evidence of proliferative lesions was observed in three species in studies of 1-12 months in duration. Ezetimibe was not carcinogenic in standard 2-year bioassays in mice and rats. Additionally, in these 2-year bioassays, no drug-related non-neoplastic lesions were noted. The absence of drug-induced non-neoplastic or proliferative lesions in these studies indicates that ezetimibe treatment was not associated with findings characteristic of carcinogens (i.e., DNA reactivity or cell proliferation) Administration of pharmacologic doses of ezetimibe to mice did not alter hepatic expression patterns of genes associated with apoptosis, cell proliferation, or epithelial-mesenchymal transition. No evidence of drug-induced tumors was observed in mice in which the molecular target of ezetimibe (NPC 1L1) was knocked out over the life span of the animal. In conclusion, the nonclinical data do not support the proposed hypothesis based on the single observation from the SEAS trial and, rather, support the conclusion that ezetimibe does not represent a carcinogenic hazard to humans using this drug in a therapeutic setting.
A fetus weighing 947 g was autopsied after prenatal echocardiographic diagnosis of a single ventricular heart. At autopsy a single ventricle was present with a pear-shaped scar in the area presumed to represent the right ventricle. A small stoma from the single ventricle connected to the scar and the pulmonary outflow was obstructed. The left coronary artery was occluded and on histologic examination recanalization was seen. A chromatographic peak which closely eluted with the cocaine metabolite, benzoylecognine, was identified in fetal urine. We postulate that coronary spasm following possible cocaine exposure could have produced an infarct which destroyed the right ventricle. It is possible that this fetal pathology may be one mechanism that leads to single ventricle hearts.
We report seven cases of infective endocarditis caused by USA300 methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) at an urban, tertiary care, academic institution. Five strains were community associated and two were healthcare associated. All patients were injection drug users. Staphylococcus aureus isolates were characterised as USA300-type MRSA using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis. Five cases were right-sided endocarditis and two cases were left-sided. The mean length of in-hospital antimicrobial therapy was 23 days and the mean length of total antibiotic therapy was 55 days. Complications included heart failure resulting in valve replacement in one patient as well as death in that patient. As USA300 strains of MRSA continue to increase in prevalence, clinicians must be aware of the increasing spectrum of illness in considering management and prevention strategies.
20 microgram TRH injected bilaterally into the caudate-putamen, tuberculum olfactorium, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, lateral ventricles, midbrain or cerebral cortex failed to induce any increase in locomotor activity (measured using photocells), although other behavioural changes were observed after each injection, and included body shakes, limb tremor, repetitive head and limb movements, biting, scratching and an alert appearance. These behavioural changes could result in positive readings from equipment used to measure locomotor activity, but careful investigations focussing on the nucleus accumbens used photocell boxes, activity wheels and Animex recorders to emphasise the inability of intracerebral TRH (10--40 microgram) to enhance locomotor activity. Intraaccumbens TRH also failed to enhance amphetamine hyperactivity or reduce the motor depression caused by haloperidol and analeptic drugs. The data do not support a central locomotor stimulant action of TRH.
Cisplatin (CisPt) is the most important platinum anticancer drug widely used in the treatment of head, neck, ovarian and testicular cancers. However, the mechanisms by which CisPt induces cytotoxicity, namely hepatotoxicity, are not completely understood. The goal of this study was to investigate the influence of CisPt on rat liver mitochondrial functions (Ca(2+)-induced mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), mitochondrial bioenergetics, and mitochondrial oxidative stress) to better understand the mechanism underlying its hepatotoxicity. The effect of thiol group protecting agents and some antioxidants against CisPt-induced mitochondrial damage was also investigated. Treatment of rat liver mitochondria with CisPt (20nmol/mg protein) induced Ca(2+)-dependent mitochondrial swelling, depolarization of membrane potential (DeltaPsi), Ca(2+) release, and NAD(P)H fluorescence intensity decay. These effects were prevented by cyclosporine A (CyA), a potent and specific inhibitor of the MPT. In the concentration range of up to 40nmol/mg protein, CisPt slightly inhibited state 3 and stimulated state 2 and state 4 respiration rates using succinate as respiratory substrate. The respiratory indexes, respiratory control ratio (RCR) and ADP/O ratios, the DeltaPsi, and the ADP phosphorylation rate were also depressed. CisPt induced mitochondrial inner membrane permeabilization to protons (proton leak) but did not induce significant changes on mitochondrial H(2)O(2) generation. All the effects induced by CisPt on rat liver mitochondria were prevented by thiol group protecting agents namely, glutathione (GSH), dithiothreitol (DTT), N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) and cysteine (CYS), whereas superoxide-dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and ascorbate (ASC) were without effect. In conclusion, the anticancer drug CisPt: (1) increases the sensitivity of mitochondria to Ca(2+)-induced MPT; (2) interferes with mitochondrial bioenergetics by increasing mitochondrial inner membrane permeabilization to H(+); (3) does not significantly affect H(2)O(2) generation by mitochondria; (4) its mitochondrial damaging effects are protected by thiol group protecting agents. Based on these conclusions, it is possible to hypothesise that small changes on the redox-status of thiol groups, affecting membrane permeability to cations (Ca(2+) and H(+)) underlie CisPt-induced liver mitochondrial damage, putatively responsible for its hepatotoxicity. Therefore, we propose that CisPt-induced mitochondrial damage and consequent hepatotoxicity could be prevented by using thiol group protecting agents as therapeutic adjuvants.
To describe our experience using propofol sedation to facilitate elective diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and to document the safety profile of propofol in this setting.
Retrospective consecutive case series and review of the literature.
Pediatric intensive care unit of a United States Navy tertiary care medical center.
Children receiving propofol for procedural sedation over an 18-month period.
Descriptive features of sedation including adverse events.
During the study period, 91 children received propofol to facilitate the performance of 110 medical procedures. The mean induction dose was 2.41 mg/kg, the mean infusion rate was 179.3 microg/kg/min, and the mean total dose of propofol administered was 4.23 mg/kg. In all cases, sedation was successfully achieved. The average length of stay in the PICU was 108.4 minutes. Three children (3.3%) had transient episodes of oxygen desaturation that improved with repositioning of the airway. No child required placement of an endotracheal tube. Three (3.3%) children experienced hypotension requiring a decrease in the infusion rate of propofol and a 10-mL/kg bolus infusion of normal saline. No cardiac arrhythmias or adverse neurologic effects secondary to propofol infusion were identified.
Pediatric intensivists can safely and effectively administer propofol to facilitate the performance of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures outside the operating room setting.
Cocaine abuse is associated with heightened risk of life-threatening neurological complications such as strokes, seizures, and transient ischemic attacks. We used transcranial Doppler (TCD) sonography, a continuous measure of cerebral blood flow velocity, to better understand the changes in cerebral hemodynamics produced by cocaine administration, which may lead to an increased risk for stroke in cocaine abusers. Heart rate and blood pressure were also measured. Blood flow velocity of seven cocaine abusers was studied during placebo, 10-, 25-, and 50-mg intravenous (i.v.) injections of cocaine. A significant increase in mean and systolic velocity which lasted for about two minutes was observed with all doses of cocaine, with no change in the placebo condition. This increase in systolic velocity indicates that cocaine produces an immediate and brief period of vasoconstriction in large arteries of the brain. The present results elucidate the time course of cocaine's acute cerebrovascular effects and provide a better understanding of etiology of cocaine-related stroke and transient ischemic attacks.
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, a distinctive endocrine-disrupting chemical (EDC), is widely used as plasticizer. Gestational exposure to EDCs like DEHP may program a permanent diabetes disposition. We investigated whether gestational DEHP exposure disrupts glucose homeostasis in the rat F1 offspring as a result of early impairment in the functions of endocrine pancreas. Pregnant Wistar rats were administered with DEHP (1, 10 and 100mgkg-(1)day-(1)) or olive oil from gestational day 9-21 by oral gavage. DEHP-exposed offspring exhibited elevated blood glucose, impaired insulin, glucose tolerance, glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and decreased pancreatic insulin content at postnatal day 60 (PND60). Global DNA methylation level was increased while the expression of genes involved in the development and function of β-cells were down regulated in islets in DEHP exposed groups. Gestational exposure to DEHP favours β-cell dysfunction and the whole body glucometabolic abnormalities in the F1 offspring by down regulating the expression of critical genes. Further, DEHP-induced epigenetic changes in genes involved in β-cell development and function appear to play a significant role.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a prevalent and inheritable neurodevelopmental disorder. Recent human genetic studies are consistent with the homeobox transcription factor, ENGRAILED 2 (EN2), being an ASD susceptibility gene. En2 knockout mice (En2(-/-)) display subtle cerebellar neuropathological changes similar to what has been observed in the ASD brain. To investigate whether En2(-/-) mice displayed abnormal behavior relevant to ASD, they were monitored in tasks designed to assess social maturation as well as learning and memory. Deficits in social behavior were detected in En2(-/-) mice across maturation that included decreased play, reduced social sniffing and allogrooming, and less aggressive behavior. Deficits in two spatial learning and memory tasks were also observed. Because locomotor activity was a component of many of the behavioral tasks, this was measured at various stages of development. Locomotor activity was not compromised in the knockout. However, a more thorough analysis of motor behavior in En2(-/-) mice revealed deficits in specific motor tasks. To determine whether neurochemical changes were associated with these behavioral phenotypes, monoamine levels in specific brain regions were assessed. A cerebellar-specific increase in serotonin and its metabolite was observed. Interestingly, several reports have suggested that the serotonin pathway is affected in ASD. We conclude that En2(-/-) mice display behavioral and neurochemical changes, in addition to genetic and neuropathological changes, relevant to ASD. Therefore, these mice may be useful as an animal model of autism.
Previous clinical and epidemiological studies of vitamin E have used primarily α-tocopherol for the prevention of cancer. However, γ-tocopherol has demonstrated greater anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor activity than α-tocopherol in several animal models of cancer. This study assessed the potential chemopreventive activities of a tocopherol mixture containing 58% γ-tocopherol (γ-TmT) in an established rodent model of mammary carcinogenesis. Female ACI rats were utilized due to their sensitivity to 17β-estradiol (E2 ) to induce mammary hyperplasia and neoplasia. The rats were implanted subcutaneously with sustained release E2 pellets and given dietary 0.3% or 0.5% γ-TmT for 2 or 10 wk. Serum E2 levels were significantly reduced by the treatment with 0.5% γ-TmT. Serum levels of inflammatory markers, prostaglandin E2 and 8-isoprostane, were suppressed by γ-TmT treatment. Histology of mammary glands showed evidence of epithelial hyperplasia in E2 -treated rats. Immunohistochemical analysis of the mammary glands revealed a decrease in proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and estrogen receptor α (ERα), while there was an increase in cleaved-caspase 3, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), and nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) in γ-TmT-treated rats. In addition, treatment with γ-TmT resulted in a decrease in the expression of ERα mRNA, whereas mRNA levels of ERβ and PPARγ were increased. In conclusion, γ-TmT was shown to suppress inflammatory markers, inhibit E2 -induced cell proliferation, and upregulate PPARγ and Nrf2 expression in mammary hyperplasia, suggesting that γ-TmT may be a promising agent for human breast cancer prevention.
In a previous study, the authors tested the combination of fotemustine (FM) 100 mg/m(2) intravenously (i.v.) on Day 1, dacarbazine (DTIC) 250 mg/m(2) i.v. on Days 2-5, and interferon alpha (IFNalpha) 3 MIU intramuscularly three times per week in 43 patients with advanced melanoma. An overall response rate of 40% and a median survival of 40 weeks were obtained. To evaluate whether the addition of cisplatin (CDDP) to this regimen could improve these results, the authors conducted a preliminary Phase I study and concluded that CDDP 25 mg/m(2) i.v. for 2 days can be combined safely with DTIC, FM, and IFNalpha. Herein, the authors report the results of a Phase II trial with this regimen.
From June 1996 to February 1999, 64 patients with metastatic melanoma who were not amenable to surgery were enrolled in this study. Sixty eligible patients (32 males and 28 females; median age, 53 years) were treated with a combination of FM 100 mg/m(2) i.v. on Day 1, DTIC 300 mg/m(2) i.v. on Days 2-4, and CDDP 25 mg/m(2) i.v. on Days 3 and 4 recycled every 3 weeks. IFN alpha2b was administered at a dose of 3 MIU intramuscularly 3 times per week until disease progression.
A total of 189 courses were administered, with a median number of 3 courses per patient (range, 1-8 courses per patient). Eleven complete responses and 12 partial responses were observed, for an overall response rate of 38.3% (95% exact confidence interval, 26.1-51.8%). The median survival was 36 weeks. Neutropenia and thrombocytopenia affected 85% of patients and 68% patients and was World Health Organization Grade 3-4 in 40% and 50%, respectively. The side effects attributable to IFN alpha2b were mild and manageable. The other side effects were moderate and well controlled by supportive therapy.
The schedule used in this study demonstrated significant activity in patients with advanced, untreated melanoma. The addition of CDDP in the management of the patients in this series seemed to increase significantly both the proportion of patients who achieved a complete response and the probability of long term survival compared with a previous series of patients who were treated by the authors. However, considering the currently available therapies, this regimen does not seem to offer a special advantage in the treatment of patients with this disease. New agents and new protocols are needed.
This study utilized pharmacological activation of Nrf2 with oleanolic acid (OA, 22.5mg/kg, sc for 4 days) and the genetic alteration of Nrf2 (Nrf2-null, wild-type, and Keap1-HKO mice) to examine the role of Nrf2 in protection against phalloidin hepatotoxicity. Mice were given phalloidin (1.5mg/kg, ip for 8h) to examine liver injury and the expression of toxicity-related genes. Phalloidin increased serum enzyme activities and caused extensive hepatic hemorrhage and necrosis in Nrf2-null and wild-type mice, but less injury was seen in Keap1-HKO mice and OA-pretreated mice. Phalloidin increased the expression of neutrophil-specific chemokine mKC and MIP-2 in Nrf2-null and WT mice, but such increases were attenuated in Keap1-HKO and OA-pretreated mice. Phalloidin increased, while Nrf2 activation attenuated, the expression of genes involved in acute-phase response (Ho-1) and DNA-damage response genes (Gadd45 and Chop10). Phalloidin is taken up by hepatocytes through Oatp1b2, but there was no difference in basal and phalloidin-induced Oatp1b2 expression among Nrf2-null, wild-type, and Keap1-HKO mice. In contrast, OA decreased phalloidin-induced Oatp1b2. Phalloidin activated MAPK signaling (p-JNK), which was attenuated by activation of Nrf2. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that protection against phalloidin hepatotoxicity by OA involves activation of Nrf2 and suppression of Oatp1b2.
Oxidative stress-induced DNA damage results in over-activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1), leading to parthanatos, a newly discovered cell elimination pathway. Inhibition of PARP1-dependent cell death has shown to improve the outcome of diseases, including stroke, heart ischemia, and neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study we aimed to detect whether estrogen plays a protective role in inhibiting parthanatos. We utilized human mammary adenocarcinoma cells (MCF7) that abundantly express the estrogen receptor alpha and beta (ERα and ERβ). Parthanatos was induced by challenging the cells with hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Microscopic imaging and molecular biological techniques, such as Western blot analysis and RNA interference, were performed. The results showed 17β estradiol (E2) protected MCF7 cells from PARP1-dependent cell death by decreasing protein PARylation, and AIF translocation into nuclei/nucleoli. Down-regulation of ERα expression by siRNA before E2 addition resulted in the failure of the E2-mediated inhibition of H2O2-induced protein PARylation and AIF nucleolar translocation. Together these data suggest that estrogen via its alpha-type receptor inhibits oxidative stress-induced, PARP1-dependent cell death. The present study provided us insight into how to apply hormone therapy in intervention of parthanatos-implicated ischemic and degenerative diseases.
Cisplatin-based chemotherapy combinations improve quality of life and survival in advanced nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). The emergence of new active drugs might translate into more effective regimens for the treatment of this disease.
The objective of this study was to determine the feasibility, response rate, and toxicity of a paclitaxel, cisplatin, and gemcitabine combination to treat metastatic NSCLC. Thirty-five consecutive chemotherapy-naive patients with Stage IV NSCLC and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0-2 were treated with a combination of paclitaxel (135 mg/m(2) given intravenously in 3 hours) on Day 1, cisplatin (120 mg/m(2) given intravenously in 6 hours) on Day 1, and gemcitabine (800 mg/m(2) given intravenously in 30 minutes) on Days 1 and 8, every 4 weeks. Although responding patients were scheduled to receive consolidation radiotherapy and 24 patients received preplanned second-line chemotherapy after disease progression, the response and toxicity rates reported refer only to the chemotherapy regimen given.
All the patients were examined for toxicity; 34 were examinable for response. An objective response was observed in 73.5% of the patients (95% confidence interval [CI], 55.6-87.1%), including 4 complete responses (11.7%). According to intention-to-treat, the overall response rate was 71.4% (95% CI, 53. 7-85.4%). After 154 courses of therapy, the median dose intensity was 131 mg/m(2) for paclitaxel (97.3%), 117 mg/m(2) for cisplatin (97.3%), and 1378 mg/m(2) for gemcitabine (86.2%). World Health Organization Grade 3-4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia occurred in 39.9% and 11.4% of patients, respectively. There was one treatment-related death. Nonhematologic toxicities were mild. After a median follow-up of 22 months, the median progression free survival rate was 7 months, and the median survival time was 16 months.
The combination of paclitaxel, cisplatin, and gemcitabine is well tolerated and shows high activity in metastatic NSCLC. This treatment merits further comparison with other cisplatin-based regimens.
To evaluate in hypertensive patients whether or not the sodium-retaining effects of indomethacin can explain the indomethacin-induced attenuation of enalapril antihypertensive effects.
Randomized, single-blinded, placebo controlled study with a placebo phase (2 weeks) followed by enalapril 20 mg/d (4 weeks, once daily) and enalapril 20 mg + indomethacin 75 mg/d (1 week). Enalapril dose increased up to 40 mg/d if inadequate response to 20 mg.
Twenty-four patients with mild-moderated hypertension, showing an adequate response to enalapril (20-40 mg/d).
Blood pressure evaluated by "casual" methods and by 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, measurement of 24-hour urinary sodium excretion and fractional excretion of sodium: at the end of placebo, enalapril and enalapril + indomethacin treatments. Determination of the correlations between the changes induced by indomethacin (when added to enalapril) on the blood pressure and on sodium excretion effects of enalapril.
Enalapril significantly reduced casual blood pressure (systolic/diastolic) by 33/18 mmHg and 24-hour blood pressure by 20/9 mmHg. When added to enalapril, indomethacin attenuated (by 50%) the antihypertensive effects of enalapril and significantly decreased the 24-hour (from 120 +/- 11 mmol to 106 +/- 10 mmol) and fractional excretion of sodium (from 1.11 +/- 0.09% to 0.75 +/- 0.06%). However, the indomethacin-induced attenuation of enalapril hypotensive effects did not correlate with indomethacin-induced changes of sodium excretion.
When indomethacin is administrated to hypertensive patients that are well controlled with enalapril, it produces a marked attenuation of enalapril hypotensive effects and produces sodium retention. However, the amount of the attenuation of the hypotensive effects of enalapril by indomethacin are completely independent of the amount of the indomethacin-induced sodium retention. These results suggest that the mechanisms involved in interaction between both drugs at the blood pressure domain are probably localized at an extra-renal level.
The adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) response to hemorrhage (15 ml . kg-1 . 3 min-1) before and 30 min or 4 days after placement of bilateral electrolytic lesions of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) were examined in anesthetized and in conscious rats. Two groups of rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium (45 mg/kg). Femoral arterial and venous cannulas were placed acutely in the anesthetized group and chronically in the conscious group. Each rat received a hemorrhage 30 min before and 30 min after NTS lesions (in the anesthetized group) and 1 day before and 4 days after NTS lesions (in the conscious group). Plasma ACTH was determined before and 20 min after hemorrhage, and mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate were measured throughout. The baroreceptor reflex (bradycardia caused by a phenylephrine-induced rise in MABP) was determined 5 min before hemorrhage (in the anesthetized group) and 1 day before hemorrhage (in the conscious group) to assess the effectiveness of lesion. Hexamethonium was given to rats that developed hypertension postlesion and to sham-lesioned controls. Plasma ACTH did not increase after hemorrhage 30 min or 4 days after NTS lesions when compared with the other groups (sham, sham with hexamethonium, and missed lesion) and to prelesion controls. Also, lesions of the NTS had no effect on resting ACTH levels 4 days later. Mean arterial pressure and heart rate decreased during hemorrhage to similar extents before and after lesions in all groups. This study demonstrates that lesions of the NTS eliminate the ACTH response to hemorrhage immediately and 4 days after the lesions but have no effect on resting ACTH levels. The result suggests that the NTS is an essential part of the neural pathway for ACTH release after hemorrhage.
The effects of fluoxetine on the ECG were compared to those of placebo, imipramine, amitriptyline, and doxepin. ECG tracings at the beginning and end of several drug studies were evaluated retrospectively, without knowledge of the drug to which patients had been assigned. Mean changes in heart rate revealed a statistically significant decrease in the fluoxetine group. Active control drugs increased heart rate: increases were significant for imipramine and amitriptyline but not doxepin. Intraventricular conduction delays were noted in 5 patients who received imipramine and 1 patient who received amitriptyline: 4 of these patients developed left bundle branch block. No intraventricular conduction delays were noted in fluoxetine-treated patients.
