The present study was designed to examine blood pressure response to nitric oxide synthase-pathway inhibition and stimulation in normotensive and hypertensive diabetic rats. Rats treated with streptozotocin (60 mg/Kg i.p.) developed high blood glucose, polyuria and slow weight gain compared with control. One group of diabetic rats developed hypertension, consequently we studied three experimental groups: control rats (C), normotensive diabetic rats (ND) and hypertensive diabetic rats (HD). Mean arterial pressure (MAP), systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure and heart rate were recorded: baseline time, 30 after L-nitro arginine methyl ester (L-NAME: 1 mg/Kg i.v.) and post L-arginine (L-arg: 250 mg/Kg i.v.) injection. L-NAME induced a significantly increase in MAP in all groups. This enhancement was smaller in diabetic than in control rats. The increase in MAP in HD was significantly lower than that in ND L-arg induced a significantly decrease in MAP in all groups. This decrease was significantly attenuated in diabetic compared with control rats. The degree of hypotension in response to L-arg in diabetic groups was lower in hypertensive than that in normotensive diabetic rats. These data suggest that an impairment of nitric oxide formation could be involved in the development of hypertension in this model.
Internal anal sphincterotomy for treating chronic anal fissure can irreversibly damage anal continence. Reversible chemical sphincterotomy may be achieved by anal application of glyceryl trinitrate ointment (nitric oxide donor), which has been reported to heal the majority of patients with anal fissure by inducing sphincter relaxation and improving anodermal blood flow. This trial aimed to further clarify the role of glyceryl trinitrate in the treatment of chronic anal fissure.
A total of 132 consecutive patients from nine centers were randomly assigned to receive 0.2 percent glyceryl trinitrate ointment or placebo twice daily for at least four weeks. The severity of pain and maximum anal resting pressure were measured before and after one week of treatment. Anodermal blood flow was measured before and after application of glyceryl trinitrate or placebo in ten patients.
The study was completed by 119 patients (59 glyceryl trinitrate and 60 placebo), matched for gender, age, duration of symptoms, duration of treatment, site of fissure, previous attempts to treat, pain score, and maximum anal resting pressure. Twenty-nine patients (49.2 percent) healed after glyceryl trinitrate and 31 patients (51.7 percent) healed after placebo (P = not significant). Pain score fell significantly in both groups, in addition to maximum anal resting pressure. Anodermal blood flow improved significantly in seven patients receiving glyceryl trinitrate, but not in the three receiving placebo. Twenty-three patients (33.8 percent) experienced headache and 4 (5.9 percent), orthostatic hypotension after glyceryl trinitrate.
This trial fails to demonstrate any superiority of topical 0.2 percent glyceryl trinitrate treatment vs. a placebo, although the effects of glyceryl trinitrate on anodermal blood flow and sphincter pressure are confirmed. This finding, together with the high incidence of side-effects, should discourage the use of this treatment as a substitute for surgery in chronic anal fissure.
Abnormal delivery of bile acids (BAs) to the colon as a result of disease or therapy causes constipation or diarrhea by unknown mechanisms. The G protein-coupled BA receptor TGR5 (or GPBAR1) is expressed by enteric neurons and endocrine cells, which regulate motility and secretion.
We analyzed gastrointestinal and colon transit, as well as defecation frequency and water content, in wild-type, knockout, and transgenic mice (trg5-wt, tgr5-ko, and tgr5-tg, respectively). We analyzed colon tissues for contractility, peristalsis, and transmitter release.
Deoxycholic acid inhibited contractility of colonic longitudinal muscle from tgr5-wt but not tgr5-ko mice. Application of deoxycholic acid, lithocholic acid, or oleanolic acid (a selective agonist of TGR5) to the mucosa of tgr5-wt mice caused oral contraction and caudal relaxation, indicating peristalsis. BAs stimulated release of the peristaltic transmitters 5-hydroxytryptamine and calcitonin gene-related peptide; antagonists of these transmitters suppressed BA-induced peristalsis, consistent with localization of TGR5 to enterochromaffin cells and intrinsic primary afferent neurons. tgr5-ko mice did not undergo peristalsis or transmitter release in response to BAs. Mechanically induced peristalsis and transmitter release were not affected by deletion of tgr5. Whole-gut transit was 1.4-fold slower in tgr5-ko than tgr5-wt or tgr5-tg mice, whereas colonic transit was 2.2-fold faster in tgr5-tg mice. Defecation frequency was reduced 2.6-fold in tgr5-ko and increased 1.4-fold in tgr5-tg mice compared with tgr5-wt mice. Water content in stool was lower (37%) in tgr5-ko than tgr5-tg (58%) or tgr5-wt mice (62%).
The receptor TGR5 mediates the effects of BAs on colonic motility, and deficiency of TGR5 causes constipation in mice. These findings might mediate the long-known laxative properties of BAs, and TGR5 might be a therapeutic target for digestive diseases.
Direct additions to culture media of either acetaminophen (APAP) or 7-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene (7-OH-AAF) resulted in abnormal closure of the anterior neuropores of cultured rat embryos in the absence of an exogenous bioactivation system. Concentrations required to produce a 50% incidence of the defect were approximately 500 and 250 microM for APAP and 7-OH-AAF, respectively. Losses of viability were not evident at these concentrations but 7-OH-AAF elicited a somewhat greater effect on growth parameters and generalized embryotoxicity. Transplacental induction with 3-methylcholanthrene (MC) of P450IA1 in subsequently cultured rat embryos did not detectably alter the capacity of APAP or 7-OH-AAF to effect embryotoxicity or neuropore closure. However, additions to the culture medium of exogenous hepatic bioactivating systems (S9) from MC-induced vs phenobarbital (PB)-induced adult rats produced profoundly different effects on neuropore closure. Coincubation with S9 from MC-induced rats reduced the incidence of 7-OH-AAF-elicited abnormal neuropores from 45 to 19%, whereas coincubation with S9 from PB-induced rats increased the incidence to 77%. Coincubation with MC-induced S9 produced no statistically significant effect on APAP-elicited neuropore abnormalities but, with PB-induced S9, resulted in a significant increase from 60 to 86%. Additions of 3-OH-APAP (0.1-0.2 mM) but not N-acetyl-p-benzoquinoneimine (NAPQI, 0.1-0.5 mM) to the culture medium elicited the typical neuropore abnormality. Experiments with APAP and 7-OH-AAF as substrates demonstrated that embryonic enzymes catalyzed their conversion to the corresponding catechols. Considered together, the results provided evidence that embryonic conversion of APAP or 7-OH-AAF to the corresponding catechol metabolites may be instrumental in effecting the abnormal anterior neuropore closure observed after exposure of embryos to the respective parent compounds.
To evaluate the effect of furosemide on renal function and water balance in preterm infants treated with indomethacin (3 x 0.2 mg/kg at 12-h intervals) for symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus.
We performed a retrospective multi-centre double cohort study in preterm infants <32 weeks of gestational age. Thirty-two infants treated with furosemide (1 mg/kg i.v.) before each indomethacin dose (furosemide group) were matched with 32 infants with indomethacin treatment alone (control-group). Renal effects (urine output, weight gain, serum creatinine, sodium concentration) were registered.
The study groups were comparable for gestational age, birth weight and day of therapy. Pretreatment differences were observed for urine output, weight and serum sodium. However, no differences were noticed in day-to-day urine output change or weight gain between the groups. A significant increase in serum creatinine concentration (50% vs. control, 18%; p < 0.05) and a concomitant significant decrease in serum sodium (-9 vs. control, -3 mmoL/L; p < 0.05) in the furosemide group was observed 72-96 h after starting therapy.
Furosemide before each indomethacin dose resulted in a significant increase in serum creatinine and hyponatremia, without increasing urine output.
Telavancin, a novel lipoglycopeptide, exerts concentration-dependent, rapid bactericidal activity on account of its multiple mechanisms of action. Telavancin is highly active against gram-positive bacteria, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), vancomycin-intermediate, and vancomycin-resistant strains.
We conducted a randomized, double-blind, controlled, phase-2 clinical trial. Patients > or = 18 years of age with a diagnosis of complicated skin and soft-tissue infection caused by suspected or confirmed gram-positive organisms were randomized to receive either intravenously administered telavancin once daily or standard therapy (antistaphylococcal penicillin 4 times daily or vancomycin twice daily).
For the study, 167 patients were randomized and received at least 1 dose of study medication. Success rates were similar in all analysis populations at the test-of-cure evaluation. Of patients with S. aureus infection at baseline (n = 102), 80% of the telavancin group were cured and 77% of the standard therapy group were cured. For patients with MRSA infection at baseline (n = 48), cure rates were 82% for the telavancin group and 69% for the standard therapy group. Microbiologic eradication in patients with MRSA infection was 84% for the telavancin group versus 74% for the standard therapy group. MIC90 values were lower for telavancin in all tested strains of S. aureus (< or = 0.25 ug/mL) compared with the MIC90 values for vancomycin and oxacillin. Similar proportions of patients discontinued therapy for adverse events in both treatment groups (approximately 5%). Fewer serious adverse events were reported in the telavancin group (4 events) than were for the standard therapy group (9).
Clinical and microbiological results of this study support the further development of telavancin, especially for treatment of infection due to MRSA.
Endogenous dopamine plays a central role in salience coding during associative learning. Administration of the dopamine precursor levodopa enhances learning in healthy subjects and stroke patients. Because levodopa increases both phasic and tonic dopaminergic neurotransmission, the critical mechanism mediating the enhancement of learning is unresolved. We here probed how selective tonic dopaminergic stimulation affects associative learning. Forty healthy subjects were trained in a novel vocabulary of 45 concrete nouns over the course of 5 consecutive training days in a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Subjects received the tonically stimulating dopamine-receptor agonist pergolide (0.1 mg) vs placebo 120 min before training on each training day. The dopamine agonist significantly impaired novel word learning compared to placebo. This learning decrement persisted up to the last follow-up 4 weeks post-training. Subjects treated with pergolide also showed restricted emotional responses compared to the PLACEBO group. The extent of 'flattened' affect with pergolide was related to the degree of learning inhibition. These findings suggest that tonic occupation of dopamine receptors impairs learning by competition with phasic dopamine signals. Thus, phasic signaling seems to be the critical mechanism by which dopamine enhances associative learning in healthy subjects and stroke patients.
A 2-year-old boy with sickle cell anemia had a massive, fatal hemolytic reaction after administration of an intravenous dose of ceftriaxone. Laboratory studies demonstrated the presence of an IgM antibody against ceftriaxone, binding to and destroying the patient's erythrocytes by an immune complex mechanism. This rare complication should be considered in the differential diagnosis when hemoglobinuria develops in a child after administration of ceftriaxone or a similar agent.
Oral anticoagulation with vitamin K antagonists increases the risk of intracranial hemorrhage; whether addition of aspirin to oral anticoagulation augments this risk is unclear.
Meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials in which aspirin was added to oral anticoagulants.
Six randomized clinical trials were identified, including a total of 3,874 participants. Use of aspirin with oral anticoagulants was associated with more than double the frequency of intracranial hemorrhage (relative risk = 2.4, 95% CI = 1.2-4.8, p = 0.02).
We hypothesize that aspirin when added to oral vitamin K antagonists may increase the risk of intracranial hemorrhage, but this observation requires confirmation. The magnitude of this effect is uncertain, and the clinical importance is likely different for different patient populations.
Dyskinesias are a major complication of long-term l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) treatment in Parkinson's disease, and are believed to result from the intermittent and pulsatile supply of L-DOPA. Daily injections of L-DOPA can prime similar abnormal involuntary movements of the limb, orolingual and axial muscles in rats rendered parkinsonian by destruction of the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons. In this study we used 33 rats with severe nigrostriatal dopamine depletion and showed that in vivo gene transfer of the DA-synthetic enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and GTP cyclohydrolase 1 (GCH1) using recombinant adeno-associated virus vectors can provide a constant source of DOPA production locally in the striatum, at a level that is effective in reducing L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias by >85%, and reverse lesion-induced motor impairments. Furthermore, the abnormal expression of DeltaFosB, prodynorphin and preproenkephalin mRNA within the striatal projection neurons normally seen in dyskinetic animals was completely reversed by TH-GCH1 gene transfer. These findings form a strong basis for replacing, or supplementing, conventional systemic L-DOPA therapy by continuous intrastriatal DOPA using in vivo gene transfer in the treatment of patients with advanced Parkinson's disease.
The aim of this research was to determine the occurrence of epidermoid carcinoma of the esophagus induced by diethylnitrosamine (DEN) in Wistar rats. DEN was administered (250-300 g) in drinking water (10 mg/kg body weight) to four groups of rats for 72 h/week, for a duration of 90, 120, 150, or 200 days (groups T90, T120, T150, and T200). Ten animals whose drinking water did not contain DEN constituted the control group. All rats were sacrificed and their esophaguses studied macro- and microscopically. The control group did not exhibit either carcinomas or preneoplasic lesions. The T120 and T200 groups presented, respectively, 47 and 58 in situ carcinomas; 1 and 20 submucosal carcinomas (P < 0.05); 4 and 17 microinvasive carcinomas (P < 0.05); 4 and 11 advanced carcinomas (P < 0.05); and 1 and 1 cases of benign hyperplasia. Pulmonary and liver carcinomas were also found in the T200 group. The majority of advanced macroscopic lesions in the T200 group were polypoid, exophytic, and not microscopically invasive in the esophageal wall. This research confirms the effectiveness of the DEN in bringing about carcinogenesis in the Wistar rat esophagus and also shows that the lesions are dosage dependent.
Fenbuconazole, a triazole fungicide, has been associated with an increase in the incidence of liver adenomas in female mice following long-term dietary exposure. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether the mode of action for liver tumor formation by fenbuconazole is similar to that of phenobarbital. Treatment of CD1 mice with 0, 20, 60, 180 or 1300 ppm fenbuconazole for up to 4 weeks caused a dose-dependent increase in liver weight that was associated with centrilobular hepatocellular hypertrophy, cytoplasmic eosinophilia and panlobular hepatocellular vacuolation, as well as an initial increase in the cell proliferation labeling index. Fenbuconazole also caused a dose-dependent increase in liver microsomal cytochromes b(5) and P450 and the levels of immunoreactive CYP2B10 and its associated activity 7-pentoxyresorufin O-dealkylation (PROD). Treatment of mice with 1000 ppm phenobarbital elicited the same effects as treatment of mice with 1300 ppm fenbuconazole, except that phenobarbital was more effective than fenbuconazole at inducing PROD activity, even though fenbuconazole induced CYP2B10 to the same extent as did phenobarbital. This difference was attributed to the ability of fenbuconazole to bind tightly to CYP2B10 and partially mask its catalytic activity in liver microsomes, which is characteristic of several azole-containing drugs. All hepatocellular changes and induced enzyme activity returned to control levels within 4 weeks of discontinuing treatment with fenbuconazole or phenobarbital, indicating that the observed changes were fully reversible. We conclude that fenbuconazole is a phenobarbital-type inducer of mouse liver cytochrome P450, and the mode of action by which fenbuconazole induces liver adenomas in mice is similar to that of phenobarbital.
Disulfiram (tetraethylthiuram disulfide) has been used for almost 60 years in the treatment of alcohol addiction. It causes aversive behavior due to disulfiram-ethanol reaction (DER). The classical DER includes flush, sweating, tremor, nausea, vomiting, tachycardia, moderate decrease in blood pressure and restlessness. Complete recovery is the usual outcome in clinical settings. Life-threatening reactions are rare but sometimes occur. We present a case of a 53-year-old man developing severe hypotension and ischemic stroke as a result of disulfiram treatment and ethanol intake. Use of adrenalin as a drug of choice in this critical condition, together with other therapeutic approaches led to stabilization of hemodynamics and reversal of neurological symptoms. Our case had a favorable outcome, but it should be remembered that patients unable to comply to the strong restrictions in treatment for alcohol rejection are not eligible for this therapeutic modality used in the management of alcohol dependency.
Twenty-one consecutive previously untreated patients with low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were entered into a trial of mitoxantrone (5 mg/m2 daily for 3 days repeated every 3 weeks) between 1985 and 1986. After 8 to 11 cycles of treatment not exceeding a cumulative dose of 165 mg/m2, the patients were observed without further treatment. Seven patients had small lymphocytic lymphomas, 10 had follicular small cleaved cell lymphomas, and 4 had follicular mixed small- and large-cell lymphomas. As previously reported, both hematologic and nonhematologic toxicity was modest. Nine patients achieved complete remission (CR) and 12 partial remission (PR) (CR plus PR = 100%). In the subsequent 4- to 5-year observation phase, 1 patient withdrew from the study, 10 patients relapsed, and 10 remain in unmaintained remission (7 CR, 3 stable PR). Three relapsed patients have died of treatment-resistant disease. No long-term side effects have been observed. Follow-up studies of left ventricular ejection fraction using multiple-gated acquisition scintigraphy showed no significant decrease in cardiac function.
The elimination of ionized urinary fluorine was studied in groups of eight subjects treated during several days with niflumic acid, flufenamic acid, sulindac, antrafenine and floctafenine. Sulindac and floctafenine do not changes this elimination. After administration of niflumic acid, flufenamic and antrafenine, the urinary elimination of ionized fluorine increase in all the subjects. This increase is manifested from the start of treatment and persists for several days after it has been stopped. The administration of three drugs also results in an elevated level of ionized plasmic fluorine the duration of treatment. The results prove the existence in the human organism of a metabolic process capable of effecting the ionization of the organic fluor contained in the drugs studied. This biotransformation causes a fluorine impregnation of endogenous origin that is permanent and relatively stable, and whose consequences are examined (risk of fluorine osteosis and possibility of therapeutic application).
We prospectively evaluated the mechanism of syncope in patients with positive adenosine triphosphate (ATP) tests (defined as the induction of atrioventricular [AV] block with a ventricular pause >/=6 s after an intravenous bolus of 20 mg ATP).
Patients with unexplained syncope tend to have more positive ATP tests results than those without syncope.
An implantable loop recorder (ILR) was inserted in 36 ATP-positive patients (69 +/- 10 years; 22 women; median of 6 syncopal episodes); 15 of them also had a positive response to tilt testing.
During the follow-up of 18 +/- 9 months, 18 patients (50%) had syncopal recurrence and 16 (44%) had an electrocardiographically documented episode: AV block (n = 3: paroxysmal in 2 and permanent in 1), AV block followed by sinus arrest (n = 1), sinus arrest (n = 5), sinus bradycardia <40 beats/min (n = 2), normal sinus rhythm (n = 2), sinus tachycardia (n = 1), rapid atrial fibrillation (n = 1), and ectopic atrial tachycardia (n = 1). Bradycardia was documented in a total of 11 cases (69%), and a long ventricular pause (4 to 29 s) was present in eight cases (50%). All three patients with ILR-documented AV block had previously had a negative tilt test, whereas seven of eight with ILR-documented sinus bradycardia or sinus arrest had previously had a positive tilt test.
In patients with adenosine-sensitive syncope, the mechanism of syncope is heterogeneous, although bradycardia is the most frequent finding. Adenosine triphosphate-induced AV block predicts AV block as the mechanism of spontaneous syncope in only a few tilt-negative patients.
Mirex was administered to rats during gestation or the early postnatal period and the effects on blood chemistry were studied, especially with regard to changes which might play a role in the known cataractogenicity of mirex. In the prenatal study dams were intubated with 6 mg/kg/day mirex on Days 8 through 15 of gestation, and fetal blood samples were obtained on Days 18 and 20. For postnatal studies, litters were culled to eight pups at birth. Dams were intubated with 10 mg/kg/day mirex on Days 1 through 4 postpartum, and blood was drawn from pups at ages 6 through 14 days. Glucose determinations were done on a Beckman ASTRA 8 autoanalyzer. Protein determinations were done by the method of Lowry et al. (O.H. Lowry, N. J. Rosebrough , A. L. Farr, and R. J. Randall (1951). J. Biol. Chem. 193, 165-175.) Plasma glucose levels were decreased by over 40% in mirex-treated fetuses which developed cataracts. Postnatal exposure to mirex did not alter plasma glucose. Mean plasma protein concentrations were significantly lower in treated litters on Days 12 and 14 postpartum, and treated pups with cataracts on Day 14 were hypoproteinemic compared to treated pups without cataracts. Hypoproteinemia is a common factor related to cataractogenesis induced by either prenatal or postnatal mirex exposure, and may possibly be a causative factor. Although hypoglycemia may be a contributing factor in prenatal cataractogenesis, it does not seem to be implicated in postnatal cataractogenesis.
To describe a case of acquired Fanconi syndrome after treatment with capecitabine, irinotecan, and bevacizumab.
A 77-year-old female with metastatic colon cancer presented with vomiting and diarrhea. The patient had been diagnosed with stage IIIC (T3, N2, M0) colon cancer 18 months earlier and was initially treated with FOLFOX6 (regimen of oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin) after her hemicolectomy. She was switched to a capecitabine/oxaliplatin regimen after 4 cycles due to central access problems. She did well until 10 months after her cancer diagnosis, when metastasis was discovered. She was started on reduced doses of capecitabine, irinotecan, and bevacizumab. After her eleventh cycle, she presented to the hospital with the above symptoms. Laboratory test results showed hypokalemia, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, and hypouricemia. The patient had not been started on any new medications other than chemotherapy for over 1 year. The electrolyte derangements were new, since the patient had laboratory values checked every 3 weeks. Despite daily intravenous replacements, the electrolyte abnormalities persisted. Laboratory evaluations demonstrated the presence of euglycemic glucosuria and a high fractional excretion of phosphorus in the setting of hypophosphatemia. Fanconi syndrome was confirmed by demonstration of aminoaciduria.
Fanconi syndrome is a disorder characterized by proximal tubular dysfunction resulting in electrolyte wasting. In the acquired form, medications and multiple myeloma are the most common causes. Based on the Naranjo probability scale, a drug was the probable cause of Fanconi syndrome in our patient. However, because multiple drugs were involved, it was not possible to determine which one was the culprit.
This is the first case of Fanconi syndrome reported after the administration of capecitabine, irinotecan, and bevacizumab. More studies are needed to confirm this association.
The teratogenic potencies of the enantiomers of 2-(2,6-dioxopiperidine-3-yl)-phthalimidine ( = EM 12), a teratogenic thalidomide analogue, were investigated in Callithrix jacchus, a primate very sensitive to the teratogenic action of this thalidomide analogue. The results indicate that the S-(-)-form of EM 12 is clearly more teratogenic than the R-(+)-form. The interpretation of the studies designed to evaluate stereo-selective differences in the teratogenicity of the enantiomers becomes difficult, since both enantiomers racemise in vivo with appreciable rates (Schmahl et al. 1988a, b). Therefore, it cannot be concluded as yet that the R-(+)-form lacks all teratogenic potential.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose is a classical model of hepatocellular necrosis; however, the involvement of the Fas receptor in the pathophysiology remains controversial. Fas receptor-deficient (lpr) and C57BL/6 mice were treated with APAP to compare the mechanisms of hepatotoxicity. Lpr mice were partially protected against APAP hepatotoxicity as indicated by reduced plasma ALT and GDH levels and liver necrosis. Hepatic Cyp2e1 protein, adduct formation and hepatic glutathione (GSH) depletion were similar, demonstrating equivalent reactive metabolite generation. There was no difference in cytokine formation or hepatic neutrophil recruitment. Interestingly, hepatic GSH recovered faster in lpr mice than in wild type animals resulting in enhanced detoxification of reactive oxygen species. Driving the increased GSH levels, mRNA induction and protein expression of glutamate-cysteine ligase (gclc) were higher in lpr mice. Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA and protein levels at 6h were significantly lower in lpr mice, which correlated with reduced nitrotyrosine staining. Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) mRNA levels were substantially higher in lpr mice after APAP.
Our data suggest that the faster recovery of hepatic GSH levels during oxidant stress and peroxynitrite formation, reduced iNOS expression and enhanced induction of Hsp70 attenuated the susceptibility to APAP-induced cell death in lpr mice.
It has been shown that angiogenesis plays an important role not only in tumor growth, but also in carcinogenesis. We previously reported that the copper-chelating agent, trientine dihydrochloride (trientine), exerted strong anti-angiogenic activity and inhibited hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tumor growth. The aim of the current study was to elucidate the effect of trientine on liver enzyme-altered preneoplastic lesions in rats, especially in conjunction with angiogenesis alteration in the liver. In a diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced rat hepatocarcinogenesis model, trientine treatment, even at a clinically comparable low dose, significantly suppressed glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive preneoplastic lesions associated with a decrease in copper content in the liver. Trientine also markedly suppressed neovascularization in the liver to a similar level as that of development of the preneoplastic lesions. On the contrary, the proliferative cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive cells were not altered with or without trientine treatment. These results suggested that the copper-chelating agent, trientine, exerted chemopreventive effects against rat liver carcinogenesis due to the suppression of angiogenesis, and suggest that it might be useful clinically as a chemopreventive agent of HCC.
Hand tremor, heart rate, and electrolyte, plasma (pl) insulin, blood (bl) glucose, and pl terbutaline levels were measured in 11 healthy men during infusion and oral administration of terbutaline. Infusion of terbutaline (250 micrograms) was followed by increases in pl insulin concentration and bl glucose and by a decrease in pl K. Similar metabolic changes were seen on day 1 of oral terbutaline (5 mg x 3). Heart rate was moderately increased by terbutaline over the entire period (13 days) or oral dosing. Hand tremor always increased after terbutaline, but to a lesser degree on days 4 and 13 than after the first oral dose. On day 13 there was a very small increase in pl insulin and no reduction in pl K; bl glucose increased slightly from an elevated basal level. Pl terbutaline was of similar maximum concentrations on days 1 and 13, indicating that the tolerance was mediated through reduced response of the effector organs.
To document the chemical and biologic profile of a clinical phase II red clover (Trifolium pratense L.) extract by identifying and measuring the major and minor components visible in the high-performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet (HPLC-UV) chromatogram and evaluating each compound for estrogenic and antioxidant activity.
Individual compounds in the preformulated (i.e., no excipients present) extract were identified by either chemical isolation followed by structure elucidation or matching to retention time and molecular mass of chemical standards via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis. Quantitation of the amounts of compounds found in the preformulated extract was done using HPLC-UV or LC-MS. Isolated compounds or standards were evaluated for their ability to: (1) induce alkaline phosphatase (AP) in an endometrial carcinoma cell line, (2) competitively bind to recombinant human estrogen receptors (ERs) alpha (alpha) and beta (beta), and (3) act as antioxidants by scavenging 2,2-di(4-tert-octylphenyl)-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) free radicals.
The preformulated red clover extract had 50% effective concentration (EC 50) of 2.0 to 2.2 microg/mL in the AP estrogenicity assay, and 50% inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)s) of 18.4 to 32.6 microg/mL and 1.9 to 3.4 microg/mL in the ERalpha and ERbeta binding assays, respectively. The preformulated extract was composed of 35.54% isoflavones, 1.11% flavonoids, 0.06% pterocarpans, < or =0.03% coumarins, and < or =0.03% tyramine. Daidzein, genistein, formononetin, biochanin A, coumestrol, and naringenin were estrogenic in the AP assay, and all of these, except formononetin, bound to one or both ERs.
The major and minor chemical and active estrogenic components of a preformulated phase II red clover clinical extract were identified, quantitatively measured, and the final capsule doses were calculated. The extract is currently under evaluation in a year-long clinical study for the alleviation of menopausal hot flashes. This is the first report to thoroughly summarize the chemistry and biology of all major peaks observed in the HPLC-UV chromatogram of a clinical red clover dietary supplement.
In the 1970s and 1980s, people in a village in southern Finland had been exposed to high concentrations of chlorophenols in the drinking water and in fish from a nearby lake. An ecological analysis and a case-control study conducted around 1990 indicated significant excess in the incidence of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and soft-tissue cancer in the municipality and a relationship between the chlorophenol exposure and the incidence of these cancers. The present article reports a follow-up of cancer risk in the same study area during a 20-year period after the closing of the old water intake plant, which was contaminated by chlorophenols.
The observed and expected numbers of cancer were obtained for three periods, 1953-1971 (before exposure), 1972-1986 (during exposure) and 1987-2006 (after exposure), for all cancers combined and separately for cancers potentially related to chlorophenols.
The present study demonstrates that all of the cancer risks returned to the average population level during the 20-year period after the old water intake plant was closed and chlorophenol exposure stopped.
The rapid changes in cancer risk after changes in chlorophenol exposure suggest that chlorophenols may have a promotion effect in the carcinogenic process.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML), a class of prevalent hematopoietic malignancies, is caused by the acquisition of gene mutations that confer deregulated proliferation, impaired differentiation and a survival advantage of hematopoietic progenitors. More recently, we reported that cobalt chloride (CoCl(2))/iron chelator desferrioxamine (DFO)-mimicked hypoxia or moderate hypoxia (2% and 3% O(2)) can directly trigger differentiation of many subtypes of AML cells. Also, intermittent hypoxia significantly prolongs the survival of the transplanted leukemic mice with differentiation induction of leukemic cells. Additionally, these hypoxia-simulating agents selectively stimulate differentiation in acute promyelocytic leukemic cells induced by arsenic trioxide, an effective second-line drug for this unique type of leukemia. Based on this interesting evidence in vitro and in vivo, the ongoing investigations showed the role of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) protein through its non-transcriptional activity in myeloid cell differentiation, as evidenced by chemical interference, the conditional HIF-1alpha induction, the specific short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) against HIF-1alpha and HIF-1beta, an essential partner for transcription activity of HIF-1. Furthermore, HIF-1alpha and two hematopoietic transcription factors CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPalpha) and Runx1/AML1 interact directly with each other. Such interactions increase the transcriptional activities of C/EBPalpha and Runx1/AML1, while C/EBPalpha competes with HIF-1beta for direct binding to HIF-1alpha protein, and significantly inhibits the DNA-binding ability of HIF-1. As a protein is rapidly responsive to all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), a classical clinical differentiation-inducing drug for AML, HIF-1alpha also plays a role in ATRA-induced differentiation of leukemic cells.
The cardioregulatory properties of the alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocker indoramin have been compared with those of prazosin in the anaesthetized rat. The effects of autonomic blockade on heart rate responses evoked by these two agents and their effects on blood pressure and heart rate after peripheral or central administration have been compared. Cumulative administration of indoramin (0.8-25.6 mg kg-1 i.v.) evoked significant decreases in arterial blood pressure and a concomitant bradycardia. Pithing or autonomic blockade, by pretreatment with a combination of practolol and bilateral vagotomy, prevented the bradycardia evoked by indoramin (0.8-3.2 mg kg-1 i.v.). Atropine sulphate pretreatment abolished the bradycardia until a cumulative dose of 25.6 mg kg-1(i.v.) of indoramin had been reached. Bilateral vagotomy, intravenous administration of atropine methylnitrate or practolol pretreatment attenuated the bradycardia. Prazosin (0.02-0.64 mg kg-1 i.v.) evoked a fall in arterial blood pressure of similar magnitude to that observed following indoramin. A bradycardia was evoked only at a relatively high dose (0.64 mg kg-1 i.v.). Intracisternal injection of indoramin or prazosin evoked bradycardia and hypotension at a dose which had no effect after intravenous injection (25 micrograms). Intracerebroventricular injection of indoramin (25 micrograms) had no significant effect on heart rate or blood pressure compared to control values, whereas prazosin (25 micrograms) evoked a significant tachycardia and hypotension. It is concluded that the bradycardia evoked by indoramin in the rat is not due to a direct action on the heart except possibly at high doses. Central alpha 1-adrenoceptor blockade, possibly in the brainstem region, results in a bradycardia and this may explain the lack of reflex tachycardia following the administration of indoramin.
