Glycidol is a viscous liquid that is used as a stabilizer in the manufacture of vinyl polymers, as an additive for oil and synthetic hydraulic fluids, and as a diluent in some epoxy resins. NTP Toxicology and Carcinogenesis studies were conducted by administering glycidol (94% pure, containing 1.2% 3-methoxy-1,2-propanediol, 0.4% 3-chloro-1,2-propanediol, 2.8% diglycidyl ether, and 1.1% 2,6-dimethanol-1,4-dioxane) in water by gavage to groups of F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice of each sex for 16 days, 13 weeks, or 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium, Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, Drosophila melanogaster, and the bone marrow of male B6C3F1 mice. Sixteen-Day Studies: Glycidol doses for groups of five rats or five mice of each sex ranged from 37.5 to 600 mg/kg; vehicle controls received distilled water. All rats that received 600 mg/kg died between days 3 and 13. Edema and degeneration of the epididymal stroma, atrophy of the testis, and granulomatous inflammation of the epididymis occurred in males that received 300 mg/kg. All mice that received 600 mg/kg and two males and two females that received 300 mg/kg died by day 4 of the studies. Focal demyelination in the medulla and thalamus of the brain occurred in all female mice that received 300 mg/kg. Thirteen-Week Studies: Doses for groups of 10 rats ranged from 25 to 400 mg/kg, and doses for groups of 10 mice ranged from 19 to 300 mg/kg; vehicle controls received distilled water. All rats that received 400 mg/kg died by week 2; three males and one female that received 200 mg/kg died during weeks 11-12. Final mean body weights of male rats that received 50, 100, or 200 mg/kg were 96%-85% that of vehicle controls; final mean body weights of female rats receiving the same doses were 95%-89% that of vehicle controls. Sperm count and sperm motility were reduced in male rats that received 100 or 200 mg/kg. Necrosis of the cerebellum, demyelineation in the medulla of the brain, tubular degeneration and/or necrosis of the kidney, lymphoid necrosis of the thymus, and testicular atrophy and/or degeneration occurred in rats that received 400 mg/kg. All mice that received 300 mg/kg died by week 2; deaths of mice that received 150 mg/kg occurred during weeks 4-8 for males and weeks 1-5 for females. Mean body weights of chemically exposed mice surviving to the end of the studies were generally 90%-94% those of vehicle controls. Sperm count and sperm motility were reduced in dosed male mice. Compound-related histopathologic lesions included demyelination of the brain in males and females that received 150 or 300 mg/kg, testicular atrophy in males at all doses, and renal tubular cell degeneration in male mice that received 300 mg/kg. Based on reduced survival, reduced weight gain, and histopathologic lesions in the brain and kidney in rats that received 200 or 400 mg/kg and on reduced survival and histopathologic lesions of the brain in mice that received 150 or 300 mg/kg, doses selected for the 2-year studies of glycidol were 37.5 and 75 mg/kg for rats and 25 and 50 mg/kg for mice. Body Weights and Survival in the Two-Year Studies: Mean body weights of chemically exposed male rats generally ranged from 80% to 94% of those of vehicle controls, and mean body weights of chemically exposed female rats were from 90% to 97% those of vehicle controls. Mean body weights of chemically exposed male mice were similar to those of vehicle controls; mean body weights of chemically exposed female mice were 79%-95% of those of vehicle controls. Virtually all male and female rats that received glycidol died or were killed in a moribund condition as a result of the early induction of neoplastic disease (final survival--male: vehicle control, 16/50; low dose, 0/50; high dose, 0/50; female: 28/50; 4/50; 0/50). Survival of vehicle control male rats was lower than that usually observed; however, specific causes of deaths could not be determined. The survival of male mice and low dose female mice was similar to that of vehicle controls; survival of female mice that resurvival of male mice and low dose female mice was similar to that of vehicle controls; survival of female mice that received 50 mg/kg was lower than that of vehicle controls after week 101 (final survival--male: 33/50; 25/50; 27/50; female: 29/50; 27/50; 17/50). Nonneoplastic and Neoplastic Effects in the Two-Year Studies: Chemical-related nonneoplastic lesions in both rats and mice included hyperkeratosis and epithelial dysplasia of the forestomach. Fibrosis of the spleen was also present in rats of each sex, and cysts of the preputial gland and kidney were present in male mice. Exposure to glycidol induced dose-related increases in the incidences of neoplasms in numerous tissues in both rats and mice (see summary table on page 5 of the Technical Report). In male rats, mesotheliomas arising in the tunica vaginalis and frequently metastasizing to the peritoneum were considered the major cause of early death. Early deaths in female rats were associated with the presence of mammary gland neoplasms. Genetic Toxicology: Glycidol was mutagenic in a variety of in vitro and in vivo short-term tests. Mutagenic activity was observed in S. typhimurium strains TA97, TA98, TA100, TA1535, and TA1537 exposed to glycidol with and without exogenous metabolic activation. Glycidol was positive in the absence of exogenous metabolic activation in the mouse lymphoma assay for induction of trifluorothymidine resistance in L5178Y/TK cells; it was not tested with activation. In cytogenetic tests with CHO cells, glycidol induced both sister chromatid exchanges and chromosomal aberrations in the presence and absence of exogenous metabolic activation. Glycidol induced sex-linked recessive lethal mutations and reciprocal translocations in the germ cells of male D. melanogaster exposed by feeding. The incidence of micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes was increased in the bone marrow of male B6C3F1 mice administered glycidol by intraperitoneal injection. Conclusions: Under the conditions of these 2-year gavage studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of glycidol for male F344/N rats, based on increased incidences of mesotheliomas of the tunica vaginalis; fibroadenomas of the mammary gland; gliomas of the brain; and neoplasms of the forestomach, intestine, skin, Zymbal gland, and thyroid gland. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity for female F344/N rats, based on increased incidences of fibroadenomas and adenocarcinomas of the mammary gland; gliomas of the brain; neoplasms of the oral mucosa, forestomach, clitoral gland, and thyroid gland; and leukemia. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity for male B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the harderian gland, forestomach, skin, liver, and lung. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity for female B6C3F1 mice, based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the harderian gland, mammary gland, uterus, subcutaneous tissue, and skin. Other neoplasms that may have been related to the administration of glycidol were fibrosarcomas of the glandular stomach in female rats and carcinomas of the urinary bladder and sarcomas of the epididymis in male mice. Synonym: 2,3-epoxy-1-propanol
Two cases of hepatic failure due to nevirapine treatment are reported. One patient erroneously took double dosing of nevirapine, while the other patient did not attend the scheduled laboratory control two weeks after the initiation of nevirapine treatment. In spite of maximal conservative treatment, this patient died five days after admission. These cases emphasise the importance of giving patients thorough instructions as well as doing clinical and laboratory monitoring of patients receiving highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART).
A 64-year-old woman previously in good health experienced an acute onset of severe neck pain and weakness of the left arm that had developed within minutes. Neurological examination revealed paresis of the left arm. There was a previous history of cardiovascular disease and she had been treated with 100 mg of aspirin per day.
MRI revealed a left posterolateral intraspinal mass extending from C3 to C7. The hemostatic evaluation showed no abnormalities (platelet count, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time).
A laminectomy with evacuation of the epidural hematoma was performed. The postoperative course was uneventful, with complete disappearance of the neurological deficit.
We report a rare condition of spontaneous spinal epidural hematoma that was associated with aspirin intake. A short time interval from onset of symptoms to diagnosis (MRI) and surgery is crucial for the outcome.
Histopathological changes were investigated in the tubulointerstitium and in the capillaries of male Wistar rats with lithium-induced nephropathy using stereological methods. Two antihypertensive drugs with opposite effects on the renin-angiotensin system, an ACE inhibitor (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor) and a thiazide diuretic, modified the nephropathy. Generally, there was a significant positive correlation between the reduction in GFR (glomerular filtration rate) and the reduction in the volume of intact tubular structures and interstitial capillaries. A significant negative correlation was seen between the reduction in GFR and the increase in tubulocapillary distance and the absolute volume of interstitial connective tissue, respectively. Treatment with perindopril, and to some extent hydrochlorothiazide, reversed the rise in systolic blood pressure associated with lithium-induced nephropathy but did not affect the progression to terminal uraemia, the structural renal changes or the mortality. In conclusion, severe tubular and capillary changes are seen in this model of chronic renal failure. Tubular atrophy is associated with a decrease in interstitial capillaries and with an increase in the tubulocapillary distance. Systemic hypertension or activation of the renin-angiotensin system may not be important factors for the progression to terminal renal failure.
Myocarditis is a rare and potentially life-threatening complication of clozapine. We report the case of a 2 6-year-old patient who developed reversible myocarditis during treatment with clozapine for chronic resistant schizophrenia. The patient recovered rapidly on withdrawal of clozapine and with supportive management.
Systemic arterial elastic properties, important determinants of left ventricular function and coronary blood flow, are compromised in myocardial infarction (MI). The cardiac effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) has been extensively studied, whereas their arterial effect has been poorly reported in MI. The aim of this work was to study the effect of prolonged ACEI enalapril treatment on systemic arterial structure and elastic properties in rats with MI. One week after the induction of an MI, 40 male Wistar rats received either no treatment (n = 20) or ACEI enalapril (2 mg/kg; n = 20) for 17 weeks. At the end of the treatment period, blood pressure, cardiac output, total peripheral resistance, systemic arterial compliance, characteristic impedance, and left ventricular power were measured in anesthetized rats. Then the rats were killed for infarct-size determination and aortic histomorphometric study. Infarct size, heart, and left and right ventricular weights were similar in the ACEI-treated and untreated infarcted rats. Prolonged ACEI enalapril treatment reduced blood pressure by 17% (p < 0.001), total peripheral resistance by 22% (p < 0.01), and characteristic impedance by 26% (p < 0.03), and increased systemic arterial compliance by 35% (p < 0.01), in comparison with untreated infarcted rats. Enalapril reduced aortic media wall thickness by 9% (p < 0.02) and increased elastin content by 22% (p < 0.03) and elastin-to-collagen content ratio by 42% (p < 0.01). Enalapril did not affect cardiac output and left ventricular power. Smooth muscle cell nuclei number and size and collagen content of aortic wall were similar in the ACEI-treated and untreated infarcted rats. These results indicate that long-term treatment with ACEI enalapril improves arterial elastic properties through structural modifications of arterial wall in rats with MI. This vascular effect may contribute to improve the left ventricular function and the coronary perfusion of infarcted myocardium, and added to the cardiac effect, may explain the prevention of left ventricular remodeling observed with ACEI in this model.
A 59-year-old man experienced priapism five days after taking neuroleptics and abnormal liver function after 28 days. These side-effects are possibly explained as hypersensitivity reactions to the drug.
Chronic low-level exposure to the environmental pollutant trichloroethylene has been shown to promote autoimmune disease in association with CD4(+) T-lymphocyte activation in lupus-prone MRL(+/+) mice. One of the primary metabolites of trichloroethylene, trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH), was similarly shown to increase the percentage of IFNgamma-producing CD4(+) T-lymphocytes when added to the drinking water of MRL(+/+) mice. In addition, TCAH-treated MRL(+/+) mice developed skin inflammation and alopecia. In the present study TCAH was tested for its ability to accelerate the development of alopecia in C3H/HeJ mice which tend to develop the disorder spontaneously late in life. In contrast to MRL(+/+) mice, C3H/HeJ mice treated with TCAH did not develop alopecia at an increased rate. In addition, TCAH did not promote the expansion of activated IFNgamma-producing CD4(+) T-lymphocytes in C3H/HeJ mice. CD4(+) T-lymphocytes from TCAH-treated C3H/HeJ mice, unlike their MRL(+/+) counterparts, did not become resistant to activation-induced apoptosis following in vivo exposure to TCAH. Taken together, it appears that the ability of TCAH to promote immune-mediated pathology is strain-specific and may require an autoimmune-prone genetic background.
Iodide organification defect (IOD) is characterized by a reduced ability of the thyroid gland to retain iodide and results in hypothyroidism. Mutations in the thyroid peroxidase (TPO) gene are a frequent cause of IOD. While TPO mutations have been identified in various populations, none have been reported in Israeli patients with IOD. The objectives of this study were to characterize the molecular basis of IOD in an Israeli Arab-Muslim population and to analyse the clinical, neurological and imaging data of patients with TPO mutations followed for up to 29 years.
Twenty-two patients from six core families with congenital hypothyroidism (CH) and IOD living in the same region.
All subjects underwent clinical, hormonal and imaging evaluation. The TPO gene was directly sequenced and the presence of specific mutations among family members was determined by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP).
All patients had congenital and persistent primary hypothyroidism. The thyroid gland was demonstrated in all subjects by technetium (99mTc) scans. A positive perchlorate discharge test (mean 87%) was indicative of IOD. Enlargement of the thyroid gland was shown in 64% of our patients, mostly with multinodular appearance, and in some with retrosternal invasion. Neurological complications were observed in 13 patients (59%). Four subjects, who carry two different TPO mutations, had sensorineural deafness. Two previously described TPO gene mutations [G1567A (G493S) and C1708T (R540X)] and one novel TPO gene mutation [C965T (S292F)] were identified. The two previously described mutations were present in 90% of the subjects. Haplotyping suggested a distant common ancestry for each of these two mutations.
Three different TPO gene mutations were found to be responsible for IOD in a consanguineous Israeli population. The high rate of development of multinodular glands (MNGs) in our cohort of patients indicates the need for long-term follow-up of patients with TPO gene mutations.
Cocaethylene is an active cocaine metabolite believed to play a causative role in the increased incidence of sudden cardiac death in individuals who co-administer alcohol and cocaine. Prolonged and excessive abuse of cocaine and alcohol will result in marked alteration of host immunity to increased susceptibility to infection. To test the chronic direct effect of cocaethylene on the heart function, a conductance catheter system (CCS) was used in vivo in this study. To test whether cocaethylene injection exacerbates coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) or cytomegalovirus (CMV) cardiomyopathy during murine AIDS, female C57BL/6 mice were infected with LP-BM5 retrovirus and superinfected with CVB3 or CMV. Daily, mice were injected intraperitoneally with cocaethylene in 0.9% saline solution (concentration increased gradually from 15 to 25 mg/ml). Histopathology of heart tissue was analyzed in all groups, and cytokines of spleen were measured in the CMV-infected groups. Results showed there was little effect on the cardiovascular system after cocaethylene injection. Cocaethylene injection during murine retrovirus infection greatly exacerbated the pathogenesis of CVB3 or CMV infection, whereas CMV-infected mice showed relatively moderate cardiac pathology compared with CVB3 infection. Both CMV and retrovirus infection suppressed the Th1 response. Our data suggest that cocaethylene treatment shifts the cytokine balance and suppresses Th1 response particularly, facilitating increased CVB3- or CMV-induced myocarditis.
A delayed localized neuropathy of peripheral nerves in a single hind leg of the cat develops after a single intraarterial 2 mg/kg injection of diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP). This neuropathy is manifested by a maximum loss of the capacity of soleus alpha-motor nerve terminals to generate stimulus-bound repetition 21 days after DFP exposure. Phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) is a protective inhibitor of the neurotoxic esterase which is associated with the development of the delayed organophosphorus neuropathy. Pretreatment of cats with PMSF (30 mg/kg i.p.) 24 h before the DFP injection protected the cats from the delayed neuropathy. No clinical neurotoxic signs were observed at 21 days after DFP. The stimulus-bound repetitive capacity of soleus alpha-motor nerve terminals was not lost at this time and its incidence was much greater than that which occurred in cats not pretreated with PMSF.
To report a case of symptomatic tachycardia that was successfully treated with propranolol in a patient receiving duloxetine.
A 26-year-old man presented with episodes of fatigue, tachycardia, diaphoresis, and chest pain approximately 2 months after the initiation of duloxetine 20 mg/day for dysthymic disorder. Cardiac workup including echocardiogram, exercise treadmill testing, and Holter monitoring was negative, except for tachycardia (heart rate 110-120 beats/min). Duloxetine was withheld, and the patient's heart rate returned to normal in less than a week. Duloxetine was restarted at the same dosage, and tachycardia returned within 2 days. Propranolol was added to the treatment regimen to lower the heart rate. Because of therapeutic failure of other antidepressants, duloxetine was continued because of its beneficial effects on mood.
One published case report describing tachycardia in association with duloxetine in 2 heart failure patients was found in a MEDLINE search (1966-July 2008). Increased blood pressure and heart rate have been reported in duloxetine trials. The proposed mechanism for duloxetine-induced tachycardia is its effects on norepinephrine, which impact the cardiovascular system. Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated duloxetine as a probable cause of this patient's tachycardia.
Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of clinically significant tachycardia in patients receiving duloxetine, even in low doses.
Neuropharmacological studies of Schistosoma mansoni were conducted in vitro using visual observations of motor activity and measurements of worm length and extracellular electrical activity. The instrumentation and methodology described quantitatively measure extracellular electrical potentials associated with motor activity, and provide a highly sensitive, objective technique for studying effects of antischistosomal compounds and for evaluating schistosomes as a model for neuropharmacological investigation. The visual motor and electrical responses of schistosomes to various pharmacological agents support earlier claims for the presence of an excitatory tryptaminergic system and an inhibitory cholinergic system. The stimulation of motor activity by 5-hydroxytryptamine was blocked by the antagonists metergoline and cyproheptadine in a dose-dependent manner. The hypermotility induced by cholinergic blockade (atropine or mecamylamine) or 5-hydroxytryptamine release (p-chlorophenylethylamine) was abolished by these antagonists. The cholinomimetic agents, acetylcholine, carbachol and arecoline, and the cholinesterase inhibitors neostigmine and metrifonate, caused a flaccid paralysis of schistosomes. Carbachol-induced paralysis was reversed by both the nicotinic cholinergic blocker, mecamylamine, and the muscarinic cholinergic blocker, atropine. This reversal occurred in a dose-dependent manner. It is suggested that the cholinoceptive site in S. mansoni has unique pharmacological properties, distinctly different from those in mammals. Dopamine, apomorphine, epinephrine and norepinephrine had little effect on schistosome motility, but produced marked increases in worm length. The dopaminergic antagonist, haloperidol, completely blocked the dopamine response. A broad range of putative amino acid neurotransmitters failed to alter schistosome motor activity. The simple nervous system of the schistosome appears to have many unique pharmacological features which may make it a useful model for the study of drugs for human use, as well as providing an effective point for chemotherapeutic attack.
Skin patches of a clonidine transdermal therapeutic system (clonidine-TTS) with a constant release rate of either 0.1 or 0.2 mg clonidine/24 h continuously over 7 days were used in 32 essential hypertensives. These self-adhesive drug delivery systems (3.5 cm2), which were affixed to the upper outer arm, were changed by the patients at weekly intervals. During a mean observation period of 7 months (range 1-19 months) transdermal clonidine reduced the blood pressure from 162 +/- 15/107 +/- 5 mmHg to normal values (diastolic less than or equal to 95 mmHg) in 63% of our patients. However, chronic use of clonidine-TTS was accompanied by a high frequency of contact dermatitis (type IV allergy) in nearly half of our patients (n = 15, 47%). In 11 of these 15 patients transdermal clonidine administration had to be stopped because of intolerable local skin reactions (pruritus, erythema, vesiculation, and/or infiltration). Subsequent patch testing with all components of clonidine-TTS was performed in eight cases. Whereas in seven cases an allergic contact dermatitis to clonidine was found, only one patient showed an allergy to another component of clonidine-TTS (polyisobutylene). We conclude that this strikingly high incidence of local allergic skin reactions limits the use of clonidine-TTS in essential hypertension.
Maternal consumption of alcohol during pregnancy impairs neurodevelopment in offspring. Utilizing a rodent model of continuous moderate dose alcohol exposure throughout gestation [gestation day 1 (GD1)-GD22; BAC ~70 mg/dL], the impact of developmental alcohol exposure on juvenile cerebral cortex protein abundances was determined. At weaning, cerebral cortex tissue was collected from pups for 2D SDS-PAGE based proteome analysis with statistical analysis by Partial Least Squares-Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA). Gestational alcohol exposure increased the abundance of post-translationally modified forms of cytoskeletal proteins and the abundance of proteins within the small molecule biochemistry (includes glucose metabolism) pathway and proteosome processing pathways though ubiquitin conjugating enzymes and chaperones were decreased in abundance. In weanling offspring exposed prenatally to alcohol, alterations in cytoskeletal protein post-translational modifications were noted. Increased abundance of proteins from the small molecule biochemistry pathway, which includes glucose metabolism, and proteosome processing pathways were also noted. Decreased abundances of ubiquitin conjugating enzyme and chaperone protein were noted in the cerebral cortex of these offspring.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by the selective loss of dopamine (DA) neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). The events, which trigger and/or mediate the loss of nigral DA neurons, however, remain unclear. Neuroleptic-induced catalepsy has long been used as an animal model for screening drugs for Parkinsonism. Administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg, ip) or reserpine (2 mg/kg, ip) significantly induced catalepsy in mice. BR-16A (50 and 100 mg/kg, po), a polyherbal formulation or ashwagandha (50 and 100 mg/kg, po), significantly reversed the haloperidol or reserpine-induced catalepsy. The results indicate that BR-16A or ashwagandha has protective effect against haloperidol or reserpine-induced catalepsy and provide hope that BR-16A could be used in preventing the drug-induced extrapyramidal side effects and may offer a new therapeutic approach to the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit cyclooxygenase activity and, in aspirinintolerant patients, can precipitate life-threatening asthma attacks. In aspirin-sensitive asthmatic patients, exposure to aspirin results in a dramatic increase in cysteinyl leukotriene production, the precise mechanism of which remains unclear. However, clinical studies of the 2 types of leukotriene modifiers--the leukotriene synthesis inhibitors and the leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRAs)--have established the critical pathogenic role played by leukotrienes in aspirin-induced asthma (AIA). Zileuton, the only leukotriene synthesis inhibitor now available, increased pulmonary function and alleviated the cardinal signs of AIA. Montelukast, a potent LTRA, blocked the airway obstruction induced by lysine-aspirin inhalation in aspirin-sensitive asthmatic patients. Pulmonary function improved significantly, and both ss-agonist use and frequency of nocturnal awakening decreased. Pranlukast, a LTRA available only in Japan, produced results similar to those reported for montelukast. Despite these agents' protective effects, aspirin-sensitive asthmatic patients should be cautioned to avoid the use of any drug that inhibits cyclooxygenase activity.
Exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB) affects between 70% and 80% of asthmatic patients. Shortly after strenuous exercise, several inflammatory mediators, including the cysteinyl leukotrienes, induce bronchoconstriction. Evidence of this phenomenon includes the increase in urinary leukotriene E4 excretion after exercise and the inhibition of EIB by the leukotriene synthesis inhibitor zileuton. Similarly, the leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRAs) montelukast and zafirlukast have significantly reduced the decrease in pulmonary function after exercise and shortened the time to recovery. Because exercise is generally a less predictable event in children, EIB can be more difficult to manage in pediatric than in adult asthmatic patients. However, LTRA use may temper this problem. Montelukast administered once daily at bedtime protected pediatric patients against EIB throughout the entire day. Zafirlukast attenuated EIB within 4 hours of dosing in 6- to 17-year-old patients who had mild to moderate asthma. Currently, inhaled ss2-agonists are widely prescribed for EIB, but when used long term, their efficacy may wane because of tolerance. In contrast, one of the advantages offered by LTRA therapy is the absence of tolerance.
The dose and dosing interval for leukotriene receptor antagonists montelukast and zafirlukast in adult asthmatic patients were determined by bronchoprovocation with exercise or leukotriene D4 inhalation. Subsequent dose-ranging studies confirmed that once-daily ingestion of a 10-mg dose of montelukast was effective and safe; higher doses did not improve efficacy or increase the risk of adverse effects. In contrast, zafirlukast doses that exceeded the approved dose of 20 mg ingested twice daily during fasting improved efficacy but increased the risk of elevated liver enzymes. Pharmacokinetic studies showed that montelukast bioavailability is not affected by food and did not interact with other drugs. Zafirlukast inhibited warfarin metabolism while food intake and concurrent therapy with theophylline or aspirin decreased zafirlukast levels. Pharmacokinetic and subsequent efficacy or safety studies revealed that a 5-mg and a 4-mg chewable tablet of montelukast ingested once daily were effective in and well tolerated by patients in the 6- to 14-year and 2- to 5-year age-groups, respectively. Both pediatric montelukast doses produced the same magnitude of tissue exposure as did the 10-mg adult dose. The Food and Drug Administration approved a 10-mg film-coated tablet of zafirlukast for children 7 to 11 years of age. It must be administered twice daily fasting.
To examine the agreement between direct arterial blood pressure measurements obtained from 2 arteries and indirect blood pressure measurements obtained with an oscillometric blood pressure monitor (OBPM) during normotension and phenylephrine-induced hypertension in dogs.
16 male Beagles.
In anesthetized dogs, arterial catheters were placed in the lingual and dorsal pedal arteries for measurement of arterial blood pressure. A blood pressure cuff was placed on either the dog's fore- or hind limb and connected to an OBPM. Systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial blood pressures (SAP, DAP, and MAP, respectively) were recorded from both arteries and the OBPM every 5 minutes for 30 minutes (baseline), during a 30-minute period in which dogs received a phenylephrine infusion IV to induce hypertension, and for 30 minutes after discontinuation of the infusion. Mean differences in blood pressure values and confidence intervals were calculated to compare the indirect and direct measurement techniques.
In dogs, oscillometry underestimated SAP during normotension, and the difference between oscillometric and direct measurements increased during hypertension. Oscillometry underestimated DAP, but the difference between oscillometric and direct measurements decreased during hypertension. There was close agreement among techniques for MAP determinations. Biases between direct measurements and OPBM blood pressure values measured from dogs' forelimbs or hind limbs were not significantly different.
In normotensive dogs, oscillometric measurements of MAP and SAP agreed more closely with direct arterial pressure measurements than oscillometric estimates of DAP. Oscillometric measurement of MAP was accurate during both normotension and hypertension in dogs.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia is a troublesome complication of L-DOPA pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's disease and has been associated with disturbed brain opioid transmission. However, so far the results of clinical and preclinical studies on the effects of opioids agonists and antagonists have been contradictory at best. Prodynorphin mRNA levels correlate well with the severity of dyskinesia in animal models of Parkinson's disease; however the identities of the actual neuroactive opioid effectors in their target basal ganglia output structures have not yet been determined. For the first time MALDI-TOF imaging mass spectrometry (IMS) was used for unbiased assessment and topographical elucidation of prodynorphin-derived peptides in the substantia nigra of a unilateral rat model of Parkinson's disease and L-DOPA induced dyskinesia. Nigral levels of dynorphin B and alpha-neoendorphin strongly correlated with the severity of dyskinesia. Even if dynorphin peptide levels were elevated in both the medial and lateral part of the substantia nigra, MALDI IMS analysis revealed that the most prominent changes were localized to the lateral part of the substantia nigra. MALDI IMS is advantageous compared with traditional molecular methods, such as radioimmunoassay, in that neither the molecular identity analyzed, nor the specific localization needs to be predetermined. Indeed, MALDI IMS revealed that the bioconverted metabolite leu-enkephalin-arg also correlated positively with severity of dyskinesia. Multiplexing DynB and leu-enkephalin-arg ion images revealed small (0.25 by 0.5 mm) nigral subregions with complementing ion intensities, indicating localized peptide release followed by bioconversion. The nigral dynorphins associated with L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia were not those with high affinity to kappa opioid receptors, but consisted of shorter peptides, mainly dynorphin B and alpha-neoendorphin that are known to bind and activate mu and delta opioid receptors. This suggests that mu and/or delta subtype-selective opioid receptor antagonists may be clinically relevant for reducing L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease.
A markedly hypertensive, 70-year-old, black man had been on captopril for 2 years when he rapidly developed obstructive angioedema. The initial sign of difficulty in understanding his speech progressed to severe laryngeal and glossal edema over a 3 1/2 h period. His airway became obstructed less than a minute after arrival at the emergency room. Oral intubation was unsuccessful, and a difficult tracheostomy was too late to save the patient. The death was reported to the medical examiner because of its sudden and unusual nature. The risk of angioedema while on angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor therapy has been noted previously in the clinical literature. Because of the sudden onset and possible confusion with an allergic reaction, this entity is brought to the attention of the forensic medical community.
The effects of clofibrate feeding (5 g/kg diet) on oxalate metabolism were investigated in male and female rats. Following clofibrate feeding, 24-hour urinary excretion of oxalate increased until 4 days and then reached a plateau. Whereas the contribution of dietary oxalate (1.4 g/kg diet, as potassium salt) to urinary oxalate was less than 5% in both control and clofibrate-treated male rats, the contribution of dietary glycolate (1.0 g/kg diet, as sodium salt) to urinary oxalate was six times higher in clofibrate-treated male rats compared with controls, indicating that the clofibrate-induced hyperoxaluria is due to increased endogenous biosynthesis of oxalate. This was supported by the increased lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity observed in liver supernatants of clofibrate-treated rats compared with controls, and the increased rate of conversion of glycolate and glyoxylate to oxalate by clofibrate-treated male rat liver supernatants. Female rats had lower excretion of urinary oxalate and lower levels of liver glycolic acid oxidase (GAO) as compared with males. Clofibrate-treated female rat liver supernatants had higher LDH levels and produced more oxalate from glyoxylate. Thus, it can be concluded that the increase in LDH activity may be the cause of the increased endogenous biosynthesis of oxalate leading to increased urinary excretion of oxalate in male and female rats treated with clofibrate.
Male and female C57BL/Tw mice were given 5 daily subcutaneous injections of 100 micrograms tamoxifen (Tx), starting on the day of birth (Tx mice). In untreated fetal mice on day 18 of gestation, the greater part of the pubic and ischial bones were cartilaginous. At more than 30 days of age, however, untreated mice showed completely calcified pelvic bone, whereas in age-matched Tx mice the greater part of the junctional regions in the pelvis remained cartilaginous. Treatment with Tx starting within 5 days of age caused bladder hernia with or without cecum hernia. The pubic ligament in Tx mice at ages of 30-540 days was markedly expanded as compared with that in age-matched controls. The permanent chondrification in the pelvis was found in all mice given Tx starting within 10 days of age. By contrast, neonatal treatments of mice with other antiestrogens, clomiphene and nafoxidine (100 micrograms/day), induced neither permanent chondrification in the pelvis nor expansion of the pubic ligament nor hernia. These findings suggest that Tx has a specific effect on the symphysis pubis and some junctional regions of the developing pelvis in mice when given neonatally.
Amphetamines taken by any route can cause cerebral vasculitis and intracranial haemorrhage. 8 cases were seen in a neurosurgical unit over 3.5 years. The published work indicates that those who experience these complications, mainly young adults, have poor outcomes.
The role for serotonin (5-HT) in mediating the behavioral effects of cocaine may be related in part to the ability of 5-HT to modulate the function of the dopamine (DA) mesoaccumbens pathways. In the present study, the ability of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, IP) and fluvoxamine (10 and 20 mg/kg, IP) to alter cocaine (10 mg/kg, IP)-induced hyperactivity and DA release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) was analyzed in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Systemic administration of either fluoxetine or fluvoxamine enhanced cocaine-induced locomotor activity in a dose-dependent manner; fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, IP) also enhanced cocaine (10 mg/kg, IP)-induced DA efflux in the NAc. To test the hypothesis that the NAc serves as the locus of action underlying these effects following systemic cocaine administration, fluoxetine (1 and 3 micro g/0.2 micro l/side) or fluvoxamine (1 and 3 micro g/0.2 micro l/side) was microinfused into the NAc shell prior to systemic administration of cocaine (10 mg/kg, IP). Intra-NAc shell infusion of 3 micro g of fluoxetine or fluvoxamine enhanced cocaine-induced hyperactivity, while infusion of fluoxetine (1 micro M) through the microdialysis probe implanted into the NAc shell enhanced cocaine (10 mg/kg, IP)-induced DA efflux in the NAc. Thus, the ability of systemic injection of SSRIs to enhance cocaine-evoked hyperactivity and DA efflux in the NAc is mediated in part by local actions of the SSRIs in the NAc.
An unusual case in which pulmonary edema and intracranial hemorrhage occurred during adenotonsillectomy is presented. The possible causes of this intracranial hemorrhage are discussed, especially in relationship to local epinephrine infiltration.
We report on a 46-year-old woman with ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation after starting antiarrhythmic drug therapy with flecainide. The flecainide acetate plasma levels were always in the normal range. A successful therapeutical intervention was induced with two i.v. applications of 1,000 mg magnesium glutamate. A persistent suppression of ventricular rhythm disturbance was accomplished by continuous i.v. application of 4 mg magnesium glutamate/min.
