Glutamate receptors, especially N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, are hypothesized to play key roles in opiate tolerance and withdrawal. There is also accumulating evidence that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonists and group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonists attenuate opiate withdrawal. However, most existing data are derived from adult animal models. Glutamate receptor types undergo dramatic developmental changes during early life. Thus, the pharmacological effects on opiate withdrawal of NMDA receptor, AMPA receptor, and mGluR antagonists in the developing organism may not be comparable to those in the adult. Indeed, NMDA receptor antagonists do not block morphine tolerance or withdrawal in the 7-day-old rat, but are partially effective in the 14-day-old, and fully effective in the 21-day-old. Thus, there is a transition period around the second post-natal week for NMDA receptor antagonists to suppress opiate tolerance and withdrawal. A combination of in vivo and in vitro assays was used in the present studies to test the effect of drugs acting on AMPA and group II mGlu receptors on morphine withdrawal in rats at 7, 14, and 21 days of age. These ages represent the critical periods when various glutamate receptor subunits undergo differential change. In contrast to NMDA receptor antagonists' early ineffectiveness in suppressing morphine withdrawal, the AMPA receptor antagonist and the group II mGluR agonists were effective at all ages tested. Thus, for the human infant patient, pharmacotherapies to reduce opiate tolerance and withdrawal should focus on non-NMDA ionotropic and metabotropic receptors.
The purpose of this study was to compare the hypotensive response of human glaucomatous eyes to 1% pilocarpine solution before and after argon laser trabeculoplasty.
We designed a prospective, 'repeated measures' study comparing the ocular hypotensive effect of acutely administered 1% pilocarpine solution in 30 medically uncontrolled glaucomatous eyes, before and after argon laser trabeculoplasty.
The pilocarpine-induced IOP decrease was 3.6 +/- 0.59 mmHg before argon laser trabeculoplasty, and 1.8 +/- 0.53 mmHg after laser therapy. In both instances, the pilocarpine hypotensive effect was significantly correlated with pretreatment IOP (p = 0.02, r = 0.41 before argon laser trabeculoplasty, and p = 0.003, r = 0.52 after argon laser trabeculoplasty). We built a 'repeated measurements ANCOVA' model, and found no statistically significant difference between the pilocarpine IOP lowering effect before and after argon laser trabeculoplasty (p = 0.4).
Argon laser trabeculoplasty does not modify the IOP lowering effect of 1% pilocarpine solution.
Apolipoprotein C-III is a major protein constituent of triglyceride rich lipoproteins and HDL. It occurs in plasma in three isoforms differing by their sialic acid content. Apo C-III putatively inhibits lipolysis and the apo E mediated hepatic uptake of remnants from triglyceride rich particles. We identified a heterozygous carrier of an apolipoprotein C-III variant by the presence of additional bands after isoelectric focusing (IEF) of VLDL. Structural analysis of the variant protein by HPLC, time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry, and automated gas phase sequencing revealed a lysine to glutamic acid replacement in position 58. The underlying A to G exchange was verified by direct sequencing subsequent to amplification by polymerase chain reaction of exon 4 of the apo C-III gene. Family studies revealed vertical transmission of this defect. The two variant carriers exhibited plasma concentrations of HDL cholesterol and apo A-I above the 95th percentiles of sex matched controls whereas the unaffected father and sister showed normal values. The plasma concentrations of apo C-III in the two variant carriers were decreased by 30-40% compared with those of the two unaffected family members and to random controls. Using two-dimensional immunoelectrophoresis as well as IEF and subsequent scanning densitometry, we found that the low serum concentration of apo C-III was a consequence of diminished concentrations of the variant apo C-III isoproteins in both VLDL (15% of normal) and HDL (25% of normal). Apo C-III(Lys58----Glu) heterozygotes possessed unusual HDL as demonstrated by nondenaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. They consisted mainly of HDL2b and contained a proportion of atypically large particles, enriched in apo E, with a Stokes diameter of 13-18 nm and resembling HDLc. In conclusion, heterozygosity for a structural apo C-III variant--apo C-III(Lys58----Glu)--was identified in two hyperalphalipoproteinemic subjects characterized by the presence of low plasma apo C-III concentrations and atypically large HDL.
The overall results of chemotherapy in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) have been poor. To define a subgroup of patients who may have a better outcome, an analysis of prognostic factors was performed of patients treated in AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG) protocol 142, a phase III randomized trial of low-dose versus standard-dose methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and dexamethasone (m-BACOD) plus granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosed HIV-associated NHL.
The following baseline variables were included as potential predictors of survival among 192 patients who received treatment: age; intravenous drug use (IVDU); specific type of sexual contact as risk factors (homosexual, bisexual, or heterosexual contact); prior AIDS diagnosis; CD4 cell count; serum lactic acid dehydrogenase (LDH); histology; Karnofsky performance status (KPS); stage; B symptoms; race (white/nonwhite); nodal involvement; extranodal involvement; number of extranodal sites; specific sites: bone marrow, liver, kidney, lung, or gastrointestinal tract; and treatment arm (standard-dose m-BACOD/low-dose m-BACOD).
Age greater than 35 years, IVDU, stages III/IV, and CD4 cell counts less than 100/microL were adverse prognostic factors in multivariate analyses using the Cox proportional hazards model. The median overall survival for patients with none or one of the adverse factors was 46 weeks, with two was 44 weeks, and with three or four was 18 weeks. At 144 weeks, 29.5% of patients with none or one, 16.9% with two, and 0% with three or four factors were alive (P < .001).
Long-term survival can be achieved in approximately one third of patients with HIV-associated NHL with favorable characteristics.
5,7-Dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT), median raphe nucleus (MRN)-lesioned and sham-lesioned rats were submitted to one-trial passive avoidance conditioning followed by electroconvulsive shock (ECS) or sham-ECS. On test session (24 h later) MRN-lesioned rats presented a longer conditioned response and, chiefly, a remarkable reduction of ECS-induced retrograde amnesia in comparison to sham-lesioned animals. This effect appeared unrelated to major changes in spontaneous behavior: on training session MRN-lesioned rats exhibited a faster stepping-down from the platform; their exploratory activity into a novel cage was characterized by a slightly higher initial response; moreover MRN lesion did not significantly effect pain threshold. A reduced brain 5-HT functional activity following MRN lesion was suggested by the study of the hyperactivity syndrome induced by tranylcypromine plus L-tryptophan. Lastly, MRN-lesioned rats showed a significantly lower brain 5-HT steady level without differing from the sham-lesioned ones with respect to turnover rate. The reduction of ECS-induced retrograde amnesia observed in 5,7-DHT, MRN-lesioned rats was considered as due to a lower synaptic availability of 5-HT at the time of ECS administration.
We report on a newborn girl with lobar holoprosencephaly and clinical signs of hydantoin syndrome. During pregnancy the mother was treated with diphenylhydantoin and primidon for psychomotor and petit mal seizures. The possible relationship between hydantoin syndrome, holoprosencephaly, and maternal intake of anticonvulsants during pregnancy is discussed.
Variation in the gene for dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DbetaH) has been reported to associate with cocaine-induced paranoia as assessed by retrospective self-report. This association has yet to be tested prospectively.
Visual analog scale (VAS) ratings of paranoia were obtained in 31 cocaine users during three cocaine self-administration sessions (8, 16, and 32 mg/70 kg). Pharmacogenetic interactions between cocaine and a putative functional polymorphism in DbetaH (-1021C-->T) were assessed.
VAS self-ratings showed significant or trend-level interactions of genotype and time during each session (p = .004, .09 and .003, respectively) with TT homozygotes endorsing greater paranoia over time than either CT or CC individuals. Interactions were significant at all doses in African Americans (n = 19; p = .02, .04 and .05). No other demographic or experimental variable distinguished genotypic groups.
Results indicate that individuals homozygous for the 'very low-activity' T allele at DbetaH -1021C-->T show an increased propensity to paranoia over time during cocaine self-administration.
A battery of in vitro and in vivo tests were conducted on HCFC-141b as a vapour. Bacterial gene mutation assays with Escherichia coli and Salmonella typhimurium were negative in all tester strains. In vitro chromosomal aberration assays were positive on CHO cells but negative on human lymphocytes. Moreover, HCFC-141b was negative in vivo in a mouse micronucleus inhalation assay. On the basis of these data and previously reported genotoxicity testing, HCFC-141b is considered non-genotoxic. Groups of 80 male and 80 female Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed, by inhalation (6 hr/day, 5 days/wk) to vapours of HCFC-141b for 104 wk at target concentrations of 0 (control), 1500, 5000 and 20,000 ppm (increased from 15,000 ppm after 17 wk of exposure). No exposure-related effects of toxicological significance were noted with respect to survival, clinical signs, ophthalmoscopy, haematology, clinical chemistry, urinalysis or organ weight analysis. Reduced food intake and body weight gain were noted in both sexes of the 15,000 ppm group during the first 16 wk; thereafter, body weight gains in all groups were similar although the intergroup differences in body weight remained evident. Reduced food intake persisted in both sexes through wk 52 and in females during the second year of exposure. Treatment-related effects on macroscopic pathology were confined to increased incidences of testicular masses and altered appearance. Microscopic pathology examinations confirmed the testes as the target organ with findings of increased incidences of benign interstitial cell tumours and hyperplasia at 5000 and 20,000 ppm. The no-observable-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) was 1500 ppm. The testicular changes at high exposure levels were considered to be due to a change of the senile hormonal imbalance in geriatric rats and of little significance for the assessment of human health effects.
Increased gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmission has been implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. The mechanism by which GABA-ergic activity is increased in hepatic failure is unclear, but recent studies in animals with encephalopathy due to fulminant hepatic failure suggest that GABA-ergic neurotransmission may be increased by the presence of elevated concentrations of benzodiazepine agonists such as diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam.
Samples of frontal cortex were obtained at autopsy from 11 patients with hepatic encephalopathy who died of acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure and 8 patients who died of cardiovascular disease or trauma. None of the 19 patients had received benzodiazepines while hospitalized. Chromatographic analyses of extracts of these samples revealed 4 to 19 peaks representing substances that inhibited the binding of a radiolabeled imidazobenzodiazepine ([3H]flumazenil) to its receptors. Several of these peaks had retention times corresponding to those of known 1,4-benzodiazepines. Ultraviolet- and mass-spectroscopic analysis confirmed that two of these peaks represented diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam. The patients who died of fulminant hepatic failure could be divided into two groups: six who had had significantly elevated brain concentrations (2-fold to 10-fold higher than normal) of substances inhibiting the binding of [3H]flumazenil and five who had normal concentrations.
Brain concentrations of substances inhibiting the binding of [3H]flumazenil to its receptors are increased in some patients with hepatic encephalopathy due to fulminant hepatic failure. The origin of these substances is unknown, but these findings provide a rational basis for trials of benzodiazepine-receptor antagonists in the management of this disorder.
A 35-year-old woman experienced tetanic symptoms when treated with chorionic gonadotrophins or estrogenic oral contraceptives. Persistent hypocalcemia was found, with hyperphosphatemia, normal renal function and low normal plasma parathyroid hormone (PTH), all consistent with idiopathic hypoparathyroidism. During EDTA infusion, no PTH response was measured with a predominantly anti-NH2-terminal antiserum, but a normal response was found with a predominantly anti-COOH-terminal antiserum. This supposes secretion of an immunologically abnormal and biologically ineffective PTH. Oral administration of ethinyl estradiol caused an impressive hypocalcemia with tetanic symptoms. Estrogens might, therefore, inhibit bone resorption by a specific action on bone, and not by antagonizing the action of PTH.
Though tetany is not among the reported side effects of oral contraceptive usage, specifically of the use of estrogen, a case study is reported which links the development of tetany to administration of estrogen-containing oral contraceptives. The case was a 35-year-old woman, who presented with muscular cramps and hypocalcemia of unknown origen. 4 years earlier, shortly after taking an oral contraceptive preparation, she had experienced the same symptoms; now, she was reacting apparently to treatment with chorionic gonadotropins for mild obesity. Clinically, she evinced persistent hypocalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, normal renal function, and low plasma parathyroid hormone (PTH); such characteristics are consistent with hypoparathyroidism. With the former, no PTH response was measured, whereas with the latter antiserum, normal response of PTH was found; hence, it was concluded that the patient's PTH was immunologically abnormal and biologically ineffective. These data support the hypothesis that estrogens have a PTH-independent effect on bone; i.e., oral administration of estogens (in this case ethinylestradiol) caused hypocalcemia with tetanic symptoms resulting from estrogenic inhibition of bone resorption by specific action on the bone, not by antagonizing PTH action in vivo.
Recently, arsenic trioxide (ATO) has been proved to induce complete remission (CR) at a high rate in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). We prospectively investigated the safety and efficacy of ATO therapy in patients with relapsed and refractory APL and examined the duration of CR and the postremission therapies. Initially, 0.15 mg/kg ATO was administered until bone marrow remission to a maximum of 60 days. After the patient achieved CR, 1 additional ATO course at the same dosage was administered for 25 days. Of 34 patients, 31 (91%) achieved CR. PML-RAR3 messenger RNA was not detected in the bone marrow of 18 (72%) of the 25 patients evaluated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis. At a median follow-up of 30 months, the estimated 2-year overall survival rate was 56%, and the estimated 2-year event-free survival rate was 17%. During the ATO therapy, QTc prolongation was observed in most cases. Fifteen patients developed ventricular tachycardia, and 1 of them showed torsades de pointes. Other adverse events were nausea, water retention, APL differentiation syndrome, skin eruption, liver dysfunction, and peripheral neuropathy, all of which were quite tolerable. ATO therapy was remarkably effective for relapsed APL; however, postremission therapies were necessary to maintain a durable remission.
To observe the effects of routine doses of benazepril combined with valsartan on congestive heart failure.
Totally 203 patients with congestive heart failure were randomized into Group A (receiving benazepril 20 mg/day), Group B (benazepril,10 mg/day plus valsartan, 80 mg/day), and group C (valsartan 160 mg/day) for different treatment protocols on the basis of routine therapy for heart failure with digitalis, diuretics and beta blockers. The cardiac functions and echocardiographical findings were evaluated before and after the treatments.
All the patients showed improvement of NYHA class, left ventricular end-diastolic dimension (LVEDd), left ventricular end-systolic dimension (LVESd) and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) (P<0.01), and the effect was better in group B than in group A (P>0.05), and both groups A and B had better results than group C (P<0.05). No serious adverse effects were found.
The combination of benazepril and valsartan at routine doses can be effective for treating congestive heart failure.
We have previously shown that enalapril, when given acutely to renovascular patients, exerted a dose-dependent hypotensive effect. To address the same problem in chronically treated essential hypertensives, we studied 116 uncomplicated essential hypertensives, whose diastolic blood pressure was greater than or equal to 95 mm Hg at the end of a two-week placebo run-in period (time 0). According to a randomized crossover design, these patients received three doses (10, 20, or 40 mg) of enalapril qd and a placebo, each treatment being given for one month. At the end of each treatment period as well as at time 0, blood pressure and heart rate were measured 24 hours after the last dosing. In spite of a two-week run-in placebo period, placebo treatment further and significantly reduced blood pressure; however enalapril further and significantly reduced blood pressure when compared to placebo. Although absolute blood pressure values after 40 mg of enalapril were significantly lower than those after 10 mg of enalapril the relevance of this difference, mainly when compared to placebo, seems to be inconsistent. Taken together these data suggest that the hypotensive effect of enalapril chronically given to essential hypertensives and measured 24 hours after last dosing, is dose independent.
Twenty-six patients with heart block were examined for evidence of chloroquine retinopathy. Detailed histories of chloroquine intake showed that 50% (13 of 26) of these patients were chloroquine abusers. Retinal changes typical of chloroquine retinopathy were seen in 53.8% (7 of 13) of the chronic chloroquine abusers. Patients with heart block of unknown cause should have their fundi examined so that signs of chloroquine retinopathy may be sought.
Acrylamide is an animal carcinogen and probable human carcinogen present in appreciable amounts in heated carbohydrate-rich foodstuffs. It is also a germ cell mutagen, inducing dominant lethal mutations and heritable chromosomal translocations in postmeiotic sperm of treated mice. Acrylamide's affinity for male germ cells has sometimes been overlooked in assessing its toxicity and defining human health risks. Previous investigations of acrylamide's germ cell activity in mice showed stronger effects after repeated administration of low doses compared with a single high dose, suggesting the possible involvement of a stable metabolite. A key oxidative metabolite of acrylamide is the epoxide glycidamide, generated by cytochrome P4502E1 (CYP2E1). To explore the role of CYP2E1 metabolism in the germ cell mutagenicity of acrylamide, CYP2E1-null and wild-type male mice were treated by intraperitoneal injection with 0, 12.5, 25, or 50 mg acrylamide (5 ml saline)(-1) kg(-1) day(-1) for 5 consecutive days. At defined times after exposure, males were mated to untreated B6C3F1 females. Females were killed in late gestation and uterine contents were examined. Dose-related increases in resorption moles (chromosomally aberrant embryos) and decreases in the numbers of pregnant females and the proportion of living fetuses were seen in females mated to acrylamide-treated wild-type mice. No changes in any fertility parameters were seen in females mated to acrylamide-treated CYP2E1-null mice. Our results constitute the first unequivocal demonstration that acrylamide-induced germ cell mutations in male mice require CYP2E1-mediated epoxidation of acrylamide. Thus, CYP2E1 polymorphisms in human populations, resulting in variable enzyme metabolic activities, may produce differential susceptibilities to acrylamide toxicities.
In this study, 14 patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) who had received at least 3 months of treatment with clomipramine were treated with the anxiolytic agent buspirone in a 10-week, double-blind study. Before the addition of buspirone, these patients as a group had shown a partial but incomplete reduction (averaging 28%) in OCD symptoms during clomipramine treatment alone. Because buspirone has been reported to be efficacious as a sole agent and as an adjunct agent in combination with fluoxetine in patients with OCD, we were interested in assessing whether buspirone added to clomipramine treatment would be associated with further significant reductions in OCD or depressive symptoms. Although adjuvant buspirone treatment was well tolerated in most subjects, mean OCD and depressive symptoms, as evaluated by standardized rating scales, did not significantly change from baseline scores achieved on clomipramine treatment alone, either after the addition of placebo for 2 weeks or buspirone (57 +/- 7 mg/day) for an additional 10 weeks. However on an individual basis, 4 (29%) of the 14 patients did have an additional 25% reduction in OCD symptoms after adjuvant buspirone treatment. This double-blind study suggests that adjunctive buspirone therapy is not generally associated with significant further clinical improvement in OCD or depressive symptoms compared with clomipramine monotherapy, but that there may be a subgroup of patients who do benefit from adjuvant buspirone therapy.
Antibiotic prophylaxis is a routine procedure in management of burns. As such it is a safe practice, yet unusual complications can occur with the use of even safest antibiotics and their emergency management may be life saving. Here we present a case of 35% second and third degree burns who was taken for a second sitting of stamp grafting for remnant raw areas, who was administered intraoperative prophylactic antibiotic, developed a series of unusual complications sequentially, which were life threatening. Prompt recognition of signs and symptoms of adverse reactions of the drug used and timely management resulted in the successful outcome. A good team effort by surgeon, anaesthetist and the physician was mandatory.
Cyclophosphamide (CYP) is an anti-neoplastic agent as well as an immunosuppressive agent. In order to elucidate the alteration in adult hippocampal function following acute CYP treatment, hippocampus-related behavioral dysfunction and changes in adult hippocampal neurogenesis in CYP-treated (intraperitoneally, 40 mg/kg) mice (8-10-week-old ICR) were analyzed using hippocampus-dependent learning and memory tasks (passive avoidance and object recognition memory test) and immunohistochemical markers of neurogenesis (Ki-67 and doublecortin (DCX)). Compared to the vehicle-treated controls, mice trained at 12h after CYP injection showed significant memory deficits in passive avoidance and the object recognition memory test. The number of Ki-67- and DCX-positive cells began to decrease significantly at 12h post-injection, reaching the lowest level at 24h after CYP injection; however, this reverted gradually to the vehicle-treated control level between 2 and 10 days. We suggest that the administration of a chemotherapeutic agent in adult mice interrupts hippocampal functions, including learning and memory, possibly through the suppression of hippocampal neurogenesis.
Ethanol-induced fatty liver is a worldwide health problem without effective therapeutic methods. The underlying mechanisms are extremely complex and not fully understood. The hepatosteatosis caused by ethanol can be attributed to many factors, including the changes of the redox condition, transportation impairment of the synthesized lipid, inhibition of fatty acid oxidation, and the enhancement of the lipogenesis. Recent studies focus on the reduced oxidation of fatty acid and the enhancement of the do novo lipogenesis, and several factors are sequentially revealed. Two important nuclear transcription factors, peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor α (PPARα) and sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 (SREBP-1), and the lipid metabolism-associated enzymes regulated by the two molecules, are shown to be involved in ethanol-induced steatosis. The AMP-dependent protein kinase, adiponectin, and tumor necrosis factor α (TNF-α) may mediate the modulation of ethanol on PPARα and SREBP-1. In addition, a number of studies demonstrate that plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) is also involved in ethanol- induced fatty liver, and its effects may be associated with the TNF-α production. Furthermore, the role of CYP2E1 has also been investigated. Some studies showed that CYP2E1 played a critical role in the development of alcoholic fatty liver, which was denied by other reports. As such, the exact role of CYP2E1 needs to be further studied.
Two cases of hepatotoxicity following sulphasalazine administration are reported. Each patient became ill after her initial exposure to sulphasalazine and after being re-exposed to the drug. In both instances there was an interval of three weeks between receiving the drug for the first time and the onset of the toxic reaction. In the first patient, hepatotoxicity occurred after initial exposure and following the second course of sulphasalazine. Mild neurotoxicity was seen following second exposure to sulphasalazine. In the second patient, hepatotoxicity occurred following the initial exposure to sulphasalazine but after reexposure the only abnormality in liver function tests present was a slight rise in the serum level of gamma glutamyl transpeptidase. In this patient, life-threatening neurotoxicity occurred each time that the patient received sulphasalazine.
Oral glucosamine has anti-inflammatory activity in rodents, and anecdotal evidence suggests that it may be clinically useful in inflammatory bowel disorders. A possible explanation is that supplemental glucosamine increases production of heparan sulfate (HS) proteoglycans by the vascular endothelium, thereby improving the endothelium's barrier function. Extravasation of leukocytes and metastatic cancer cells requires degradation of HS. Heparin can inhibit neutrophil activation, adhesion, and chemotaxis, and--like glucosamine--has been reported effective for managing inflammatory bowel syndromes. Cytokine-mediated loss of endothelial HS may be a key factor in the coordinated inflammatory response. These considerations suggest that glucosamine may have clinical utility in a range of inflammatory disorders, and should be assessed with regard to its impact on cancer metastasis and peripheral ischemic disease. In inflammatory bowel disease, fish oil, ginkgolides, and enteric-coated 5-aminosalicylic acid may safely complement the efficacy of glucosamine.
Previous toxicology and pharmacology studies have reported variable acute cardiac effects of capsaicin, primarily involving hypotension and bradycardia. However, these studies have suffered from two important limitations. First, the capsaicin tested has been derived from pepper plant extracts, which is likely to display varying degrees of purity and possibly diverse impurity profiles. Second, post-dosing follow-up was generally limited to three or fewer days. Therefore, the objective of the studies reported here was to test the cardiac and other target organ toxicity potential of pure, synthetic trans-capsaicin (the only naturally occurring stereoisomer of capsaicin) when delivered via intravenous administration to dogs either acutely or for 14 days. Taken together, results from these two studies indicate that pure trans--capsaicin--even when delivered directly into the systemic circulation at high dose levels--is rapidly eliminated, induces transient tachycardia and hypertension, does not alter the duration of cardiac action potentials, and causes only very minimal organ toxicities. The different toxicity profiles of pure trans-capsaicin reported here and chili pepper extracts previously reported suggest that the purity and source of capsaicin should be an important consideration for toxicological evaluations.
