Contrast sensitivity was measured by means of Arden grating plates in 100 patients on medication for pulmonary tuberculosis. The scores were abnormal in 38.2% of the patients whose therapy included ethambutol for three months, and 36.7% of the patients on similar treatment for six months. In comparison with age matched groups of patients on a regimen where streptomycin replaced ethambutol a statistically significant number of the patients on ethambutol had abnormal scores. This study suggests that Arden contrast sensitivity plates would be effective in detecting subclinical toxic optic neuropathy due to ethambutol and therefore could be used for routine monitoring of ocular function of patients on ethambutol. Loss of contrast sensitivity may explain why some patients on ethambutol with normal visual acuity and colour perception may still complain of visual disturbance.
Olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic drug, was administered to a patient with Huntington's disease (HD) with marked choreiform movements. Brain SPECT with 99mTc-HMPAO was performed before and after treatment. Brain SPECT imaging has been performed in patients with HD in order to determine the status of basal ganglia perfusion. The use of brain SPECT with 99mTc-HMPAO before and after treatment in patients with HD has not been yet reported. The marked hypoperfusion of the basal ganglia on brain SPECT performed before therapy with olanzapine improved significantly after treatment.
Seven patients scheduled for resection of pheochromocytoma with loose preoperative control of their blood pressure were selected in our study. All the cases are impressed of pheochromocytoma that predominantly excrete norepinephrine. Anesthesia was induced with fentanyl, 2.5% sodium thiopental, valium and atracurium. Labetalol was used as antihypertensive agent and was given in repeated bolus (up to total dose of 2 mg/kg) intravenously before skin incision and no supplemental dosage was given later on. The anesthesia was maintained with nitrous oxide, oxygen, isoflurane and atracurium. Blood pressure, heart rate and arterial blood gas analysis were recorded. After giving intravenous labetalol, mean systolic blood pressure and heart rate declined by 26.2% and 29.76% respectively when compared to preanesthetic values. Although bradycardia was noted after administration of labetalol, it seemed acceptable except for one patient who needed atropine right after receiving labetalol and another patient who needed levophed infusion after tumor removal. During tumor removal, the blood pressure of all patients was stable except one patient who needed sodium nitroprusside infusion together with labetalol to help control the elevated blood pressure. All the patients in our study had no sequela postoperatively. We concluded that total dose of labetalol (2 mg/kg) administered intravenously at the beginning of anesthesia was possible to control blood pressure during the resection of pheochromocytoma under general anesthesia even in the case of poor preoperative blood pressure control.
Verapamil-sensitive ventricular tachycardia (VT) is a well-recognized clinical entity that some authorities believe may result from triggered activity. Despite its uniform response to verapamil, however, there is evidence that this uncommon form of VT may not be as homogeneous as first believed. Standard intracardiac electrophysiologic techniques were used to study verapamil-sensitive VT in 32 patients (aged 38 years +/- 20 years) without evidence of structural heart disease. More than half of these patients (69%) exhibited VT with a right bundle branch block-type QRS pattern, with the remainder (31%) displaying VT with a left bundle branch block pattern. In 31% of the patients the VT could be induced by fixed-cycle length atrial pacing, whereas in 59% of patients fixed-cycle length ventricular pacing was necessary. A critical range of cycle lengths for VT induction was required in 66% of the patients. Ventricular tachycardia was initiated with single atrial premature extrastimuli in 16% of patients, single ventricular extrastimuli in 50% of patients, and double ventricular premature extrastimuli in 9% of patients. Ventricular tachycardia displaying cycle-length alternans was observed in 28% of patients. In only 19% of patients was it possible to entrain VT during pacing from the right ventricular apex. Isoproterenol infusion was required for tachycardia induction in 50% of patients, 44% of whom had VT with a left bundle branch block QRS pattern, with the remaining 56% exhibiting VT with a right bundle branch block pattern. Beta-adrenergic blockers suppressed 53% of verapamil-sensitive VT in patients tested, whereas adenosine terminated VT in 50% of patients, with 81% of these patients exhibiting either a left bundle branch block QRS pattern or isoproterenol dependence. Ventricular tachycardia exhibiting a left bundle branch block pattern was more likely to be isoproterenol dependent (p <0.05) and adenosine sensitive (p <0.001). However, verapamil-sensitive, catecholamine-dependent VT was no more likely to be adenosine sensitive than the catecholamine-independent form of the arrhythmia (p >0.5). Verapamil-sensitive VT exhibits properties expected of both a reentrant and triggered arrhythmia, and it is inconsistently dependent on both exogenous catecholamines for induction and intravenous adenosine for termination. Verapamil-sensitive VT encompasses a heterogeneous group of tachycardias that may result from multiple cellular electrophysiologic mechanisms.
A 69-year-old male who had a long history of ocular myasthenia was treated with omeprazole for 3 months. Progressive renal insufficiency was discovered fortuitously. There were no clinical or laboratory manifestations of immunoallergy. Renal biopsy revealed severe granulomatous interstitial nephritis, tubular injury and fibrosis. Histology of a liver nodule disclosed hepatic granulomatous involvement. Withdrawal of omeprazole and a short course of corticosteroids were followed by improvement but not normalization of renal function. This is the eighth report of omeprazole-induced interstitial nephritis. In the present case as in 2 others in the literature, the patients had been followed up for an autoimmune disease previously, which suggests that in patients with such a background, patients should be examined regularly for renal functional impairment during treatment with omeprazole.
The prevalence and treatment of behavioral and mental illnesses in the adolescent population are increasing, and many of the medications used are continued into adulthood. Increased vigilance is necessary when caring for this population to prevent side effects and drug interactions. In this short communication, we present a case of myocardial infarction in a male likely related to drug interactions between bupropion, erythromycin, and methylphenidate.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are widely used as flame retardants, which are ubiquitous environmental contaminant found in both abiotic and biotic environmental samples. Deca-BDE (BDE-209) is the principal component, which is currently used worldwide. In this study, the effect of BDE-209 on the mRNA levels of thyroid hormone (TH) related genes and spermatogenesis associated genes were determined from larvae and adult rare minnow (Gobiocypris rarus) exposed to concentrations 0.01, 0.1, 1, and 10 μg/L for 21 days. The results showed that the type II deiodinase (dio2) and sodium iodide symporter (nis) mRNA levels were significantly up-regulated in the larvae at 10 μg/L treatment. In adult, histopathological observations showed that liver of female fish were degenerated at 10 μg/L treatment, and inhibition of spermatogenesis were observed in testis of male fish. In addition, the thyroid hormone receptor α (trα), dio2, and nis mRNA levels in the liver of male and female fish were significantly up-regulated, whereas dio2 and nis mRNA levels were significantly down-regulated in the brain. These results indicate that exposure to BDE-209 could result in tissue-specific alternations of TH-related genes expression in adults. Moreover, the mRNA levels of the testis-specific apoptosis genes, the spermatogenesis-associated 4 (spata4) and spermatogenesis-associated 17 (spata17), were down-regulated at 10 μg/L treatment in testis of male fish. Our results suggest that BDE-209 may pose threat to normal thyroid and reproductive function in fish.
Gemcitabine is the standard care chemotherapeutic agent to treat pancreatic cancer. Previously we demonstrated that calcitriol (1, 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol) has significant anti-proliferative effects in vitro and in vivo in multiple tumor models and enhances the activity of a variety of chemotherapeutic agents. We therefore investigated whether calcitriol could potentiate the cytotoxic activity of gemcitabine in the human pancreatic cancer Capan-1 model system. Isobologram analysis revealed that calcitriol and gemcitabine had synergistic antiproliferative effect over a wide range of drug concentrations. Calcitriol did not reduce the cytidine deaminase activity in Capan-1 tumors nor in the livers of Capan-1 tumor bearing mice. Calcitriol and gemcitabine combination promoted apoptosis in Capan-1 cells compared with either agent alone. The combination treatment also increased the activation of caspases-8, -9, -6 and -3 in Capan-1 cells. This result was confirmed by substrate-based caspase activity assay. Akt phosphorylation was reduced by calcitriol and gemcitabine combination treatment compared to single agent treatment. However, ERK1/2 phosphorylation was not modulated by either agent alone or by the combination. Tumor regrowth delay studies showed that calcitriol in combination with gemcitabine resulted in a significant reduction of Capan-1 tumor volume compared to single agent treatment. Our study suggests that calcitriol and gemcitabine in combination promotes caspase-dependent apoptosis, which may contribute to increased anti-tumor activity compared to either agent alone.
Lidocaine-induced atrioventricular (AV) conduction disturbances are an ill-defined phenomenon. Electrophysiological studies in both animal and human subjects have shown that therapeutic doses of lidocaine have no significant effect on AV nodal and His-Purkinje conduction time in the presence of intact AV conduction. Sporadic reports of accelerated AV conduction or complete heart block following lidocaine administration have been published. One case of Mobitz type II heart block has been reported in a patient with a prolonged QTc interval (0.61 sec) who was also receiving prenylamine. Electrophysiological studies designed to evaluate lidocaine's effects on AV conduction present conflicting observations. We report a case of Mobitz type II heart block following therapeutic doses of lidocaine in the absence of acute myocardial infarction or concomitant cardioactive drug administration. This case, in conjunction with other reported data, suggests the occurrence of lidocaine-induced AV block to be unpredictable. Although its occurrence may be infrequent, the severity of these reactions warrants careful selection and monitoring of patients who are to receive lidocaine.
Aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and the activation of the AhR pathway are involved in xenobiotic-induced toxicity and carcinogenesis. Although xenobiotics, such as cigarette smoke, contribute to the development of urothelial carcinoma (UC), the relationship between AhR and UC is unclear. In the present study, we investigated AhR expression in 209 patients with upper urinary tract UC. The nuclear expression of AhR was significantly associated with histological grade, pathological T stage, lymphovascular invasion and lymph node involvement. A multivariate Cox analysis revealed that nuclear AhR expression was a significant and independent predictor for disease-specific survival (hazard ratio = 2.469, P = 0.013). To determine whether the AhR pathway can be activated in the T24 UC cell line, we examined the expression of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A1 and CYP1B1, which are target genes of the AhR pathway, following exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), a ligand of AhR. TCDD treatment upregulated the expression levels of AhR, CYP1A1 and CYP1B1. TCDD enhanced T24 cell invasion associated with the upregulation of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 and MMP-9. Furthermore, targeting AhR messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in T24 cells with small interfering RNA (siRNA) downregulated the mRNA expression of AhR, CYP1A1, CYP1B1, MMP-1, MMP-2 and MMP-9; furthermore, the cells transfected with siRNA for AhR showed decreased invasion activity in comparison with the cells transfected with a non-targeting siRNA. Our results therefore suggest that AhR plays a role in the invasiveness of UC cells and can serve as a marker for the prognosis of upper urinary tract UC.
A 49-year-old woman treated with cimetidine 300 mg tid for more than 18 months for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome experienced lethargy, dizziness, ataxia, and auditory and visual hallucinations after receiving triazolam 0.375 mg hs for sleep. Triazolam plasma concentrations were measured, and a triazolam elimination half-life was calculated to be approximately 8 hours (reported range 1.7-3 h). Cimetidine has been reported to decrease the apparent oral clearance of triazolam, resulting in increased triazolam plasma concentrations with the potential for exaggerated triazolam pharmacologic effects. Cimetidine may have been responsible for the unusually large elimination half-life in this patient. Until the mechanisms and clinical significance of this potential drug interaction are determined, clinicians should use the combination of triazolam and cimetidine with caution.
IL-1 is a pleotropic cytokine that has been shown to play a prominent role in asthma induced by large-molecular-weight proteins. Increased IL-1 immunostaining in the submucosa of patients with toluene diisocyanate (TDI)-induced asthma has also been observed, suggesting that this cytokine might also be important in asthma associated with low-molecular-weight chemicals.
We sought to determine the role of IL-1 signaling in airway reactivity and inflammation by using a murine model of TDI-induced asthma.
C57BL/6 mice were exposed to TDI by means of vapor inhalation (20 ppb; 4 hours per day, 5 days per week, for 6 weeks) and then challenged 2 weeks later by inhalation with 20 ppb TDI vapor for 1 hour.
Sensitized-challenged mice showed increased airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR), increased levels of TDI-specific IgG1 antibodies, airway epithelial thickening, inflammation consisting of infiltrating lymphocytes and eosinophils, and increased mRNA expression of IL-4, intercellular adhesion molecule 1, and vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 in the lung. Prevention of IL-1 signaling through deletion of the IL-1 receptor type I or administration of neutralizing antibodies to both IL-1beta and IL-1alpha abrogated the development of TDI-induced asthma. A partial reduction in AHR and TDI-specific IgG1 levels was observed in mice administered anti-IL-1beta, whereas anti-IL-1alpha had no effect on either parameter. Antibodies to IL-1beta or IL-1alpha alone blocked airway inflammation and the expression of IL-4 and adhesion molecules in the lung.
These results suggest that IL-1 signaling is critical for AHR and airway inflammation, with IL-1beta and IL-1alpha having unique and overlapping roles in TDI-induced occupational asthma.
Long term continuous hepatic artery infusion of FUDR was carried out in 34 rats. In the animals who received a constant infusion schedule of 15 mg/kg/day all died of toxicity with a mean survival of 9.3 days. If the pattern of the continuous infusion was changed so that over 60% of the infusion was given during the hours of 3pm to 9pm than all of the animals survived the 14 day infusion. If the maximum dose of infusion was changed so that 60% of the infusion was given at night from 3am to 9am the infusion became more toxic and all the animals died in a mean of 5.5 days. Pathologic sectioning of all the livers reflected the above outcomes with the greatest amount of hepatic necrosis in the animals on the night cycles. This study underscores the recent advances in chronobiology demonstrating that for continuous hepatic arterial infusions the timing of delivery is crucial in determining the toxicity.
The distribution of renal adenosine A(1) receptors was investigated in rats with glycerol- or mercuric chloride (HgCl(2))-induced acute renal failure. Receptors were localised by autoradiography using [(3)H]8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine ([(3)H]DPCPX), a selective A(1) adenosine receptor antagonist. In saline-injected control animals, significant labelling with [(3)H]DPCPX was detected in glomeruli, the inner stripe of outer medulla, and the inner medulla. Sixteen hours following induction of glycerol-induced acute renal failure (ARF), a 34% increase in labelling in glomeruli was noted compared to saline-injected controls, and by 48 hr, glomerular labelling had increased by 200%. In addition, 48 hr following glycerol injection, significant labelling was now detected in the cortical labyrinth and medullary rays whilst, in the inner medulla, labelling had decreased by 34%. By contrast to glycerol-induced ARF, the only significant change noted 48 hr following induction of HgCl(2)-induced ARF was a 39% decrease in labelling in the inner medulla. It is concluded that glycerol-induced ARF results in differential expression of renal adenosine A(1) receptors with increased expression in the cortex and reduced expression in the inner medulla. Increased density of A(1) receptors in glomeruli may account, at least in part, for the increased renal vasoconstrictor response to adenosine and depressed glomerular filtration rate noted previously in this type of acute renal failure.
Interstitial nephritis consequent to rifampin was associated with potassium wasting, an acidifying defect, high fractional uric acid excretion, and glucosuria, indicating a multiplicity of renal tubular transport abnormalities. Enlarged kidneys on sonogram and proteinuria were also observed.
To study the cell biological mechanism of sodium selenite improving insulin sensitivity in pubertal rats with insulin resistance.
The content of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) was examined by anion resin chromatography, and mRNA levels of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase regulatory subunits (PI3Kp85 alpha) and Se-P were detected by RT-PCR in hepatocyte isolated from pubertal rats with insulin resistance.
The mRNA levels of Se-P and PI3Kp85 alpha and content of IP3 in isolated hepatocyte decreased in pubertal male rats with insulin resistance. The above indices increased and reached normal level in rats supplied with selenium. The response to insulin stimulation in isolated hepatocyte in rats with selenium supply was similar to that in the control group, and both groups had higher response than those with high-fat diet. Alone when inhibited by wortmannin, the concentration of IP3 increased slightly in rats with selenium supply, but still was lower than that in the control group.
These results indicate that the effect of selenium improving insulin sensitivity may be related to phosphatidylinositol PI3K signalling pathway. The effect of regulation of IP3 by selenium is not as effective as that by insulin, which may explain the difference of effect between selenium and insulin.
The present study aimed at evaluating whether a weekly cisplatin, epirubicin, and paclitaxel (PET) regimen could increase the pathological complete response (pCR) rate in comparison with a tri-weekly epirubicin and paclitaxel administration in locally advanced breast cancer (LABC) patients. Patients with stage IIIB disease were randomised to receive either 12 weekly cycles of cisplatin 30 mg m(-2), epirubicin 50 mg m(-2), and paclitaxel 120 mg m(-2) (PET) plus granulocyte-colony stimulating factor support, or four cycles of epirubicin 90 mg m(-2)+paclitaxel 175 mg m(-2) (ET) every 3 weeks. Overall, 200 patients (PET/ET=100/100) were included in this study. A pCR in both breast and axilla occurred in 16 (16%) PET patients and in six (6%) ET patients (P=0.02). The higher activity of PET was evident only in ER negative (27.5 vs 5.4%; P=0.026), and in HER/neu positive (31 vs 5%; P=0.037) tumours. The two arms yielded similar pCR rate in ER positive (PET/ET=7.5/7.1%) and HER/neu negative (PET/ET=10/6%) patients. At a 39 months median follow-up, 70 patients showed a progression or relapses (PET, 32 vs ET, 38). Anaemia, mucositis, peripheral neuropathy, and gastrointestinal toxicity were substantially more frequent in the PET arm. The PET weekly regimen is superior to ET in terms of pCR rate in LABC patients with ER negative and/or HER2 positive tumours Mature data in terms of disease-free and overall survival are needed to ascertain whether this approach could improve the prognosis of these subsets of LABC patients.
Despite data suggesting that angiotensin-receptor blockers (ARBs) are associated with increased risk to the fetus, there has been an increasing exposure of ARBs in pregnancy. We report a case report regarding a woman, who accidentally was treated with Candesartan during the first 22 weeks of pregnancy. At 22 weeks of gestation the fetal kidneys were oedematous with very little amniotic fluid. The prognosis for the fetus was considered poor. Five weeks after discontinuation of Candesartan normal quantities of amnionic fluid and a visible fetal bladder was registered. After delivery at week 31, creatinine clearance, diuresis and urine examination of the neonate were within normal limits. Ultrasound examinations of the kidneys showed bilaterally marked calices, small cysts and parenchymal increased echogenety at 1 week with complete sonographic normalization at 6 weeks. However, experimental studies raise the question of potential long-term adverse effects, including renal dysfunction and arterial hypertension in adulthood.
The increase in prevalence of asthma is strongly dependent on environmental factors, including foods. Significant decreases in the intake of dietary zinc may be an important contributing factor to the increasing incidence of asthma. As zinc can not passively diffuse across cell membranes, specific zinc transporters are required for zinc influx and efflux. There are two identified gene families involved in zinc homeostasis, ZnT transporters and ZIP transporters. In this study, we aimed to investigate the expression of these zinc transporters mRNA in the leukocytes of asthmatic infants. Asthmatic infants (n = 9) and healthy infants (n = 9) were included in this study. Five zinc transporters were chosen: ZnT-1, ZnT-3, ZnT-5, ZIP-1, and ZIP-2. Levels of zinc were determined in serum and expression of zinc transporters mRNA were measured. Serum zinc levels were significantly lower in asthmatic infants (P < 0.01); Expression of ZnT-1, ZnT-3, ZnT-5, ZIP-1 mRNA were not significantly different between two groups, but expression of ZIP-2 mRNA was significantly higher (P < 0.01) in the asthmatic group than the control group. In conclusion, overexpression of ZIP-2 mRNA was found in the leukocytes of asthmatic infants.
During the period 1971-79, 301 patients in the Voivodeship Integrated Hospital in Szczecin were treated with D-penicillamine (D-PCN). The complications observed included two cases of myasthenia gravis (MG), both in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, one a 41-year-old man given the drug for 8 months, the other a 50-year-old woman treated in the same way for 4 months. In both patients, pneumomediastinography revealed enlargement of the thymus. Thymectomy followed by histological examination in both cases showed the existence of germinal centres and Hassall's bodies in the typical glandular texture. Follow-up examination 3 years later confirmed complete healing in the male patient and a marked improvement in the female patient.
Accumulated evidence have shown that a series of morphological alternations occur in patients with epilepsy and in different epileptic animal models. Given most of animal model studies have been focused on adulthood stage, the effect of recurrent seizures to immature brain in neonatal period has not been well established. This study was designed to observe the certain morphological changes following recurrent seizures occurred in the neonatal rats. For seizure induction, neonatal Wistar rats were intraperitoneally injected with pilocarpine on postnatal day 1 (P1), P4 and P7. Rat pups were grouped and sacrificed at 1d, 7d, 14d and 42d after the last pilocarpine injection respectively. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was intraperitoneally administered 36h before the rats were sacrificed. BrdU single and double labeling with neuronal markers were used to analyze cell proliferation and differentiation. Nissl and Timm staining were performed to evaluate cell loss and mossy fiber sprouting. Rats with neonatal seizures had a significant reduction in the number of Bromodeoxyuridine-(BrdU) labeled cells in the dentate gyrus compared with the control groups when the animals were killed either 1 or 7 days after the third seizure (P<0.05) but there was no difference between two groups on P21. On the contrary, BrdU-labeled cells significantly increased in the experimental group compared with control group on P49 (P<0.05). The majority of the BrdU-labeled cells colocalized with neuronal marker-NF200 (Neurofilament-200). Nissl staining showed that there was no obvious neuronal loss after seizure induction over all different time points. Rats with the survival time of 42 days after neonatal seizures developed to increased mossy fiber sprouting in both the CA3 region and supragranular zone of the dentate gyrus compared with the control groups (P<0.05). Taken together, the present findings suggest that synaptic reorganization only occurs at the later time point following recurrent seizures in neonatal rats, and neonatal recurrent seizures can modulate neurogenesis oppositely over different time window with a down-regulation at early time and up-regulation afterwards.
To evaluate treatment outcome of patients with early-stage favorable Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) who experience disease relapse after primary treatment with two cycles of chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy (RT).
Of 1,129 patients with early-stage favorable HL enrolled onto the HD7/HD10/HD13 trials of the German Hodgkin Study Group, 42 patients were identified with treatment failure, of whom eight had primary progressive disease, seven had early relapse (< or = 12 months), and 27 had late relapse (> 12 months). We analyzed this group of patients for risk factors, salvage therapy, and treatment outcome.
The median age was 41 years (range, 19 to 72 years); 24 patients were male, 15 patients had outfield relapse, 13 patients infield relapse, and nine patients outfield and infield relapse. At relapse, 24 patients were treated with conventional salvage chemotherapy, 14 patients were treated with high-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem-cell transplantation, and four patients were treated with RT alone. At 36 months median follow-up, freedom from second treatment failure (FF2F) and overall survival (OS) were 52% and 67%, respectively. According to the prognostic score for relapsed HL (duration of first remission, clinical stage, and anemia at relapse), patients with two or three poor prognostic features had a significantly worse outcome compared with patients with none or one of these factors (P < .05 for FF2F and OS).
Relapse after primary treatment with two cycles of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine followed by RT is rare. In our analysis, results were influenced by a high treatment-related mortality rate. Additional studies are needed to define the optimal salvage therapy.
The first clinical studies on hydroxy-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors reported a low incidence of liver toxicity. The personal observation of a case of simvastatin-induced acute cholestatic hepatitis prompted us to evaluate the true incidence of hepatic side effects of these drugs in a large Italian population. One hundred patients taking simvastatin and ninety patients treated with pravastatin were followed-up six months with periodical evaluation of serum lipid levels and liver function test. In 5% of simvastatin-treated patients and 4.5% of pravastatin-treated patients significant liver toxicity was observed, which required drug discontinuation. The mechanism of liver damage was direct, idiosyncratic, but immunological features of drug toxicity could be hypothesized in one patient.
The giant protein titin is essential for striated muscle development, structure, and elasticity. All titin mutations reported to date cause late-onset, dominant disorders involving either skeletal muscle or the heart. Our aim was to delineate the phenotype and determine the genetic defects in two consanguineous families with an early-onset, recessive muscle and cardiac disorder.
Clinical and myopathological reevaluation of the five affected children, positional cloning, immunofluorescence, and Western blot studies were performed.
All children presented with congenital muscle weakness and childhood-onset fatal dilated cardiomyopathy. Skeletal muscle biopsies showed minicores, centrally located nuclei, and/or dystrophic lesions. In each family, we identified a homozygous titin deletion in exons encoding the C-terminal M-line region. Both deletions cause a frameshift downstream of the titin kinase domain and protein truncation. Immunofluorescence confirmed that truncated titins lacking the C-terminal end were incorporated into sarcomeres. Calpain 3 was secondarily depleted.
M-line titin homozygous truncations cause the first congenital and purely recessive titinopathy, and the first to involve both cardiac and skeletal muscle. These results expand the spectrum of early-onset myopathies and suggest that titin segments downstream of the kinase domain are dispensable for skeletal and cardiac muscle development, but are crucial for maintaining sarcomere integrity.
The Nrf family of transcription factors plays a critical role in mediating adaptive responses to cellular stress and defends against neurodegeneration, aging, and cancer. Here, we report a novel role for the Caenorhabditis elegans Nrf homolog SKN-1 in regulating synaptic transmission at neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). Activation of SKN-1, either by acute pharmacological treatment with the mitochondrial toxin sodium arsenite or by mutations that cause constitutive SKN-1 activation, results in defects in neuromuscular function. Additionally, elimination of the conserved WD40 repeat protein WDR-23, a principal negative regulator of SKN-1, results in impaired locomotion and synaptic vesicle and neuropeptide release from cholinergic motor axons. Mutations that abolish skn-1 activity restore normal neuromuscular function to wdr-23 mutants and animals treated with toxin. We show that negative regulation of SKN-1 by WDR-23 in the intestine, but not at neuromuscular junctions, is necessary and sufficient for proper neuromuscular function. WDR-23 isoforms differentially localize to the outer membranes of mitochondria and to nuclei, and the effects of WDR-23 on neuromuscular function are dependent on its interaction with cullin E3 ubiquitin ligase. Finally, whole-transcriptome RNA sequencing of wdr-23 mutants reveals an increase in the expression of known SKN-1/Nrf2-regulated stress-response genes, as well as neurotransmission genes not previously implicated in SKN-1/Nrf2 responses. Together, our results indicate that SKN-1/Nrf2 activation may be a mechanism through which cellular stress, detected in one tissue, affects cellular function of a distal tissue through endocrine signaling. These results provide insight into how SKN-1/Nrf2 might protect the nervous system from damage in response to oxidative stress.
