Glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) is a principal glucose transporter in response to insulin, and impaired translocation or decreased expression of GLUT4 is believed to be one of the major pathological features of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Therefore, induction of GLUT4 translocation or/and expression is a promising strategy for anti-T2DM drug discovery. Here we report that the natural product (+)-Rutamarin (Rut) functions as an efficient dual inducer on both insulin-induced GLUT4 translocation and expression. Rut-treated 3T3-L1 adipocytes exhibit efficiently enhanced insulin-induced glucose uptake, while diet-induced obese (DIO) mice based assays further confirm the Rut-induced improvement of glucose homeostasis and insulin sensitivity in vivo. Subsequent investigation of Rut acting targets indicates that as a specific protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) inhibitor Rut induces basal GLUT4 translocation to some extent and largely enhances insulin-induced GLUT4 translocation through PI3 kinase-AKT/PKB pathway, while as an agonist of retinoid X receptor α (RXRα), Rut potently increases GLUT4 expression. Furthermore, by using molecular modeling and crystallographic approaches, the possible binding modes of Rut to these two targets have been also determined at atomic levels. All our results have thus highlighted the potential of Rut as both a valuable lead compound for anti-T2DM drug discovery and a promising chemical probe for GLUT4 associated pathways exploration.
We describe 3 episodes of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA) in 2 solid organ recipients under FK506 (tacrolimus) therapy. In both cases, discontinuation of FK506 and treatment with plasma exchange, fresh frozen plasma replacement, corticosteroids, aspirin, and dipyridamole led to resolution of MAHA. In one patient, reintroduction of FK506 led to rapid recurrence of MAHA. FK506-associated MAHA is probably rare but physicians must be aware of this severe complication. In our experience and according to the literature, FK506 does not seem to cross-react with cyclosporin A (CyA), an immuno-suppressive drug already known to induce MAHA.
The purpose of this work was to study if the steatogenic effect on the liver of Rifampicin, which is an inhibitor of the RNA polymerases DNA dependent in bacteria, can be prevented by an anabolic steroid: 19 nortestosterone phenylproprionate (19-NTPP) which probably stimulates the RNA polymerase activity in eukariotic cells. 19-NTPP (25 mg/kg/24 h, i.p.) was administered to male and both intact and ovariectomized female rats for 8 days prior to the administration of Rifampicin (400 mg/kg/24 h for 8 days). In male rats, 19-NTPP does not prevent the Rifampicin-induced fatty liver. On the contrary, in female rats, 19-NTPP exerts a partial protective effect in intact as well as in ovariectomized animals. These results show that the protective effect of 19-NTPP against Rifampicin fatty liver is less complete and little specific, comparated to the protective effect obtained against another steatogenic compound in female rats: alpha-Amanitin, which is a potent inhibitor of RNA polymerase II in eukariotic cells. In conclusion, the inhibitor effect of Rifampicin on the hepatic apolipoprotein biosynthesis appears as less specific and more intricate than the comparable effect of alpha-Amanitin.
We examined intracellular calcium transients of isolated single cardiac myocytes from rats with doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiomyopathy with simultaneous measurement of cell motion. DOX was administered i.p. to Sprague-Dawley rats at 2.5 mg/kg once a week for 10 weeks. Field-stimulated calcium transients and simultaneous cell motion in single myocytes were measured in the presence or absence of isoproterenol using fura-2/AM. Histopathologic examination revealed slight changes. The time courses of both calcium transients and cell motion were significantly prolonged by DOX. There was a slight but not significant reduction in parameters of contractility in both calcium transients and cell motion. The beta-adrenoceptor responsiveness of both calcium transients and cell motion was not significantly impaired compared with the controls. Our data indicated that, despite the slight histologic changes in the heart in DOX-induced cardiomyopathy, impaired sequestration of intracellular free calcium ions in individual myocytes may be one factor leading to diastolic dysfunction. Monitoring of diastolic function is important to detect early cardiotoxicity caused by DOX.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) occurs in approximately 1:2,500 human births and has high morbidity and mortality rates, primarily due to pulmonary hypoplasia and pulmonary hypertension. Tracheal occlusion (TO), in experimental animals, distends lungs and increases lung growth and alveolar type I cell maturation but decreases surfactant components and reduces alveolar type II cell density. We examined effects of CDH and CDH+TO on lung growth and maturation in fetal rats. To induce CDH, we administered nitrofen (100 mg) to dams at 9.5 days of gestation. We compared lungs from fetuses with CDH, CDH+TO, and those exposed to nitrofen without CDH. CDH decreased lung wet weight bilaterally (P < 0.0001) and DNA content in lung ipsilateral to CDH (P < 0.05). CDH+TO significantly increased lung wet weights bilaterally; DNA content was intermediate between CDH and NC. To evaluate effects on the distal pulmonary epithelium, we examined surfactant mRNA and protein levels, type I and II cell-specific markers (RTI(40) and RTII(70), respectively), and transcriptional regulator thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1). Decreased lung distension (due to CDH) increased SP-C mRNA and TTF-1 protein expression and reduced RTI(40) (P < 0.05 for all). Increased lung distension (due to CDH+TO) reduced expression of SP mRNAs and pro-SP-C and TTF-1 proteins and enhanced expression of RTI(40) (mRNA and protein; P < 0.05 for all). We conclude that CDH+TO partially reverses effects of CDH; it corrects the pulmonary hypoplasia and restores type I cell differentiation but adversely affects SP expression in type II cells. These effects may be mediated through changes in TTF-1 expression.
A total of 12 patients with completely resected, recurrent papillary tumors of the bladder were entered into a dose-finding study using intravesical idarubicin, a new anthracycline agent that has been shown in vitro to be more active than doxorubicin or daunorubicin, its parental compound. Patients were scheduled to receive eight weekly instillations with the following dose levels: 6.5, 12.5, and 20 mg, all of them diluted in 50 ml saline. Each dose level was initially studied in 3 patients. Dose escalation in the individual patients was not allowed so as to avoid undue toxicity and to evaluate the cumulative toxicity induced by each dose level. Overall, 4 patients were withdrawn due to severe local toxicity (chemocystitis) after a median of 2 instillations (range 1-3) and 3 more patients refused to continue treatment due to mild to moderate toxicity after a median of 4 instillations (range 2-4). Both the patients treated with 20 mg idarubicin and 2 of the 6 patients treated with 12.5 mg were withdrawn due to local toxicity. In contrast, no systemic toxicity was encountered at any dose level. We conclude that doses ranging from 6.5 to 12.5 mg and concentrations varying between 0.125 and 0.250 mg/ml are more appropriate for phase II studies, implying repeated instillations. At these doses and concentrations, however, it is unlikely that idarubicin might be more active than doxorubicin or epirubicin, whereas it might be more toxic.
Ergotamine and analgesic misuse are now recognized as causes of chronic daily headache and the condition responds well to drug withdrawal with reduced headache frequency. In this study, we have investigated whether medication misuse is associated with an alteration in membrane transduction which is sensitive to drug withdrawal. This was carried out by assay of the thrombin-stimulated generation of inositol phosphates in platelets from 12 migraine patients with chronic daily headache and analgesic misuse, 7 migraine patients with chronic daily headache and ergotamine misuse and 7 control subjects. After drug withdrawal, a significant decrease in headache frequency was seen at one month in both patient groups. Withdrawal of analgesics produced a significant decrease in thrombin-stimulated inositol phosphate production at one month; this was further decreased a month later with a reduction in Bmax of 60% and no significant change in KD. A similar pattern was obtained in ergot misuse patients, with the KD value decreasing by 56% one month after drug withdrawal. These results provide evidence of an adaptation in transduction with misuse of analgesics and ergotamine which correlates with headache frequency.
A propanolamine derivative with vanillylamide base, KMUP 880602, was first investigated under in vivo and in vitro conditions. IV KMUP 880602 (0.1, 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 mg/kg) produced dose-dependent hypotensive and bradycardia responses in pentobarbital-anesthetized Wistar rats. KMUP 880602 also markedly inhibited both the tachycardia effects induced by (-)isoproterenol and arterial pressor responses induced by phenylephrine. In isolated guinea pig tissues, KMUP 880602 competitively antagonized (-)isoproterenol-induced positive inotropic and chronotropic effects of the atria and tracheal relaxation responses. The apparent pA2 values KMUP 880602 were 7.24 +/- 0.08 (right atria), 7.42 +/- 0.07 (left atria), and 6.24 +/- 0.06 (trachea). KMUP 880602 also produced a competitive antagonism of norepinephrine-induced contraction in the isolated rat aorta with pA2 values of 7.64 +/- 0.18. In the radioligand-binding assay, [3H]CGP-12177 binding to rat ventricle and lung tissues and [3H]prazosin binding to brain membranes were inhibited by KMUP 880602 with pKi values of 7.27, 6.08, and 8.25, respectively. In isolated rat thoracic aorta, the vasorelaxant effects of KMUP 880602 on phenylephrine-induced contractions were attenuated by pretreatment with tetraethylammonium (10-3 M) and charybdotoxin (10-7 M) but not by glibenclamide, 4-aminopyridine, and apamin. In conclusion, KMUP 880602 is an alpha/beta-adrenoceptor blocker, with selective beta1-adrenoceptor blocking and vascular smooth muscle relaxation activities. Particularly, the vasorelaxant effect of KMUP 880602 is partially mediated by the opening of charybdotoxin-sensitive K+ channel.
Administration of glycerol produces acute renal failure (ARF) accompanied by profound vasoconstriction. It was hypothesized that impaired arachidonic acid metabolism may contribute to the vasoconstriction through alteration of renal eicosanoids or endothelin-1 or angiotensin II stimulation of renal oxygenases. Arachidonic acid (5, 10, 25 microg) in the control kidney produced increases in perfusion pressure of 15 +/- 9, 18 +/- 8, and 43 +/- 18 mm Hg, respectively. These responses were increased 1.5-fold in glycerol-induced renal failure (p < 0.01). Indomethacin (10 microM), the cyclooxygenase inhibitor, converted arachidonic acid vasoconstriction to epoxide-mediated vasodilator responses, which were unchanged in ARF. In ARF, 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid (10 microM), the all-purpose inhibitor of arachidonic acid metabolism; indomethacin (10 microM), a cyclooxygenase inhibitor; 5,8,11-eicosatriyenoic acid (2.5 microM), the 5- and 12-lipoxygenase inhibitor; or aminobenzotriazole (50 mM), the cytochrome P-450 monooxygenase inhibitor, markedly attenuated arachidonic acid-induced vasoconstriction by 73 +/- 11% (p < 0.01), 89 +/- 1% (p < 0.01), 62 +/- 11% (p < 0.01), and 82 +/- 2% (p < 0.01), respectively. In ARF, angiotensin II-induced vasoconstriction was amplified by 67% (p < 0.01). Eicosatetraynoic acid, eicosatriyenoic acid, and aminobenzotriazole reduced these responses by 33 +/- 6% (p < 0.05), 53 +/- 6% (p < 0.01), and 52 +/- 11% (p < 0.05), respectively. Vasoconstriction by endothelin-1 was unchanged in ARF (24 +/- 17%). However, indomethacin attenuated endothelin-1 vasoconstriction by 41 +/- 11% (p < 0.05), whereas eicosatriyenoic acid and aminobenzotriazole were without effect. These data suggest that the increased renal vascular reactivity in ARF in response to arachidonic acid involves a relatively greater production of cyclooxygenase metabolites than monoxygenase- or lipoxygenase-derived eicosanoid metabolites. Furthermore, increased angiotensin II vasoconstriction is predominantly through lipoxygenase and monoxygenase metabolic pathways, whereas for endothelin-1, increased cyclooxygenase-derived vasoconstrictor metabolites play a significant role in its amplified vasoconstrictor effect in glycerol-induced ARF.
The Alzheimer's amyloid precursor protein (APP) is the metalloprotein that is cleaved to generate the pathogenic Abeta peptide. We showed that iron closely regulated the expression of APP by 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) sequences in APP mRNA. Iron modulated APP holoprotein expression by a pathway similar to iron control of the translation of the ferritin-L and -H mRNAs by iron-responsive elements in their 5'-UTRs. APP gene transcription is also responsive to copper deficit where the Menkes protein depleted fibroblasts of copper to suppress transcription of APP through metal regulatory and copper regulatory sequences upstream of the APP 5' cap site. APP is a copper-zinc metalloprotein and chelation of Fe(3+) by desferrioxamine and Cu(2+) by clioquinol appeared to provide effective therapy for the treatment of AD in limited patient studies. We have introduced an RNA-based screen for small APP 5'-UTR binding molecules to identify leads that limit APP translation (but not APLP-1 and APLP-2) and amyloid Abeta peptide production. A library of 1200 drugs was screened to identify lead drugs that limited APP 5'-UTR-directed translation of a reporter gene. The efficacy of these leads was confirmed for specificity in a cell-based secondary assay to measure the steady-state levels of APP holoprotein relative to APLP-1/APLP-2 by Western blotting. Several chelators were identified among the APP 5'-UTR directed leads consistent with the presence of an IRE stem-loop in front of the start codon of the APP transcript. The APP 5'-UTR-directed drugs--desferrioxamine (Fe(3+) chelator), tetrathiomolybdate (Cu(2+) chelator), and dimercaptopropanol (Pb(2+) and Hg(2+) chelator)--each suppressed APP holoprotein expression (and lowered Abeta peptide secretion). The novel anticholinesterase phenserine also provided "proof of concept" for our strategy to target the APP 5'-UTR sequence to identify "anti-amyloid" drugs. We further defined the interaction between iron chelation and phenserine action to control APP 5'-UTR-directed translation in neuroblastoma (SY5Y) transfectants. Phenserine was most efficient to block translation under conditions of intracellular iron chelation with desferrioxamine suggesting that this anticholinesterase operated through an iron (metal)-dependent pathway at the APP 5'-UTR site.
Gastrointestinal and cardiac manifestations are the commonly considered features of digoxin toxicity. This report describes a patient with severe chronic obstructive lung disease whose primary manifestation of digoxin toxicity is acute alteration of mental status. Neurologic dysfunction may be the sole manifestation of digitalis toxicity. The diagnosis of digoxin toxicity should be considered in elderly patients with altered mental status, even when serum levels are within a therapeutic range.
Quiescent hepatic stem cells (HSCs) can be activated when hepatocyte proliferation is compromised. Chemical injury rodent models have been widely used to study the localization, biomarkers, and signaling pathways in HSCs, but these models usually exhibit severe promiscuous toxicity and fail to distinguish damaged and non-damaged cells. Our goal is to establish new animal models to overcome these limitations, thereby providing new insights into HSC biology and application. We generated mutant mice with constitutive or inducible deletion of Damaged DNA Binding protein 1 (DDB1), an E3 ubiquitin ligase, in hepatocytes. We characterized the molecular mechanism underlying the compensatory activation and the properties of oval cells (OCs) by methods of mouse genetics, immuno-staining, cell transplantation and gene expression profiling. We show that deletion of DDB1 abolishes self-renewal capacity of mouse hepatocytes in vivo, leading to compensatory activation and proliferation of DDB1-expressing OCs. Partially restoring proliferation of DDB1-deficient hepatocytes by ablation of p21, a substrate of DDB1 E3 ligase, alleviates OC proliferation. Purified OCs express both hepatocyte and cholangiocyte markers, form colonies in vitro, and differentiate to hepatocytes after transplantation. Importantly, the DDB1 mutant mice exhibit very minor liver damage, compared to a chemical injury model. Microarray analysis reveals several previously unrecognized markers, including Reelin, enriched in oval cells. Here we report a genetic model in which irreversible inhibition of hepatocyte duplication results in HSC-driven liver regeneration. The DDB1 mutant mice can be broadly applied to studies of HSC differentiation, HSC niche and HSCs as origin of liver cancer.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) bacteriuria was detected in 11 of 41 patients colonized or infected with MRSA. The patients with bacteriuria generally were older than 40 years of age, five were diabetic, seven had prior indwelling uretheral catheters, two had undergone other urologic manipulations, and only one was clinically symptomatic. Eight patients received variable combinations of antibiotic therapy prior to the diagnosis of MRSA bacteriuria, and seven were still on antibiotic therapy at the time the bacteriuria was detected. Bacteriuria lasted four days to 14 weeks, and was eradicated promptly with cephalosporin therapy in five six patients. Bacteriuria in the untreated patients cleared spontaneously in one month. A single MRSA serotype (83A) predominated. The MRSA isolates were resistant in vitro to most antibiotics except vancomycin. Resistant colonies were observed within cephalothin disc zones of inhibition at 30C (resistance was confirmed by microtube-dilution sensitivity testing). MRSA disc sensitivity testing for cephalothin may be unreliable when performed at 35C.
Two case reports are described of male patients experiencing a semen-like urethral discharge during micturition, suspected to be induced by mazindol. Mazindol has an indirect sympathomimetic action and is known to cause urogenital side effects such as urinary retention and testicular pain. It is suggested that seminal discharge may be added to this list.
Houttuynia cordata Thunb (Saururaceae), known as 'E-Sung-Cho' in Korea, has been traditionally used for the treatment of herpes simplex, chronic sinusitis, and allergy.
To investigate the inhibitory activity of Houttuynia cordata Thunb fractions (HcFs) on the T helper 2 (Th2) immune response, we evaluated the alternation of the release of Th2-type cytokines and chemokines such as interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-5, and thymus and activation-regulated chemokine (TARC/CCL17).
Ethanol fraction was obtained from dried and powdered whole plants of Houttuynia cordata Thunb using ethanol. The residue was diluted with water and was then successively partitioned with n-hexane, EtOAc and BuOH. HcFs include ethanol, n-hexane, EtOAc, BuOH and water fractions. RT-PCR and ELISA were performed to measure mRNA and protein expression of cytokines.
HcFs inhibited the expression of IL-4 and IL-5 in response to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and calcium ionophore (CaI) in Jurkat T cells and the human mast cell line, HMC-1. IL-4- and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)-induced TARC production was blocked by HcFs in skin fibroblast CCD-986sk cells, particularly by the ethanol extract of Hc. Stimulants included in PMA, phytohemagglutinin (PHA) and CaI, increased the mRNA level of CC chemokine receptor 4 (CCR4), a receptor of TARC, in Jurkat T cells, and the ethanol extract of HcF weakly blocked the increased mRNA level. However, the stimulants and ethanol extract had no effect on the CCR4 protein level. The ethanol extract inhibited TARC-induced migration, as well as basal migration of Jurkat T cells.
This study may show the usefulness of HcFs in the ethnopharmacological treatment of Th2-mediated or allergic inflammation, through the down-regulation of the production of Th2 cytokines and TARC, as well as cell migration.
Renal acidification was studied in 10 control subjects and 15 lithium carbonate-treated psychiatric patients of similar age. Seven lithium-treated patients were unable to lower urine pH normally after short duration acid-loading (Li-1:5.35 to 6.25), while 8 (Li-ll:4.52 to 5.17) did not differ from control subjects (4.49 to 5.07). Li-l patients excreted significantly less titratable and net acid than the other groups. Baseline urine pH was higher in both lithium-treated groups than in control subjects, and although this was due in part to the carbonate moiety of the medication, the abnormal minimal urine pH of Li-l patients was not carbonate-dependent. Li-l patients had normal arterial pH and bicarbonate concentrations, trival bicarbonaturia, and no evidence of generalized proximal tubular dysfunction. These data demonstrate that lithium therapy can induce the syndrome of incomplete distal renal tubular acidosis at serum lithium concentrations within the accepted therapeutic range.
Methotrexate (MTX) hepatotoxicity in psoriatic patients is well recognized, but there are discrepancies in the reported incidence and associated risk factors. This retrospective study describes 104 Nova Scotian patients with psoriasis seen between 1979 and 1990. Patients received MTX over one to 11 years (mean 3.38), with baseline and annual follow-up liver biopsies. Clinical data were obtained by chart review. Statistical analysis evaluated the risks associated with obesity, diabetes, alcohol consumption and duration of therapy, with the histological grade of liver biopsies.
Of the 104 patients, 35 were obese, 10 were diabetic and 37 occasionally consumed alcohol. At the end of the study, 21 patients had developed severe hepatic fibrosis (grade IIIB), and three developed liver cirrhosis (grade IV). Significant risk of severe hepatotoxicity is related to diabetes (P = 0.02) but not to obesity (P = 0.12) or alcohol consumption (P = 0.12). All patients with cirrhosis took MTX for two years in standard doses of 20 to 25 mg/week.
In this first Canadian study evaluating MTX hepatotoxicity in psoriatics, the incidence of severe hepatotoxicity is high: 23.1% (24 of 104 patients). This study shows that diabetic patients are particularly at increased risk of MTX hepatotoxicity. Occasional alcohol consumption is not associated with increased risk. Three patients who developed cirrhosis over two years of standard MTX therapy may represent a subset of psoriatics with increased hepatic susceptibility to MTX. Another three patients whose severe hepatic fibrosis had regressed upon discontinuation of MTX, but who developed accelerated recurrence of the severe hepatic fibrosis upon resumption of MTX therapy, also suggest the possibility of unusual sensitivity to the drug. These cases emphasize the need for continuing surveillance, with regular liver biopsies, of psoriatic patients on MTX.
We report the case of a patient with Henoch-Schönlein Purpura related to a treatment with cefuroxime and diclofenac who presented important systemic manifestations including a glomerulonephritis with IgA mesangial deposits. Skin testing with beta lactam antibiotics and diclofenac were negative in immediate and late reaction as well as RAST test to penicillins G and V. No cautious administration of drugs was done because of the illness severity. Although a reaction to diclofenac could not be excluded we thought that the more probably implicated drug was cefuroxime because the patient referred a purpuric rash after the intake of cephradine for a mastitis, ten years ago.
To evaluate the association between rofecoxib, celecoxib, diclofenac, and ibuprofen and the risk of hospitalization for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in an elderly population.
We conducted a retrospective cohort study, using data from the government of Quebec health insurance agency databases, among patients 65-80 years of age who filled a prescription for any of the study drugs during 1999-2002. Cox regression models with time-dependent exposure were used to compare the incidence rates of hospitalization for AMI adjusting for patients' baseline characteristics. Analyses stratified by dose and number of supplied days were also conducted.
At the index date, a total of 91 062 patients were taking rofecoxib, 127 928 celecoxib, 49 193 diclofenac, and 15 601 ibuprofen. The adjusted hazard ratio (HR) (95%CI) of hospitalization for AMI were: celecoxib versus rofecoxib: 0.90 (0.79, 1.01); ibuprofen versus rofecoxib: 0.95 (0.65, 1.37); diclofenac versus rofecoxib: 1.01 (0.84, 1.22). In secondary analyses based on intended duration of use, neither COX-2 selective inhibitor was associated with a higher risk than ibuprofen or diclofenac. The unadjusted risk of AMI for all NSAIDs increased with dose. In the direct two way adjusted comparison of each NSAID stratified by dose, the only statistically significant difference was with rofecoxib >25 mg/day versus celecoxib >200 mg/day.
In this study there was no difference between AMI occurrence in elderly patients taking rofecoxib or celecoxib at recommended doses for chronic indications versus those taking ibuprofen/diclofenac. However, the risk of AMI was higher among patients using higher doses of rofecoxib (>25 mg/day) compared to patients using higher doses of celecoxib (>200 mg/day).
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) shows great promise as an effective therapy for patients with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA)-resistant acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Little data is available addressing the pathology of As2O3 treated APL and whether the antileukemic mechanism of As2O3 is primarily cytolysis or through stimulation of cell differentiation. In this report, we made a morphologic, cytogenetic, and molecular evaluation of five ATRA-refractory APL patients who were treated with As2O3. Four of the five patients had morphologic responses after one or two cycles of As2O3 treatment. Of the four responders based on bone marrow morphology, two achieved molecular remission (negative RT-PCR for PML- RAR alpha fusion transcripts) by the end of the second and third cycles of As2O3 therapy. Two patients exhibited marked leukocytosis during the first cycle of As2O3, and at that time point the APL cells were largely replaced by the cells showing partial differentiation towards myelocytes with co-expression of CD11b and CD33. Nevertheless, these "myelocyte-like" cells that showed the t(15;17) translocation eventually disappeared with continuous As2O3 therapy. As2O3 treatment appears to be effective therapy for the patients with relapsed APL after the failure of conventional chemotherapy and ATRA therapy. The pathologic findings in these five cases suggest that at low doses As2O3 primarily induces differentiation of the APL cells, generating abnormal myelocytes resembling APL cells treated with ATRA, whereas at higher doses AS2O3 induces marrow necrosis.
A 59-year-old male with an abdominal mass that showed a diffuse large B cell lymphoma underwent extirpation of the tumor and chemotherapy. He subsequently received high-dose chemotherapy containing cyclophosphamide (1.5 g/m(2)/day x 2 days), followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. He developed congestive heart failure 5 days after administration of cyclophosphamide. His electrocardiogram showed extremely low voltage with ST segment change and echocardiogram showed diffusely increased left ventricular wall thickness, an increase in myocardial echogenicity, pericardial effusion, and generally decreased systolic function. Congestive heart failure progressed rapidly and he died the following day. Post-mortem examination of the heart revealed myocardial hemorrhage, yellowish brown pericardial effusion, and fibrinous pericarditis. His liver was atrophic and focal necrosis was observed histologically. Cyclophosphamide-induced cardiotoxicity occurred, even though the patient had both shown normal cardiac function before high-dose chemotherapy and had received a lower dose of cyclophosphamide. Concomitant administration of cytarabine might have affected his liver function and there might have been interaction between the drugs.
The benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil, can provoke panic attacks in some panic disorder patients. It has been predicted that panic responses to flumazenil may be associated with situational fear. Patients with social phobia frequently experience situational anxiety and panic attacks. The current study tested whether flumazenil induces panic in patients with social phobia. Fourteen patients with social phobia (DSM-III-R) and 14 age- and sex-matched controls were tested in a single session, double blind crossover challenge design, using intravenous flumazenil 2 mg/20 ml or matched placebo infusions 1 hour apart. Panic attacks occurred during flumazenil challenge in 2/14 subjects with social phobia. The rate of panic attacks and the severity of panic symptoms following flumazenil were not significantly greater in patients than in controls. Situational fears that are provoked by social cues therefore do not predict panic responses to flumazenil.
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) often presents with behavioural changes warranting treatment with antipsychotic medications. It is known that patients with Lewy body dementia are sensitive to developing extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) from these medications. This has not been emphasized in FTD. We report three patients with FTD that developed parkinsonism and prominent antecollis after treatment with newer antipsychotics, including olanzapine, risperidone and quetiapine. Patients with FTD might have increased sensitivity to antipsychotic medications as with Lewy body dementia. Although newer antipsychotics have favourable side effect profiles, there is increasing evidence that EPS develop more frequently than previously thought.
Aberrant crypt foci (ACF) consisting of one more single aberrant crypts (AC) are putative preneoplastic lesions that have been proposed as intermediate biomarkers for colon cancer. Using ACF as the end-point we have studied the effects of two different classes of colon carcinogens, 1,2-dimethylhydrazine dihydrochloride (DMH; 10 or 20 mg/kg body wt/injection) or its metabolite azoxymethane (AOM; 5 mg/kg) and 3,2'dimethyl-4- aminobiphenyl hydrochloride (DMAB; 50 mg/kg) in F344 and Lewis rats. Each carcinogen was given alone or DMH/AOM and DMAB were given in combination in either alternating or successive order in multiple doses. Each compound given alone induced ACF in both rat strains and the effect was most pronounced in the F344 rats. DMAB, not previously tested for ability to induce ACF in rats, was clearly less potent than DMH or AOM. The highest number of ACF was found distally in the colon, independent of treatment or rat strain. Surprisingly, DMAB markedly decreased the carcinogenic effect of DMH, evaluated both as numbers of ACF and AC per colon, as well as number of ACF with four or more AC, when both classes of carcinogens were given alternately. A more pronounced reduction was found in F344 rats than in Lewis rats, being 75-77% and 64-68% respectively with the highest DMH dose. The same tendency was found with successive exposure to DMAB followed by DMH or AOM. These differences in timing of exposure and the different metabolic pathways used by the two classes of carcinogens make a metabolic interaction unlikely as the reason for the antagonistic effect of DMAB on DMH or AOM. The type of standard diet used was found to influence the induction of ACF by the colon carcinogen DMH.
The efficacy and safety of orally administered procaterol hydrochloride, a potent beta 2-adrenergic bronchodilator, was compared with that of albuterol in an eight-center, double-blind study conducted in 223 patients with mild to moderate, reversible bronchial airway obstruction. After a 1-wk placebo washout period, patients were administered either procaterol 0.05 mg twice daily for 2 wk followed by 0.10 mg twice daily for 10 wk or albuterol 2 mg three times a day for 2 wk followed by 4 mg three times a day for 10 wk. Spirometry determinations 1.5 h postdose showed consistently greater percent improvements from predose in FVC, FEV1, and FEF25-75 with procaterol than with albuterol at Weeks 1, 2, 4, 8, and 12. Treatment differences were statistically significant (alpha = 0.05) after 2 wk, 2 months, and 3 months of treatment. Bronchodilatation was evident 0.5 h after dosing and peaked at 1.5 to 3 h postdose for both treatments. The duration of action (i.e., time until spirometry determinations were lower than those at 0.5 h postdose) was at least 5 h after procaterol but only 3 h after albuterol. There was no evidence of tolerance with continued procaterol treatment, whereas a diminished duration of response to albuterol was observed with long-term treatment. Tremor was reported statistically more frequently in patients receiving procaterol than in those receiving albuterol (alpha = 0.05); the frequencies of other adverse events were similar for the two groups. No statistically significant treatment differences were noted for asthma symptoms, global evaluations, ECG results, vital signs, or clinical laboratory measurements.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
