Aflatoxin B₁ (AFB₁) is a DNA-binding toxin that contributes to the burden of liver cancer in tropical areas. AFB₁-DNA adducts are powerful biomarkers that discern individual and population risk from exposure to this carcinogen. The discovery of concordance between the metabolic pathways of the male Fischer rat and humans allowed data from rats to guide the development of chemoprevention strategies employed in clinical trials in high-risk regions. In this study, the variables of strain and sex are studied in the rat model, as a step toward understanding how ethnic differences and sex influence DNA adduct formation and the induction of enzymes by chemoprotective agents. Sulforaphane (SF), which induces phase II enzymes including glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), was evaluated for its ability to induce GST activity and reduce the AFB₁-DNA adducts in livers of both sexes of two rat strains that differ in susceptibility to AFB₁ hepatocarcinogenesis. A dose-dependent relationship was found for SF for both induction of GST and reduction in of AFB₁-N⁷-guanine in both Fischer (sensitive to AFB₁) and Sprague-Dawley rats (relatively resistant). Sprague-Dawley rats exhibited the greatest increase in GST levels and the largest reduction in AFB₁-N⁷-guanine in liver DNA. Males and females of each strain were also compared to determine if the ability of SF to induce GST and reduce AFB₁-N⁷-guanine correlated with gender differences in sensitivity to AFB₁ carcinogenesis. No gender-specific responses to SF were observed. These results support the view that SF induction of liver GST activity may play a role in its chemoprotective activity.
Propiconazole is a mouse hepatotumorigenic fungicide and has been the subject of recent investigations into its carcinogenic mechanism of action. The goals of this study were (1) to identify metabolomic changes induced in the liver by increasing doses of propiconazole in mice, (2) to interpret these results with key previously reported biochemical, transcriptomic, and proteomic findings obtained from mouse liver under the same treatment conditions, and (3) to relate these alterations to those associated with the carcinogenesis process. Propiconazole was administered to male CD-1 mice in the feed for 4 days with six mice per feed level (500, 1250, and 2500 ppm). The 2500 ppm dose level had previously been shown to induce both adenocarcinomas and adenomas in mouse liver after a 2-year continuous feed regimen. Endogenous biochemicals were profiled using liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry methods and 261 were detected. The most populous biochemical class detected was lipids, followed by amino acids and then carbohydrates. Nucleotides, cofactors and vitamins, energy, peptides, and xenobiotics were also represented. Of the biochemicals detected, 159 were significantly altered by at least one dose of propiconazole and many showed strong dose responses. Many alterations in the levels of biochemicals were found in the glycogen metabolism, glycolysis, lipolysis, carnitine, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle pathways Several groups of metabolomic responses were ascribed to the metabolism and clearance of propiconazole: glucuronate, glutathione, and cysteine pathways. Groups of metabolic responses supported previous hypotheses on key events that can lead to propiconazole-induced tumorigenesis: oxidative stress and increases in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. Groups of metabolomic responses identified biomarkers associated with neoplasia: increases in glycolysis and increases in the levels of spermidine, sarcosine, and pseudouridine. These results extended the companion transcriptomic and proteomic studies and provided a more complete understanding of propiconazole's effects in mouse liver.
Metoclopramide frequently is used as an antiemetic for patients undergoing surgery. Although adverse reactions are rare, a potential exists for extrapyramidal side effects to occur. Nurses in both the preoperative and postoperative areas must recognize the symptoms and initiate appropriate treatment. Three case scenarios are presented that describe patients undergoing surgery in the outpatient setting who experienced extrapyramidal side effects after preoperative administration of intravenous metoclopramide. The scenarios illustrate the potential symptoms that may occur and their management.
Administration of the heavy metal cadmium (Cd) induces ventral body wall defects (VBWD) in the chick embryo. In this model, the expression of most genes involved in body wall formation is altered 4h-posttreatment. However, the mechanism by which Cd results in the initiation of altered gene expression remains unclear. Epigenetic mechanisms can change genome function under exogenous influences. Moreover, Cd is one of the environmental factors that can affect epigenomic programming. De novo DNA methylation is essential for normal embryogenesis and is regulated by the DNA methyltransferases (DNMT)3A and DNMT3B. The objective of this study was to investigate the hypothesis that gene expression levels of DNMT3A/3B were altered, resulting in global DNA methylation changes during the critical period of embryogenesis in the Cd chick model. After 60-h incubation, chick embryos (n = 48) were harvested at 1, 4, and 8 h after treatment with saline or Cd, and divided into controls and Cd groups. Quantitative reverse transcription PCR was performed to evaluate the gene expression levels of DNMT3A/3B in the chick embryos and was statistically analyzed using Student's t-test. Immunohistochemistry was performed using a monoclonal antibody against 5-methylcytidine (5'MeC), which labels methyl-rich regions within the nucleus. DNMT3A/3B gene expression levels at 4 h were significantly downregulated in the Cd group compared with controls (p < 0.005/p < 0.00001, respectively). Immunoreactivity of 5'MeC was markedly diminished in the Cd group at 4 h. Our findings demonstrates for the first time that Cd impacts on the expression levels of DNMT3A/3B, which may underlie the pathogenesis of VBWD in the Cd chick model.
Pioglitazone, an agonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ), which is widely used in treatment of type 2 diabetes, has shown some therapeutic effect in Alzheimer's disease. In this study, effects of acute pioglitazone on acquisition, consolidation and retrieval of memory, and also the involvement of nitric oxide (NO) in the effects of pioglitazone on spatial recognition memory has been investigated in a two-trial recognition Y-maze test and passive avoidance in mice. Memory impairment was induced by scopolamine (1mg/kg, i.p.). Pioglitazone (10 and 20mg/kg, p.o.) was administrated prior to either acquisition, consolidation or retention trials, while L-NAME (N-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester), a non-specific NO synthase inhibitor, was administered (10mg/kg, i.p.) 30min before each trial.
1) pioglitazone improved the acquisition of recognition spatial memory-impaired by scopolamine; L-NAME dramatically reversed improving effects of pioglitazone on memory acquisition; 2) pioglitazone did not change the consolidation of spatial memory, impaired by scopolamine; 3) pioglitazone improved the retrieval of spatial memory and L-NAME did not alter the beneficial effect of pioglitazone; 4) pioglitazone did not affect scopolamine-induced cognitive impairments in the passive avoidance test. The present study demonstrates the beneficial effect of acute pioglitazone administration on acquisition and retrieval of scopolamine-induced cognitive deficits. This effect was reversed only in acquisition phase by nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-NAME, therefore, it could be concluded that NO might be involved in the pioglitazone beneficial effect of spatial memory acquisition.
Achilles tendon pain or rupture after fluoroquionolone treatment has been described as an uncommon adverse effect. We report two patients with ciprofloxacin-associated Achilles tendon disease, one with histopathological examination. Microscopic evaluation showed irregular collagen fiber arrangement, hypercellularity, and increased interfibrillar glycosaminoglycans. These pathological features are also seen in tendon overuse injuries in athletes.
5-HT6 receptors have been implicated in consolidation of visuospatial and reward-based learning tasks. Since 5-HT6 receptors may be important in modulation of sensory gating which is often affected in schizophrenic patients, we tested whether Ro 4368554, a 5-HT6 selective antagonist at a dose of 10 mg/kg, could reverse the loss of prepulse inhibition from apomorphine or scopolamine. In addition, we also tested whether Ro 4368554 altered fear conditioning using fear potentiated startle, a model for emotional learning. Prepulse inhibition of startle was disrupted by apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) when prepulse emissions were 5 dB above background but not above 15 dB, while scopolamine (0.5 mg/kg) caused disruption at both prepulse levels. Scopolamine-mediated disruption was not reversed by Ro 4368854 but apomorphine-mediated disruption was significantly ameliorated by 5-HT6 inhibition. For fear potentiated startle, scopolamine and/or Ro 4368554 were administered before two daily fear conditioning sessions; rats were tested on the following day. Rats that received scopolamine displayed no fear potentiated startle but Ro 4368554 reversed this scopolamine deficit. Additionally, we mapped Fos induction in rats treated with scopolamine and/or Ro 4368554; scopolamine increased Fos expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala and this was attenuated by Ro 4368554. In summary, we have demonstrated the efficacy of 5-HT6 antagonists in modulating sensory gating and fear conditioning, and thus may be of therapeutic use for schizophrenia-related disorders.
Despite recent advances in the treatment of Parkinson disease (PD), levodopa remains the most effective and widely used therapy. A major limitation to the use of levodopa is the development of abnormal involuntary movements, termed levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LDID), following chronic levodopa treatment. Since recent studies have suggested that modifications of chromatin structure may be responsible for many long-lasting changes in brain function, we have examined post-translational modifications of striatal histones in two models of LDID: an acute murine model and a chronic macaque monkey model, both exposed to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). In the primate model, which closely resembles human LDID, we observed that chronic levodopa and the appearance of LDID was associated with marked deacetylation of histone H4, hyperacetylation and dephosphorylation of histone H3, and enhancement of the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). In the murine model of acutely rather than chronically induced LDID, dopamine depletion and levodopa treatment also induced deacetylation of histone H4 and phosphorylation of ERK, but histone H3 exhibited decreased trimethylation and reduced rather than enhanced acetylation. These data demonstrate striking changes in striatal histones associated with the induction of LDID in both animal models. The pattern of changes observed, as well as the behavioral features, differed in the two models. However, both models exhibit marked deacetylation of histone H4, suggesting that inhibitors of H4 deacetylation may be useful in preventing or reversing LDID.
Aminoglycoside ototoxicity remains a major problem in developing countries and accounts for 3 percent to 30 percent of hearing loss. This high prevalence rate may be related to genetic susceptibility from mitochondrial mutations in the 12S rRNA gene, comorbidity factors, or unregulated use of the medication. This study investigates the risk factors and prevalence of mtDNA mutations in serum from rural Nicaragua children with aminoglycoside-related hearing loss.
Cross sectional study.
Deaf children from rural Nicaragua.
Mitochondrial DNA isolated from serum collected from 31 deaf children with childhood or in utero exposure to gentamicin was amplified, sequenced, and analyzed for mutations in the 12S rRNA gene.
No known pathologic mutations of the 12S rRNA gene were identified in this subpopulation of deaf children. In addition, patients with gentamicin exposure were often likely to have other comorbidity factors.
These results suggest that genetic susceptibility is not a major factor in the high rate of gentamicin ototoxicity in this population sample. The high prevalence of gentamicin ototoxicty in this population is presumed to be due to unrestricted access to the drug.
In this study the potential of clinically relevant alumina ceramic and metal wear particles to induce an in vitro inflammatory response was assessed in human monocytes and lymphocytes isolated from healthy donors by measuring prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) levels and mRNA expression of various pro-inflammatory cytokines. Bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was used as positive control. LPS significantly increased PGE2 levels in the incubation medium of monocyte cultures after 24 h. Alumina had no effect on PGE2 production, whereas metals induced a concentration-dependent increase in PGE2 release, that was statistically significant at the dose of 0.1 mg/ml. In lymphocytes, LPS elicited a weak but significant increase in PGE2 release, whereas both alumina and metals did not modify PGE2 amounts at any of the concentrations tested. The gene expression of a number of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines was assessed in monocytes and lymphocytes exposed to LPS, 0.1 mg/ml alumina or 0.1 mg/ml metals for 24 h. In monocytes, LPS caused a 2-fold increase in interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) mRNA levels. The exposure of monocytes to metals resulted in a selective increase in IL-1beta mRNA accumulation (+48% compared to control). By contrast, alumina did not modify IL-1beta mRNA levels. None of the test substances elicited any response on purified lymphocyte population. These findings suggest that PGE2 production and IL-1 mRNA expression are a reliable marker to study the pro-inflammatory effects of wear debris in vitro. The lower activity of alumina compared to metals suggests that the former should be preferred in implants for its favorable biological and mechanical behavior.
Chronic exposure of humans to benzene (BZ), a myelotoxin, causes aplastic anemia and acute leukemia. The stromal macrophage that produces interleukin-1 (IL-1), a cytokine essential for hematopoiesis, is a target of BZ's toxicity. Monocyte dysfunction and decreased IL-1 production have been shown to be involved in aplastic anemia in humans. Hydroquinone (HQ), a toxic bone marrow (BM) metabolite of BZ, causes time- and concentration-dependent inhibition of processing of the 34-Kd pre-interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha) to the 17-Kd mature cytokine in murine P388D1 macrophages and BM stromal macrophages, as measured by Western immunoblots of cell lysate proteins using a polyclonal rabbit antimurine IL-1 alpha antibody. HQ over a 10-fold concentration range had no effect on the lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced production of pre-IL-1 alpha precursor or on cell viability or DNA and protein synthesis. Stromal macrophages obtained from the femoral BM of C57Bl/6 mice exposed to BZ (600 or 800 mg/kg body weight) for 2 days were incapable of processing the 34-Kd pre-IL-1 alpha to the mature 17-Kd cytokine when stimulated in culture with LPS. Stromal macrophages from mice coadministered BZ and indomethacin, a prostaglandin H synthase (PHS) inhibitor that has been shown to prevent BZ-induced myelotoxic and genotoxic effects in mice when coadministered with benzene were able to convert the pre-IL-1 alpha to mature cytokine. Administration of recombinant murine IL-1 alpha (rMuIL-1 alpha) to mice before a dose of BZ that causes severe depression of BM cellularity completely prevents BM depression, most probably by bypassing the inability of the stromal macrophage in BZ-treated animals to process pre-IL-1 alpha to the mature cytokine.
The primary physiological function of mitochondria is to generate adenosine triphosphate through oxidative phosphorylation via the electron transport chain. Overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) as byproducts generated from mitochondria have been implicated in acute brain injuries such as stroke from cerebral ischemia. It was well-documented that mitochondria-dependent apoptotic pathway involves pro- and anti-apoptotic protein binding, release of cytochrome c, leading ultimately to neuronal death. On the other hand, mitochondria also play a role to counteract the detrimental effects elicited by excessive oxidative stress. Recent studies have revealed that oxidative stress and the redox state of ischemic neurons are also implicated in the signaling pathway that involves peroxisome proliferative activated receptor-γ (PPARγ) co-activator 1α (PGC1-α). PGC1-α is a master regulator of ROS scavenging enzymes including manganese superoxide dismutase 2 and the uncoupling protein 2, both are mitochondrial proteins, and may contribute to neuronal survival. PGC1-α is also involved in mitochondrial biogenesis that is vital for cell survival. Experimental evidence supports the roles of mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress as determinants of neuronal death as well as endogenous protective mechanisms after stroke. This review aims to summarize the current knowledge focusing on the molecular mechanisms underlying cerebral ischemia involving ROS, mitochondrial dysfunction, apoptosis, mitochondrial proteins capable of ROS scavenging, and mitochondrial biogenesis.
As caries is a most common affliction of teeth, which are predominantly composed of inorganic elements, it was considered worthwhile to determine their elemental composition and to find if it bears any relation to caries formation. For this purpose, 35 inorganic elements were determined in 15 non-carious and an equal number of carious whole teeth after their dissolution in nitric acid. The results showed that out of 35 elements, strontium was the only element found to be present in significantly lower amount in carious teeth, thus strongly suggesting that its deficiency may help form caries. The decrease in Ca, Mg, Ti, P, Li, Be, V, Ni, Zn, Nb, Ag, Cd, Sb, Ba, La , W, Pb, and Bi and slight increase in K, Cr, Cu, and As was not statistically significant. However, statistically significantly greater amount of boron, manganese, molybdenum, and fluorine in the carious teeth indicates towards their possible role in predisposing or causing dental caries.
Previous studies have reported sex and estrous cycle-dependent differences in the reinstatement of cocaine-seeking triggered by cocaine injections or drug-paired cues. However, the relationship between estradiol or progesterone levels and cocaine-seeking in a reinstatement model of relapse has not been explored. Thus, we examined changes in plasma hormone levels during cocaine-taking and -seeking behaviors in gonadally intact female rats. Rats self-administered cocaine (0.5mg/kg infusion) during daily 2-h sessions, followed by extinction. For reinstatement, cocaine (0, 5, or 10mg/kg, i.p.) was administered 30 min prior to testing. Vaginal smears and blood samples were collected prior to and during chronic cocaine self-administration, extinction, and reinstatement testing. Relative to non-estrous females, females in estrus showed greater responding during self-administration, extinction, and during cocaine-primed reinstatement. The highest progesterone levels were noted at the time of lowest cocaine-seeking (proestrus) and the lowest levels of progesterone occurred at the time of highest cocaine-seeking (estrus). In contrast, plasma estradiol levels did not show any clear pattern with cocaine-seeking. These data from an animal model of relapse supports recent clinical evidence that progesterone reduces subjective craving in cocaine-dependent women. Overall, these results suggest that progesterone administration may be a useful intervention for reducing the incidence of relapse.
Cocaine is a common drug of abuse and use has been associated with ventricular dysrhythmias. Published guidelines suggest that amiodarone is the first line antidysrhythmic for ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation. However, the effects amiodarone in the setting of cocaine toxicity are unknown and unstudied. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of amiodarone pretreatment in a murine model of acute cocaine toxicity.
This was a randomized, blinded, placebo controlled investigation using male CF-1 mice weighing 29-37 g. First, the safety of an intraperitoneal dose of amiodarone (40 mg/kg) was confirmed in 5 mice. Second, based on preliminary investigations, an approximate intraperitoneal LD50 dose of cocaine (110 mg/kg) was identified and used as the cocaine dose in this study. Animals were then randomized to 2 groups. The control group received 0.5 mL of intraperitoneal 0.9% saline 30 minutes before cocaine. The study group received 40 mg/kg of intraperitoneal amiodarone (40 mg/kg) 30 minutes before cocaine. A blinded observer monitored mice for 2 hours after cocaine administration.
No mice in the amiodarone-only group developed any signs of toxicity or died. In the saline + cocaine group 31/32 (96.9%; 95% CI 83.8 to 99.9) mice seized with a median time to seizure of 2.5 minutes, and 23/32 (71.9%; 95% CI 52.3 to 86.3) died with a median time to death of 5.5 minutes. In the amiodarone + cocaine group 31/33 (93.9%; 95% CI 79.0 to 99.3) mice seized with a median time to seizure of 2.0 minutes, and 24/33 (72.7%; 95% CI 54.5 to 86.7) died with a median time to death of 6.0 minutes. All animals that died did so within 9 minutes. The difference in the proportion of animals dying in the amiodarone + cocaine group compared to the saline + cocaine group was 0.008 (-21 to 22%).
In this study, pretreatment with amiodarone in cocaine poisoned mice resulted in no change in seizure incidenceor mortality. However, definite conclusions about the reason for these findings cannot be drawn from this model.
A large number of epidemiologic studies have been undertaken to identify potential risk factors for cancer, amongst which the association with cadmium has received considerable attention. There is compelling evidence in support of positive associations between cadmium and risk of lung cancer. In present study we measured the concentration of Cd in whole blood and scalp hair samples of 120 male lung cancer patients (smokers) and 150 controls or referents (smokers and nonsmokers) from different cities of Pakistan. Both referents and patients were of same age group (ranged 40-70 years), socio-economic status, localities and dietary habits. The scalp hair and whole blood samples were oxidized by 65% nitric acid: 30% hydrogen peroxide (2:1) ratio in microwave oven. To check the validity of the proposed method, a conventional wet acid digestion method was used to obtain total Cd concentration in certified samples of human hair BCR 397 and Clincheck control-lyophilized human whole blood. All digests were analyzed for Cd concentration by electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometer (ETAAS). The results of this study showed that the average Cd concentration was higher in the blood and scalp hair of lung cancer patients at different stages as compared to controls (p<001). The smoker referents have high level of Cd in both biological samples as compared to nonsmoker subjects. These results illustrate that the patients who continued smoking after confirmed diagnosis of lung cancer have 34.2-67.26 and 22.4-57.3% more Cd in blood samples and scalp hair than lung cancer patients who cease smoking. This study is compelling evidence in support of positive associations between cadmium, cigarette smoking and lung cancer risk.
Ibuprofen is a member of the proprionic acid group of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID), with the S-enantiomer being more active than the R-enantiomer. It has been shown to display protective effects against neuroinflammation, which is linked to the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). While its prophylactic effect on AD has been suggested, a comprehensive understanding of its mechanism of action remains unclear. Using iTRAQ-coupled 2-D LC-MS/MS analysis, we report here the first study of protein profiles of neuroblastoma cells incubated separately with the two enantiomers of ibuprofen. Three types of cellular proteins, including metabolic enzymes, signaling molecules and cytoskeletal proteins, displayed changes. The changes in the level of a number of enzymes involved in fatty acid synthesis and antioxidant activity in cells incubated with the S-enantiomer were further supported by the real-time PCR analysis as well as the reduced level of reactive oxygen species in cells incubated with the S-enantiomer of ibuprofen. Our findings, therefore, provide the possible mechanism of ibuprofen-induced proteins on AD, and the beneficial effects of ibuprofen in reducing the development of AD.
There has been a long-held belief that lithium salts cannot be used in the presence of thiazide diuretics. Recently, however, thiazides have been demonstrated to be not only safe, but actually indicated in two situations in which lithium salts are used. The first is in the treatment of lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and the second is in severe manic depressive illness in which high doses of lithium do not produce therapeutic serum or intraeythrocytic lithium concentrations. This new information now makes it possible for some manic depressive patients with serious medical illnesses (such as hypertension or congestive heart failure), in whom thiazide diuretics are routinely used, to be treated cautiously with lithium carbonate. This paper analyzes data from 13 patients taking lithium carbonate and varying doses of chlorothiazide in order to indicate the approximate magnitude of downward adjustment of daily lithium dose which the clinician must make to safely give 500, 750, and 1,000 mg/day of chlorothiazide.
Oxidative stress is a major pathogenetic factor in hepatic fibrosis. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARalpha) is a nuclear receptor which is known to affect oxidative stress and PPARalpha ligands may have rescue effects on hepatic fibrosis. We tested this hypothesis using rat thioacetamide (TAA) models of liver cirrhosis. Rats were given intraperitoneal injection of TAA and treated with a diet containing one of the two PPARalpha ligands, Wy-14,643 (WY) or fenofibrate. WY treatment dramatically reduced hepatic fibrosis and also prevented the inhibition catalase of mRNA expression caused by TAA. Correspondingly, catalase activity increased in the TAA+WY group but decreased in the control TAA group. The antifibrotic action of fenofibrate in the TAA model was comparable with that of WY. PPARalpha ligands have an antifibrotic action in the rat TAA model of liver cirrhosis, probably due to an antioxidant effect of enhanced catalase expression and activity in the liver.
Risperidone is widely prescribed for aggression and self-injury in children, adolescents, and adults with mental retardation (MR) and pervasive developmental disorders (PDD). Risperidone elevates prolactin more than other atypical antipsychotic medications. Females may show greater prolactin elevation than males.
In this relatively long-term study of risperidone efficacy and safety for aggression and self-injury in children, adolescents, and adults with MR and PDDs, serum prolactin was measured in a 21-subject subset during the course of a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Prolactin was measured in ng/mL at baseline, once during acute treatment, and once during maintenance.
In children and adolescents (n=10), mean age of 12.5 years, prolactin increased from mean 13.2+/-8.6 at baseline to 31.0+/-11.6 acutely and remained elevated at 37.9+/-10.4 in maintenance. In adults, mean age of 35.3 years, prolactin increased more markedly from 11.6+/-7.4 baseline (n=11) to 93.3+/-54.2 acutely but decreased to 67.8+/-62.9 in maintenance (n=7). Prolactin remained significantly elevated above normal in all subjects for at least 26 weeks. Mean prolactin of adult females, while similar to that of adult males at baseline, was 2.2 times male levels acutely and 3.7 times greater in maintenance.
In this small subset, mean prolactin elevation persisted for at least 26 weeks. In adults, females showed significantly greater elevations than males.
Treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) were monitored during an 8-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of risperidone (0.5-3.5 mg/day) in 101 children and adolescents with a lifetime diagnosis of autistic disorder. In addition, 37 placebo nonresponders received open-label risperidone for another 8 weeks. Of all the risperidone responders (n=65), 63 entered an open extension of another 16 weeks (6 months total risperidone exposure), and 32 of them were rerandomized to either continued risperidone therapy (n=16) or gradual replacement with placebo (n=16) over 8 weeks. We collected the following measures of safety and tolerability: (1) laboratory blood assessments (CBC with differential, electrolytes, and liver function tests) and urinalyses, (2) vital signs, (3) Side Effects Review of AEs thought to be associated with risperidone, (4) sleep records, (5) Simpson Angus Neurological Rating Scale (SARS), (6) Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS), and (7) height and weight. No clinically significant changes were found on the lab tests. During the 8-week acute trial, the most common AEs on the Side Effects Review, scored as moderate or higher, were as follows (placebo and risperidone, respectively): Somnolence (12% and 37%), enuresis (29% and 33%), excessive appetite (10% and 33%), rhinitis (8% and 16%), difficulty waking (8% and 12%), and constipation (12% and 10%). "Difficulty falling asleep" and anxiety actually favored the risperidone condition at statistically significant levels. The same AEs tended to recur through 6 months of treatment, although often at reduced levels. Using Centers for Disease Control (CDC) standardized scores, both weight and body mass index (BMI) increased with risperidone during the acute trial (0.5 and 0.6 SDs, respectively, for risperidone; 0.0 and 0.1 SDs, respectively, for placebo) and into open-label extension (0.19 and 0.16 SDs, respectively), although the amount of gain decelerated with time. Extrapyramidal symptoms, as assessed by the SARS, were no more common for drug than placebo, although drooling was reported more often in the risperidone group. There were no differences between groups on the AIMS. Two subjects had seizures (one taking placebo), but these were considered unrelated to active drug. Most AEs were mild to moderate and failed to interfere with therapeutic changes; there were no unanticipated AEs. The side effects of most concern were somnolence and weight gain.
Clozapine, a new drug for schizophrenia, was recently released for use. We have described the drug and nursing care involved for patients who are on acute inpatient unit for a trial of the drug. From our early observations, clozapine appears to be a promising drug for patients who have not responded to standard neuroleptics.
To determine whether the alpha-adrenergic antagonist phenoxybenzamine would alter cardiovascular or plasma catecholamine response to the alpha-adrenergic agonist clonidine, six patients with pheochromocytomas and eight with labile hypertension were studied. Clonidine, 0.3 mg, was given with and without 48 hr pretreatment with 30 mg/day phenoxybenzamine. The response to 10 mg diazepam was also observed in seven of the subjects who had labile hypertension. In the hypertensive patients, clonidine alone induced a fall in supine blood pressure from 137 +/- 21/91 +/- 14 to 109 +/- 18/76 +/- 17 mm Hg and, with phenoxybenzamine, clonidine reduced blood pressure from 141 +/- 22/89 +/- 10 to 107 +/- 21/72 +/- 11 mm Hg. Plasma norepinephrine fell from 179 +/- 60 to 107 +/- 79 pg/ml without phenoxybenzamine and from 229 +/- 159 to 95 +/- 46 pg/ml with phenoxybenzamine in hypertensive subjects. Responses with phenoxybenzamine did not differ from those without phenoxybenzamine and diazepam induced no cardiovascular or plasma catecholamine changes. Clonidine did not lower plasma catecholamines in patients with a pheochromocytoma in the presence or in the absence of phenoxybenzamine. Blood pressure tended to decline after clonidine in pheochromocytoma patients not taking phenoxybenzamine, but it was not reduced by clonidine when these patients were taking phenoxybenzamine. Phenoxybenzamine does not inhibit reduction in blood pressure and plasma catecholamines induced by clonidine in patients with essential hypertension or interfere with the clonidine suppression test in patients with pheochromocytomas.
The stability and response of histochemical phenotypes of altered hepatic foci (AHF) were studied both in the presence and following the withdrawal of 0.05% phenobarbital (PB) treatment in rats previously given a single dose of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) 20-24 h following partial hepatectomy (PH). AHF were scored by their expression of three biochemical markers: gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT), adenosine triphosphatase and glucose-6-phosphatase (G6P). AHF demonstrated significant heterogeneity with respect to the marker alterations. The use of three markers in the present study confirmed the findings of our earlier study, which showed the maximal response of GGT+ AHF to PB administration following PH/DEN initiation and the stability of GGT+/AHF induced by the PH/DEN/PB regimen after the withdrawal of PB. In the regimen employed, the GGT marker alone scored the great majority of the AHF detected by all three markers. The frequency distribution of histochemical phenotypes remained relatively constant in AHF during continuous PB administration and in AHF promoted by PB followed by a 6-month period of feeding a diet containing no PB. These findings suggest that individual AHF remain phenotypically stable throughout the PB promotion phase, i.e., do not progress from one phenotype to another. In every marker class, the mean volume of AHF increased during continuous PB administration. These data illustrate the enhancing effect of PB on the growth of the AHF. The size of AHF continued to increase following the withdrawal of PB in the 3-month PB treatment group, but not in the animals treated for 4 months. A mechanism that may account for the differences in these two treatment groups is discussed.
While parkinsonism and dystonia generally are distinct clinical syndromes, both may be prominent features even prior to the use of antiparkinsonian medications. In 10 patients with typical parkinsonism, coincident dystonic features included neck, upper extremity, oromandibular, unilateral upper-lower extremity, and unilateral foot dystonia. Six patients were first affected before the age of 45. For some, dystonia preceded parkinsonism (for 1/2 to 20 years). Limb symptoms tended to be unilateral; in seven patients, parkinsonism also was limited to that side. While levodopa was adequate for improvement of parkinsonism, dystonic symptoms benefited from the combination of levodopa with a dopaminergic ergot. The dystonic features (which also can result from parkinsonian therapy) often add pain and disability to the deficits in parkinsonism. The coexistence of dystonia may constitute a distinctive syndrome of parkinsonism and points to possible etiologic mechanisms shared by these two extrapyramidal disorders.
Hyponatremia is a frequently observed electrolyte abnormality in patients with central nervous system disease. Several mechanisms, such as SIADH, hypopituitarism, and CSWS, have been proposed with varied incidences among several studies. We attempted to clarify the incidence and mechanism of hyponatremia for each type of TBI. We also assessed the efficacy of sodium supplementation and retention therapy. For sodium retention therapy, hydrocortisone was administered, expecting its mineralocorticoid effect, when the hyponatremia was associated with excess natriuresis.
Retrospective analysis of 298 patients with TBI between January 2003 and December 2004 was performed. The incidence, background, clinical data, and outcome were evaluated.
Of the 298 patients, 50 (16.8%) presented hyponatremia during the time course. Hyponatremia was associated with longer hospital stay (P < .001) and bad outcome (P = .02). Among these 50 patients, 37 recovered from the hyponatremia with simple sodium supplementation. The remaining 13 patients presented massive natriuresis and required additional sodium retention therapy. Hydrocortisone statistically reduced the amount of sodium excretion (P = .002) and returned the serum sodium level to a normal value.
A high rate of hyponatremia after TBI was observed. Further studies are required to establish the precise mechanism of hyponatremia after TBI. Clear definition of CSWS is required to avoid confusion of the pathophysiology that causes hyponatremia. Hydrocortisone was useful to prevent excess natriuresis.
As it has been demonstrated in a previous study, both cyclooxygenases (COXs) and nitric oxide synthases (NOSs) participate in the mechanism of acetaminophen (ACETA) action. Results obtained in this study indicate that intrathecal (it) or intracerebroventricular (icv) pretreatment with LG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NO-Arg), a non-selective inhibitor of NOS activity, as well as with 7-nitroindazole (7-NI), a selective nNOS inhibitor, potentiated the antinociceptive activity of subceiling doses of ACETA, but were without effect on the action of supramaximal doses in Randall-Selitto test. Similar effect of L-NO-Arg and 7-NI it was observed in writhing test, whereas L-NO-Arg icv or L-NIL it did not influence the action of ACETA in this model. Indomethacin (IND), an inhibitor preferentially acting on COX-1, as well as nimesulide (NIM) and celecoxib (CECOX), i.e. preferential and selective inhibitor of COX-2, respectively, administered icv almost completely blocked the antinociceptive effect of ACETA in Randall-Selitto method. On the other hand, pretreatment with NSAIDs it initially increased and then attenuated the ACETA antinociception. Yohimbine (YOH), an alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, did not modify the antinociceptive action of ACETA administered alone. However, YOH decreased the nociceptive threshold increased by simultaneously administered IND and ACETA, NIM and ACETA, as well as CECOX and ACETA in Randall-Selitto model. In contrast to the peripheral (sc) application, IND administered centrally (icv or it) did not modify the ACETA antinociception in writhing test. Neither NIM nor CECOX administered sc, it or icv changed the ACETA antinociception in this model. Possible mechanisms and sites of antinociceptive effects of ACETA are discussed.
