After they had been weaned off alcohol in hospital 85 severe alcoholics (above 200 g alcohol/day) were included in a double-blind study of calcium bis acetyl homotaurine (Ca AOTA, 25 mg/kg/day), a new gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist, versus placebo. Patients were treated as outpatients during the 3-month study. The only other treatment that patients received was meprobamate, 800 to 1200 mg/day, in the first month. The criterion for success was abstinence at 3 months (with normal gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase being one of the criteria). Of the 70 patients who completed the study, 33 received Ca AOTA and 37 placebo. 20 patients on Ca AOTA did not relapse, compared with 12 on placebo (p less than 0.02 by X2 test). Side-effects were noted by 7 patients on Ca AOTA and 2 on placebo. The results suggest that Ca AOTA may be useful in helping severe alcoholics who have been weaned off alcohol not to relapse.
The case of a 15-year-old girl who experienced an acute dystonic reaction to promethazine therapy administered during an uncomplicated episode of acute gastroenteritis is reported. The pertinent literature is reviewed.
Wear debris associated periprosthetic osteolysis represents a major pathological process associated with the aseptic loosening of joint prostheses. Naringin is a major flavonoid identified in grapefruit. Studies have shown that naringin possesses many pharmacological properties including effects on bone metabolism. The current study evaluated the influence of naringin on wear debris induced osteoclastic bone resorption both in vitro and in vivo. The osteoclast precursor cell line RAW 264.7 was cultured and stimulated with polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) particles followed by treatment with naringin at several doses. Tartrate resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP), calcium release, and gene expression profiles of TRAP, cathepsin K, and receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa B were sequentially evaluated. PMMA challenged murine air pouch and the load bearing tibia titanium pin-implantation mouse models were used to evaluate the effects of naringin in controlling PMMA induced bone resorption. Histological analyses and biomechanical pullout tests were performed following the animal experimentation. The in vitro data clearly demonstrated the inhibitory effects of naringin in PMMA induced osteoclastogenesis. The naringin dose of 10 μg/mL exhibited the most significant influence on the suppression of TRAP activities. Naringin treatment also markedly decreased calcium release in the stimulated cell culture medium. The short-term air pouch mouse study revealed that local injection of naringin ameliorated the PMMA induced inflammatory tissue response and subsequent bone resorption. The long-term tibia pin-implantation mouse model study suggested that daily oral gavage of naringin at 300 mg/kg dosage for 30 days significantly alleviated the periprosthetic bone resorption. A significant increase of periprosthetic bone volume and regaining of the pin stability were found in naringin treated mice. Overall, this study suggests that naringin may serve as a potential therapeutic agent to treat wear debris associated osteolysis.
In murine contact photosensitivity (CPS) to 3,3',4',5-tetrachlorosalicylanilide, we have reported that antigen-specific suppressor T cells and factor(s) (TsF) are induced by preexposure of the photosensitizing site to low doses of ultraviolet B. The TsF is a single-chain factor bearing both antigen-binding site(s) and I-J determinants. In this report, we examined the genetic restriction of the factor in terms of both H-2 and Igh-associated genes. The CPS responses of BALB/c (H-2d, Igh-VaCa) and BALB.B (H-2b, Igh-VaCa) but not DBA/2 (H-2d, Igh-VcCc) were suppressed by the injection of the BALB/c TsF, and reciprocally, the response of BALB/c was suppressed by the BALB.B TsF. This demonstrated that H-2 identity was not a requirement for TsF function. Furthermore, the BALB/c TsF significantly suppressed the CPS reaction in BAB-14 (H-2d, Igh-VaCb) but not in either C.B-20 (H-2d, Igh-VbCb) or C.AL-20 (H-2d, Igh-VdCd). In addition, the BAB-14 TsF, but not the C.B-20 factor, induced suppression in BALB/c mice. These results indicated that identity at the Igh-V locus of the strain producing the factor and the recipient was required for suppression. Because of the single-chain nature of the factor, it seems that the I-J+ molecule present in our TsF is closely related to not only recognition but also Igh-V restriction functions.
Chong-Myung-Tang (CMT) consisted of Acorus gramineus Soland, Polygala tenuifolia Willdenow, and Poria cocos Wolf is one of the traditional Korean herbal medicines used for the therapy of learning and memory improvement. The present study was investigated the effect of CMT on learning and memory functions in SCOP-induced memory deficits mice.
The cognitive-enhancing effect of CMT on amnesic mice induced by SCOP was investigated by assessing the passive avoidance test and the Morris water maze test. In order to confirm the underlying mechanisms of memory enhancing effects of CMT, activities of AChE, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), and antioxidant enzymes were measured.
Administration of CMT significantly restored memory impairments induced by SCOP in the passive avoidance test and also reduced escape latency during trial sessions in the Morris water maze test. The increased AChE activity produced by SCOP was significantly inhibited by CMT. CMT significantly enhanced ChAT activity. Moreover, treatment with CMT to the amnesic mice induced by SCOP considerably decreased malondialdehyde levels and restored activities of superoxide dismutase and catalase to the control values.
These results suggest that CMT may be useful for the cognitive improvement via regulation of cholinergic marker enzyme activities and the antioxidant defense system.
"Punding" is a stereotypical motor behavior characterized by an intense fascination with repetitive handling and examining of objects. Since its first description in amphetamine and cocaine addicts, data on punding has only derived from studies performed in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Punding is classifiable as the most severe form of Repetitive Reward-Seeking Behaviours (RRSB) syndromes. The aim of this study was to investigate the occurrence and phenomelogy of RRSB acutely induced by cocaine in order to determine the prevalence, severity and distinctive features discriminating "punders" from "non-punders". A consecutive sample of 50 cocaine addicts received a clinical psychiatric interview. RRSB diagnosis and severity were assessed using a modified version of a previous published questionnaire designed to identify punding in patients with PD. In the present series, 38% of the cocaine addicts met the proposed diagnostic criteria for a RRSB and 8% were considered punders. Subjects with vs. without RRSB did not differ in terms of sex ratio, age, education, occupation, predisposing habits, duration of cocaine use, hours of sleep, comorbid psychiatric disorders, and concomitant use of other drugs. These results and the observation that in the majority of cases RRSB started soon after first drug intake, strongly suggest that an underlying unknown predisposition led to the development of these behaviors. In conclusion, RRSB and punding is much more common than has been described previously and the resultant social disability is often overlooked.
To review doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity and to evaluate the use of dexrazoxane in its prevention.
All animal and human reports involving doxorubicin-induced cardiac adverse effects were searched using MEDLINE combined with a fan search of relevant papers.
Animal, in vitro cellular, and human data are thoroughly reviewed with particular emphasis on doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity, including clinical manifestations, risk factors, and mechanisms of toxicity. The role of dexrazoxane in the prevention of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity is reviewed, including mechanism of effect, animal data, and human trials.
Anthracyclines are associated with a cumulative, dose-dependent, irreversible cardiomyopathy that can lead to congestive heart failure and death. The incidence of cardiotoxicity rises sharply at a total lifetime dose of more than 550 mg/m2. Through its semiquinone metabolite, doxorubicin appears to generate superoxide anion and superhydroxide free radicals with iron as a cofactor. Because of poor myocardial concentrations of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase, these free radicals cause extensive lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial destruction.
Dexrazoxane is hydrolyzed to its active form intracellularly and binds iron to prevent the formation of superhydroxide radicals, thus preventing mitochondrial destruction. The effect of dexrazoxane on the prevention of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity is impressive in both animal and human studies. Further research is needed to clearly demonstrate the effect dexrazoxane has on the antitumor effects of combination chemotherapy while defining optimal dosing strategies to minimize myelosuppression and maximize cardioprotection.
An increased occurrence of thrombotic events has been described in patients exhibiting a lupus anticoagulant (LA). In patients with chronic, major vessel thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, not only has there been a relatively high frequency of the LA, but also an unexpected association with heparin-related thrombocytopenia. This retrospective report emphasizes the frequency of this association.
We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of 216 patients admitted to the University of California, San Diego, Medical Center who were being considered for surgical correction of their chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. For each patient, the following information was sought: presence of an LA, variation in platelet numbers during the preoperative evaluation, and determination of whether an observed thrombocytopenia was related to heparin use.
An LA was found in 23 of the 216 patients (10.6%). Of the remaining patients, sufficient platelet data for comparison were available for 68 patients. These 68 patients constituted the control group. Within the LA group, platelet counts during the preoperative evaluation declined to 51.6% +/- 16.7% of baseline counts, a highly significant difference (P < 0.0001) compared with the non-LA control group, who underwent a comparable evaluation with similar heparin exposure. In addition, heparin-associated thrombocytopenia developed in 13 of the 23 LA patients (56.5%) and in none of the control patients. Heparin-induced arterial thrombosis was implicated as the cause of a myocardial infarction in 1 of the patients with heparin-associated thrombocytopenia.
In patients with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, a high incidence of the LA and an accompanying association with heparin-related thrombocytopenia have been observed. Although further prospective studies of this relationship are needed, physicians should be alert to the possibility of thrombocytopenia when using heparin for patients exhibiting an LA.
The prevalence of cardiac valvular regurgitation demonstrated by echocardiography in patients who took appetite-suppressant medication for weight loss has been assessed at 5%-30%. We studied 86 patients who had echocardiograms before treatment with appetite suppressants to determine the incidence of new cases and to evaluate the clinical implication of the echocardiographic findings.
We studied 69 men [Mean+/-Standard Deviation (S) age 49+/-8] and 17 women (mean+/-S age 50+/-7) who had 233 echocardiograms before, during, and after a weight-loss program that used predominantly fenfluramine (or dexfenfluramine) with mazindol (or phentermine). Mean drug exposure was 17 months. Blinded echocardiographic readings were performed to identify and grade aortic regurgitation (AR) or mitral regurgitation (MR).
Seven of 86 patients (8%) had pre-existing regurgitation with five (6%) meeting our case definition. Thirteen (16.5%) of initially normal patients developed valvular regurgitation and were new cases. Of the new cases, 12 were grade I/IV AR and one was both grade II/III MR and II/IV AR. All 13 patients were asymptomatic, and only two aortic insufficiency murmurs could be auscultated. There was significantly greater risk for developing valvulopathy for those who took medications longer than 6 months (p = 0.03), and no new cases were observed in patients exposed for less than 8 months. No increased risk associated with age, presence of hypertension, or exposure to fenfluramine-phentermine combination was demonstrated. Although there was a higher incidence of new regurgitation in women (31% vs. 13% for men), this was not statistically significant (p = 0.093).
Some patients who had normal echocardiograms at baseline developed cardiac valvular regurgitation after exposure to fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine with mazindol or phentermine. The development of valvulopathy was significantly correlated with duration of exposure. The clinical implications of echocardiographically demonstrated regurgitation are uncertain, since there were only two audible murmurs and no other clinically relevant signs or symptoms among the patients.
We compared the effects of losartan and carvedilol on preserving left ventricular (LV) function in an experimental model of dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) and examined the mechanisms of their pharmacological effects. The rats were divided into group 1 (normal control), group 2 (DCM), group 3 (DCM plus carvedilol 8 mg/kg/day bid orally), and group 4 (DCM plus losartan 20 mg/kg/day orally). All rats were sacrificed on day 90 following DCM induction. The results indicated that connexin43 protein expression and mRNA expressions of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha, endo-thelial nitric oxide synthase, and interleukin-10 were significantly lower, whereas mRNA expressions of endothelin-1 and matrix metalloproteinase-9 were significantly higher in group 2 than in groups 1, 3, and 4 in LV myocardium (all P < 0.05). Additionally, cytochrome C levels in LV myocardium and LV contractility were significantly lower, whereas fibrosis area, cellular apoptosis, and mitochondrial oxidative response of LV myocardium were significantly higher in group 2 than in groups 1, 3, and 4 (all P < 0.005). In conclusion, losartan is comparable to carvedilol in attenuating inflammation, oxidative response, myocardial fibrosis and apoptosis, as well as in preserving energy transcription factors and LV function in DCM.
To report the first case of Nelson's syndrome due to an ectopic intracranial corticotropin-secreting tumor arising entirely within the cavernous sinus.
We present a case report of Nelson's syndrome with clinical, laboratory, and radiologic features throughout a 25-year period.
A 54-year-old woman had been treated for Cushing's disease with bilateral adrenalectomy in 1971. Subsequently, Nelson's syndrome developed, and she had severe generalized hyperpigmentation and substantially increased plasma corticotropin levels. In 1976, she underwent a transsphenoidal hypophysectomy. Postoperatively, despite the development of panhypopituitarism and diabetes insipidus, she remained hyperpigmented and had persistently increased plasma corticotropin levels. Throughout the years, efforts to identify the site of the corticotropin-secreting tumor were unsuccessful until 1988, when magnetic resonance imaging revealed a mass in the right cavernous sinus; subsequently, petrosal sinus cannulation corroborated the intracavernous source of excess corticotropin. Cobalt-60 gamma knife radiotherapy in 1992 was followed by a clinical and hormonal response 4 1/2 years later.
This report describes only the second reported case of an intracranial corticotropin-secreting tumor arising entirely within the cavernous sinus and the first such case associated with Nelson's syndrome. Although rare, the possibility of an ectopic intracranial or extracranial pituitary adenoma should be considered in patients with pituitary hypersecretion without clear-cut intrasellar abnormalities or those with no response to surgical resection of the pituitary gland.
We report a reversible sensorimotor neurotixicity that developed in two beta-thalassemic patients treated with high-dose deferoxamine (DFO) for iron overload.
Two patients were treated with high-dose (120 mg/kg/day) intravenous DFO for iron overload.
Sensorimotor toxicity developed after 5 and 6 months of treatment, respectively. The development of the neurotoxicity did not correlate with the serum ferritin or the ratio of DFO dose to serum ferritin. Symptoms resolved in both patients with discontinuation of DFO treatment. In 1 patient, symptoms recurred with resumption of DFO treatment.
These cases demonstrate that a reversible sensorimotor neurotoxicity, a previously unreported toxicity, may complicate DFO therapy, this complements the previously reported auditory and visual neurotoxicity associated with DFO therapy. Discontinuation of therapy at the time of onset of neurotoxicity is recommended, with possible resumption at lower doses.
The health hazard of the metabolic syndrome (MS) is increasing, yet there is no effective pharmacologic treatment to this entity as a whole. Recently, hypoadiponectinemia was found to play an important role in the development of MS. We studied the effect of the PPAR-gamma agonist rosiglitazone on adiponectin and the metabolic profile in the fructose-induced hypertensive, hyperinsulinemic, hypertriglyceridemic rat model.
Thirty male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups. Ten were fed standard rat chow for 5 weeks, 10, a fructose-enriched diet for 5 weeks, and 10, a fructose-enriched diet for 5 weeks, with rosiglitazone 10 mg/kg/d added during the last 2 weeks. Blood pressure (BP), oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), plasma insulin, triglycerides, and adiponectin were recorded, as well as mRNA levels of the adiponectin gene in visceral adipose tissue.
Fructose-fed rats developed MS as manifested by the increase in systolic BP (from 139 +/- 3 to 158 +/- 4 mm Hg, P < .05), insulin (from 26 +/- 1.6 to 40 +/- 2.5 muU/mL, P < .05), triglycerides (from 91 +/- 9 to 304 +/- 24 mg/dL, P < .05), and impaired OGTT (area under the curve from 13,894 +/- 246 to 17,725 +/- 700 mg/dL/min). Treatment with rosiglitazone reversed these effects and reduced BP to 133 +/- 7 mm Hg, insulin levels to 30 +/- 2.8 muU/mL, triglycerides to 116 +/- 9 mg/dL, and the OGTT to 15,415 +/- 372 mg/dL/min (P < .05 for all variables). In addition, rosiglitazone increased plasma levels of adiponectin fourfold from 4.3 +/- 0.1 to 18.4 +/- 0.6 mug/mL (P < .05). This increase was coupled with 3.8-fold increase in adiponectin mRNA in visceral adipose tissue.
This study shows for the first time that in an animal model of MS, the insulin sensitizer, rosiglitazone, improves the metabolic profile and increases plasma levels of adiponectin and its gene expression. It is possible therefore that rosiglitazone exerts its beneficial effects by increasing the levels of adiponectin.
The expression of c-fms oncoprotein in different primary tumours as well as in their metastases in bone marrow, was shown. All the samples were fixed and processed by the acetone, methyl benzoate, xylene procedure (AMeX), which was suitable for studying oncoprotein expression not only in primary tumours but also in bone marrow (BM) biopsies. Among the patients suffering from acute myeloid leukaemia (AMeL), positive c-fms cells were found in 55% cases. On the contrary, patients with lymphocytic cell disorders have not had detectable c-fms oncogene product in BM biopsies.c-fms oncoprotein was also detected in some primary tumour specimens (lung carcinoma, cervical carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, breast carcinoma and melanoma) and their metastases in BM, while it was not present in normal uterine tissue. There was a positive correlation between c-fms oncoprotein expression in primary and metastatic tumours. Our results showed that c-fms product is confined, not only to some normal, but also to the variety of malignant cells of different origin.
We reviewed medical records of 256 patients to investigate the frequency and characteristics of hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) associated with reduced-intensity stem cell transplantation (RIST) as opposed to conventional stem cell transplantation (CST); 137 patients underwent CST and 119 RIST. Diagnosis of HC was made based on two or more episodes of sterile, macroscopic hematuria with normal coagulation profiles, without any evidence of renal stones or genitourinary malignancy. Actuarial frequency of HC development in RIST group was 7.6% (9/119), which gave a cumulative annual incidence of 11.7%. In CST group, 13 of 137 patients (9.5%) developed HC, giving an estimated annual incidence of 9.7%. The probability of developing HC was similar between the two groups (P=0.77). The viral etiologies of HC, adenovirus (n=12) and BK virus (n=2), were documented in eight patients after RIST and in six after CST. HC was milder and of a shorter duration, with less blood transfusion requirements, in RIST group than in CST group. A multivariate analysis revealed that HC was associated with antiadenovirus antibody positivity in the recipients, total dose of busulfan, and chronic GVHD. Although HC following RIST is less severe than that following CST, it is still a significant problem.
A RECOGNIZED COMPLICATION: Ritonavir is an antiprotease used in the treatment of HIV-positive patients. Among the known side effects, nephrotoxicity can be severe. We have observed acute renal failure in 8 patients. CIRCUMSTANCES: Renal failure occurs early after introducing ritonavir (3-21 days). It is often severe with major creatinine elevation. One patient was dialyzed for 16 days. In these patients, saquinavir was usually associated with ritonavir. RITONAVIR ALONE: We retrospectively analyzed creatinine levels in 87 patients treated with ritonavir without saquinavir. Twelve of these 87 patients (13.7%) developed renal failure. Creatinine clearance (Cockcroft) was reduced 116 to 71 ml/min in 12 patients. Finally, it was demonstrated in 6 patients that ritonavir can reduce creatinine clearance by 25% after only 3 days of treatment. VIGILANCE: Ritonavir has a known nephrotoxic potential. Acute renal failure may be severe and can occur with ritonavir alone or in combination with saquinavir. The pathogenic mechanism has not been demonstrated from renal biopsies or experimental studies. Renal function should be followed in these patients and risk factors controlled.
Pancreatic pain resulting from chronic inflammation of the pancreas is often intractable and clinically difficult to manage with available analgesics reflecting the need for more effective therapies. The mechanisms underlying pancreatitis pain are not well understood. Here, the possibility that interleukin-6 (IL-6) may promote pancreatitis pain was investigated with TB-2-081 (3-O-formyl-20R,21-epoxyresibufogenin, EBRF), a small molecule IL-6 receptor antagonist that was semi-synthetically derived from natural sources. The potential activity and mechanism of TB-2-081 were investigated following the induction of persistent pancreatitis using dibutyltin dichloride (DBTC) in rats. TB-2-081 displaces the binding of IL-6 to the human recombinant soluble IL-6 receptor with apparent high affinity and inhibits IL-6 mediated cell growth. Systemic or oral, but not intrathecal, administration of TB-2-081 reversed DBTC-induced abdominal hypersensitivity in a dose- and time-dependent manner. IL-6 levels were significantly up-regulated in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of rats with pancreatitis on day 6 after DBTC injection. IL-6-enhanced capsaicin-evoked release of calcitonin gene-related peptide from cultured DRG neurons was blocked by TB-2-081. Our data demonstrate that TB-2-081 acts as a systemically available and orally active small molecule IL-6 receptor antagonist. TB-2-081 effectively reduces pancreatitis-induced pain through peripheral mechanisms that are likely due to (a) increased expression of IL-6 in the DRG and (b) IL-6-mediated sensitization of nociceptive neurons. The activity of TB-2-081 implicates an important role for IL-6 in sustaining pancreatitis pain. Strategies targeting IL-6 actions through small molecule antagonists may offer novel approaches to improve the therapy of chronic pancreatitis and other chronic pain states.
Morphine has been an optimal choice for cancer pain management. However, several recent studies suggested that morphine induces apoptosis in human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs), raising a serious concern about the use of opioid-based analgesic strategies. In this study, therefore, we aimed to evaluate whether morphine induced apoptosis in cultured human PBLs. Apoptotic events were assessed by flow-cytometrical detection of surface phosphatidylserine and nuclear fragmentation, as well as Fas, Bcl-2, and Caspase-3 activity in PBLs gated on a light-scatter basis. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells isolated from healthy subjects were cultured with etoposide, morphine, or vehicle (medium) for 48 h. During co-culture with etoposide, apo-ptosis was significantly induced in PBLs, and the cells did not survive for 48 h. In comparison, morphine had no effect on the expression rate of any of the detected molecules, suggesting that no apparent apoptotic processes were induced during the incubation. Furthermore, co-incubation with a Fas-specific antibody did not increase apoptotic cell rates in the morphine cultures. These results do not support the hypothesis that morphine directly modulates PBL apoptosis resulting in immunosuppression. We believe that the choice of opioids for optimal pain relief should not be discouraged until further studies clarify this issue.
Recent reports that morphine potentially induces apoptosis in human lymphocytes in vitro have raised a concern about the use of opioid-based analgesic strategies. Regarding this issue, we present rather contradictory findings that morphine has no effects on the cell expression of various apoptosis-related molecules in cultured human lymphocytes.
Salacia oblonga (SO) root is an Ayurvedic medicine with anti-diabetic and anti-obese properties. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-alpha, a nuclear receptor, plays an important role in maintaining the homeostasis of lipid metabolism. Here, we demonstrate that chronic oral administration of the water extract from the root of SO to Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats, a genetic model of type 2 diabetes and obesity, lowered plasma triglyceride and total cholesterol (TC) levels, increased plasma high-density lipoprotein levels and reduced the liver contents of triglyceride, non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) and the ratio of fatty droplets to total tissue. By contrast, the extract had no effect on plasma triglyceride and TC levels in fasted ZDF rats. After olive oil administration to ZDF the extract also inhibited the increase in plasma triglyceride levels. These results suggest that SO extract improves postprandial hyperlipidemia and hepatic steatosis in ZDF rats. Additionally, SO treatment enhanced hepatic expression of PPAR-alpha mRNA and protein, and carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 and acyl-CoA oxidase mRNAs in ZDF rats. In vitro, SO extract and its main component mangiferin activated PPAR-alpha luciferase activity in human embryonic kidney 293 cells and lipoprotein lipase mRNA expression and enzyme activity in THP-1 differentiated macrophages; these effects were completely suppressed by a selective PPAR-alpha antagonist MK-886. The findings from both in vivo and in vitro suggest that SO extract functions as a PPAR-alpha activator, providing a potential mechanism for improvement of postprandial hyperlipidemia and hepatic steatosis in diabetes and obesity.
The effects of cholinesterase inhibitors, cholinergic agonists, dopaminergic agonists and dopaminergic antagonists on the hyperactivity produced by the muscarinic cholinergic antagonist scopolamine were evaluated in mice. Scopolamine (0.3-10 mg/kg) produced a dose-related increase in locomotor activity, with a peak effect at 3.0 mg/kg. The cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine (0.03-0.175 mg/kg) was without effect on locomotor activity when administered alone, whereas the cholinesterase inhibitor tetrahydroaminoacridine hydrate (0.3-10 mg/kg) decreased locomotor activity. Both physostigmine and tetrahydroaminoacridine hydrate attenuated the effects of scopolamine. Administered alone, the cholinergic agonists oxotremorine (0.01-0.3 mg/kg) and RS86 (0.1-3.0 mg/kg) produced dose-related decreases in locomotor activity, whereas pilocarpine (0.3-10 mg/kg) had no effect on locomotor activity. None of these three muscarinic agonists significantly attenuated the hyperactivity produced by scopolamine. Administered alone, the dopaminergic agonists quinpirole (0.003-0.1 mg/kg), S-(-)-3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-n-propylpiperidine (0.3-10 mg/kg) and SKF 38393 (8-64 mg/kg) had no significant effect on activity, whereas apomorphine (0.3-10 mg/kg) and d-amphetamine (0.1-3.0 mg/kg) increased activity. Quinpirole, apomorphine and S-(-)-3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-n-propylpiperidine produced dose-related reversals of the increases in locomotor activity produced by scopolamine. The hyperactivity effects of d-amphetamine were approximately additive with scopolamine, whereas SKF 38393 did not significantly affect scopolamine. The mixed D1/D2 dopaminergic antagonist haloperidol (0.003-3.0 mg/kg) and the selective D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (0.01-0.3 mg/kg) produced dose-related decreases in locomotor activity when administered alone, and also produced dose-related reversals of the hyperactivity produced by scopolamine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The haemodynamic and metabolic effects on the heart due to high doses of isoproterenol were compared in spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. In baseline conditions, the hypertrophied SHR heart displayed perfectly constant haemodynamics but had fewer energy reserves than the WKY heart. Isoproterenol (2 X 25 mg/kg, s.c.) caused high mortality, myocardial ischaemia, and heart failure in the SHR. These effects were accompanied by anaerobic metabolism. In the WKY rats, on the other hand, isoproterenol caused no changes in ST-segment elevation and no cardiac insufficiency; in addition, aerobic metabolism was maintained. A marked drop in coronary perfusion pressure and excessive accumulation of calcium in the myocardium account, in part, for the effects seen in the SHR. The results indicate that isoproterenol-induced heart failure in the SHR might be a useful model for selecting compounds designed to treat this disease.
Influence of viral liver diseases on the occurrence of azathioprine hepatitis was evaluated in 21 kidney transplant recipients. Diagnosis of azathioprine hepatitis was always based on jaundice, which disappeared after azathioprine withdrawal in 18 patients and after azathioprine dose reduction in 3 patients. Histopathological diagnosis of azathioprine toxicity was ascertained in 14 patients. Rechallenge with azathioprine performed in 4 patients, within 2-4 months after the first jaundice episode, resulted in relapse of jaundice in all cases. Viral hepatitis B virus and hepatitis C markers were present in all 20 tested patients (serum hepatitis B surface antigen in 6 patients and anti-HCV antibodies in 17 patients). Biopsy-proven chronic hepatitis was observed in 18 patients, including 14 chronic active hepatitis, 3 chronic persistent hepatitis and cirrhosis in 1. In kidney transplant recipients, azathioprine hepatitis seems to be facilitated or induced by hepatitis B virus or hepatitis C virus chronic hepatitis. Azathioprine reduction or withdrawal should therefore be combined with the diagnostic evaluation and the treatment of viral liver diseases.
SERT I425V, an uncommon missense single nucleotide polymorphism producing a gain-of-function of the serotonin transporter (SERT), was originally found to segregate with a primarily obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) but complexly comorbid phenotype in two unrelated families.
As two individuals with SERT I425V and OCD also had Asperger syndrome (AS), an autism spectrum disorder, and as other rare SERT variants have recently shown significant associations with autism, we set out to extend our original OCD study by genotyping additional autism/AS and OCD samples.
Case-control association study of SERT I425V in 210 AS/autism probands and 215 controls, plus 335 OCD probands and their family members.
SERT I425V was not found in any of the individuals with AS/autism, OCD alone or OCD comorbid with AS and other disorders, or in controls. This results in new estimates of SERT I425V having a 1.5% prevalence in 530 individuals with OCD from five unrelated families genotyped by us and by one other group and a 0.23% frequency in four control populations totaling 1300 individuals, yielding a continuing significant OCD-control difference (Fisher's exact test corrected for family coefficient of identity P=0.004, odds ratio=6.54).
As several other uncommon, less well quantitated genetic variations occur with an OCD phenotype, including chromosomal anomalies and some other rare gene variants (SGCE, GCH1 and SLITRK1), a tentative conclusion is that OCD resembles other complex disorders in being etiologically heterogeneous and in having both highly penetrant familial subtypes associated with rare alleles or chromosomal anomalies, as well as having a more common, polygenetic form that may involve polymorphisms in such genes as BDNF, COMT, GRIN2beta, TPH2, HTR2A and SLC1A1.
Analogs of tris(2,3-dibromopropyl)phosphate (Tris-BP) either labeled at specific positions with carbon-14 and phosphorus-32 or dual-labeled with both deuterium and tritium were administered to male Wistar rats at a nephrotoxic dose of 360 mumol/kg. The covalent binding of Tris-BP metabolites to hepatic, renal, and testicular proteins was determined after 9 and 24 hr, and plasma concentrations of bis(2,3-dibromopropyl)-phosphate (Bis-BP) formed metabolically from Tris-BP were measured at intervals throughout the initial 9-hr postdosing period. The covalent binding of 14C-Tris-BP metabolites in the kidney (2495 +/- 404 pmol/mg protein) was greater than that in the liver (476 +/- 123 pmol/mg protein) or testes (94 +/- 11 pmol/mg protein); the extent of renal covalent protein binding of Tris-BP metabolites was decreased by 82 and 84% when deuterium was substituted at carbon-2 and carbon-3, respectively. Substitution of Tris-BP with deuterium at carbon-2 or carbon-3 also decreased the mean area under the curve for Bis-BP plasma concentration by 48 and 57%, respectively. The mechanism of Tris-BP-induced renal and hepatic DNA damage was evaluated in Wistar rats by an automated alkaline elution procedure after the administration of analogs of Tris-BP or Bis-BP labeled at specific positions with deuterium. Renal DNA damage was decreased when Tris-BP was substituted with deuterium at either carbon-2 or carbon-3; the magnitude of the change correlated with both a decrease in the area under the Bis-BP plasma curve and a decrease in renal covalent binding of Tris-BP metabolites for each of the deuterated analogs. In marked contrast, analogs of Bis-BP labeled with deuterium at carbon-2 or carbon-3 did not show a decrease in the severity of renal DNA damage compared to unlabeled Bis-BP. On the basis of these observations a metabolic scheme for hepatic P-450-mediated oxidation at either carbon-2 or carbon-3 of Tris-BP affording Bis-BP by two alternate pathways that are susceptible to primary deuterium kinetic isotope effects is proposed. The Tris-BP metabolite, Bis-BP, is subsequently metabolized to reactive intermediates that cause DNA damage and bind to kidney proteins in a mechanism independent of cytochrome P-450.
Procaterol, a new beta-2 adrenoceptor stimulant, was studied in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial in patients with bronchial asthma. Oral procaterol 50 micrograms b.d., procaterol 100 micrograms b.d., and terbutaline 5 mg t.i.d., were compared when given randomly in 1-week treatment periods. The best clinical effect was found with terbutaline. Both anti-asthmatic and tremorgenic effects of procaterol were dose-related. Procaterol appeared effective in the doses tested, and a twice daily regimen would appear to be suitable with this drug.
To investigate the expression pattern and significance of DNA repair genes JWA and X-ray repair cross complement group 1 (XRCC1) in gastric cancer.
Expressions of JWA and XRCC1 were assessed by immunohistochemistry in a training cohort and they went into a second testing cohort and finally to a validating cohort. Prognostic and predictive role of JWA and XRCC1 expression status in cases treated with surgery alone or combined with adjuvant chemotherapy was evaluated, respectively.
JWA and XRCC1 protein levels were significantly downregulated in gastric cancer lesions compared with adjacent noncancerous tissues. Low tumoral JWA or XRCC1 expression significantly correlated with shorter overall survival (OS), as well as with clinicopathologic characteristics in patients without adjuvant treatment. Multivariate regression analysis showed that low JWA and XRCC1 expressions, separately and together, were independent negative markers of OS. Adjuvant fluorouracil-leucovorin-oxaliplatin (FLO) significantly improved OS compared with surgery alone (log-rank test, P = 0.01). However, this effect was evident only in the JWA or XRCC1 low expression group (HR = 0.44; 95% CI: 0.26-0.73; P = 0.002, and HR = 0.44, 95% CI: 0.26-0.75; P = 0.002, respectively); Adjuvant fluorouracil-leucovorin-platinol (FLP) did not improve OS, except in the patients with low JWA and XRCC1 expressions (P = 0.010 for JWA and 0.024 for XRCC1, respectively).
JWA and XRCC1 protein expressions in tumor are novel candidate prognostic markers and predictive factors for benefit from adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy (FLO or FLP) in resectable human gastric carcinoma.
