The effects on renal function on two different immunosuppressive protocols were evaluated retrospectively in two subsequent groups of heart transplant recipients. In group I, cyclosporine was given before the procedure at a loading dose of 17.5 mg/kg and then continued after the procedure to keep a whole blood level about 1000 ng/ml. In group II, cyclosporine was started only after the procedure at a lower dosage and was complemented by azathioprine, which was used for the first postoperative week. Group II showed a better perioperative renal function as determined by serum blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels. Group II also showed a significant decrease of chronic nephrotoxicity secondary to long-term therapy with cyclosporine. Despite this improvement in late renal function, group II still shows a slow rise in serum creatinine. We think that even these lower dosages of cyclosporine can cause chronic nephrotoxicity and that further modification of the immunosuppressive regimen is required to completely abolish this toxic side effect.
Oroxylin A is a naturally occurring monoflavonoid isolated from the root of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, which has been used in traditional Chinese medicine for its anti-tumor, anti-inflammatory and anti-bacterial properties. The purpose of this study is to investigate the reversal effect and the fundamental mechanisms of oroxylin A in MCF7/ADR cells. Data indicated that oroxylin A showed strong reversal potency in MCF7/ADR cells and the reversal fold (RF) reached 4.68. After treatment with oroxylin A, MCF7/ADR cells displayed reduced functional activity and expression of MDR1 at both the protein and mRNA levels. Meanwhile, oroxylin A induced cells G2/M arrest in a concentration-dependent manner by increasing the expression of p-Chk2 (Thr68). Moreover, western blot and EMSA assays were used to reveal the inhibition of NF-κB in nucleus and the suppression of NF-κB binding activity by oroxylin A. NSC 109555 ditosylate-Chk2 inhibitor partly dismissed G2/M arrest induced by oroxylin A, reversed the increased trend of p-Chk2 and p-P53 (Ser20), inhibited the decreasing effect of oroxylin A on the expression of P-gp and decreased the reversal fold of 90 μM oroxylin A from 4.68 fold to 1.73 fold. In conclusion, we suggested that oroxylin A reversed MDR by G2/M arrest and the underlying mechanism attributed to the suppression of P-gp expression via Chk2/P53/NF-κB signaling pathway.
The study was designed to compare terbutaline inhaled via a 750 ml spacer (Nebuhaler) with subcutaneous adrenaline injection as a first-line treatment for acute severe asthma. Patients were randomly allocated to two treatment groups, receiving either 2 X 4 mg of inhaled terbutaline followed by 2 X 0.5 mg subcutaneous adrenaline (22 patients) or the same drugs in reverse order (24 patients). All patients received a further 2 mg inhaled terbutaline to assess remaining bronchodilator reversibility. Initial treatment with terbutaline produced near maximal bronchodilation (FEV1, FVC), whilst initial treatment with adrenaline did not. Terbutaline also reduced symptoms of dyspnoea and wheeze to a greater extent than adrenaline, and was better tolerated with respect to heart rate and side-effects such as tremor. In conclusion, terbutaline inhaled via Nebuhaler was at least as effective as subcutaneous adrenaline, produced fewer side-effects, and hence can be recommended for initial treatment of acute severe asthma.
To investigate the effects of three different conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) preparations containing different ratios of CLA isomers on insulin signalling, fatty acid oxidation and mitochondrial function, Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a high-fat diet either unsupplemented or supplemented with one of three CLA preparations at 1 % of the diet for 8 weeks. The first CLA preparation contained approximately 30 % cis-9, trans-11 (c9, t11)-CLA isomer and 40 % trans-10, cis-12 (t10, c12)-CLA isomer (CLA-mix). The other two preparations were an 80:20 mix (c9, t11-CLA-mix) or a 10:90 mix of two CLA isomers (t10, c12-CLA-mix). Insulin resistance was decreased in all three supplemented groups based on the results of homeostasis model assessment and the revised quantitative insulin-sensitivity check index. The phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate-1 on serine decreased in the livers of all three supplemented groups, while subsequent Akt phosphorylation increased only in the t10, c12-CLA-mix group. Both the c9, t11-CLA-mix and the t10, c12-CLA-mix increased the expression of hepatic adiponectin receptors R1 and 2, which are thought to enhance insulin sensitivity and fat oxidation. The c9, t11-CLA-mix increased protein and mRNA levels of PPAR alpha, acyl-CoA oxidase and uncoupling protein, which are involved in fatty acid oxidation and energy dissipation. The c9, t11-CLA-mix enhanced mitochondrial function and protection against oxidative stress by increasing the activities of cytochrome c oxidase, manganese-superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione reductase and the level of GSH. In conclusion, all three CLA preparations reduced insulin resistance. Among them, the c9, t11-CLA-mix was the most effective based on the parameters reflecting insulin resistance and fat oxidation, and mitochondrial antioxidative enzyme activity in the liver.
Anesthetic induction with propofol commonly results in hypotension. This study explored potential mechanisms contributing to hypotension by recording cardiovascular responses including sympathetic neural activity from patients during induction of anesthesia with propofol (2.5 mg.kg-1 plus 200 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) or, for comparison, etomidate (0.3 mg.kg-1 plus 15 micrograms.kg-1.min-1). Twenty-five consenting, nonpremedicated, ASA physical status 1 and 2, surgical patients were evaluated. Measurements of R-R intervals (ECG), blood pressure (radial artery), forearm vascular resistance (plethysmography), and efferent muscle sympathetic nerve activity ([MSNA] microneurography: peroneal nerve) were obtained at rest and during induction of anesthesia. In addition, a sequential bolus of nitroprusside (100 micrograms) followed by phenylephrine (150 micrograms) was used to obtain data to quantitate the baroreflex regulation of cardiac function (R-R interval) and sympathetic outflow (MSNA) in the awake and anesthetized states. Etomidate induction preserved MSNA, forearm vascular resistance, and blood pressure, whereas propofol reduced MSNA by 76 +/- 5% (mean +/- SEM), leading to a reduction in forearm vascular resistance and a significant hypotension. Both cardiac and sympathetic baroslopes were maintained with etomidate but were significantly reduced with propofol, especially in response to hypotension. These findings suggest that propofol-induced hypotension is mediated by an inhibition of the sympathetic nervous system and impairment of baroreflex regulatory mechanisms. Etomidate, conversely, maintains hemodynamic stability through preservation of both sympathetic outflow and autonomic reflexes.
The frequency and mutation spectra of proto-oncogene activation in hepatocellular neoplasms induced by tetrachloroethylene, trichloroethylene and dichloroacetic acid were examined to help define the molecular basis for their carcinogenicity. H-ras codon 61 activation was not significantly different among dichloroacetic acid- and trichloroethylene-induced and combined historical and concurrent control hepatocellular tumors (62%, 51% and 69% respectively). The mutation spectra of H-ras codon 61 mutations showed a significant decrease in AAA and increase in CTA mutations for dichloroacetic acid- and trichloroethylene-induced tumors when compared to combined controls. The H-ras codon 61 mutation frequency for tetrachloroethylene-induced tumors was significantly lower (24%) than that of combined controls and also that of the two other chemicals. Mutations at codons 13 and 117 plus a second exon insert contributed 4% to the total H-ras frequencies for trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene. There was also a higher incidence of K-ras activation (13%) in tetrachloroethylene-induced tumors than in the other chemically induced or control tumors. Four liver tumors were found to contain insertions of additional bases within the second exon of K- or H-ras. These findings suggest that exposure to dichloroacetic acid, trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene provides a selective growth advantage to spontaneously occurring mutations in codon 61 of H-ras and, at the same time, is responsible for a small number of unique molecular lesions suggestive of either a random genotoxic mode of action or a non-specific result of secondary DNA damage. However, the absence of ras activation in many of the liver neoplasms suggests that alternative mechanisms are also important in B6C3F1 mouse hepatocarcinogenesis.
Pulmonary vasodilator therapy during increased right ventricular (RV) afterload and insufficient RV myocardial perfusion might further impair RV performance by lowering systemic and, thus, coronary perfusion pressure. This hypothesis was tested by initially inducing pulmonary hypertension (80% increase in resting pulmonary artery pressure by injection of autologous muscle) and subsequent right coronary artery stenosis (40% decrease in flow by external cuff occlusion) in eight open-chest dogs. Then the effects of nitroglycerin (5 micrograms.kg-1.min-1), prostaglandin E1 (0.2 microgram.kg-1.min-1), and hydralazine (mean 0.14 mg/kg) on global and regional (ultrasonic dimension technique) RV performance and coronary hemodynamics (electromagnetic flow probes) were determined. Following all three drugs, right coronary artery flow decreased by 40-65% (mean values) accompanied by severe regional myocardial dysfunction suggestive of ischemia (akinesis, systolic lengthening, and postsystolic shortening). Heart rates increased by 20-40%; aortic pressure decreased by 15-25%; and RV end-diastolic pressure remained unchanged. Despite similarly adverse effects on regional RV performance and comparable effects on heart rate, perfusion and filling pressures with all three drugs, RV systolic pressure, RV dP/dt, and pulmonary artery pressure during nitroglycerin and prostaglandin E1 remained unchanged, and stroke volume and pulmonary artery flow decreased, but they all increased or were maintained (stroke volume) during hydralazine. Gas exchange was not affected by any of the vasodilators. Thus, in this model of combined acute pulmonary hypertension and right coronary artery insufficiency, nitroglycerin, prostaglandin E1, and hydralazine elicited severe regional dysfunction suggestive of ischemia, probably related to concomitant increases in heart rate and decreases in coronary perfusion pressure. Despite such evidence of severe regional RV ischemia, hydralazine maintained global RV pump function. These results indicate 1) that in the presence of increased RV afterload and coronary insufficiency, reduction in coronary perfusion pressure during pulmonary vasodilator therapy may be deleterious, and 2) that even severe regional myocardial ischemia may not necessarily be accompanied by respective changes in global hemodynamics and thus may go undetected.
Obesity-associated inflammation causes insulin resistance. Obese adipose tissue displays hypertrophied adipocytes and increased expression of the cannabinoid-1 receptor. Cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP) increases heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) activity, increasing adiponectin and reducing inflammatory cytokines. We hypothesize that CoPP administration to Zucker diabetic fat (ZDF) rats would improve insulin sensitivity and remodel adipose tissue. Twelve-week-old Zucker lean and ZDF rats were divided into 4 groups: Zucker lean, Zucker lean-CoPP, ZDF, and ZDF-CoPP. Control groups received vehicle and treatment groups received CoPP (2 mg/kg body weight) once weekly for 6 weeks. Serum insulin levels and glucose response to insulin injection were measured. At 18 weeks of age, rats were euthanized, and aorta, kidney, and subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissues were harvested. HO-1 expression was measured by Western blot analysis and HO-1 activity by serum carbon monoxide content. Adipocyte size and cannabinoid-1 expression were measured. Adipose tissue volumes were determined using MRI. CoPP significantly increased HO-1 activity, phosphorylated AKT and phosphorylated AMP kinase, and serum adiponectin in ZDF rats. HO-1 induction improved hyperinsulinemia and insulin sensitivity in ZDF rats. Subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue volumes were significantly decreased in ZDF rats. Adipocyte size and cannabinoid-1 expression were both significantly reduced in ZDF-CoPP rats in subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissues. This study demonstrates that HO-1 induction improves insulin sensitivity, downregulates the peripheral endocannabinoid system, reduces adipose tissue volume, and causes adipose tissue remodeling in a model of obesity-induced insulin resistance. These findings suggest HO-1 as a potential therapeutic target for obesity and its associated health risks.
The sarco/endoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+)-ATPase SERCA2a has a key role in controlling cardiac contraction and relaxation. In hypothyroidism, decreased expression of the thyroid hormone (TH)-responsive SERCA2 gene contributes to slowed SR Ca(2+) reuptake and relaxation. We investigated whether cardiac expression of a TH-insensitive SERCA2a cDNA minigene can rescue SR Ca(2+) handling and contractile function in female SERCA2a-transgenic rats (TG) with experimental hypothyroidism. Wild-type rats (WT) and TG were rendered hypothyroid by 6-N-propyl-2-thiouracil treatment for 6 wk; control rats received no treatment. In vivo measured left ventricular (LV) hemodynamic parameters were compared with SERCA2a expression and function in LV tissue. Hypothyroidism decreased LV peak systolic pressure, dP/dt(max), and dP/dt(min) in both WT and TG. However, loss of function was less in TG. Thus slowed relaxation in hypothyroidism was found to be 1.5-fold faster in TG compared with WT (P < 0.05). In parallel, a 1.4-fold higher V(max) value of homogenate SR Ca(2+) uptake was observed in hypothyroid TG (P < 0.05 vs. hypothyroid WT), and the hypothyroidism-caused decline of LV SERCA2a mRNA expression in TG by -24% was markedly less than the decrease of -49% in WT (P < 0.05). A linear relationship was observed between the SERCA2a/PLB mRNA ratio values and the V(max) values of SR Ca(2+) uptake when the respective data of all experimental groups were plotted together (r = 0.90). The data show that expression of the TH-insensitive SERCA2a minigene compensates for loss of expressional activity of the TH-responsive native SERCA2a gene in the female hypothyroid rat heart. However, SR Ca(2+) uptake and in vivo heart function were only partially rescued.
Animal studies suggest that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid-kainate (AMPA-KA) receptors are involved in pain processing. The effects of the competitive AMPA-KA antagonist LY293558 in two types of experimental pain in human volunteers, brief pain sensations in normal skin, and mechanical allodynia-pinprick hyperalgesia were studied after the injection of intradermal capsaicin.
Brief intravenous infusions of the competitive AMPA-KA antagonist LY293558 were given to 25 healthy volunteers to examine acute toxicity and analgesic effects. Fifteen volunteers then entered a double-blinded, three-period crossover study. In a Phase II study, LY293558 infusions (100% maximally tolerated dose vs. 33% maximally tolerated dose vs. placebo) began 10 min after intradermal injection of 250 microg capsaicin in volar forearm. Spontaneous pain, areas of mechanical allodynia and pinprick hyperalgesia, and side effects were determined every 5 min for 60 min.
The median maximally tolerated dose was 1.3 +/- 0.4 (range, 0.9-2.0) mg/kg. Tests of cognitive and neurological function were unchanged. Dose-limiting side effects were hazy vision in 95% of volunteers and sedation in 40%. There were no significant changes in electrical or warm-cool detection and pain thresholds or heat pain thresholds. LY293558 had little effect on brief pain sensations in normal skin. Both high and low doses of LY293558 significantly reduced pain intensity, pain unpleasantness, and the area in which light brush evoked pain after intradermal capsaicin. There was a trend toward a dose-response effect of LY293558 on the area in which pinprick evoked pain after intradermal capsaicin, which did not reach statistical significance.
The authors infer that AMPA-KA receptor blockade reduces the spinal neuron sensitization that mediates capsaicin-evoked pain and allodynia. The low incidence of side effects at effective doses of LY293558 suggests that this class of drugs may prove to be useful in clinical pain states.
Targeting protective gene expression to porcine endothelium by genetic modification of the donor could improve xenograft survival by controlling cell activation and death. We previously found that, in endothelial cells (EC), the molecular adaptor Lnk (SH2B3) is a negative regulator of cytokine signaling. We also have shown that Lnk is upregulated in pig EC (PAEC) in response to tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF) and xenoreactive natural antibodies (XNA) binding. The present study investigated whether ectopic expression of human Lnk using gene transfer may be efficient to control signaling pathways associated with inflammation and apoptosis in porcine aortic endothelial cells (PAEC).
Endothelial cells cultures were established from WT and Gal(-/-) pigs and transduced with a recombinant adenovirus encoding human Lnk. Phenotype and functions of transduced PAEC expressing Lnk were analyzed by flow cytometry, western blot and XNA and complement-dependent assays. The regulatory functions of Lnk toward inflammation were assessed in TNF-activated EC, and the protective functions were tested toward TNF-induced apoptosis and anoïkis. Apoptosis assays included DNA content analysis and caspase-3/7 activity.
First, we found that as a result of adenoviral transduction, human Lnk was efficiently and similarly expressed in EC from WT or Gal(-/-) pigs. Lnk expression or EC transduction caused no significant change in the binding of XNA (IgG and IgM) to PAEC and has no effect on complement activation and C5b-9 formation. We demonstrated that expression of human Lnk efficiently inhibits TNF signaling in PAEC and decreases VCAM-1 induction by 46.3 ± 1.2% compared to controls (n = 6, **P < 0.01). Furthermore, expression of Lnk was associated with a significant decrease in the percentage of caspase-3/7-dependent apoptosis caused by TNF in the presence of actinomycin D and also reduces cell death by anoïkis by 25.0 ± 1.9% compared to controls (n = 5, **P < 0.01).
Together, these findings indicate that the signaling adaptor Lnk is effective to reduce PAEC activation and apoptosis. Thus, Lnk is a potential candidate for the modulation of signaling pathways to protect vascular EC from inflammation in xenotransplantation.
Ethylbenzene is carcinogenic to rats and mice, while it has no mutagenic activity. We have investigated whether ethylbenzene undergoes metabolic activation, leading to DNA damage. Ethylbenzene was metabolized to 1-phenylethanol, acetophenone, 2-ethylphenol and 4-ethylphenol by rat liver microsomes. Furthermore, 2-ethylphenol and 4-ethylphenol were metabolically transformed to ring-dihydroxylated metabolites such as ethylhydroquinone and 4-ethylcatechol, respectively. Experiment with 32P-labeled DNA fragment revealed that both ethylhydroquinone and 4-ethylcatechol caused DNA damage in the presence of Cu(II). These dihydroxylated compounds also induced the formation of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine in calf thymus DNA in the presence of Cu(II). Catalase, methional and Cu(I)-specific chelator, bathocuproine, significantly (P<0.05) inhibited oxidative DNA damage, whereas free hydroxyl radical scavenger and superoxide dismutase did not. These results suggest that Cu(I) and H2O2 produced via oxidation of ethylhydroquinone and 4-ethylcatechol are involved in oxidative DNA damage. Addition of an endogenous reductant NADH dramatically enhanced 4-ethylcatechol-induced oxidative DNA damage, whereas ethylhydroquinone-induced DNA damage was slightly enhanced. Enhancing effect of NADH on oxidative DNA damage by 4-ethylcatechol may be explained by assuming that reactive species are generated from the redox cycle. In conclusion, these active dihydroxylated metabolites would be involved in the mechanism of carcinogenesis by ethylbenzene.
Standard chemotherapy for pancreatic carcinoma is based on the use of gemcitabine. The clinical benefit of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) in advanced pancreatic cancer has been shown. However, it has been demonstrated that to be effective, there is a need for a constant amount of IFN-alpha at the site of the tumor. Therefore, we examined transfection of the human pancreatic cancer cell line DAN-G with a retrovirus encoding for IFN-alpha and the effect of IFN-alpha gene expression alone or in combination with gemcitabine on growth inhibition of DAN-G pancreatic cancer cells in vitro and in vivo in orthotopically implanted DAN-G cells in nude mice. DAN-G cells could be efficiently transfected retrovirally by the human IFN-alpha gene and significantly enhanced the levels of IFN-alpha mRNA. In vitro gemcitabine led to an alteration of G1/S phase progression in transduced as well as untransduced cells, whereas IFN-alpha led to a significant decrease in cell viability in the transduced cells via delay in the progression of the S phase but no alteration of G1/S phase progression. In vivo, tumor volume in mice was reduced significantly with gemcitabine combined with IFN-alpha (76% +/- 8.3%) compared with gemcitabine alone (62.9% +/- 7.3%) or IFN-alpha alone (24.4% +/- 5.2%) compared with untreated animals. We conclude that gemcitabine and IFN-alpha concomitantly inhibited tumor cell proliferation significantly.
Infections with vancomycin-resistant Enterococci cause significant morbidity and mortality in hospitalized patients, including transplant recipients. We report the successful use of oral linezolid to treat a case of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium endocarditis in a renal transplant recipient with human immunodeficiency virus infection.
Neuropilin-1 (NRP-1) is a novel co-receptor for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Neuropilin-1 is expressed in pancreatic cancer, but not in nonmalignant pancreatic tissue. We hypothesised that NRP-1 expression by pancreatic cancer cells contributes to the malignant phenotype. To determine the role of NRP-1 in pancreatic cancer, NRP-1 was stably transfected into the human pancreatic cancer cell line FG. Signal transduction was assessed by Western blot analysis. Susceptibility to anoikis (detachment induced apoptosis) was evaluated by colony formation after growth in suspension. Chemosensitivity to gemcitabine or 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) was assessed by MTT assay in pancreatic cancer cells following NRP-1 overexpression or siRNA-induced downregulation of NRP-1. Differential expression of apoptosis-related genes was determined by gene array and further evaluated by Western blot analysis. Neuropilin-1 overexpression increased constitutive mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling, possibly via an autocrine loop. Neuropilin-1 overexpression in FG cells enhanced anoikis resistance and increased survival of cells by > 30% after exposure to clinically relevant levels of gemcitabine and 5-FU. In contrast, downregulation of NRP-1 expression in Panc-1 cells markedly increased chemosensitivity, inducing > 50% more cell death at clinically relevant concentrations of gemcitabine. Neuropilin-1 overexpression also increased expression of the antiapoptotic regulator, MCL-1. Neuropilin-1 overexpression in pancreatic cancer cell lines is associated with (a) increased constitutive MAPK signalling, (b) inhibition of anoikis, and (c) chemoresistance. Targeting NRP-1 in pancreatic cancer cells may downregulate survival signalling pathways and increase sensitivity to chemotherapy.
Non-heart beating donors (NHBD) are widely encouraged to avert the critical shortage in the kidney donor pool. Ischaemic injury at the time of cardiac arrest in the NHBD is more pronounced and therefore the kidneys resulting are considered marginal. This review describes our experience with four kidneys from two controlled NHBDs who were exposed to paracetamol intoxication and subsequently were treated with mannitol prior to organ donation.
Two patients with fulminant liver failure following paracetamol overdose were referred as 'withdrawal of treatment' NHBD. As the two patients had developed hepatic encephalopathy they were treated with mannitol to reduce intra-cerebral oedema. The two donors were oligoanuric for at least 24 h prior to cardiac arrest. Following cardiac arrest, in situ perfusion was carried out and the kidneys were removed. One pair of kidneys were machine perfused while the second pair of kidneys were cold stored prior to transplantation.
Pre-transplant assessment of NHBD kidneys resulted in three of four kidneys being transplanted. The NHBD kidneys exhibited a period of delayed graft function (DGF). The early transplant biopsies showed evidence of diffuse cytoplasmic vacuolation. These histological features disappeared with time and the renal function improved until the time of discharge.
Non-heart beating donor kidneys are considered marginal and the effect of mannitol and paracetamol drug intoxication will induce reversible sub-lethal injury. A period of dialysis is inevitable in clearing the reactive intermediates of mannitol and paracetamol. The kidneys behaved as traditional controlled NHBD at time of discharge.
A case is presented of a young woman with a serious addiction to levodopa who over the years developed an extrapyramidal syndrome and chronic paranoid psychotic behaviour. The possible pathophysiological mechanism is discussed.
The latest developments of epidemiologic and biochemical research suggest that current upper limits of intake for dietary selenium and for overall selenium exposure may be inadequate to protect human health. In particular, recent experimental and observational prospective studies indicate a diabetogenic effect of selenium at unexpectedly low levels of intake. Experimental evidence from laboratory studies and veterinary medicine appears to confirm previous epidemiologic observations that selenium overexposure is associated with an increased risk of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and a recent large trial indicated no beneficial effect in preventing prostate cancer. Moreover, the pro-oxidant properties of selenium species and the observation that the selenium-containing enzymes glutathione peroxidases are induced by oxidative stress imply that the increase in enzymatic activity induced by this metalloid may represent at least in part a compensatory response. Taken together, the data indicate that the upper safe limit of organic and inorganic selenium intake in humans may be lower than has been thought and that low-dose chronic overexposure to selenium may be considerably more widespread than supposed.
This study examined the influence of prenatal cocaine exposure on attention and response inhibition measured by continuous performance tests (CPTs) at ages 5 and 7 years.
The baseline sample consisted of 253 cocaine-exposed and 223 non-cocaine-exposed children enrolled prospectively at birth and assessed comprehensively through age 7 years in the longitudinal Miami Prenatal Cocaine Study. This report includes a subsample of 415 children (219 cocaine-exposed, 196 non-cocaine-exposed) who completed at least one CPT assessment at ages 5 and/or 7 years. Prenatal cocaine exposure was measured by maternal self-report and maternal and infant bioassays. Deficits in attention and response inhibition are estimated in relation to prenatal cocaine exposure using generalized estimating equations within the general linear model.
Results indicate cocaine-associated increases in omission errors at ages 5 and 7 as well as increases in response times for target tasks (i.e., slower reaction times) and decreased consistency in performance at age 7. There were no demonstrable cocaine-associated deficits in commission errors. Estimates did not change markedly with statistical adjustment for selected prenatal and postnatal covariates.
Evidence supports cocaine-associated deficits in attention processing through age 7 years.
