Functional neuroimaging suggests that similar brain regions are involved in the processing of pain in healthy subjects and in patients with chronic neuropathic central pain. We present a patient with chronic neuropathic central pain due to a unique lesion to the trigeminal and spinothalamic pathway who had persistent pain relief after repeated IV lidocaine infusions. Positron emission tomography scan results showed a relative hypoactivity of the left posterolateral thalamus before treatment which disappeared after therapy. This case may suggest a stereo-selective analgesic effect of lidocaine accompanied by regional cerebral blood flow changes in the thalamus, indicating that sodium channels could, in fact, be highly expressed or modified in the thalamus after thalamic deafferentation.
We present a case of persistent central pain after encephalitis in a patient who had long-term pain relief after a series of IV lidocaine infusions. A positron emission tomography scan study, done before and after treatment, suggested that lidocaine for the diagnosis of chronic neuropathic pain may have a specific site of action in the brain.
Free radical generation is an important step in the pathogenesis of ethanol-associated liver injury. Administration of ethanol induces an increase in lipid peroxidation both by enhancing the production of oxygen reactive species and by decreasing the levels of endogenous antioxidants. This work focuses on the generation of free radicals provoked by an acute ethanol dose in rats, and the role of different dietary levels of vitamin E. The objective of this investigation was to study the effect of three different dietary levels of vitamin E (deficient, control and supplemented with 20 times higher levels) on plasma and liver lipid peroxidation (assayed by TBARS), vitamin E in plasma and liver, and hepatic glutathione concentration, in rats receiving the different diets. The animals were submitted to an acute dose of ethanol (5 g/kg body weight) administered by gavage at the end of an experimental 4 week period and were sacrificed at 0, 2, 4, 8 and 24 h after ethanol administration. Dietary vitamin E caused a dose-dependent increase in liver and plasma concentration of the vitamin, but ethanol administration decreased hepatic vitamin E in all groups. TBARS concentrations were higher in liver of rats that received the deficient diet, independent of ethanol, however, liver TBARS concentrations were low in control and supplemented groups, but increased with ethanol ingestion. Glutathione levels were lowered by ethanol administration in all groups, in different times, but recovered to this original level in 24 h time. In conclusion, vitamin E deficiency alone induces liver lipid peroxidation in rats, acute administration of ethanol affect vitamin E and GSH level and maintenance of adequate or higher vitamin E levels acts as a protective factor against free radical generation.
Between 30 and 50 days after the induction of seizures by a single injection of lithium and pilocarpine, large aggregates of Nissl-staining material appeared; they occupied up to 35% of the thalamic volume. Both histochemical and atomic absorption analyses indicated elevated concentrations of Ca++ (and possibly Mg++) within this substance that was also composed of polysaccharides and nucleic acids. Significant interactions between time since seizure induction and form of the material indicated a progressive accretion of this material from diffusely scattered micrometer granules to large crystalline forms. We suggest this material is composed of endoplasmic reticular debris that is bound by bivalent cations; because the severity of damage exceeds local phagocytic capacity, the material aggregates and then crystallizes. Possible relation to thalamic calcification in neonatal ischemic brains is considered.
Matrix Gla protein (MGP) is an inhibitor of vascular calcification but its mechanism of action and pathogenic role are unclear. This was examined in cultured rat aortas and in a model of vascular calcification in rats with renal failure. Both carboxylated (GlaMGP) and uncarboxylated (GluMGP) forms were present in aorta and disappeared during culture with warfarin. MGP was also released into the medium and removed by ultracentrifugation, and similarly affected by warfarin. In a high-phosphate medium, warfarin increased aortic calcification but only in the absence of pyrophosphate, another endogenous inhibitor of vascular calcification. Although GlaMGP binds and inactivates bone morphogenic protein (BMP)-2, a proposed mediator of vascular calcification through up-regulation of the osteogenic transcription factor runx2, neither warfarin, BMP-2, nor the BMP-2 antagonist noggin altered runx2 mRNA content in aortas, and noggin did not prevent warfarin-induced calcification. Aortic content of MGP mRNA was increased 5-fold in renal failure but did not differ between calcified and noncalcified aortas. Immunoblots showed increased GlaMGP in noncalcified (5-fold) and calcified (20-fold) aortas from rats with renal failure, with similar increases in GluMGP. We conclude that rat aortic smooth muscle produces both GlaMGP and GluMGP in tissue-bound and soluble, presumably vesicular, forms. MGP inhibits calcification independent of BMP-2-driven osteogenesis and only in the absence of pyrophosphate, consistent with direct inhibition of hydroxyapatite formation. Synthesis of MGP is increased in renal failure and deficiency of GlaMGP is not a primary cause of medial calcification in this condition.
Here we report three cases of hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation after cessation of preemptive lamivudine therapy in B-cell lymphoma patients treated with rituximab plus CHOP (R-CHOP). Two patients received eight cycles of R-CHOP, and one received two cycles of R-CHOP followed by two courses of rituximab. As all the patients were HBV surface antigen (HBsAg) positive, lamivudine was administered simultaneously with R-CHOP to prevent virus reactivation. All the patients developed hepatitis due to HBV reactivation 6, 8 and 13 months after completion of chemotherapy, and 4, 2 and 2 months after cessation of lamivudine, respectively. They were treated with either lamivudine or entecavir and all achieved full recovery. When HBV carriers undergo immunosuppressive anticancer treatment, prophylactic antiviral therapy is well recognized as effective. However, the optimal method of prophylaxis has not yet been established. Since the introduction of rituximab, new problems such as delayed HBV reactivation from HBsAg positive patients and de novo hepatitis B from HBsAg negative patients have emerged. Guidelines for prophylactic antiviral therapy in the era of rituximab need to be established.
To determine whether beta-adrenergic blockade augments cocaine-induced coronary artery vasoconstriction.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
A cardiac catheterization laboratory in an urban teaching hospital.
Thirty clinically stable patient volunteers referred for catheterization for evaluation of chest pain.
Heart rate, arterial pressure, coronary sinus blood flow (by thermodilution), and epicardial left coronary arterial dimensions were measured before and 15 minutes after intranasal saline or cocaine administration (2 mg/kg body weight) and again after intracoronary propranolol administration (2 mg in 5 minutes).
No variables changed after saline administration. After cocaine administration, arterial pressure and rate-pressure product increased; coronary sinus blood flow fell (139 +/- 28 [mean +/- SE] to 120 +/- 20 mL/min); coronary vascular resistance (mean arterial pressure divided by coronary sinus blood flow) rose (0.87 +/- 0.10 to 1.05 +/- 0.10 mm Hg/mL.min); and coronary arterial diameters decreased by between 6% and 9% (P less than 0.05 for all variables). Subsequently, intracoronary propranolol administration caused no change in arterial pressure or rate-pressure product but further decreased coronary sinus blood flow (to 100 +/- 14 mL/min) and increased coronary vascular resistance (to 1.20 +/- 0.12 mm Hg/mL.min) (P less than 0.05 for both).
Cocaine-induced coronary vasoconstriction is potentiated by beta-adrenergic blockade. Beta-adrenergic blocking agents probably should be avoided in patients with cocaine-associated myocardial ischemia or infarction.
Patients with advanced pancreatic cancer failing gemcitabine-based first-line chemotherapy are still in relatively good clinical conditions and may still require second-line chemotherapy, which is frequently administered in daily clinical practice given to without solid scientific support.
A retrospective survey was carried out including 40 patients with stage III or IV gemcitabine-refractory pancreatic carcinoma. Patients received standard FOLFIRI regimen biweekly until progression or unacceptable toxicity. Response evaluation criteria in solid tumors and National Cancer Institute common toxicity criteria were employed respectively for response and toxicity assessment.
Six partial responses (15%) and 14 stabilizations of disease (35%) were recorded for a tumor growth control rate of 50%. The median time to progression was 3.7 (range, 1-6.5 months), and median overall survival was 6 months (range, 2-8.2 months). A stabilization of performance status and a subjective improvement of cancer-related symptoms were recorded in 21 patients (52.5%). No correlation has been found between length of time to progression during first-line chemotherapy and length of that reported in the second-line setting or objective response. Grade 3-4 diarrhea and mucositis was observed in 15% and 10% of cases, respectively.
Data presented in this article demonstrate that the second-line FOLFIRI regimen are able to induce an objective response in a relatively small fraction of patients with gemcitabine-refractory adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. The use of second-line chemotherapy should be carefully proposed to patients with good performance status or those who had a good response to first-line therapy.
The authors examined the cardiovascular and respiratory effects of the highly selective alpha 2-adrenergic agonist dexmedetomidine, both alone and in combination with the synthetic opiate alfentanil. Spontaneously ventilating rats (n = 28) were pretreated with dexmedetomidine, 10 or 30 micrograms/kg; dexmedetomidine, 30 micrograms/kg in combination with the central-acting alpha 2-antagonist idazoxan, 10 mg/kg; or vehicle. Fifteen minutes later all rats received alfentanil, 500 micrograms/kg. Pretreatment with dexmedetomidine reduced heart rate in a dose-related fashion. Administration of alfentanil also caused a significant reduction in heart rate. However, following alfentanil, the dexmedetomidine-treated animals did not have significantly greater bradycardia than control animals. An increase in blood pressure was observed in those animals receiving the larger dose of dexmedetomidine, but this difference disappeared following injection of alfentanil. The addition of idazoxan to the pretreatment regimen prevented the changes seen with dexmedetomidine. Pretreatment with dexmedetomidine produced no significant changes in arterial pH or PCO2. In all groups, administration of alfentanil resulted in a decrease in arterial pH that ultimately became a mixed respiratory and metabolic acidosis. The acidosis promptly resolved following injection of naloxone (1 mg/kg). It appears that dexmedetomidine, at the doses given, has little or no effect on respiration. Dexmedetomidine decreases heart rate but does not add to bradycardia following alfentanil. There is a hypertensive effect seen at the higher dose of dexmedetomidine, but this effect disappears when the drug is given in conjunction with alfentanil. These data show that addition of the alpha 2-agonist dexmedetomidine will not worsen the cardiovascular and respiratory depression associated with high-dose opiates in the spontaneously ventilating rat.
Apoptosis is an essential physiological process that regulates cellular proliferation. Here, we explored the effect of DNA sequence variation within the BCL-2 gene on prostate cancer susceptibility in three clinical populations, consisting of 428 African Americans, 214 Jamaicans and 218 European Americans. We observed a 70% reduced risk for prostate cancer among the European Americans who had possessed two copies of a promoter variant -938C/A. Additionally, common BCL-2 haplotypes appeared to influence prostate cancer risk; however, studies in larger data sets are needed to confirm our findings. Our data suggest that inherited BCL-2 variants may be associated with a decrease in prostate cancer susceptibility.
Hemicrania continua (HC) is a rare, strictly unilateral, nonparoxysmal headache disorder characterized by its absolute responsiveness to indomethacin. The pain is usually moderate in intensity and frequently associated with a superimposed "jabs and jolts" headache. We report two cases of HC which presented as chronic daily headache (CDH) with abortive medication overuse. CDH can be due to transformed migraine (TM), new daily persistent headache (NDPH), chronic tension-type headache, and HC. All can be unilateral, and all can be associated with medication overuse. Our two cases meet the criteria for HC based on indomethacin responsiveness. One meets the criteria for TM, the other NDPH. Is HC a distinct disorder, or a subset of these other disorders? CDH with medication overuse includes in its differential diagnosis HC.
Giant cell tumor of bone is an aggressive tumor characterized by extensive bone destruction and high recurrence rates. This tumor consists of stromal cells and hematopoietic cells that interact in an autocrine manner to produce tumoral osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption. This autocrine regulation may be disrupted by novel therapeutic agents. Nonspecific local adjuvant therapies such as phenol or liquid nitrogen have been used in the treatment of giant cell tumor, but specific adjuvant therapies have not been described. The bisphosphonates pamidronate and Zoledronate can induce apoptosis in giant cell tumor culture in a dose-dependent manner. We established giant cell tumor cultures from patients with extensive destruction of bone. One of the four cultures formed osteoclastlike giant cells in vitro after more than six passages without exogenous receptor activator of NF-kappaB ligand or macrophage colony stimulating factor. Annexin V staining, presence of active cleaved form of caspase-3, and disappearance of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase on Western blotting indicated activation of apoptosis by bisphosphonates in giant cell tumor. These results indicate that topical or systemic use of pamidronate or zoledronate can be a novel adjuvant therapy for giant cell tumor by targeting osteoclastlike giant cells, mononuclear giant cell precursor cells, and the autocrine loop of tumor osteoclastogenesis.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-gamma) is a regulator of anti-inflammatory genes. One of its agonists, rosiglitazone-widely used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus-has recently been reported to increase the risk for myocardial infarction. In contrast, various studies provide evidence for a rosiglitazone-induced cardioprotection in different models of acute myocardial I/R. Here, we report that this protection can still be observed after 28 days of reperfusion in a murine model even when treatment commenced after the period of ischemia (reperfusion therapy). In vitro, cells from the rat cardiomyoblast cell line H9c2(2-1) are protected against oxidative stress by incubation with rosiglitazone, which can be abrogated by dexamethasone or cycloheximide. The antioxidant enzyme heme oxygenase 1 is up-regulated in these cells after rosiglitazone treatment. Our data provide further evidence that rosiglitazone exerts protective effects during myocardial I/R and might contribute to the reevaluation of the approved drug rosiglitazone.
14-O-Methyloxymorphone and 14-methoxymetopon were reported as highly selective and potent micro opioid receptor agonists. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the opioid activity of these compounds in vitro and in vivo in comparison to oxymorphone, morphine and DAMGO. The micro opioid receptor efficacy, full or partial agonist nature of opioids was analyzed in the rat vas deferens (RVD) bioassay. Compared to oxymorphone, 14-O-methyloxymorphone and 14-methoxymetopon showed greater affinities to the rodent brain micro opioid receptors in receptor binding assays. In isolated organs 14-O-methyloxymorphone and 14-methoxymetopon were 3-10-fold more potent than the micro agonist opioid peptide, DAMGO. All tested compounds reached at least 70% maximum inhibition in mouse vas deferens (MVD) except morphine and oxymorphone. In the RVD, morphine could not exceed 50% inhibition of the twitches while 14-O-methyloxymorphone and 14-methoxymetopon showed inhibitory effects more than 70%. Oxymorphone reached only 4% maximal agonist effect and antagonized the inhibitory effect of DAMGO. The investigated morphinans produced dose-dependent antinociceptive activities in mice and rats. Both, 14-O-methyloxymorphone and 14-methoxymetopon are highly efficacious micro opioid receptor agonists in the RVD exhibiting full micro agonist properties. The RVD tissue contains mu receptors indicated by the comparable K(e) values of the micro antagonist naltrexone against DAMGO in the MVD. RVD may be a good alternative to assess the mu receptor efficacy of opioid agonists providing a more physiological environment for the ligand-receptor interaction than other efficacy measuring methods such as the [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding assay.
Limited data are available regarding the cost-effectiveness of preventative therapies for postmenopausal women with osteopenia. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of raloxifene, alendronate and conservative care in this population.
We developed a microsimulation model to assess the incremental cost and effectiveness of raloxifene and alendronate relative to conservative care. We assumed a societal perspective and a lifetime time horizon. We examined clinical scenarios involving postmenopausal women from 55 to 75 years of age with bone mineral density T-scores ranging from -1.0 to -2.4. Modeled health events included vertebral and nonvertebral fractures, invasive breast cancer, and venous thromboembolism (VTE). Raloxifene and alendronate were assumed to reduce the incidence of vertebral but not nonvertebral fractures; raloxifene was assumed to decrease the incidence of breast cancer and increase the incidence of VTEs. Cost-effectiveness is reported in $/QALYs gained.
For women 55 to 60 years of age with a T-score of -1.8, raloxifene cost approximately $50,000/QALY gained relative to conservative care. Raloxifene was less cost-effective for women 65 and older. At all ages, alendronate was both more expensive and less effective than raloxifene. In most clinical scenarios, raloxifene conferred a greater benefit (in QALYs) from prevention of invasive breast cancer than from fracture prevention. Results were most sensitive to the population's underlying risk of fracture and breast cancer, assumed efficacy and costs of treatment, and the discount rate.
For 55 and 60 year old women with osteopenia, treatment with raloxifene compares favorably to interventions accepted as cost-effective.
This study evaluates the chemopreventive effect of an aqueous extract of dried leaves of Ardisia compressa against liver cancer. A rat liver assay that mimics progressive forms of human disease was used as a carcinogenesis model. Forty-five male Wistar rats (180-200 g body weight) were injected intraperitoneally on day 1 with a single dose (100 mg/kg) of diethylnitrosamine (DEN), and also received via gavage 20 mg/kg acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF), on days 7, 8 and 9. The rats were randomly divided into four groups (n=15). Control groups (Group 1 and Group 2) had free access to water. Group 3 received 0.5% (w/v) of A. compressa tea for 10 days before treatment and during the study as the sole source of fluid until the rats were killed. A fourth group of 15 rats received no carcinogen or promoter but did receive 0.5%, (w/v) of A. compressa tea. All animals had 70% partial hepatectomy at day 10. The incidences of hepatocellular foci, nodules and carcinoma were significantly smaller in Group 3 than in Group 2 (P<0.01). A. compressa tea consumption alone (Group 4) did not induce the development of foci, nodules or carcinomas (P<0.01). The striking observation of this study was that consumption of A. compressa tea resulted in complete inhibition of the chemically-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in Wistar rats.
Coagulation parameters--platelet aggregation, beta-thromboglobulin, fibrinopeptide A were analyzes in patients with final chronic renal insufficiency during haemodialysis after a low molecular weight heparin application. In the study was documented that standard heparin is able to induce platelet aggregation. A low molecular weight heparin is suggested as sefex, because no influence on platelet aggregation was determined.
Verapamil and ibutilide blunt the atrial fibrillation-induced shortening of atrial refractoriness that may predispose to an immediate recurrence of atrial fibrillation after cardioversion. This study compared the efficacy of verapamil and ibutilide in preventing an immediate recurrence of atrial fibrillation.
Transthoracic cardioversion was performed in 223 patients with atrial fibrillation. Atrial fibrillation recurred within 10 minutes after cardioversion on two occasions in 21 patients (9.4%). Twenty of these patients were randomly assigned to receive an infusion of either 0.15 mg/kg of verapamil at a rate of 2 mg/min (11 patients), or 1 mg of ibutilide over 10 minutes (9 patients). Eight patients (73%) had another episode of immediate recurrence of atrial fibrillation after verapamil, compared to two patients (22%) after ibutilide (P<0.05). Including the results after crossover, immediate recurrence of atrial fibrillation occurred in 8 of 12 patients (67%) who received verapamil, compared to 3 of 16 patients (19%) who received ibutilide (P=0.02). Verapamil and/or ibutilide successfully prevented immediate recurrence of atrial fibrillation in 17 of 20 patients (85%). After 700 days of follow-up, there was no significant difference in the recurrence rate of atrial fibrillation between the patients in whom immediate recurrence of atrial fibrillation was prevented by verapamil and/or ibutilide and the patients who were successfully converted to sinus rhythm and did not have immediate recurrence of atrial fibrillation.
Ibutilide is more effective than verapamil in preventing immediate recurrence of atrial fibrillation. Suppression of immediate recurrence of atrial fibrillation by ibutilide and/or verapamil may allow for long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm postcardioversion as often as in patients who do not experience immediate recurrence of atrial fibrillation.
Painful neuropathy is a major side-effect limiting cancer chemotherapy. Therefore, novel strategies are required to suppress the neuropathic effects of anticancer drugs without altering their chemotherapeutic effectiveness. By combining biochemical, neuroanatomical/neurochemical, electrophysiological and behavioral methods, we demonstrated that progesterone-derived neurosteroids including 5alpha-dihydroprogesterone and 3alpha,5alpha-tetrahydroprogesterone suppressed neuropathic symptoms evoked in naive rats by vincristine. Neurosteroids counteracted vincristine-induced alterations in peripheral nerves including 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase, neurofilament-200 kDa and intraepidermal nerve fiber repression, nerve conduction velocity, and pain transmission abnormalities (allodynia/hyperalgesia). In skin-tumor rats generated with carcinosarcoma-cells, vincristine, which suppressed the skin tumor and restored normal blood concentration of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), reproduced neuropathic side-effects. Administered alone, neurosteroids did not affect the tumor and VEGF level. Combined with vincristine, neurosteroids preserved vincristine anti-tumor action but counteracted vincristine-induced neural side-effects. Together, these results provide valuable insight into the cellular and functional mechanisms underlying anticancer drug-induced neuropathy and suggest a neurosteroid-based strategy to eradicate painful neuropathy.
Sudden death due to cocaine in the absence of myocardial infarction has been attributed to the precipitation of life-threatening arrhythmias not unlike that due to antiarrhythmic drugs. Cocaine is a slow on-off sodium blocker and a fast on-off potassium blocker. Effects on repolarization are biphasic: At low concentrations, cocaine delays ventricular recovery, whereas at higher levels, cocaine hastens it. Two distinct clinical profiles emerge from case reports of electrocardiographically documented life-threatening arrhythmias attributed to cocaine. The first is monomorphic slow ventricular tachycardia or idioventricular rhythm that occurs in overdose situations and appears to reflect excessive sodium channel block; it may respond to sodium bicarbonate. The second is torsade de pointes that occurs in recreational users who have underlying risks for this tachycardia (such as fully or partially expressed congenital long QT syndrome) and reflects potassium channel blockade. These clinical observations can be explained by recent findings regarding the electrophysiologic effects of cocaine. Other patterns of severe arrhythmias due to cocaine may yet emerge.
Nickel exposure is the most common cause of contact allergy. The role of contact with nickel-containing coins has been controversial.
To compare the release of nickel from 1 and 2 EUR coins (both composed of two alloys: Cu 75%, Zn 20%, Ni 5% and Cu 75%, Ni 25%) and Swedish 1 SEK coin (alloy: Cu 75%, Ni 25%) and to assess the deposition of nickel onto skin by coin handling.
Nickel release was determined by immersion in artificial sweat (2 min, 1 hr, 24 hr, and 1 week). Deposition of nickel onto the skin was assessed in three subjects after 1-hr handling of 2 EUR and 1 SEK coins. Samples (n = 48) were taken from fingers and palms by acid wipe sampling and analysed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry.
Amounts of nickel released by 1 week from 1 SEK, 1 EUR, and 2 EUR coins were 121, 86, and 99 microg/cm(2), respectively. Corresponding 2 min values were 0.11, 0.25, and 0.22 microg/cm(2). Nickel was deposited onto the skin by 1 hr coin handling (range 0.09-4.1 microg/cm(2)), the largest amounts were on fingers; similar amounts of nickel were deposited from 1 SEK and 2 EUR coins.
Nickel is released from 1 and 2 EUR and 1 SEK coins at similar amounts. Nickel is deposited onto skin at substantial and similar amounts by coin handling. Acid wipe sampling is suitable for studies of skin exposure to nickel and in risk assessment.
A grand mal seizure is an unexpected, rare adverse event in a child receiving eye drops to dilate the pupils for an eye examination. A case is reported of a convulsion in a 23-month-old boy after he received Cyclogyl (cyclopentolate) and Neo-Synephrine (phenylephrine) eye drops before ophthalmoscopy. His serum sodium was 125 mEq/L, and he had low plasma pseudocholinesterase activity. Children exposed to organophosphate insecticides and other pseudocholinesterase inhibitors may be at risk for cyclopentolate toxicity.
The preservative methyldibromo glutaronitrile (MDBGN) has been banned, first from stay-on, and later from rinse-off cosmetics, in the EU countries because of increasing rates of contact allergy.
To evaluate the frequency of contact allergy to MDBGN among patients patch tested by the Danish Contact Dermatitis Group just before and following regulatory decisions.
The data set comprised 19 279 consecutive eczema patients patch tested from 2003-2007 with MDBGN 0.3% in petrolatum (pet.) or, in a minority of patients, with Euxyl K 400 1.5% in pet.
A significantly decreasing trend in the frequency of positive patch tests to MDBGN was found from 4.6% in 2003 to 2.6% in 2007 (P < 0.001). The decreasing trend was seen for both men and women. A significantly decreasing proportion of cases with a current relevance of contact allergy to MDBGN was also seen from 51.3% in 2003 to 29% in 2007 (P < 0.001).
Regulatory interventions have already had a major effect on allergic disease due to MDBGN in Denmark. The same trends are likely to be seen in other EU countries.
Few well-characterized animal models have been developed to study the pathogenesis of membranous nephropathy (MN). We have developed a mouse model of MN induced by cationic bovine serum albumin (cBSA), and examined the role of genetic background on disease induction by assessing different mouse strains.
cBSA in an optimum dose was given intravenously to 8-week-old female ICR, BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice for 4 weeks. The disease state was verified by renal histopathology as well as by serum and urine metabolic profiles. Serum concentrations of anti-cBSA immunoglobulins (Igs) and circulating immune complex (CIC) were assayed to study the mechanisms of initiation and progression. T-helper (Th) cell subsets in peripheral blood were examined using flow cytometry, and the Th1/Th2 subset distribution was determined by comparing the serum concentrations of IgG1 and IgG2a, using quantitative heterologous interpolation enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays.
Only ICR and BALB/c mice developed the typical clinical and pathological patterns of MN in response to an optimum dose of cBSA. Disease induction was dose related and strain specific. The serum concentrations of anti-cBSA were significantly higher in the strains that developed MN, but there were no differences in CIC concentrations. This suggests that in situ immune-complex glomerulonephritis may be involved in the development of MN. The Th2 type immune response may predominate in the ICR and BALB/c mice models, as the serum concentration of IgG1 was higher than that of IgG2a; moreover Th2 type strain specificity was necessary for the development of MN.
This improved mouse model of MN induced by cBSA more closely duplicates human MN than the other available models. Disease generation is antigen dose related and strain specific.
