This study investigated whether pretreatment with glycopyrronium can attenuate the hypotension caused by anaesthesia of the elderly with propofol. Twenty elderly patients (77.1 +/- 2.44 years, mean +/- SEM) of ASA physical status 2 or 3 scheduled for elective urological procedures were given glycopyrronium 0 (n = 10) or 5 micrograms.kg-1 (n = 10) in a randomised, double-blind manner, 5 min before induction of anaesthesia with propofol infused at 600 ml.h-1 (average induction dose 1.7 +/- 0.06 mg.kg-1, mean +/- SEM) followed by maintenance with a propofol infusion at 10 mg.kg-1.h-1. Although glycopyrronium significantly increased heart rate (p less than 0.01, ANOVA), the decrease in blood pressure 2 and 5 min after induction was similar in both groups. The study had a power of 80% to detect a 20 mmHg difference in systolic arterial pressure between treatment groups with p less than 0.05.
Paclitaxel has been found to exhibit cytotoxic and antitumor activity. There is little information regarding the mechanisms of apoptotic-inducing effect of paclitaxel on human osteogenic sarcoma U-2 OS cells. Several key regulatory proteins are involved in the initiation of apoptosis. Caspase-3 plays a direct role in proteolytic cleavage of cellular proteins responsible for progression to apoptosis. We examined the effect of paclitaxel on the cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in U-2 OS cells using flow cytometric analysis and Western blotting. We also measured the inhibition of paclitaxel-induced apoptosis and the caspase-3 activity by the broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk on U-2 OS cells. The increased levels of casapse-3 were also confirmed by cDNA microarray. Our observations were: (1) paclitaxel treatment resulted in G2/M-cycle arrest in U-2 OS cells; (2) time and dose dependent apoptosis of U-2 OS cells was induced by paclitaxel; (3) in U-2 OS cells, z-VAD-fmk blocked the paclitaxel-induced apoptosis and caspase-3 activation. These results suggest that paclitaxel-induced G2/M-cycle arrest of the G2/M phase and apoptosis via a caspase-3 pathway in U-2 OS cells.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent stimulus of angiogenesis that has an important role in many human malignancies including prostate carcinoma (PCa). We evaluated the role of the functional VEGF polymorphisms as genetic markers for PCa susceptibility and prognosis.
The study included 101 patients with PCa and [corrected] 100 age-matched healthy men. The VEGF genotypes -1154G>A were identified by allele-specific polymerase chain reaction (AS-PCR) and the genotypes -634G>C and 936C>T were identified by restriction fragment length polymorphism-polymerase chain reaction (RFLP-PCR).
A negative association was found between VEGF -1154AA genotype and PCa risk (OR=0.27; P=0.009). Furthermore, the presence of the VEGF -1154A allele appeared to be associated with a decreased [corrected] risk of higher tumor grade (OR=0.37; P=0.01). A significant increased risk of prostate cancer was associated with the VEGF -634 (GC+CC) combined genotype (OR=1.95; P=0.02). The VEGF -634C allele was associated with the aggressive phenotype of prostate cancer as defined by the high histological grade (OR=3.48; P=0.007). The VEGF -1154A/-634G haplotype was negatively associated with PCa risk (OR=0.48; P=0.005) and high tumor grade compared to low grade (OR=0.37; P=0.02).
Genetic variations in the VEGF may predict not only PCa risk but also tumor aggressiveness.
The incidence of myalgia after suxamethonium was determined in 200 fit military male dental patients of European, Chinese and Nepalese descent. Half received pancuronium 1 mg and the other half received saline pretreatment on a randomised double-blind basis. The percentage incidence of postsuxamethonium myalgia after saline or pancuronium was found to be: Europeans 26%, 13%; Chinese 13%, 7%; Nepalese 20%, 14%. Although pancuronium reduced the incidence of myalgia by about 50% overall, these values were not significantly different from each other. The recovery of spontaneous ventilation following suxamethonium was quicker in the Europeans than in the Asians (p < 0.05). Pancuronium pretreatment also delayed the recovery of spontaneous ventilation and recovery from neuromuscular block (p < 0.05) but this was independent of ethnicity. The Europeans recovered from anaesthesia more quickly than the Asians. It was concluded that ethnicity affected recovery from suxamethonium and from anaesthesia but was not of clinical relevance to the incidence of myalgia in male Asians and Europeans.
It has been suggested that patients with Parkinson disease partially compensate for neuron loss by developing denervation supersensitivity, and, if so, that prolonged levodopa (L-dopa) therapy might lead to desensitization. As a preliminary test of this hypothesis, and in order to study whether it was possible to "resensitize" a patient who had already presumably been desensitized by previous L-dopa therapy, a patient who had become unpredictably responsive to L-dopa was investigated. The patient had been taking L-dopa for eight years and had exhibited severe dyskinesia-akinesia oscillation ("on-off" phenomenon) before the study. There was no consistent response to his hourly doses of Prolopa (L-dopa and benserazide in a 4:1 ratio). He was first lowered, over 33 days, to 20% of his original Prolopa dose. The dosage was then increased until a consistent response was observed. The three main results achieved were, first, overall reduction by 64% of the daily requirement for L-dopa; second, conversion from a previously unpredictable to a predictable response to each dose of L-dopa; and, third, change in his movement fluctuations to a pattern more typical of "end-of-dose" akinesia than the "on-off" phenomenon. The results support the idea of dopamine receptor resensitization upon reduction of the L-dopa dosage.
1. The aim of this study was to determine whether the site of action of relaxin as a relaxant of rat myometrium is at the cell membrane or at an intracellular-site. Therefore, the potency of relaxin was determined against spasms reliant predominantly upon either extracellular Ca2+ or intracellular Ca2+. Uterine spasms dependent upon extracellular Ca2+ were elicited by (i) oxytocin (0.2 nM) (ii) Bay K 8644 (1 microM) in 10 mM K(+)-rich PSS and (iii) KCl (80 mM). Uterine spasm dependent upon intracellular Ca2+ was elicited by oxytocin (20 nM) in the presence of nifedipine (500 nM). The effects of relaxin against these spasmogens were compared with those of levcromakalim, nifedipine and salbutamol. 2. Relaxin (0.2-6.3 nM), levcromakalim (25-800 nM), salbutamol (1-63 nM) and nifedipine (1-250 nM) caused concentration-dependent inhibition of the spasm evoked by oxytocin (0.2 nM) and relaxin was the most potent relaxant. 3. Relaxin and nifedipine were slightly less potent against the spasm induced by Bay K 8644 (1 microM) than against spasm induced by oxytocin (0.2 nM) (15 fold and 13 fold respectively). Levcromakalim and salbutamol were equipotent against the spasm evoked by Bay K 8644 (1 microM) and that evoked by oxytocin (0.2 nM). 4. Relaxin induced only 47 +/- 7% inhibition of the KCl (80 mM)-evoked spasm at a concentration of 0.8 microM. Levcromakalim was much less potent (427 fold) against the spasm evoked by KCl (80 mM) than against the spasm evoked by oxytocin (0.2 nM). The potency of salbutamol against the spasm evoked by KCl (80 mM) was modestly reduced (14 fold) compared to that against the spasm evoked by oxytocin (0.2 nM). The potency of nifedipine against the KCl (80 mM)-evoked spasm was not different from that against the oxytocin (0.2 nM)-evoked spasm. 5. The potencies of relaxin and levcromakalim against the spasm evoked by oxytocin (20 nM) + nifedipine (500 nM) were greatly reduced (74 fold and 234 fold respectively) compared to their potencies against the spasm evoked by oxytocin (0.2 nM). The potency of salbutamol against these two spasmogens was not different. 6. Relaxin was much less potent against the spasm dependent upon intracellular Ca2+ (that induced by oxytocin (20 nM) + nifedipine (500 nM)) than against the spasms dependent upon extracellular Ca2+, those induced by oxytocin (0.2 nM) and Bay K 8644 (1 microM). In this regard, relaxin resembled levcromakalim and nifedipine rather than salbutamol. Therefore, the major site of action of relaxin appears to be located at the plasma membrane rather than at an intracellular level. The observation that relaxin was less effective against the KCl (80 mM)-induced spasm than against the oxytocin (0.2 nM)-evoked spasm may indicate that relaxin has a minor action involving K(+)-channel opening. 7. High concentrations of relaxin (up to 1 microM) induced significant inhibition of the spasm dependent upon intracellular Ca2+. Thus at high concentrations relaxin also appears to have an additional intracellular action.
Mutations in MECP2, encoding methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2), cause the neurodevelopmental disorder Rett syndrome (RTT). Although MECP2 mutations are rare in idiopathic autism, reduced MeCP2 levels are common in autism cortex. MeCP2 is critical for postnatal neuronal maturation and a modulator of activity-dependent genes such as Bdnf (brain-derived neurotropic factor) and JUNB. The activity-dependent early growth response gene 2 (EGR2), required for both early hindbrain development and mature neuronal function, has predicted binding sites in the promoters of several neurologically relevant genes including MECP2. Conversely, MeCP2 family members MBD1, MBD2 and MBD4 bind a methylated CpG island in an enhancer region located in EGR2 intron 1. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that MECP2 and EGR2 regulate each other's expression during neuronal maturation in postnatal brain development. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis showed EGR2 binding to the MECP2 promoter and MeCP2 binding to the enhancer region in EGR2 intron 1. Reduction in EGR2 and MeCP2 levels in cultured human neuroblastoma cells by RNA interference reciprocally reduced expression of both EGR2 and MECP2 and their protein products. Consistent with a role of MeCP2 in enhancing EGR2, Mecp2-deficient mouse cortex samples showed significantly reduced EGR2 by quantitative immunofluorescence. Furthermore, MeCP2 and EGR2 show coordinately increased levels during postnatal development of both mouse and human cortex. In contrast to age-matched Controls, RTT and autism postmortem cortex samples showed significant reduction in EGR2. Together, these data support a role of dysregulation of an activity-dependent EGR2/MeCP2 pathway in RTT and autism.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in acetaminophen (APAP)-induced hepatotoxicity. In addition to inducing direct cellular damage, oxidants can activate transcription factors including NF-kappaB, which regulate the production of inflammatory mediators implicated in hepatotoxicity. Here, we investigated the role of APAP-induced oxidative stress and NF-kappaB in inflammatory mediator production. Treatment of mice with APAP (300 mg/kg, i.p.) resulted in centrilobular hepatic necrosis and increased serum aminotransferase levels. This was correlated with depletion of hepatic glutathione and CuZn superoxide dismutase (SOD). APAP administration also increased expression of the proinflammatory mediators, interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), macrophage chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), and KC/gro, and the anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10 (IL-10). Pretreatment of mice with the antioxidant, N-acetylcysteine (NAC) prevented APAP-induced depletion of glutathione and CuZnSOD, as well as hepatotoxicity. NAC also abrogated APAP-induced increases in TNFalpha, KC/gro, and IL-10, but augmented expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-4 (IL-4) and transforming growth factor-beta (TGFbeta). No effects were observed on IL-1beta or MCP-1 expression. To determine if NF-kappaB plays a role in regulating mediator production, we used transgenic mice with a targeted disruption of the gene for NF-kappaB p50. As observed with NAC pretreatment, the loss of NF-kappaB p50 was associated with decreased ability of APAP to upregulate TNFalpha, KC/gro, and IL-10 expression and increased expression of IL-4 and TGFbeta. However, in contrast to NAC pretreatment, the loss of p50 had no effect on APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. These data demonstrate that APAP-induced cytokine expression in the liver is influenced by oxidative stress and that this is dependent, in part, on NF-kappaB. However, NF-kappaB p50-dependent responses do not appear to play a major role in the pathogenesis of toxicity in this model.
Nephrotoxicity is a major complication of acetaminophen (APAP), a widely used analgesic and antipyretic drug, and there is no specific treatment for APAP-induced renal damage. It has been reported that reactive oxygen metabolites or free radicals are important mediators of APAP toxicity. In this study, the protective role of melatonin (MLT) on APAP-induced nephrotoxicity was investigated in rats. For this purpose, nephrotoxicity was induced in male Wistar albino rats by intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of a single dose of 1,000 mg/kg APAP. Some of these rats also received i.p. melatonin (10 mg/kg) 20 min after administration of APAP. The rats were sacrificed 24 h after administration of APAP. Urea and creatinine levels were measured in the blood, and levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione (GSH), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), catalase (CAT), and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were determined in renal tissue. Serum urea and creatinine levels increased significantly as a result of APAP nephrotoxicity. A significant increase in MDA and decreases in GSH level and GSH-Px, CAT, and SOD activity indicated that APAP-induced renal damage was mediated through oxidative stress. Significant beneficial changes were noted in serum and tissue oxidative stress indicators in rats treated with MLT. These biochemical observations were supplemented by histopathological examination of kidney sections, which revealed that MLT also reduced the severity of APAP-induced histological alterations in the kidney. These results indicate that administration of APAP causes oxidative stress to renal tissue and that MLT protects against the oxidative damage associated with APAP.
Cases of syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) associated with tuberculosis have been reported, however, in most of these cases, tuberculosis disease is miliary or severe. Here we report the first case of SIADH induced by ethionamide (TH). The case is a 76 year-old woman. She noticed cough in April 2004 and chest X-ray showed infiltrative shadows on the right upper lung field. Sputum examination revealed positive for TB-PCR, and she was referred to our hospital. Treatment was started with the combination of isoniazid (INH), rifampicin and ethambutol, however susceptibility test showed the bacilli were resistant to INH, then INH was replaced by TH on day 59. Loss of appetite developed 4 days later, the level of consciousness dropped to Japan Coma Scale II-20, and the Na concentration decreased to 113 mEq/l 6 days later. We made the diagnosis of SIADH based on the diagnostic criteria. She recovered from SIADH by the replacement of TH with SM, the restriction of water intake, and the loading of Na. Judging from the coincidence of the administration of TH and the onset of SIADH, no recurrence of SIADH after the cessation of TH, the mildness of tuberculosis, and the onset of SIADH in an already recovered case, we thought that SIADH in this case was causedly TH. Not only adrenal insufficiency but also SIADH should be considered when patients with tuberculosis show hyponatremia, and drugs on use should be reviewed as the possible cause of SIADH.
Diabetes mellitus is associated with dyslipidemia, which is a significant risk factor for cardiovascular complications. The present study was carried out to evaluate the effects of tetrahydrocurcumin (THC) and chlorogenic acid (CGA) alone and in combination on alterations in lipids, lipoproteins and enzymes involved in lipid metabolism in streptozotocin (STZ)-nicotinamide (NA)-induced type 2 diabetic rats. A significant (p<0.05) increase in the concentrations of plasma and tissue (liver and kidney) lipids (cholesterol, triglycerides (TGs), free fatty acids (FFAs) and phospholipids (PLs)) and low density and very low-density lipoproteins (LDL and VLDL), and a decrease in the concentration of high-density lipoproteins (HDL) were noticed in STZ administered diabetic rats. In addition, the activity of 3-hydroxy 3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase increased significantly (p<0.05) in the liver and kidney whereas the activities of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and lecithin cholesterol acyl transferase (LCAT) were decreased significantly (p<0.05) in the plasma of diabetic rats. Combined administration of CGA (5mg/kg b.w.) and THC (80mg/kg b.w.) for 45 days remarkably reduced the STZ-induced changes in lipids, lipoproteins and lipid metabolising enzymes when compared to the effects of CGA or THC alone in diabetic rats. These results indicate that combination of THC and CGA can potentially ameliorate lipid abnormalities in experimental type 2 diabetes.
To identify renally expressed genes that influence risk for hypertension, we integrated expression quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis of the kidney with genome-wide correlation analysis of renal expression profiles and blood pressure in recombinant inbred strains derived from the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR). This strategy, together with renal transplantation studies in SHR progenitor, transgenic and congenic strains, identified deficient renal expression of Cd36 encoding fatty acid translocase as a genetically determined risk factor for spontaneous hypertension.
Peripheral neuropathy occurred in a 32-year-old man who was receiving dapsone (Aviosulfon) for dermatitis herpetiformis. Neurological examination showed polyneuropathy that involved the median and ulnar nerves, with a lesser involvement of other peripheral nerves. After treatment with dapsone was discontinued, the neuropathy reversed itself, with practically complete return of function of all nerves involved.
The brachyolmias constitute a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of skeletal dysplasias characterized by a short trunk, scoliosis and mild short stature. Here, we identify a locus for an autosomal dominant form of brachyolmia on chromosome 12q24.1-12q24.2. Among the genes in the genetic interval, we selected TRPV4, which encodes a calcium permeable cation channel of the transient receptor potential (TRP) vanilloid family, as a candidate gene because of its cartilage-selective gene expression pattern. In two families with the phenotype, we identified point mutations in TRPV4 that encoded R616Q and V620I substitutions, respectively. Patch clamp studies of transfected HEK cells showed that both mutations resulted in a dramatic gain of function characterized by increased constitutive activity and elevated channel activation by either mechano-stimulation or agonist stimulation by arachidonic acid or the TRPV4-specific agonist 4alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate (4alphaPDD). This study thus defines a previously unknown mechanism, activation of a calcium-permeable TRP ion channel, in skeletal dysplasia pathogenesis.
Our previous study reported that an antitussive drug, dimemorfan, attenuates cholinergic dysfunction-induced amnesia in mice and acts like a sigma1 receptor agonist. This study further showed that dimemorfan (30 microM), like the putative sigma1 receptor agonist (+)-SKF-10047 (10 microM), significantly enhanced 25 mM KCl-evoked [3H]acetylcholine release from rat hippocampal but not striatal slices, which was antagonized by a sigma1 receptor antagonist haloperidol (0.3 microM).
It is well known that the mutation of TRP-ML1 (transient receptor potential-mucolipin-1) causes mucolipidosis IV, a lysosomal storage disease. Given that lysosomal nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP)-Ca(2+) release channel activity is associated with TRP-ML1, the present study was designed to test the hypothesis that NAADP regulates lysosome function via activation of TRP-ML1 channel activity. Using lysosomal preparations from wild-type (TRP-ML1(+/+)) human fibroblasts, channel reconstitution experiments demonstrated that NAADP (0.01-1.0 μM) produced a concentration-dependent increase in TRP-ML1 channel activity. This NAADP-induced activation of TRP-ML1 channels could not be observed in lysosomes from TRP-ML1(-/-) cells, but was restored by introducing a TRP-ML1 transgene into these cells. Microscopic Ca(2+) fluorescence imaging showed that NAADP significantly increased intracellular Ca(2+) concentration to 302.4 ± 74.28 nM (vs. 180 ± 44.13 nM of the basal) in TRP-ML1(+/+) cells, but it had no effect in TRP-ML1(-/-) cells. If a TRP-ML1 gene was transfected into TRP-ML1(-/-) cells, the Ca(2+) response to NAADP was restored to the level comparable to TRP-ML1(+/+) cells. Functionally, confocal microscopy revealed that NAADP significantly enhanced the dynamic interaction of endosomes and lysosomes and the lipid delivery to lysosomes in TRP-ML1(+/+) cells. This functional action of NAADP was abolished in TRP-ML1(-/-) cells, but restored after TRP-ML1 gene was rescued in these cells. Our results suggest that NAADP increases lysosomal TRP-ML1 channel activity to release Ca(2+), which promotes the interaction of endosomes and lysosomes and thereby regulates lipid transport to lysosomes. Failure of NAADP-TRP-ML1 signaling may be one of the important mechanisms resulting in intracellular lipid trafficking disorder and consequent mucolipidosis.
Among various oral antiplatelets, a combination of a novel prostacyclin analogue beraprost (BPT) and a potent phosphodiesterase inhibitor cilostazol (CLZ) may result in untoward clinical effects due to possible synergistic elevation of intracellular cAMP (cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate). Thereby, a clinical study of the combined administration of the two agents was attempted. Twelve healthy volunteers were assigned to take BPT/CLZ in the following schedule; BPT: 40 micrograms at day 1 and 120 micrograms t.i.d. from day 7 to 14, CLZ: 200 mg t.i.d. from day 3 to 14. At various time intervals, physical examination and blood collection for ex vivo platelet aggregation and determination of intraplatelet cAMP were performed. Throughout the observation period, no significant alteration in vital signs was observed. Seven out of 12 subjects experienced headache of a short duration accompanying facial flush in one and nausea in one, especially after ingestion of CLZ. All of these symptoms, probably caused by the vasodilating effect of the two agents, were of mild degree and no special treatment was required. Intraplatelet cAMP content was gradually but significantly increased to 9.84 +/- 4.59 pmol per 10(9) platelets at day 14 in comparison with the initial value (6.87 +/- 2.25 pmol). The platelet aggregability was significantly suppressed at various time intervals but no additive or synergistic inhibitory effect by the combined administration was noted. In conclusion, the combined administration of BPT/CLZ is safe at doses used in the study, though the beneficial clinical effect of the combined administration has yet to be elucidated.
The effects of aqueous Croton zehntneri leaf and branch extracts, orally administered, on some dopaminergic- and cholinergic-related behaviours were studied in rats and mice. The leaf extract did not modify apomorphine-induced stereotypic behavior, haloperidol-induced catalepsy and active avoidance/escape responses. The branch extract reduced stereotypy but did not interfere with catalepsy and active avoidance behavior. Both extracts were capable of increasing the tremor induced by oxotremorine.
Exposure of pregnant women to polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) may mean serious health risks. The main goal of the present study was to examine the neurobehavioral changes in rat offspring that were perinatally exposed to one of the most prevalent PBDEs congeners found in humans, 2,2',4,4',5-pentaBDE (BDE-99). Rat dams were exposed to 0, 1 and 2mg/kg/day of BDE-99 from gestation day 6 to post-natal day 21. When pups were weaning, cortex and hippocampal gene expressions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) of the different isoforms of the thyroid hormone (TH) receptors (TRs) were evaluated. Serum TH levels were also determined. The remaining pups were assessed by neurobehavioral testing for learning and memory function. The results showed that maternal transference of BDE-99 produced a delay in the spatial learning task in the water maze test. Moreover, the open-field test revealed a significant dose-response anxiolytic effect. It was also found that the serum levels of triiodothyronine (T3), tetraiiodothyronine (T4) and free-T4 (FT4) decreased. Although no effect on the gene expression of the different isoforms of TRs was observed, the expression of the TH-mediated gene BDNF was down-regulated in the hippocampus. These results indicate a clear signal disruption of TH and reinforce previous studies in which neurotoxic effects of PBDEs in animal research were observed at levels comparable to those found in humans.
Antidiabetic action of inorganic selenium compounds is commonly accepted. Since in diet selenium mainly exists as selenoamino acids, potential hypoglycemic properties of methylselenocysteine (MSC) were investigated in four groups of rabbits: untreated and MSC-treated control animals as well as alloxan-diabetic and MSC-treated diabetic rabbits. MSC (at a dose of 1mg/kg body weight) was administered daily for 3 weeks via intraperitoneal injection. The data show, that in MSC-treated control animals plasma glucose concentration was diminished, while plasma urea and creatinine levels as well as urine albumin content were elevated and necrotic changes occurred in kidney-cortex. Decreased GSH/GSSG ratios in blood, liver and kidney-cortex were accompanied by increased glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase activities and a diminished renal gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase activity. Death of 50% of control animals was preceded by a dramatic decline in blood glucose concentration. Surprisingly, in MSC-treated diabetic rabbits, plasma glucose levels were either normalized or significantly decreased. Blood and liver GSH/GSSG ratios were increased and renal functions were markedly improved, as indicated by a diminished albuminuria and attenuated histological changes characteristic of diabetes. However, after administration of MSC to diabetic rabbits plasma urea and creatinine levels as well as renal GSH/GSSG ratios were not altered. In view of MSC-induced marked accumulation of selenium in kidneys and liver of control rabbits, accompanied by a decline in blood glucose level, disturbance of glutathione homeostasis and kidney-injury, application of MSC in chemotherapy needs a careful evaluation. On the contrary, MSC supplementation might be beneficial for diabetes therapy due to an improvement of both glycemia and renal function.
Zonisamide (1,2-benzisoxazole-3-methanesulfonamide) is a novel anti-seizure medication approved for use in the United States as adjunct therapy in the treatment of partial seizures in adults with epilepsy. It has also been used to treat other conditions including intractable pain. The aim of this study was to determine the usefulness of zonisamide in patients whose seizures were not controlled after having been treated with at least three other currently available anticonvulsant medications or in patients whose pain control was suboptimal despite the use of commonly used drug regimens.
This was a retrospective study documenting the efficacy of zonisamide in 48 consecutive patients who presented at an outpatient neurology clinic at a Veterans Administration hospital. The patients were diagnosed with refractory partial seizures (n = 21) or a variety of intractable neuropathic pain syndromes (n = 27).
Sixteen out of 21 seizure patients (76%) experienced a 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency when zonisamide (100-200 mg daily) was added to their existing anticonvulsant medication regimen. Of 27 patients with neuropathic pain, 17 (59%) responded to zonisamide, reporting subjective reduction in pain by at least 50%. The most common adverse events were gastrointestinal upset, somnolence, and one case of skin rash.
In this study, zonisamide appeared to be an effective adjunct therapy in the treatment of partial seizures in adults who continued to experience frequent episodes while taking other anticonvulsant medications, and in adults whose neuropathic pain was not well controlled with analgesics. These promising results must be tempered by the fact that this investigation included a small patient population in an uncontrolled study design. Further research into the efficacy and tolerability of zonisamide in these areas is warranted.
