Administration of natural or synthetic agents to inhibit, delay, block, or reverse the initiation and promotional events associated with carcinogenesis opens a new avenue for cancer prevention and treatment to reduce cancer morbidity and mortality. Eugenol, a potential chemopreventive agent, is a component of clove and several other spices such as basil, cinnamon, and bay leaves. A number of reports have shown that eugenol possesses antiseptic, analgesic, antibacterial, and anticancer properties. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the chemopreventive potential of eugenol alone and in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent such as gemcitabine. Eugenol showed dose-dependent selective cytotoxicity toward HeLa cells in comparison to normal cells, pointing to its safe cytotoxicity profile. A combination of eugenol and gemcitabine induced growth inhibition and apoptosis at lower concentrations, compared with the individual drugs. The analysis of the data using a combination index showed combination index values of <1 indicating strong synergistic interaction. The combination thus may enhance the efficacy of gemcitabine at lower doses and minimize the toxicity on normal cells. In addition, the expression analysis of genes involved in apoptosis and inflammation revealed significant downregulation of Bcl-2, COX-2, and IL-1β on treatment with eugenol. Thus, the results suggest that eugenol exerts its anticancer activities via apoptosis induction and anti-inflammatory properties and also provide the first evidence demonstrating synergism between eugenol and gemcitabine, which may enhance the therapeutic index of prevention and/or treatment of cervical cancer.
Effects of nitric oxide synthase inhibition on blood vessels were studied in nicotine-treated rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats drank a nicotine solution with a concentration of 25 or 50 microg/ml for 15 days. The blood pressure and heart rate of chloralose-anaesthetized rats and isolated aortic strip contractions were measured. NomegaNitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME)-induced hypertension was significantly reduced after chronic nicotine treatment. The Emax of contractions of isolated aortic strips to noradrenaline were dose-dependently enhanced by nicotine and the potentiation was abolished by L-arginine. The relaxation of aortic strips to acetylcholine was significantly decreased in nicotine-treated rats, whereas L-arginine, but not D-arginine, reversed this action. Neither nicotine nor L-NAME affected the heart rate. The results show that chronic nicotine treatment reduced the pressor response of L-NAME.
Centronuclear myopathy is a genetically heterogeneous congenital myopathy. Whilst mutations in the myotubularin (MTM1) gene are implicated in the X-linked variant, mutations in the dynamin 2 (DNM2) gene have been recently associated with dominant inheritance. We report a 16-year-old girl with clinical features of a congenital myopathy and external ophthalmoplegia. Multiple central nuclei affecting up to 50% of fibres and central accumulation of oxidative enzyme stains were the most prominent findings on muscle biopsy obtained at 1 year. However, some core-like areas appeared on repeat biopsy 8 years later; in addition, muscle MRI was compatible with the pattern we previously reported in patients with mutations in the skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor (RYR1) gene. Mutational analysis identified a de novo dominant RYR1 missense mutation (c.12335C>T; Ser4112Leu) affecting a highly conserved domain of the protein. Our findings expand the phenotypical spectrum associated with RYR1 mutations and indicate that RYR1 screening should be considered in centronuclear myopathy patients without MTM1 or DNM2 mutations; muscle MRI may aid selection of appropriate genetic testing.
The authors report seven patients from six neuro-ophthalmology referral centers who developed pseudo-tumor cerebri during treatment with doxycycline. All four female patients and one of three male patients were obese. Vision was minimally affected in most patients, but two had substantial visual acuity or visual field loss at presentation. Discontinuation of doxycycline, with or without additional intracranial pressure-lowering agents, yielded improvement, but permanent visual acuity or visual field loss occurred in five patients.
Although acute cocaine use has been temporally associated with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH), the prevalence of vasospasm and the clinical outcome of patients experiencing aSAH associated with cocaine exposure are unclear. We have analyzed this patient population in our institution to address these issues.
Between 1992 and 1999, 440 patients presented to our institution with aSAH. This sample was retrospectively analyzed to determine which patients had used cocaine within 72 hours of aSAH as documented by urine toxicology studies or patient history. These patients were then compared with control aSAH patients without recent cocaine exposure through univariable and multivariable analyses.
Twenty-seven aSAH patients (6.1% of total) had either urine toxicology positive for cocaine metabolites (20 patients, 74%) or a history of cocaine use within 72 hours of aSAH (7 patients, 26%). Cocaine users were more likely to experience cerebral vasospasm defined as a delayed clinical deficit (from 3 to 16 days after aSAH) unexplained by concurrent CT scan and either responsive to hypervolemic and/or hypertensive therapy or accompanied by angiographic confirmation of vessel narrowing than control subjects (63% versus 30%; odds ratio [OR], 3.90; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.77 to 8.62; P=0.001). Patients using cocaine were younger than control subjects (mean age, 36 versus 52 years; P<0.0001). Aneurysms of the anterior circulation were observed more frequently in cocaine users than in control subjects (97% versus 84%; OR, 6.89; 95% CI, 1.18 to 47.47; P=0.029). A significant difference was not observed, however, in the discharge Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) scores between the 2 groups (P=0.73). Differences were not observed between the 2 groups when the distributions of sex, hypertension, admission Glasgow Coma Scale subarachnoid hemorrhage grade, and multiple aneurysms were analyzed. Logistic regression models identified variables independently associated with vasospasm and discharge GOS score. Only a thick blood clot on the admission CT (OR, 7.46; 95% CI, 3.95 to 14.08; P<0.0001) and recent cocaine use (OR, 6.41; 95% CI, 2.14 to 19.23; P=0.0009) were independently associated with vasospasm. Cocaine use was not independently associated with the discharge GOS score.
We conclude that there is an increased prevalence of vasospasm in aSAH patients with recent cocaine exposure but no difference in clinical outcome. In addition, these patients are younger and more likely to have anterior circulation aneurysms.
The anticonvulsive activity of cholecystokinin octapeptide sulphate ester (CCK-8-SE), non-sulphated cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8-NS) and three different N- and C-terminal fragments were investigated against seizures induced by picrotoxin and electroshock in rats after intracerebroventricular administration. Doses of 0.8 and 80 pmol of CCK-8-SE and CCK-8-NS significantly enhanced the latency of seizures induced by picrotoxin and shortened the duration of the clonic phase of the seizures induced by electroshock. Only CCK-8-SE shortened the recovery time and only 0.8 pmol of CCK-8-SE could shorten the duration of the tonic phase of convulsions induced by electroshock. Doses of the octapeptides of 8000 pmol were ineffective, with the exception of CCK-8-NS in the picrotoxin test. Of the fragments tested, the C-terminal tetrapeptide, CCK-5-8, enhanced the latency of seizures induced by picrotoxin in a dose of 0.8 pmol, and had a dose-dependent biphasic effect on the duration of the clonic phase of seizures induced by electroshock. Intracerebroventricular administration of diazepam enhanced only the latency of tremor and clonic seizures induced with picrotoxin in a dose of 40 nmol. Twelve nmole of diazepam shortened the clonic phase of convulsions induced by electroshock. The peptides tested were much more active than diazepam, and their effective doses were comparable to the amounts of cholecystokinin octapeptide found in brain structures.
Lithium (Li) treatment is often associated with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI). The changes in whole kidney expression of aquaporin-1 (AQP1), -2, and -3 as well as Na-K-ATPase, type 3 Na/H exchanger (NHE3), type 2 Na-Pi cotransporter (NaPi-2), type 1 bumetanide-sensitive Na-K-2Cl cotransporter (BSC-1), and thiazide-sensitive Na-Cl cotransporter (TSC) were examined in rats treated with Li orally for 4 wk: protocol 1, high doses of Li (high Na(+) intake), and protocol 2, low doses of Li (identical food and normal Na(+) intake in Li-treated and control rats). Both protocols resulted in severe polyuria. Semiquantitative immunoblotting revealed that whole kidney abundance of AQP2 was dramatically reduced to 6% (protocol 1) and 27% (protocol 2) of control levels. In contrast, the abundance of AQP1 was not decreased. Immunoelectron microscopy confirmed the dramatic downregulation of AQP2 and AQP3, whereas AQP4 labeling was not reduced. Li-treated rats had a marked increase in urinary Na(+) excretion in both protocols. However, the expression of several major Na(+) transporters in the proximal tubule, loop of Henle, and distal convoluted tubule was unchanged in protocol 2, whereas in protocol 1 significantly increased NHE3 and BSC-1 expression or reduced NaPi-2 expression was associated with chronic Li treatment. In conclusion, severe downregulation of AQP2 and AQP3 appears to be important for the development of Li-induced polyuria. In contrast, the increased or unchanged expression of NHE3, BSC-1, Na-K-ATPase, and TSC indicates that these Na(+) transporters do not participate in the development of Li-induced polyuria.
A 35-year-old woman with necrosis of the complete nasal tract due to nasal cocaine abuse is presented. Reconstruction was performed using a free radial forearm flap and rib cartilage grafts. Pre-existing skin of the nose was used for outer lining. The reconstruction led to an excellent functional and aesthetic result.
At present, the various mechanisms involved in 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-correlated cardiotoxicity remain to be elucidated and a universally accepted prophylaxis or treatment for this specific toxicity is not available. Although it may improve time to progression, survival and clinical benefit, a 5-FU-based regimen usually has to be discontinued if a patient experiences cardiotoxicity. Here, we describe our experience with three cases of 5-FU-associated cardiotoxicity. The angina-like pain that appeared approximately 95 h after beginning 5-FU therapy was apparently independent of the drug's administration modality. In the two patients receiving 5-FU 12-h flat continuous infusion from 22.00 to 10.00 h (5-FU 12-h c.i.) in combination with other drugs, the dose of 5-FU was reduced by 10-20% and patients received prophylactic transepidermal nitroglycerin. In the third patient, 5-FU administration modality was changed and prophylactic therapy was not given. By taking these precautions, the patients no longer complained of anginal pain and none of them discontinued chemotherapy.
This study used a prospectively managed clinical database in order to identify 1470 patients with gastrointestinal cancers receiving protracted venous infusion (PVI) fluorouracil (5FU). It aimed to determine the time course of toxicity due to PVI 5FU and to analyse factors predicting toxicity. The initial development of stomatitis occurred more rapidly than diarrhoea or palmar plantar erythema (PPE). The percentage of patients with National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) grade 2 or worse PPE peaked at 9% between weeks 8 and 17, whereas this peak occurred earlier for stomatitis and diarrhoea. The development of CTC grade 1 toxicity in the first 28 days after commencement of chemotherapy was classified as early grade 1 toxicity. Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that female sex, better performance status, elevated bilirubin, early grade 1 PPE and early grade 1 diarrhoea were independent prognostic factors for the development of CTC grade 2 or worse PPE (P<0.01). Female sex, increased age, elevated alanine transaminase and urea and early grade 1 PPE were significant independent prognostic factors for the development of CTC grade 2 or worse stomatitis (P<0.01). Early CTC grade 1 diarrhoea predicted CTC grade 2 or worse diarrhoea (P<0.01). Older, female patients with good performance status and impaired liver and renal function who develop early grade 1 PPE alone or in combination with diarrhoea are at highest risk of subsequently developing grade 2 or worse PPE or stomatitis during treatment with PVI 5FU. Reduction of infused 5FU dose should be considered for these patients. Such an approach could both reduce severe toxicity owing to chemotherapy and minimise treatment delays, and should be evaluated prospectively.
A 54-year-old man with diabetes mellitus, peripheral vascular disease, and hypertension was admitted to the hospital for an acute exacerbation of chronic heart failure. Therapy with intravenous furosemide and oral losartan 100 mg twice/day was begun. Ten days later, the patient's blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine levels rose and peaked at 110 and 6.0 mg/dl, respectively. His serum potassium level increased to 5.7 mg/dl, urine output dropped to 400 ml over 24 hours, and mental status changes occurred. Magnetic resonance angiography revealed bilateral renal artery stenosis. After losartan was discontinued and hemodialysis was performed for 3 consecutive days, the patient's renal function returned to his baseline level. Reports in the medical literature reinforce the importance of recognizing that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors should be used with caution in patients with bilateral renal artery stenosis. However, the literature is not as definitive about using of angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) in these patients. Our patient's experience suggests that ARBs should be used with caution in patients with bilateral renal artery stenosis. Clinicians should be aware that renal failure might occur when using ARBs in these patients.
Abnormal expression of miRNAs has been implicated in the pathogenesis of human lung cancers, most of which are attributable to cigarette smoke. The mechanisms of action, however, remain obscure. Here, we report that there are decreased expression of miR-218 and increased expression of EZH2 and H3K27me3 during cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-induced transformation of human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells. Depletion of EZH2 by siRNA or by the EZH2 inhibitor, 3-deazaneplanocin A, attenuated CSE-induced decreases of miR-218 levels and increases of H3K27me3, which epigenetically controls gene transcription, and BMI1, an oncogene. Furthermore, ChIP assays demonstrated that EZH2 and H3K27me3 are enriched at the miR-218-1 promoter in HBE cells exposed to CSE, indicating that EZH2 mediates epigenetic silencing of miR-218 via histone methylation. In addition, miR-218 directly targeted BMI1, through which miR-218 ablates cancer stem cells (CSCs) self-renewal in transformed HBE cells. In CSE-transformed HBE cells, the protein level of Oct-4 and mRNA levels of CD133 and CD44, indicators of the acquisition of CSC-like properties, were reduced by over-expression of miR-218, and over-expression of miR-218 decreased the malignancy of transformed HBE cells. Thus, we conclude that epigenetic silencing of miR-218 via EZH2-mediated H3K27 trimethylation is involved in the acquisition of CSC-like properties and malignant transformation of HBE cells induced by CSE and thereby contributes to the carcinogenesis of cigarette smoke.
A 59-year-old woman with ulcerative colitis developed red eyes, pleural effusion, eosinophilia and urinary abnormalities after restarting of sulphasalazine treatment. Light microscopy of a kidney biopsy revealed segmental necrotizing glomerulonephritis without deposition of immunoglobulin or complement. Proteinase 3-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (PR3-ANCA) titer was elevated at 183 ELISA units (EU) in sera (normal range less than 10 EU), myeloperoxidase-ANCA was negative. PR3-ANCA titer was 250 and 1,070 EU in pleural effusions on right and left side, respectively. Although cessation of sulphasalazine treatment resulted in improvements in fever, red eyes, chest pain, titer of C-reactive protein and volume of the pleural effusions, we initiated steroid therapy, because PR3-ANCA titer rose to 320 EU, eosinophil count increased to 1,100 cells/microl, and the pleural effusion remained. One month after steroid therapy, the pleural effusion disappeared, and PR3-ANCA titer normalized 3 months later. This case suggests that sulphasalazine can induce PR3-ANCA-positive necrotizing glomerulonephritis.
This is a case report of supraventricular tachycardia following initiation of epidural analgesia with use of an epinephrine test dose in a parturient during active labor. Vagal stimulatory efforts failed to interrupt the arrhythmia, but treatment with adenosine was successful. Fetal monitoring with a scalp electrode provided evidence of fetal well-being throughout the episode. Adenosine was chosen because of its safety for both the mother and the fetus and its lack of the hypotensive effect often seen with verapamil.
Sirolimus is an immunosuppressive drug whose use is frequently associated with anemia. A pathogenic link between sirolimus-induced anemia and the appearance of an inflammatory state was recently suggested. Because inflammation-related anemia is characterized by a functional iron deficiency, we investigated whether sirolimus may influence iron homeostasis and serum levels of hepcidin, a key mediator of inflammation-related anemia.
To this purpose, 42 consecutive transplanted patients with biopsy-proven chronic allograft nephropathy were randomized (2:1 ratio) to receive either a 40% cyclosporine reduction (group A, 14 patients) or immediate cyclosporine withdrawal and sirolimus introduction (group B, 28 patients). Hemoglobin levels and iron status were evaluated 6 months before and after randomization.
The two groups had similar hemoglobin levels and iron status at baseline. We did not observe any significant change in hemoglobin and iron status in group A patients after randomization. On the contrary, we observed a significant reduction of hemoglobin without any change of red blood cell count after sirolimus introduction, with a significant reduction of mean corpuscular volume and mean corpuscular hemoglobin. Serum iron and transferrin saturation (TSAT) levels were markedly reduced after the switch, while ferritin serum concentrations remained stable. Although sirolimus-induced anemia was recently suggested to resemble inflammation-related anemia, hepcidin serum levels were similar in the two groups after randomization. None of group A and eight of group B patients presented a TSAT <20 and were given iron supplementation after randomization, in all of them oral iron therapy did not influence either hemoglobin or serum iron levels.
We demonstrated that sirolimus-induced anemia is independent of the drug antiproliferative effect and does not present the features of inflammation-related anemia. This event may be due to the direct influence of sirolimus on iron homeostasis.
The locomotor activity of female rats was recorded during 10-min sessions in a circular open-field apparatus after the administration of vehicle or drug. Dose-response curves were obtained for seven neuroleptic drugs both alone (spontaneous activity) and in combination with 1.0 mg/kg of d-amphetamine. Haloperidol, pimozide, loxapine, thiothixene, molindone and chlorpromazine all produced graded decreases in spontaneous locomotor activity. Haloperidol, pimozide, loxapine, thiothixene and molindone also produced graded reversals of the hyperactivity produced by d-amphetamine, while chlorpromazine did not. Clozapine neither altered spontaneous activity nor reversed the hyperactivity produced by d-amphetamine. The data indicate that measures of locomotor activity provide important additional information about the actions of neuroleptics and do not necessarily mirror the actions of these drugs on other measures of performance such as lever-pressing for brain stimulation.
Neuropathy is one of the most severe side effects of disulfiram therapy. We report the case of a young man who developed a neuropathy following disulfiram administration, with a virtually complete recovery in 14 months. We then discuss 37 cases of disulfiram neuropathy reported since 1971. Evidence is given that: (1) there is no numerical sex prevalence, although the incidence of the disease in women is probably disproportionately high; (2) symptom onset latency is dose-dependent, being longer at 250 mg/day or less; (3) neurological deficits are also dose-dependent, being milder at 250 mg/day or less; (4) the two previous findings and single observations suggest that disulfiram neuropathy is a dose-dependent phenomenon; (5) recovery probably follows a course which depends primarily on the initial degree of impairment; (6) the genetic mechanism probably involves carbon disulfide and a hypothesis as to the possible biochemical mechanism is proposed; (7) chloral hydrate can bear a potentiation effect on neuropathy, and the association with disulfiram is best avoided. Further, we give guidelines for the differentiation between alcoholic and disulfiram neuropathy, advise prescribing the drug at 250 mg daily or less, if possible, and stress the utmost importance of an early diagnosis.
Selenium (Se), a nutritionally essential trace element with known antioxidant potential, protects the brain from oxidative damage in various models of neurodegeneration. Intracerebroventricular-streptozotocin (ICV-STZ) in rats causes impairment of brain glucose and energy metabolism along with oxidative damage and cholinergic dysfunction, and provides a relevant model for sporadic dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT). The present study demonstrates the therapeutic efficacy of Se on cognitive deficits and oxidative damage in ICV-STZ in rats. Male Wistar rats were pre-treated with sodium selenite, a salt of Se (0.1 mg/kg; body weight) for 7 days and then were injected bilaterally with ICV-STZ (3 mg/kg), while sham rats received the same volume of vehicle. After two ICV-STZ infusions, rats were tested for memory deficits in passive avoidance and Morris water maze (MWM) tests and then were sacrificed for biochemical and histopathological assays. ICV-STZ-infused rats showed significant loss in learning and memory ability, which were significantly improved by Se supplementation. A significant increase in thio-barbituric acid reactive species (TBARS), protein carbonyl (PC) and a significant decrease in reduced glutathione (GSH), antioxidant enzymes (glutathione peroxidase [GPx] and glutathione reductase [GR]) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in hippocampus were observed in ICV-STZ rats. Se supplementation significantly ameliorated all alterations induced by ICV-STZ in rats. Our study reveals that Se, as a powerful antioxidant, prevents cognitive deficits, oxidative damage and morphological changes in the ICV-STZ rats. Thus, it may have a therapeutic value for the treatment of SDAT.
Heparin is commonly used in the intensive care unit for preventing and treating thromboembolic disease. One of its more significant complications is heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), an immune-mediated disorder which can provoke an extreme prothrombotic state. We describe an unusual presentation of HIT, where thrombocytopenia was absent.
The myocardium is a tissue rich in mitochondria, which are of great importance in the maintenance of cardiac function. Carvedilol is a non-selective beta-blocker which, besides its neuroprotective and vasculoprotective properties, has cardioprotective and antioxidant effects. The number of patients undergoing chemotherapy is increasing, and doxorubicin is one of the most potent antineoplastics. However, its use is frequently associated with cardiotoxicity, which results from the interaction between doxorubicin and the reduced form of exogenous nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide dehydrogenase (NADH-D), found in cardiac mitochondria, resulting in the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The aim of this review article is to revisit the available evidence on the cardioprotection of carvedilol when associated with doxorubicin and to explain the mechanisms underlying the benefits of their co-administration.
Pressor actions of endothelin 3 (ET3) were examined in pithed Sprague-Dawley (SD), Wistar-Kyoto (WKY), and spontaneously hypertensive (SH) rats before and after the administration of the calcium channel antagonist, nifedipine. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures were recorded via an intra-arterial catheter from sodium pentobarbital anaesthized rats prior to pithing. The systolic and diastolic blood pressures recorded from SH rats were significantly greater than those of SD and WKY rats; however, after pithing there were no significant differences between the diastolic blood pressures among the various strains. Administration of nifedipine significantly reduced the diastolic blood pressure of pithed rats to an equal extent in all three strains. The infusion of ET3 produced a dose-dependent increase in diastolic blood pressure of SD, WKY, and SH rats, but neither vascular sensitivity nor reactivity to ET3 was altered in SH rats. Nifedipine was more effective at inhibiting the vasoactive actions of ET3 in SD and WKY than in SH rats. It was therefore concluded that the pressor actions of ET3 in SH rats may be less dependent on the influx of calcium through a dihydropyridine-sensitive calcium channel as compared with WKY and SD rats.
We report two cases of severe withdrawal symptoms after abrupt discontinuation of a long-term normal-dose benzodiazepines (BZD) administration. Case 1, a 61-year-old man, suffered from delirium on the 7th day after abrupt discontinuation of nitrazepam, 10 mg/day. Case 2, a 49-year-old woman, suffered from auditory hallucination on the 4th day and visual cognitive disorder on the 5th day after abrupt discontinuation of nitrazepam, 5 mg/day, and triazolam, 0.5 mg/day. A withdrawal syndrome after discontinuation of normal-dose BZD is uncommon, and a psychotic withdrawal reaction is even more uncommon. We show how a continuous administration of BZD for a period of longer than 6 months and the presence of severe insomnia are risk factors predictive of a psychotic reaction. We also explain the predictive method used to determine the onset time of such a severe state. In the case of a psychotic state, we recommend intravenous diazepam injection. To prevent withdrawal reaction, we also recommend a gradual reduction after administration of normal-dose BZD.
A 54-year-old man, who was treated with propranolol for severe angina pectoris, developed severe symptomatic bradycardia during this treatment. Coronary angiography revealed severe coronary artery stenosis, but a bypass operation was judged to be technically impossible. When propranolol was withdrawn, the effort angina deteriorated and anginal pains even developed at rest. A favourable symptomatic effect was obtained with a combined regimen of propranolol and a permanent demand pacemaker. Nitroglycerin consumption was reduced from about 20 to less than 3 tablets a day. His condition remained stable during the observation period of 44 months. The symptomatic effect of a beta-blocking agent combined with a permanent pacemaker is considered to be due to the reduced inotropic and chronotropic effect of propranolol during exercise as well as the elimination of a bradycardia-induced angina at rest. Placebo effect to a certain extent cannot be excluded.
Carcinoma of the urinary bladder is a known complication of cyclophosphamide therapy. Almost all such cases have been transitional cell carcinomas. We report here the second example of an adenocarcinoma of bladder and the first purely mucinous (colloid) carcinoma of urinary bladder developing after long-term cyclophosphamide therapy. The patient, a 77-year-old woman, had been treated for Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia for at least 24 years, during which time treatment for this disease varied from 50 to 100 mg per day. The disease terminated in acute myelogenous leukemia, and she died of severe disseminated intravascular coagulopathy associated with hypermacroglobulinemia. The mucinous (colloid) carcinoma of the urinary bladder was an incidental finding at autopsy.
A 51-year-old man with osteomyelitis developed acute renal failure and superior mesenteric venous (SMV) thrombosis after piperacillin (PIPC) treatment. Coagulation profile disclosed disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). The serum levels of IgE and eosinophil cationic protein showed significant increases, while a lymphocyte stimulation test with PIPC also demonstrated an extremely high index. These observations suggest that hypersensitivity to PIPC might play a role in the pathogenesis of acute renal failure and SMV thrombosis due to hypercoagulopathy. Withdrawal of PIPC and anticoagulation therapy resulted in clinical improvement and normalization of the affected laboratory data. This is the first report to describe PIPC-induced hypercoagulopathy.
