Nearly 3.2 million people in this country receive aminoglycoside antibiotics annually. Gentamicin sulfate and tobramycin sulfate continue to demonstrate ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity in both animal and clinical studies. In this study, 62 patients with confirmed initial normal renal function and treated with 2 to 5 mg/kg/day of gentamicin sulfate or tobramycin sulfate for a minimum of seven days were followed up prospectively for the development of aminoglycoside-related renal failure, defined as at least a one-third reduction in renal function. In these 62 patients, no other causes for renal failure could be identified. Five of 33 (15%) of the tobramycin-treated patients and 16 of 29 (55.2%) of the gentamicin-treated patients had renal failure. Thus, gentamicin was associated with renal failure more than three times as often as was tobramycin.
A total of 36 cases with small cell carcinoma of the lung were treated with Ifosfamide. Fourteen cases (38.9%) out of 36 cases showed good or marked clinical response, and 120 mg/kg of Ifosfamide was necessary as a minimum dose to obtain effective response. As side effects of Ifosfamide, gastrointestinal disturbance (66.7%), depilation (66.7%), leukopenia (38.9%) and hematuria (36.1%) were observed. Mean survival time (M.S.T.) was prolonged by using Ifosfamide, comparing with the groups treated by with other anticancer drugs. Ifosfamide, therefore, should be used for the treatment of small cell carcinoma of the lung.
The gene WSTF is deleted in the autosomal dominant hereditary disorder Williams-Beuren syndrome. This disorder is caused by a 1.3 megabase deletion in human chromosome 7, encompassing at least 17 genes. The WSTF protein contains a bromodomain, found predominantly in chromatin-associated proteins. Reported association of WSTF with chromatin remodeling factors and functional data support a role for WSTF during chromatin remodeling. Here, we report the cloning and developmental expression pattern of Xenopus laevis WSTF. Xenopus laevis WSTF is a protein with a predicted amino acid sequence of 1441 amino acids. Three discrete domains can be identified in the Xenopus laevis WSTF protein, a PHD finger, a DDT domain and a bromodomain. Alignment of Xenopus WSTF with the corresponding orthologues from Homo sapiens, Gallus gallus, Mus musculus and Danio rerio demonstrates an evolutionary conservation of WSTF amino acid sequence and domain organization. In situ hybridization reveals a dynamic expression profile during embryonic development. WSTF is expressed differentially in neural tissue, especially during neurulae stages in the eye, in neural crest cells and the brain.
Activating internal tandem duplication (ITD) insertions in the juxtamembrane domain of the FLT3 tyrosine kinase are found in about one fourth of patients with acute myeloid leukemia and have been shown to be an independent negative prognostic factor for survival. We show that sorafenib (BAY 43-9006, Nexavar) potently inhibits FLT3 enzymatic and signaling activities. In HEK293 cells stably transfected with FLT3-WT or FLT3-ITD, sorafenib blocked basal and ligand dependent FLT3-mediated tyrosine autophosphorylation as well as extracellular signal-regulated kinase1/2 and Stat5 phosphorylation. In leukemia cell lines MV4-11 and EOL-1, sorafenib treatment resulted in decreased cell proliferation and inhibition of FLT3 signaling. The growth of the FLT3-independent RS4-11 cell line was only weakly inhibited by sorafenib. Cell cycle arrest and induction of apoptosis were observed upon treatment with sorafenib in MV4-11 and EOL-1 cells. The antitumor efficacy of sorafenib was evaluated against the MV4-11 leukemia grown subcutaneously in NCr nu/nu mice. Doses of 3 and 10 mg/kg administered orally for 14 days resulted in six and nine out of 10 animals with complete responses, respectively. The demonstration that sorafenib exhibits potent target inhibition and efficacy in FLT3-driven models suggests that this compound may have a therapeutic benefit for patients with FLT3-driven leukemias.
In a prospective, randomized, double-blind study with 10 healthy probands, changes in colour discrimination and in the pattern electroretinogram (P-ERG) and visually evoked cortical potentials (P-VECP) were monitored at therapeutic and subtherapeutic digitoxin serum levels. There was a slight increase in the total error score in the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-hue test at 0.1 mg digitoxin per day in comparison with the placebo. P-ERG and P-VECP did not show any significant changes.
A 94-year-old man who had been admitted to our hospital for the treatment of senile dementia and restless behavior exhibited consciousness disturbances, acute respiratory failure, high fever, and thrombocytopenia the day after receiving haloperidol as prescribed by a psychiatrist. On the fourth day following administration of haloperidol, acute renal failure with rhabdomyolysis and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) developed in the patient, who was accordingly given a diagnosis of haloperidol-induced neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) associated with DIC. He was then given heparin and antithrombin III, and his DIC symptoms improved soon thereafter. Elevated plasma levels of tissue factor and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were sustained during this therapy course. Other cytokines, including interleukin IL-1 beta, IL-2 and IL-6, were not elevated. There are activation of extrinsic coagulation and an elevated level of TNF-alpha during acute renal failure and rhabdomyolysis associated with NMS, which is thought to trigger the onset of DIC.
Exposure to the organochlorine compounds p,p'-dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE) and oxychlordane have been associated with an increased prevalence of diabetes. Although the exact etiology of diabetes, especially type 2 diabetes, is not known, it is thought that adipose dysfunction plays a vital role in the progression of this disease. Thus, the present study examined whether exposure to these bioaccumulative compounds promotes adipocyte dysfunction including alterations in adipogenesis, fatty acid storage, and adipokine production within the adipocyte. We employed the NIH3T3-L1 cell line as a model for adipogenesis and mature adipocyte function. Exposure to DDE or oxychlordane prior to and throughout differentiation did not affect adipogenesis. In mature NIH3T3-L1 adipocytes, exposure to oxychlordane, DDE, or dieldrin had no effect on insulin-stimulated fatty acid uptake but did increase basal fatty acid uptake over a 24 h period. There was no observed effect of exposure to these compounds on lipolysis. Exposure to DDE significantly increased the release of leptin, resistin, and adiponectin from mature adipocytes with corresponding increases in expression of resistin and adiponectin. Taken together, the current data suggest that exposure to these compounds, especially DDE, may promote some aspects of adipocyte dysfunction that are commonly associated with obesity and type 2 diabetes.
The transferrin receptor (TfR) is a cell membrane-associated glycoprotein involved in the cellular uptake of iron and in the regulation of cell growth. Iron uptake occurs via the internalization of iron-loaded transferrin (Tf) mediated by the interaction with the TfR. In addition, the TfR may also contain other growth regulatory properties in certain normal and malignant cells. The elevated levels of TfR in malignancies, its relevance in cancer, and the extracellular accessibility of this molecule make it an excellent antigen for the treatment of cancer using antibodies. The TfR can be targeted by monoclonal antibodies specific for the extracellular domain of the receptor. In this review, we summarize advancements in the basic physiology of the TfR including structure, function, and expression. We also discuss the efficacy of targeting the TfR using cytotoxic antibodies that inhibit cell growth and/or induce apoptosis in targeted malignant cells.
Much experimental evidence supports the conclusion that loss of gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) contributes to carcinogenesis. Transgenic rats featuring a dominant negative mutant of the connexin 32 gene under albumin promoter control (Cx32Delta Tg-High and Cx32Delta Tg-Low lines, respectively with high and low copy numbers of the transgene) have disrupted GJIC, as demonstrated by scrape dye-transfer assay in vivo as previous report by Asamoto et al. (2004). In the present study, we investigated the susceptibility of these transgenic rats to a single intraperitoneal administration of diethylnitrosamine (DEN), and found a significant increase in preneoplastic glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive lesions in the livers of Cx32Delta Tg-High but not Cx32Delta Tg-Low rats. However, incidences of adenomas and hepatocellular carcinomas were not elevated at the end of the experiment (52 weeks). In addition, we investigated the promotional effect of phenobarbital (PB) on Cx32Delta Tg-High rats pretreated with DEN and found enhanced formation of GST-P positive lesions, in contrast to the lack of promoting effects reported for Cx32 deficient mice. The results indicate that although both high and low expression of the dominant negative connexin 32 mutant gene in our rats is able to inhibit gap junctional capacity, only high expression is effective at enhancing susceptibility to early stage DEN-induced liver carcinogenesis.
Cyclin D proteins are elevated in many cancer cells, and targeted deletion of cyclin D1 gene in the mammary tissues protects mice from breast cancer. Accordingly, there is an increasing awareness of this novel nonenzymatic target for cancer therapeutics. We have developed novel, nonalkylating styrylbenzylsulfones that induce cell death in wide variety of cancer cells without affecting the proliferation and survival of normal cells. The development of derivatized styrylbenzylsulfones followed logically from a tumor cell cytotoxicity screen performed in our laboratory that did not have an a priori target profile. Modifications of some of the precursor molecules led to lead optimization with regard to tumor cell cytotoxicity. In this report we describe the synthesis and structure-activity relationships of novel, nonalkylating (E)-styrylbenzylsulfones and the development of the novel anticancer agent sodium (E)-2-{2-methoxy-5-[(2',4',6'-trimethoxystyrylsulfonyl)methyl]phenylamino}acetate (ON 01910.Na), which is in phase III trials for myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) associated with aberrant expression of cyclin D proteins.
A 69-year-old woman was admitted with apoplexy after operation of mitral valve stenosis and gastrectomy due to a gastric ulcer. In June 1994, her condition gradually worsened after acute pneumoniae in her right lung. Intravenous hyperalimentation with cimetidine administration was started to improve her undernourishment, because she had a history of gastric ulcer. However, after 10 days from the start of cimetidine therapy, anemia progressed rapidly. Biochemical examinations revealed that the serum indirect bilirubin and LDH levels were elevated and no serum haptoglobin was detected. These results indicated the development of hemolytic anemia, but at that time we could not clarify the reason. In October 1994, thrombocytopenia gradually progressed, and we halted the administration of cimetidine to ranitidine. Both hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia was dramatically improved after cessation of cimetidine administration. We then changed the drug from cimetidine, however the same phenomena have appeared again. The patient was in stable condition, after cessation of H2-blockers administration. The complication of hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia associated with H2-blocker administration in Japan.
A 16-year-old boy was operated upon for synovial sarcoma of the right thigh and underwent chemotherapy consisted of adriamycin (320 mg), cisplatin (780 mg), etoposide (4,200 mg) and ifosfamide (30,000 mg). He developed secondary leukemia 18 months after the chemotherapy. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (L3) was initially diagnosed because of poor staining of alpha-naphtyl butylate esterase and induction chemotherapy with the LVP regimen (L-asparaginase 5,000 U/m2 day 8-21, vincristine 1.5 mg/ m2 day 1, 6, 11, 16, 21, 26, prednisolone 40 mg/m2 day 1-28) was performed. After the therapy was initiated, the leukemia was finally diagnosed as acute momocytic leukemia (M5a) because of the following data; blasts were positive for CD33 and HLA-DR and negative for CD10, CD19 and CD20; serum lysozyme was 104.0 micrograms/ml; re-evaluation revealed that blasts were strongly positive for alpha naphtyl butyrate esterase in a small part of the slides; 95% of the bone marrow cells showed t (9; 11) chromosomal aberration; gene rearrangement was positive for MLL and negative for JH, JK and TCR C beta 1. Nevertheless, complete remission was obtained after 1 course of LVP therapy. He received bone marrow transplantation from an unrelated volunteer donor after 3 courses of consolidation therapy. He has remained in complete remission for 16 months.
An 81-year-old man with cervical spondylotic myelopathy developed an acute frontal lobe like syndrome with prominent preservation and an abnormal electroencephalogram after being given seven doses (70 mg) of baclofen for spasticity. The clinical symptoms cleared up in 72 hours after the medication was discontinued.
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) hepatitis refractory to ganciclovir treatment occurred after prolonged administration of ganciclovir in a 36-year-old woman with chronic myelogeneous leukemia who had undergone allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) from an HLA-identical unrelated donor. The number of CMV antigen-positive leukocytes in blood were well correlated with the serum levels of transaminases and the antigenemia assay was useful in monitoring CMV hepatitis. The patient was treated with foscarnet, a potent inhibitor of CMV DNA-polymerase, which led to rapid improvement of the CMV antigenemia and the transaminase concentrations. Foscarnet therapy should be considered for ganciclovir-resistant CMV disease in the setting of BMT.
To overcome toxicity of calcineurin inhibitors, recent trials have proposed substituting cyclosporin (CysA) with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF). No data concerning the long-term side effects and long-term renal outcome of this strategy have been published.
We retrospectively compared 39 renal transplant patients with chronic graft dysfunction who were subjected to CysA to MMF substitution (group 1) with 39 matched renal transplant patients who were continued on conventional management (group 2). The mean serum creatinine and the slope of deterioration of renal function before the date of the therapeutic intervention (T(0)) were similar in both groups. Follow-up in both groups was 76 +/- 42 months before T(0) and 44 +/- 11 months after T(0).
In group 1, conversion was associated with a decrease of mean serum creatinine concentrations from 192 to 172 micro mol/l at 1 year (P = 0.004) and 159 micro mol/l at 3 years (P < 0.003) after T(0), whereas it remained unchanged in group 2. The systolic blood pressure decreased in group 1 from 155 mmHg before T(0) to 145 mmHg at 1 year (P < 0.01) and 133 mmHg at 3 years (P < 0.001) without any increase of the antihypertensive drug, whereas it did not change in group 2. Lipid profile tended to improve in group 1 after T(0) and was unchanged in group 2. None of the patients in group 1 developed acute rejection after T(0), whereas two acute rejections occurred in group 2. Graft survival, however, was similar in both groups. In group 1, several side effects occurred related to MMF treatment, and led to its discontinuation in two cases and the reduction of its dose for 18 patients (64%).
CysA/MMF substitution improves renal function and blood pressure in chronic allograft dysfunction when compared with conventional management. However, CysA/MMF substitution is associated with a high rate of MMF-related side effects, requiring modulation of its dose.
(1) Report of severe adverse effects in infants from drugs passing into breast milk are rare. (2) Two reports of neurological disorders in infants due to doxepin, a tricyclic antidepressant, necessitating hospitalisation, serve as a reminder that this risk exists. (3) Epidemiological data are almost non existent. A prospective follow-up study of more than 800 breast-fed infants whose mothers were taking medicinal drugs showed minor adverse effects in 11% of the children (mainly diarrhoea, drowsiness and irritability). None of the mothers sought medical advice. (4) When a breast-feeding mother requires drug therapy, all available information should be weighed up before advising her to switch to bottle feeding.
This report describes five cases of hepatocellular injury following halothane anesthesia. Four patients had multiple exposures to the anesthetic. Three of the five died from submassive to massive liver cell necrosis. The two survivors developed jaundice and/or dark urine following each exposure to halothane; liver biopsy in one showed centrilobular and linear areas of necrosis. Fever, anorexia, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain and jaundice were present in all cases. In the two survivors the prothrombin time was less than 20 seconds throughout the course of the disease, whereas in the three who died the prothrombin time was more than 20 seconds from the onset. The English literature to the end of 1971 is reviewed. Approximately 600 cases of halothane-related hepatitis have been reported
A canine model of theophylline toxicity was used to study the cardiovascular effects seen in severe theophylline poisoning. Eight mongrel dogs were divided equally into two groups. The dogs were anesthetized with pentobarbital and paralyzed with pancuronium bromide. They were ventilated with 100% oxygen and underwent the placement of pulmonary arterial, central venous, femoral arterial, and peripheral venous lines. Group 1 animals received 5.6 mL/kg D5W intravenously (IV) over 20 minutes. Group 2 animals received 140 mg/kg (5.6 mL/kg) of aminophylline IV over the same period. Peak theophylline levels in Group 2 animals averaged 208.9 micrograms/mL. Group 2 animals suffered a marked fall in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and an increase in heart rate. In spite of the fall in MAP (P less than .01), cardiac index actually was increased almost two-fold over Group 1 animals, due mainly to a fall in systemic vascular resistance index (P less than .01). There were no physiologically significant differences in ventricular filling pressures or stroke index between the two groups.
Neurostimulation for refractory angina pectoris is often advocated for its clinical efficacy. However, the recruited pathways to induce electroanalgesia are partially unknown. Therefore, we sought to study the effect of neurostimulation on experimentally induced cardiac nociception, using capsaicin as nociception-induced substance. Four different groups of male Wistar rats were pericardially infused with either saline or capsaicin with or without neurostimulation. Group StimCap was infused with capsaicin, and group StimVeh was infused with saline. Both groups were treated with neurostimulation. Group ShamCap was only infused with capsaicin without stimulation, whereas group ShamVeh was only infused with saline. Neuronal activation differences were assessed with cytochemical staining, revealing the cellular expression of c-fos. Pain behavior was registered on video and was quantitatively analyzed. In the StimCap and ShamCap groups, all animals exerted typical pain behavior, whereas in the StimVeh group only moderate changes in behavior were observed. Group ShamVeh animals were unaffected by the procedure. The upper thoracic spinal cord showed high numbers of c-fos-positive cells, predominantly in laminae III and IV in both StimCap and StimVeh groups. Almost no c-fos expression was noticed in groups ShamCap and ShamVeh in these sections of the spinal cord. In groups StimCap and ShamCap a significantly higher number of c-fos-positive cells in comparison with groups StimVeh and ShamVeh were noticed in the periambigus region, the nucleus tractus solitarius, and the paraventricular hypothalamus. In the paraventricular thalamus, periaqueductal gray, and central amygdala, no significant differences were noticed among the first three groups, and the c-fos concentration in these three groups was significantly higher than in group ShamVeh. It is concluded that neurostimulation does not influence capsaicin-induced cardiac nociceptive pain pulses to the central nervous system. Furthermore, capsaicin-induced cardiac pain and neurostimulation may utilize two different pathways.
In experiments performed on male Wistar rats in was shown that i.v.c. administered homovanillic acid (HVA) in a dose of 50 micrograms exerted an inhibitory effect on the locomotor activity. In this dose HVA potentiated also the cataleptogenic effect of haloperidol and amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity. On the other hand, the higher dose HVA (200 micrograms) increased locomotor activity, potentiated amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity, but antagonized apomorphine-induced stereotypy. HVA in a dose of 50 micrograms enhanced the turnover of dopamine, and in a dose of 200 micrograms the turnover of noradrenaline in rat brain. The obtained results indicate that the effects of HVA on animal behaviour are connected with its action on catecholaminergic systems in the brain, especially on the dopaminergic receptors. The inhibitory effect of small dose of HVA appears to be presynaptic and the stimulatory effect of a high dose of HVA seems to be postsynaptic. Moreover, the experiments with a high dose of HVA suggest that it may act in the central nervous system either by altering the distribution of endogenous monoamines or by mimicking the action of monoamines on specific synaptic receptors.
Arsenic is highly toxic naturally occurring element that affects numerous organ systems in humans. Present study was designed to investigate the preventive role of a triterpenoid saponin, arjunolic acid (AA) against arsenic-induced nephrotoxicity in mouse model. For this study, NaAsO(2) was chosen as the source of arsenic. Oral administration of NaAsO(2) at a dose of 10mg/kg body weight for 2 days caused significant accumulation of arsenic in renal tissues as well as altered the activities of serum markers, urea nitrogen (UN) and creatinine, antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx), level of cellular metabolites, reduced glutathione (GSH), oxidized glutathione (GSSG) and total thiols, level of lipid peroxidation end products and protein carbonyl content. Treatment with AA at a dose of 20mg/kg body weight for 4 days almost normalized above indices. Histological studies also indicated preventive role of AA against NaAsO(2)-induced nephrotoxicity. The radical scavenging activity and in vivo antioxidant power of AA were determined from its DPPH radical scavenging ability and ferric reducing/antioxidant power (FRAP), respectively. A well-known antioxidant, vitamin C was used as positive control throughout the study. Combining all, results suggest that arsenic could cause kidney damage by inducing oxidative stress in mice and that could be prevented by AA.
Vasopressin-resistant diabetes insipidus is a common side effect of the treatment of affective disorders with lithium. We studied the effect of amiloride on lithium-induced polyuria in nine such patients receiving maintenance lithium therapy who had a vasopressin-resistant defect in urinary concentrating ability. After a mean (+/- S.E.) of 24 +/- 6 days of amiloride administration, the urine volume fell (from 4.7 +/- 0.6 to 3.1 +/- 0.3 liters per 24 hours; P less than 0.005), and the urine osmolality increased (from 228 +/- 35 to 331 +/- 34 mOsm per kilogram of H2O; P less than 0.001). The decrease in urine output was sustained during six months of observation in the absence of any significant change in plasma levels of lithium, potassium, or bicarbonate; urinary excretion of sodium or lithium; or creatinine clearance. Amiloride administration was also associated with a significant increase in urine osmolality (from 575 +/- 54 to 699 +/- 48 mOsm per kilogram of H2O; P less than 0.005) measured after fluid deprivation and the injection of exogenous vasopressin. We conclude that amiloride mitigates lithium-induced polyuria, at least partly, by blunting the inhibitory effect of lithium on water transport in the renal collecting tubule. Thus, amiloride may provide a specific therapy for polyuria in lithium-treated patients while obviating the need for potassium supplementation in the treatment of this kind of polyuria.
Mutations of the cardiac sodium channel gene, SCN5A, are present in both long-QT and Brugada syndromes. Flecainide is used as a provocative test to unmask the electrocardiogram (ECG) phenotype of the Brugada syndrome, as well as long-term treatment for long QT-3 syndrome, since it shortens the QT interval. We report a case where oral flecainide induced syncope with a Brugada ECG pattern in a patient with known long QT-3 syndrome.
Fifteen patients experienced theophylline-related seizures at our institution over the past 3 years. Thirteen of the patients were receiving oral maintenance theophylline therapy while two patients were on IV therapy at the time of their episode. The serum theophylline concentration (STC) obtained 1.8 +/- 1.5 hours after the seizure was 26 +/- 11 micrograms/mL, although this level was not obtained until 5.2 +/- 2 hours after the last oral dose. Factors potentially decreasing theophylline metabolism (URI, abnormal liver functions, cimetidine therapy) were noted in 11/15 (73%) of the patients. This varied significantly from a control group of asymptomatic patients (P less than .01). Ten of thirteen patients on oral therapy were receiving solid-dose theophylline prescriptions over 17 mg/kg/day and differed from the control group (19 +/- 8 v 14 +/- 4, P less than .01). An abnormal neurologic history, brain scan, or head CT was noted in 11/15 (73%); however, there was no acute mortality or neurologic morbidity noted in this series. The clinical features of our patients differed from previously reported cases with respect to a lower STC, higher incidence of underlying CNS problems, higher percentage of patients on oral therapy, and the absence of serious morbidity or mortality.
The beta adrenergic blocking drug, timolol, tended to correct the hypokalemia of short-term bendrofluazide treatment in 6 healthy male subjects and although the effect was small it was significant. Timolol also reduced the rise in plasma aldosterone and urine potassium excretion following bendrofluazide and increased the urine sodium/potassium ratio. There was no evidence of a shift of potassium from the intracellular to the extracellular space.
Because of the critical roles of aberrant signaling in cancer, both c-MET and ALK receptor tyrosine kinases are attractive oncology targets for therapeutic intervention. The cocrystal structure of 3 (PHA-665752), bound to c-MET kinase domain, revealed a novel ATP site environment, which served as the target to guide parallel, multiattribute drug design. A novel 2-amino-5-aryl-3-benzyloxypyridine series was created to more effectively make the key interactions achieved with 3. In the novel series, the 2-aminopyridine core allowed a 3-benzyloxy group to reach into the same pocket as the 2,6-dichlorophenyl group of 3 via a more direct vector and thus with a better ligand efficiency (LE). Further optimization of the lead series generated the clinical candidate crizotinib (PF-02341066), which demonstrated potent in vitro and in vivo c-MET kinase and ALK inhibition, effective tumor growth inhibition, and good pharmaceutical properties.
Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) is a prototypical polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) found in combustion processes. Cytochrome P450 1A1 and 1B1 enzymes (CYP1A1 and CYP1B1) can both detoxify PAHs and activate them to cancer-causing reactive intermediates. Following high dosage of oral BaP (125 mg/kg/day), ablation of the mouse Cyp1a1 gene causes immunosuppression and death within ∼28 days, whereas Cyp1(+/+) wild-type mice remain healthy for >12 months on this regimen. In this study, male Cyp1(+/+) wild-type, Cyp1a1(-/-) and Cyp1b1(-/-) single-knockout and Cyp1a1/1b1(-/-) double-knockout mice received a lower dose (12.5 mg/kg/day) of oral BaP. Tissues from 16 different organs-including proximal small intestine (PSI), liver and preputial gland duct (PGD)-were evaluated; microarray cDNA expression and >30 mRNA levels were measured. Cyp1a1(-/-) mice revealed markedly increased CYP1B1 mRNA levels in the PSI, and between 8 and 12 weeks developed unique PSI adenomas and adenocarcinomas. Cyp1a1/1b1(-/-) mice showed no PSI tumors but instead developed squamous cell carcinoma of the PGD. Cyp1(+/+) and Cyp1b1(-/-) mice remained healthy with no remarkable abnormalities in any tissue examined. PSI adenocarcinomas exhibited striking upregulation of the Xist gene, suggesting epigenetic silencing of specific genes on the Y-chromosome; the Rab30 oncogene was upregulated; the Nr0b2 tumor suppressor gene was downregulated; paradoxical overexpression of numerous immunoglobulin kappa- and heavy-chain variable genes was found-although the adenocarcinoma showed no immunohistochemical evidence of being lymphatic in origin. This oral BaP mouse paradigm represents an example of "gene-environment interactions" in which the same exposure of carcinogen results in altered target organ and tumor type, as a function of just 1 or 2 globally absent genes.
