The frequency and clinical characteristics of lithium- and neuroleptic-mediated neurotoxicity were determined in 10 elderly bipolar patients. When lithium was used alone and therapeutic serum lithium levels were achieved, neurotoxicity did not develop. However, when a neuroleptic was added, neurotoxicity developed in 60% (three of five) of patients and was characterized by delirium, extrapyramidal signs, and cerebellar dysfunction. Neurotoxicity occurred despite the use of neuroleptic dosages that are considered safe and useful when administered in the absence of other psychoactive drugs.
The goal of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Small intestinal release mesalamine (SIRM) for symptom relief in refractory celiac disease (RCD).
Therapeutic options for the RCD are inadequate and treatment with corticosteroids and immunosuppressants is limited by side effects. SIRM has been shown to have local antiinflammatory action and excellent tolerability.
We reviewed records of the RCD patients who received SIRM in an open-label therapeutic trial. Data included demographics, disease characteristics, dose and duration of SIRM therapy, and response. Response was categorized as complete if there was complete resolution of symptoms, partial if there was at least 50% improvement, and nonresponsive if there was less than 50% improvement.
Four patients were treated with SIRM alone and 6 received SIRM and oral budesonide. Within 4 weeks, 50% had complete response and an additional 10% had partial response. Two of the 6 patients were able to discontinue budesonide. One patient discontinued SIRM owing to headaches.
SIRM seems to be a safe and efficacious treatment option in patients with RCD. Larger, controlled trials of this agent are warranted.
To investigate the molecular mechanisms of the antiarthritic effects of bee venom (BV) and melittin (a major component of BV) in a murine macrophage cell line (Raw 264.7) and in synoviocytes obtained from patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
We evaluated the antiarthritic effects of BV in a rat model of carrageenan-induced acute edema in the paw and in a rat model of chronic adjuvant-induced arthritis. The inhibitory effects of BV and melittin on inflammatory gene expression were measured by Western blotting, and the generation of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and nitric oxide (NO) and the intracellular calcium level were assayed. NF-kappaB DNA binding and transcriptional activity were determined by gel mobility shift assay or by luciferase assay. Direct binding of BV and melittin to the p50 subunit of NF-kappaB was determined with a surface plasmon resonance analyzer.
BV (0.8 and 1.6 mug/kg) reduced the effects of carrageenan- and adjuvant-induced arthritis. This reducing effect was consistent with the inhibitory effects of BV (0.5, 1, and 5 mug/ml) and melittin (5 and 10 mug/ml) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 1 mug/ml)-induced expression of cyclooxygenase 2, cytosolic phospholipase A(2), inducible NO synthase, generation of PGE(2) and NO, and the intracellular calcium level. BV and melittin prevented LPS-induced transcriptional and DNA binding activity of NF-kappaB via the inhibition of IkappaB release and p50 translocation. BV (affinity [K(d)] = 4.6 x 10(-6)M) and melittin (K(d) = 1.2 x 10(-8)M) bound directly to p50.
Target inactivation of NF-kappaB by directly binding to the p50 subunit is an important mechanism of the antiarthritic effects of BV.
Baclofen, commonly used to reduce severe muscle spasms in patients with spinal cord injuries, is also active in the brain. A patient with pre-existing bipolar affective disorder developed increased depression while on baclofen, which progressed to a delusional depression when baclofen and haloperidol were rapidly decreased. When the dose of haloperidol was increased to a previously well tolerated dose to deal with the depressive delusion, a pseudoparkinson's state developed. This case demonstrates the interactive effects of baclofen and haloperidol on central noradrenergic and dopaminergic systems and suggests a possible neurochemical basis for the difference between delusional and nondelusional depression that is consistent with the different therapeutic response to psychotropic drugs of patients with these illnesses. The paradoxical appearance of the pseudoparkinson state in this patient when much higher doses of haloperidol had been free of such side effects, may reflect baclofen-induced alterations in receptor sensitivity. It appears that baclofen should be used with caution in patients with neuropsychiatric problems and that, when used, the withdrawal of baclofen should be continued over several weeks to allow receptor sensitivity to return to normal levels.
To evaluate the role of the concentration of brain natriuretic peptide in the plasma, and its correlation with haemodynamic right ventricular parameters, in children with overload of the right ventricle due to congenital cardiac disease.
We studied 31 children, with a mean age of 4.8 years, with volume or pressure overload of the right ventricle caused by congenital cardiac disease. Of the patients, 19 had undergone surgical biventricular correction of tetralogy of Fallot, 11 with pulmonary stenosis and 8 with pulmonary atresia, and 12 patients were studied prior to operations, 7 with atrial septal defects and 5 with anomalous pulmonary venous connections. We measured brain natriuretic peptide using Triage(R), from Biosite, United States of America. We determined end-diastolic pressures of the right ventricle, and the peak ratio of right to left ventricular pressures, by cardiac catheterization and correlated them with concentrations of brain natriuretic peptide in the plasma.
The mean concentrations of brain natriuretic peptide were 87.7, with a range from 5 to 316, picograms per millilitre. Mean end-diastolic pressure in the right ventricle was 5.6, with a range from 2 to 10, millimetres of mercury, and the mean ratio of right to left ventricular pressure was 0.56, with a range from 0.24 to 1.03. There was a positive correlation between the concentrations of brain natriuretic peptide and the ratio of right to left ventricular pressure (r equal to 0.7844, p less than 0.0001) in all patients. These positive correlations remained when the children with tetralogy of Fallot, and those with atrial septal defects or anomalous pulmonary venous connection, were analysed as separate groups. We also found a weak correlation was shown between end-diastolic right ventricular pressure and concentrations of brain natriuretic peptide in the plasma (r equal to 0.5947, p equal to 0.0004).
There is a significant correlation between right ventricular haemodynamic parameters and concentrations of brain natriuretic peptide in the plasma of children with right ventricular overload due to different types of congenital cardiac disease. The monitoring of brain natriuretic peptide may provide a non-invasive and safe quantitative follow up of the right ventricular pressure and volume overload in these patients.
The developing brain of a child is extremely prone to damage resulting from exposure to harmful environmental factors, e.g. heavy metals. Intoxication of children's organisms with lead and cadmium affects their intellectual development. Even a relatively small amount of this metal in children's blood can lead to developmental dysfunctions. The aim of this study was to analyse the correlation between blood lead and cadmium levels in children with behaviour disorders and their functioning in the home.
This survey-based study was conducted among 78 families with children diagnosed as having behaviour disorders. It was performed using the ADHD-Rating Scale-IV. To determine lead and cadmium levels the laboratory procedure was based on Stoppler and Brandt's method.
The mean blood lead level was 19.71 µg/l and the mean blood cadmium level was 0.215 µg/l. Higher blood lead levels in children correlates positively with incidences of hyperactive and impulsive behaviour in the home, as assessed by parents (p=0.048). Statistically significant effects of cadmium on children's behaviour were not noticed.
The effect of lead on the developing organism of a child has such behavioural consequences as attention disorders, hyperactivity and impulsive behaviour which, in turn, may interfere with children's functioning in the home. A negative effect of cadmium on the functioning of children with behaviour disorders in the home was not proved.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading cause of symptomatic epilepsy in young adults. This study examined physiological and anatomical epileptogenic consequences of a prior incident of TBI in rats. Rats were subjected to a fluid percussion brain injury one week prior to experimentation, and in vitro electrophysiological recording studies were conducted using combined hippocampal-entorhinal cortical slices (HEC slices). Results were compared to sham operated controls and rats in which a condition of chronic temporal lobe epilepsy was induced by a 2 h bout of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus 2 months prior to recording (PILO). In field potential recording, PILO HEC slices evidenced a greater degree of disinhibition in Ca1 than did TBI or control slices. TBI slices showed greater disinhibition in the dentate gyrus than did PILO or control rats. In in vitro kindling experiments, 86% of TBI HEC slices generated self-sustaining epileptic activity within 9 stimulus trains. This type of activity was never triggered in control slices. HEC slices prepared from PILO animals generated self-sustaining epileptic activity with fewer stimulus trains than did TBI slices. In anatomical studies, both TBI and PILO hippocampi evidenced significant loss of neurons within the hilar region. TBI induces a series of changes within the limbic system of rats, which are qualitatively similar in many aspects but quantitatively less severe than changes seen in rats with chronic temporal lobe epilepsy. These physiological and anatomical TBI-associated alterations in the limbic system may contribute to the development of epilepsy following head trauma.
The selection of the most appropriate antineoplastic agent and optimal treatment schedule for the prophylaxis of superficial bladder cancer against tumor recurrences is the subject of continual investigations.
A controlled prospective trial involving 161 patients evaluated and compared the efficacy of intravesical epirubicin and bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) administration as prophylaxis against recurrences after complete transurethral resection of superficial bladder cancer. The treatment schedule, consisting of one 6- or 8-week course of instillations (50 mg epirubicin or 150 mg BCG per instillation) followed by single maintenance doses to the responders at follow-up examinations, was modified for those of the initial responders who were at high risk for recurrence and who received an additional separate 4-week course of treatment 6 months after the start of therapy.
Sixty percent of the patients treated with epirubicin, 68% of the patients treated with BCG, and 41% of the control subjects, who underwent resection only, remained free of recurrences for a mean follow-up of 32.9 months. The only significant difference was found between patients treated with BCG and control subjects, in favor of the former. Conversely, recurrence rate per 100 patient-months and mean interval to recurrence showed both drugs to be superior to resection alone regarding several tumor characteristics. However, a significant benefit in favor of BCG when compared with epirubicin was shown in those patients who had Stage T1 and Grade 3 tumors at presentation.
Intravesical epirubicin and BCG were superior to transurethral resection alone in the prophylaxis of superficial bladder cancer, but with respect to superficially invasive and high-grade tumors, BCG demonstrated a remarkable advantage.
A woman with rheumatoid arthritis was treated with penicillamine and developed myasthenia gravis. This drug-induced disease was associated with characteristic autoantibodies to acetycholine receptor. After discontinuing the drug, her symptoms improved and the antibody titers fell. Penicillamine is now being used much more frequently in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and it is likely that this complication will become more prevalent.
Considerable levels of resistance to sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) have been reported in Plasmodium falciparum in north-eastern Tanzania, and the identification of a suitable antimalarial to replace SP is now a high priority. We conducted a trial in July 2000 to determine the efficacy of proguanil (PG) plus dapsone (DS), compared with that of SP, for the treatment of asymptomatic falciparum infection. A total of 220 children with parasitaemia > or = 2000 per microL completed the study; 112 had received a single dose of SP (dosage calculated for pyrimethamine 1.25 mg/kg and sulfadoxine 25 mg/kg) and 108 had taken PG 10 mg/kg with DS 2.5 mg/kg each day for 3 days. Clearance of asexual parasites at day 7 was 14.3% with SP, but 93.5% with PG-DS. The remarkably high failure rate with SP was not associated with occurrence of leucine substitution at position 164 of the dhfr gene. Both treatment regimens were well tolerated. Compared with available data on another antifolate combination, chlorproguanil-dapsone ('Lapdap'), PG-DS was slightly but significantly inferior in achieving parasite clearance (99.5% versus 93.5%). The estimated cost of a 3-day course of PG-DS treatment for a child weighing 18 kg is US $0.15. With the rising incidence of SP-resistant P. falciparum infection, PG-DS could provide an effective, affordable and already available therapeutic alternative for malaria in East Africa at least until chlorproguanil-dapsone is registered.
The results of preoperative use of oxyprogesterone caproate (OPC), Tamoxifen and their combination in 165 patients suffering from primary endometrial carcinoma are presented. It was shown that Tamoxifen was able to increase concentrations cytoplasmatic receptors to progesterone in the tumor. The incidence of specific hormonal pathomorphosis in the tissue of the tumor in patients who received a combination of OPC and Tamoxifen was significantly higher (80% of cases) as compared to the separate use of OPC (60%) or Tamoxifen (57%).
In previous studies racemic bucindolol was found to reverse the effects of pentobarbital-induced heart failure in anesthetized dogs. Reductions of right ventricular contractile force (RVCF), left ventricular (LV) dp/dt, and aortic blood flow (ABF) serve as indicators of depressed cardiac function in this model. In this study, racemic bucindolol (0.25 mumol/kg +0.25 mumol/kg/hr) again evoked pronounced and sustained stimulant effects on these depressed parameters. l-Bucindolol (0.125 mumol/kg +0.125 mumol/kg/hr) was a more effective stimulator of cardiac function than d-bucindolol in this model. l-Bucindolol elicited maximal increases in RVCF, ABF, LV dp/dt and heart rate of 66, 19, 30 and 11%, respectively. In comparison, d-bucindolol maximally increased these parameters only 20, 14, 12 and 4%, respectively. Total peripheral resistance was reduced 29% by l-bucindolol and 19% by d-bucindolol. The responses to l-bucindolol and racemic bucindolol were essentially the same. The myocardial stimulation and vasodilation profile derived from l-bucindolol (at one-half the molar dose of bucindolol) suggests the possible preference for its use in clinical management of congestive heart failure over bucindolol, the racemic compound. The results further suggest that l-bucindolol could also be used to treat hypertensive patients with depressed cardiac function.
Provoked by the limitations and late complications of levodopa therapy, the advances in stereotactic surgery, and better understanding of the pathophysiology of the basal ganglia, the role of pallidotomy in the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) has been revived.
We included 11 patients with advanced PD, who had a good response to levodopa but had late complications of motor fluctuation and severe dyskinesia. The internal globus pallidus was identified with computed tomography prior to posteroventral pallidotomy and it was reaffirmed by microelectrode recording during surgery. Clinical evaluations were carried out in both the "on" and "off" motor periods at baseline and at 1 week, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year postoperatively. Repeated measures ANOVA followed by multiple comparisons were used for statistical analysis.
Dyskinesia improved bilaterally but only significantly in the contralateral limbs. This benefit was sustained up to 1 year. Parkinsonism, particularly contralateral tremor and rigidity, improved in the "off" motor period but not in the "on" motor period. The average Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor score was reduced 36% at 3 months and 26% at 1 year in the "off" motor period. Both of the mean Hoehn and Yahr staging and Schwab and England activities of daily living score improved in "off" motor period. Improvement in parkinsonism, however, did not reach a significant level. Mild dysarthria and unstable gait were observed temporarily in 2 patients. Mild weakness in the contralateral limbs was found in 1 patient.
Unilateral pallidotomy guided by microelectrode recording is helpful for severe levodopa-induced dyskinesia in advanced PD. Contralateral parkinsonian disabilities also improve in the "off" motor period.
We report a case of erythema nodosum caused by omeprazole. This side effect of omeprazole has not been previously reported. A 35-year-old white woman developed multiple tender erythematous nodules over the anterior aspect of her upper and lower extremities, fever, malaise, and edema. Her symptoms resolved with withdrawal of all preexisting medications and conservative treatment. Her symptoms flared soon after a rechallenge with omeprazole. A thorough history, physical examination, laboratory evaluation, and roentgenogram failed to reveal another cause for erythema nodosum. It is clear from the rechallenge that this patient's erythema nodosum was caused by omeprazole. We consider that omeprazole should be added to the list of medications known to cause erythema nodosum.
The authors neurologically examined 38 patients who had received lithium carbonate for from 3 months to 5 years to determine the presence of extrapyramidal side effects. No patient had received neuroleptics for 3 months before examination. Definite cogwheeling was found in 2 patients. The results confirm previously reported occurrence of cogwheeling in lithium-treated patients.
In five patients (4 men aged 34, 20, 22 and 29 years, and a woman of 34 years) tubulo-interstitial nephritis developed during treatment with 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) containing drugs for colitis ulcerosa, proctocolitis or Crohn's disease. Two patients had an impaired renal function before treatment with 5-ASA medication. In all patients there was only an incomplete recovery of renal function after cessation of the therapy. It is therefore necessary to monitor renal function regularly in patients receiving 5-ASA containing preparations.
Abstinence from chronic morphine results in characteristic withdrawal symptoms in humans and experimental animals. Despite a large number of studies, the cellular mechanisms underlying opiate withdrawal symptoms are not clearly understood, in particular, the regulation of micro-opioid receptor function during this process. The present study investigated the micro-opioid receptor-stimulated G-protein activity using guanylyl 5'-[gamma-[35S]thio]-triphosphate ([35S]-GTPgammaS) autoradiography. [35S]-GTPgammaS binding was performed using coronal rat brain sections (20 microm) in the presence or absence of the micro-opioid selective agonist [D-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4)Gly(5)-ol] enkephalin (DAMGO). In experiment 1, rats (male, Sprague-Dawley) were injected every 12 h with increasing doses of morphine (5-100 mg/kg, s.c.) for 12 days; a separate group of rats which received saline injections served as control. Opiate withdrawal was induced by abstinence from morphine. Thirty-six hours after the last morphine injection, spontaneous withdrawal symptoms were assessed. Rats were then decapitated and brains rapidly removed. In experiment 2, withdrawal symptoms were precipitated with the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1 mg/kg). Brains were taken at 5, 10, 20 and 60 min after naloxone injection. In experiment 3, morphine dependence was induced by implantation of three morphine pellets (75 mg per pellet). After 7 days, withdrawal symptoms were precipitated by naloxone (1 mg/kg) and brains were removed 30 min after naloxone injection. [35S]-GTPgammaS binding was measured in the locus coeruleus, nucleus parabrachialis, nucleus accumbens and central nucleus of amygdala. Although clear withdrawal symptoms were observed in all morphine-withdrawn rats, no significant changes in [35S]-GTPgammaS binding were detected in animals undergoing withdrawal. The present lack of differences between morphine-withdrawn and control rats indicates that micro-opioid receptor-stimulated G-protein activity is not modulated by chronic morphine administration and is not involved in the expression of opiate withdrawal.
Three cases of symptomatic bradycardia due to topical ocular timolol administration are reported. Two patients had syncope related to atrioventricular block, and the other one complained of dizziness due to sinus bradycardia. Heart disease was not present in any case, although a right bundle branch block was observed in one patients. A normal sinus rhythm resumed in all patients after discontinuation of timolol.
In focal ischemic cortex, cerebral blood flow autoregulation is impaired, and perfusion passively follows blood pressure variations. Although it is generally agreed that profound hypotension is harmful in acute stroke, the hemodynamic and metabolic impact of increased blood pressure on the ischemic core and penumbra are less well understood. We, therefore, tested whether pharmacologically induced hypertension improves cerebral blood flow and metabolism and tissue outcome in acute stroke using optical imaging with high spatiotemporal resolution.
Cerebral blood flow, oxyhemoglobin, and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen were measured noninvasively using simultaneous multispectral reflectance imaging and laser speckle flowmetry during distal middle cerebral artery occlusion in mice. Hypertension was induced by phenylephrine infusion starting 10 or 60 minutes after ischemia to raise blood pressure by 30% for the duration of ischemia; control groups received saline infusion.
Mild induced hypertension rapidly increased cerebral blood flow, oxyhemoglobin, and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen in both the core and penumbra and prevented the expansion of cerebral blood flow deficit during 1 hour distal middle cerebral artery occlusion. Induced hypertension also diminished the deleterious effects of periinfarct depolarizations on cerebral blood flow, oxyhemoglobin, and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen without altering their frequency. Consistent with this, mild induced hypertension reduced infarct volume by 48% without exacerbating tissue swelling when measured 2 days after 1 hour transient distal middle cerebral artery occlusion.
Our data suggest that mild induced hypertension increases collateral cerebral blood flow and oxygenation and improves cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen in the core and penumbra, supporting its use as bridging therapy in acute ischemic stroke until arterial recanalization is achieved.
The chemokines Stromal Cell-Derived Factor-1alpha (SDF-1alpha/CXCL12) and Monocyte Chemotactic Protein-1 (MCP-1/CCL2) have been implicated in breast cancer progression. We recently reported elevated systemic MCP-1 in breast cancer patients. This study investigated circulating levels of SDF-1alpha in breast cancer patients, and addressed potential hormonal regulation of these two potent chemokines.
SDF-1alpha levels were determined by ELISA in 114 breast cancer patients and 85 controls, and correlated with clinical data. Blood samples were collected from 36 healthy premenopausal volunteers weekly for four weeks to measure Luteinising Hormone (LH), Follicular Stimulating Hormone (FSH), Oestradiol and Progesterone using a Bayer ADVIA Centaur Immunoassay system, in parallel with SDF-1alpha and MCP-1. CXCL12 expression was determined using RQ-PCR in primary tumour stromal cells (n = 16) harvested at surgery.
Plasma SDF-1alpha was significantly higher in breast cancer patients than age-matched controls and had a significant correlation with tumour grade and epithelial subtype. Investigation of menstrual variations of these chemokines revealed lower SDF-1alpha levels in the mid-luteal phase of the menstrual cycle and a significant positive correlation with circulating Oestradiol. MCP-1 levels showed no correlation with menstrual hormones. There was a trend towards increased CXCL12 expression in tumour compared to normal stromal cells.
The elevated level of SDF-1alpha detected in breast cancer patients, and it's correlation with prognostic indicators, highlights the importance of this chemokine in disease progression. Elucidation of factors influencing chemokine secretion supports clarification of their role in tumourigenesis.
Exposure of human fetuses to man-made estrogenic chemicals can occur through several sources. For example, fetal exposure to ethinylestradiol occurs because each year approximately 3% of women taking oral contraceptives become pregnant. Exposure to the estrogenic chemical bisphenol A occurs through food and beverages because of significant leaching from polycarbonate plastic products and the lining of cans. We fed pregnant CD-1 mice ethinylestradiol (0.1 microg/kg per day) and bisphenol A (10 microg/kg per day), which are doses below the range of exposure by pregnant women. In male mouse fetuses, both ethinylestradiol and bisphenol A produced an increase in the number and size of dorsolateral prostate ducts and an overall increase in prostate duct volume. Histochemical staining of sections with antibodies to proliferating cell nuclear antigen and mouse keratin 5 indicated that these increases were due to a marked increase in proliferation of basal epithelial cells located in the primary ducts. The urethra was malformed in the colliculus region and was significantly constricted where it enters the bladder, which could contribute to urine flow disorders. These effects were identical to those caused by a similar dose (0.1 microg/kg per day) of the estrogenic drug diethylstilbestrol (DES), a known human developmental teratogen and carcinogen. In contrast, a 2,000-fold higher DES dose completely inhibited dorsolateral prostate duct formation, revealing opposite effects of high and low doses of estrogen. Acceleration in the rate of proliferation of prostate epithelium during fetal life by small amounts of estrogenic chemicals could permanently disrupt cellular control systems and predispose the prostate to disease in adulthood.
