Yohimbine is an alkaloid obtained from the Corynanthe yohimbe tree and other biological sources. Yohimbine is currently approved in the United States for erectile dysfunction and has undergone resurgence in street use as an aphrodisiac and mild hallucinogen. In recent years yohimbine use has become common in body-building communities for its presumed lipolytic and sympathomimetic effects. We describe a 37-year-old bodybuilder in which severe acute neurotoxic effects occurred in 2 h after yohimbine ingestion. The patient presented with malaise, vomiting, loss of consciousness, and repeated seizures after ingestion of 5 g of yohimbine during a body-building competition in a gymnasium. His Glasgow Coma Score was 3, requiring orotracheal intubation. Two hours after admission, vital signs were blood pressure 259/107 mmHg and heart rate 140 beats/min. Treatment with furosemide, labetalol, clonidine, and urapidil and gastrointestinal decontamination were performed. Twelve hours later the patient was extubated with normal hemodynamic parameters and neurological examination. The yohimbine blood levels at 3, 6, 14, and 22 h after ingestion were 5,240; 2,250; 1,530; and 865 ng/mL, respectively, with a mean half-life of 2 h. Few data are available about yohimbine toxicity and the related blood levels. This is a case of a large ingestion of yohimbine in which severe hemodynamic and neurological manifestations occurred and elevated blood levels of yohimbine were detected.
This study assessed whether or not levodopa induces dyskinesias in normal (ie, unlesioned) squirrel monkeys. All six animals treated twice daily with levodopa (15 mg/kg with carbidopa by oral gavage) for two weeks developed choreoathetoid dyskinesias, whereas none of the vehicle-treated animals displayed any abnormal movements. These dyskinesias did not merely reflect a generalized motor activation as locomotion was actually suppressed. The present data demonstrate that preexisting nigrostriatal damage is not necessary for the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
The CCAAT/enhancer binding protein alpha (C/EBPalpha) is vital for establishing normal hepatic energy homeostasis and moderating hepatocellular growth. CEBPA loss-of-function mutations identified in acute myeloid leukemia patients support a tumor suppressor role for C/EBPalpha. Recent work showed reductions of C/EBPalpha levels in human hepatocellular carcinoma with the reductions correlating to tumor size and progression. We investigated the potential of reactivating c/ebpalpha expression during hepatic carcinogenesis to prevent tumor cell growth. We have developed a c/ebpalpha knock-in mouse in which a single-copy c/ebpalpha is regulated by one allele of the alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) gene promoter. The knock-in mice are physically indistinguishable from wild-type (WT) controls. However, knock-in animals were found to deposit fetal hepatic glycogen earlier than WT animals. Quantitative real-time PCR confirmed early c/ebpalpha expression and early glycogen synthase gene activation in knock-in fetuses. We then used diethylnitrosamine to induce hepatocellular carcinoma in our animals. Diethylnitrosamine produced half the number of hepatocellular nodules in knock-in mice as in WT mice. Immunohistochemistry showed reduced C/EBPalpha content in WT nodules whereas knock-in nodules stained strongly for C/EBPalpha. The p21 protein was examined because it mediates a C/EBPalpha growth arrest pathway. Nuclear p21 was absent in WT nodules whereas cytoplasmic p21 was abundant; knock-in nodules were positive for nuclear p21. Interestingly, only C/EBPalpha-positive nodules were positive for nuclear p21, suggesting that C/EBPalpha may be required to direct p21 to the cell nucleus to inhibit growth. Our data establish that controlled C/EBPalpha production can inhibit liver tumor growth in vivo.
Minoxidil, a potent peripheral vasodilator, was used concomitantly with other antihypertensive drugs for severe hypertension in three children for 47 to 158 weeks at the dosage of 40 to 50 mg/day. Two patients had three and two courses of minoxidil, respectively. Attempts were made to withdraw minoxidil in all children because of severe hypertrichosis. Minoxidil was withdrawn over periods varying from four to 12 weeks. Rebound hypertension manifesting as hypertensive encephalopathy occurred in all when minoxidil was withdrawn rapidly. The occurrence of rebound hypertension correlated with the total cumulative dose of minoxidil in mg/kg/week given prior to the withdrawal (P less than 0.05) and the rapidity (four to eight weeks) with which minoxidil was withdrawn (P less than 0.05), but not with the total duration of therapy, duration at maximal dosage, or the amount of minoxidil in mg/kg on the day prior to withdrawal. Rebound hypertension also did not occur when minoxidil was withdrawn gradually (12 weeks) or if the patient was receiving a small dose (2.5 to 5 mg/day). Pretreatment with an alpha-blocking agent (prazosin) or the discontinuation of the concomitantly administered beta-blocker (propranolol) prior to the withdrawal seemed to prevent rebound hypertension. We suggest that the dosage of minoxidil should be decreased very gradually.
Three patients who developed torsade de pointes associated with antiarrhythmic or psychotropic drugs are described, and the electrocardiographic characteristics, clinical presentation, predisposing factors, and management of this form of ventricular tachycardia are reviewed. The first patient was a 56-year-old schizophrenic man receiving thioridazine hydrochloride, trifluoperazine hydrochloride, and benztropine mesylate who was admitted to a hospital after a syncopal episode. Subsequently, the patient experienced several episodes of ventricular tachycardia combined with multifocal premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) and torsade de pointes; the arrhythmias were attributed to antipsychotic therapy. The second patient was a 69-year-old man who experienced ventricular tachycardia that progressed to ventricular fibrillation 41 days after surgery. Quinidine sulfate probably induced the ventricular tachycardia, which was identified as torsade de pointes. The third patient was a 71-year-old man admitted to the hospital for treatment of refractory ventricular arrhythmias. Previous drug therapy with quinidine sulfate and procainamide hydrochloride had been associated with torsade de pointes. Despite unsuccessful treatment of ventricular ectopy, the patient was discharged on maintenance therapy with pindolol, topical nitrates, and phenytoin. No additional episodes of torsade de pointes have been observed. Torsade de pointes is characterized by polymorphous electrocardiographic appearance and delayed repolarization (prolonged QT interval). It may occur in association with a number of disease states and also as a complication of treatment with therapeutic doses of drugs that affect repolarization (quinidine, disopyramide, procainamide, and phenothiazines). Clinical outcomes range from asymptomatic, self-terminating arrhythmias to ventricular fibrillation resulting in cardiac arrest. The definitive emergency therapy for torsade de pointes is overdrive pacing; cautious isoproterenol administration can also be used. Lidocaine and bretylium are often ineffective in treating this form of ventricular tachycardia. Potassium and magnesium repletion appear to be essential in abolishing drug-induced torsade de pointes. Drug-induced torsade de pointes is best prevented by avoiding agents known to induce arrhythmias in patients with a pre-existing prolonged QT interval. Periodic serum electrolyte assessment is warranted, and new drugs that prolong the QT interval should be considered potential causative agents of torsade de pointes.
Acupuncture has been shown to be effective in experimental and clinical acute pain settings. This study aims to evaluate the effect of preoperative electroacupuncture (EA) on intraoperative and postoperative analgesic (alfentanil and morphine) requirement in patients scheduled for gynaecologic lower abdominal surgery. Ninety patients were randomly assigned to one of three groups: Group I (control group)--received placebo EA for 45 minutes before induction of general anaesthesia (GA); Group II--preoperative EA instituted 45 minutes before induction of GA; Group III--45 minutes of postoperative EA. The Bispectral Index monitor was used intraoperatively to monitor the hypnotic effect of anaesthetic drugs, and alfentanil was titrated to maintain the blood pressure and pulse rate within +/- 15% of basal values. Postoperative pain was managed by intravenous morphine via a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) device. Patients in Group II (0.44 +/- .15microg/kg/min) received less alfentanil than those in Group III (0.58 +/- .22 microg/kg/min) (p = p.024), but not significantly less than those in Group I 10.51 +/- 0.21 microg/kg/min) (p = 0.472). Postoperative morphine consumption was numerically lower in Group II compared with the other groups; however, the difference was statistically significant only during the period of 6-12 hours between Group II [0.03 (0.05) mg/kg] and Group I [0.10 (0.11) mg/kg] (p = 0.015), and Group II and Group III [0.08 (0.10) mg/kg] (p = 0.010). The 24-hour cumulative morphine consumption for Group II (0.52 +/- .19mg/kg) was less than that for either Group I I0.68 +/- 38mg/kg) or Group III (0.58 +/- .27mg/kg), but the difference did not reach significance. In conclusion, preoperative EA leads to a reduced intraoperative alfentanil consumption, though this effect may not be specific, and has a morphine sparing effect during the early postoperative period.
N-Ethyl-5-trifluoromethyl-2-aminoindan (ETAI) and 5-trifluoromethyl-2-aminoindan (TAI) were synthesized to examine the effects of side-chain cyclization on the pharmacology of the anorectic drugs fenfluramine (FEN) and norfenfluramine (norFEN), respectively. ETAI and TAI inhibited synaptosomal accumulation of 5-HT but were less effective at inhibiting catecholamine uptake than FEN or norFEN, respectively. In vivo, ETAI and TAI were less neurotoxic than FEN or norFEN; decreases in the number of [3H]paroxetine-labeled 5-HT uptake sites were 50% less than the decreases produced by FEN or norFEN. Rats treated with ETAI. TAI, FEN, and norFEN lost 10-15% of their pretreatment body weight over a 4-day period, while saline-treated control animals gained 8%. In two-lever drug discrimination (DD) assays in rats, TAI fully substituted for the 5-HT releaser/uptake inhibitor, (+)-MBDB [(+)-N-methyl-1-(1,3-benzodioxol-5-yl)-2-aminobutane]. ETAI produced only partial substitution in this test. Neither TAI nor ETAI mimicked (+)-amphetamine in the DD assay. These studies demonstrate that incorporation of the side-chain of phenylisopropylamines into the five-membered ring of a 2-aminoindan changes both the molecular pharmacology and the neurotoxic profile of FEN and norFEN, but does not diminish the drugs' ability to reduce body weight.
Ventricular tachycardia is a rare arrhythmia in young patients without associated heart disease. Electrophysiologic studies were performed in thirteen young patients (mean age 26.4 +/- 7 years) with recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia (VT) responsive to intravenous verapamil. The QRS duration during VT was less than 0.14 sec in all patients. The VT showed a right bundle branch block (RBBB) morphology in all cases, with left axis deviation in 12 and right axis deviation in one. Eleven patients were free of organic heart disease. VT could be induced in the laboratory in 10 patients, out of whom the electrophysiologic mechanism of VT could be assessed in 9 cases. The data were consistent with reentry in 8 patients and suggested triggered activity in one patient. Atrial pacing induced the VT in two cases. Nine patients were restudied 48 to 72 hours after oral verapamil (240 to 320 mg/day). VT was not inducible in 8 patients and was markedly slowed in one. VT of RBBB morphology occurring in young patients has distinct electrocardiographic and electropharmacologic properties. Reentry is the usual underlying mechanism. Verapamil is highly effective in terminating and preventing the VT.
Chronic beryllium disease (CBD) is a rare occupational, granulomatous lung disease clinically resembling sarcoidosis. The immune response to beryllium is thought to depend on genetic susceptibility. Although a glutamic acid in position 69 of the human leukocyte antigen-DP beta chain (HLA-DPB1-Glu69) is associated with the development of CBD, it cannot fully explain susceptibility. It is likely that additionally other genes are involved in regulating the immune and inflammatory response in the pathogenesis of this disease. Functional gene polymorphisms (PMs) of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF)A and transforming growth factor (TGF) beta(1) genes are suspected to modify the course of granulomatous disorders. We analyzed the TGF-beta(1) (codon 25) PM in 59 patients with CBD and 164 matched healthy controls, from two groups of European/Israeli and United States origin. Additionally, patients were genotyped for HLA class II gene variants and the TNFA (-308) PM. The most significant results were found for the TGF-beta(1) (codon 25) PM with a shift towards the low producing non-GG genotypes in the subgroup of European and Israeli patients with CBD (62.50% vs. 13.82% in healthy controls; P<0.001). This phenomenon was not observed in the group from the United States. Moreover, TGF-beta(1) (codon 25) PM genotype frequencies from United States CBD patients differed significantly from those of European and Israeli patients. In contrast, increased frequencies for the high producing TNFA2 allele were found only in the patients from the United States (28.20% vs. 8.96% in healthy controls; P<0.005) but not in the group of Europe and Israel. In conclusion, the increase in TGF-beta(1) (codon 25) PM genotype frequency associated with a low TGF-beta release suggests that immunoregulatory cytokines such as TGF-beta are involved in the pathogenesis of CBD. Moreover, based on the interaction of gene PMs associated with the control of the immune response, such as TNF-alpha and TGF-beta(1), with a specific immune response gene such as HLA-DPB1-Glu69 or other HLA-class II PMs driving the immune response to Be, the present data suggest that a combination of different genetic backgrounds determine susceptibility for the same immunopathological reaction and disease.
Plasma catecholamine levels rise, and myocardial beta(1)-adrenoceptor (beta(1)-AR) sensitivity increases during ischemia. These factors enhance myocardial injury and cardiac dysfunction. beta(1)-AR blockers are clinically used to protect heart against ischemia and to improve cardiac dysfunction in patients with ischemic heart disease, but these agents often cause intolerable side effects. To examine the potential cardioprotective effect of therapy with antisense-oligodeoxynucleotides directed at beta(1)-AR mRNA (beta(1)-AS-ODNs) during myocardial ischemia-reperfusion, Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with beta(1)-AS-ODNs or inverted-oligodeoxynucleotides (IN-ODNs), each 200 microg/rat. Hearts were excised, perfused, and subjected to global ischemia (30 min) followed by reperfusion (30 min). Other rats were given selective beta(1)-AR blocker atenolol (2 mg/kg) or saline before excising the hearts. Ischemia-reperfusion resulted in cardiac dysfunction, indicated by an increase in coronary perfusion pressure and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and a decrease in developed left ventricular pressure, as well as evidence of lipid peroxidation in saline-treated rats (all P <.05 versus control values). Administration of AS-ODNs or atenolol, but not IN-ODNs, protected hearts against functional deterioration and lipid peroxidation (P <.05 versus saline or IN-ODNs treatment). AS-ODNs therapy appeared to be equivalent to atenolol in these effects. Expression of beta(1)-AR protein as well as mRNA in the myocardium were markedly up-regulated after ischemia-reperfusion, and treatment with beta(1)-AS-ODNs, but not atenolol, decreased the rise in enhanced expression of beta(1)-AR. These observations imply that beta(1)-AS-ODNs can ameliorate cardiac dysfunction after ischemia-reperfusion by reducing the expression of beta(1)-AR in the ischemic-reperfused myocardium.
Drug-induced meningitis should be considered in differential diagnosis of meningeal irritation in patients receiving therapy with anti-infective, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory, immunosuppressive, or other selected agents. This report describes a case of aseptic meningitis associated with use of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole in a patient without apparent underlying autoimmune disease. The patient recovered promptly after the offending agent was withdrawn. No specific treatment other than symptomatic and supportive care need be given. In all instances, however, infection must be excluded.
Cardiac arrhythmias and circulatory collapse account for the high mortality reported after severe chloroquine poisoning. We have recently observed a 17-year-old man who ingested an 8 g chloroquine overdose. Cardiac arrest occurred within 1 h. Cardiogenic shock was refractory to epinephrine, dopamine and molar sodium lactate. Amrinone, a bipyridine analog, was then successfully used to improve haemodynamic conditions.
Empirical studies suggest that the antidotal effect of pralidoxime depends on plasma concentrations with therapeutic effects associated with concentrations above 4 mg/l. The purpose of this study was to determine the pharmacokinetic-toxicodynamic (PK-TD) relationships for the antidotal effect of pralidoxime on paraoxon-induced toxicity in rats. Diethylparaoxon inactivation of whole-blood cholinesterase activity was studied both in vitro and in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Toxin-induced respiratory effects were measured via whole-body plethysmography in control and pralidoxime-treated animals (50 mg/kg im injection). In the in vitro analysis, cholinesterase reactivation by pralidoxime in blood-poisoned diethylparaoxon (10nM) was proportional to the logarithm of drug concentrations. A mechanism-based TD model was developed, which well described the inhibition of cholinesterases by diethylparaoxon and reactivation with pralidoxime. The in vitro pralidoxime EC(50) was estimated to be 4.67 mg/l. Animals exposed to diethylparaoxon exhibited a decrease in respiratory rate and an increase in expiratory time, and pralidoxime treatment resulted in a rapid complete but transient (< 30 min) correction in respiratory toxicity. In contrast, there was a fast and total reactivation of blood cholinesterase activity over the 210-min study period. The in vitro TD model was extended to capture the time-course of in vivo pralidoxime antidotal effects, which explained the complex relationship between drug exposure and pharmacological response profile. This study provides insights into the role of oxime-rescue of paraoxon-induced toxicity, and the final PK-TD model might prove useful in optimizing the design and development of such therapy.
Organophosphate (OP) compounds are among the most lethal chemical weapons ever developed and are irreversible inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase. Exposure to majority of OP produces status epilepticus (SE) and severe cholinergic symptoms that if left untreated are fatal. Survivors of OP intoxication often suffer from irreversible brain damage and chronic neurological disorders. Although pilocarpine has been used to model SE following OP exposure, there is a need to establish a SE model that uses an OP compound in order to realistically mimic both acute and long-term effects of nerve agent intoxication. Here we describe the development of a rat model of OP-induced SE using diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP). The mortality, behavioral manifestations, and electroencephalogram (EEG) profile for DFP-induced SE (4 mg/kg, sc) were identical to those reported for nerve agents. However, significantly higher survival rates were achieved with an improved dose regimen of DFP and treatment with pralidoxime chloride (25 mg/kg, im), atropine (2 mg/kg, ip), and diazepam (5 mg/kg, ip) making this model ideal to study chronic effects of OP exposure. Further, DFP treatment produced N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated significant elevation in hippocampal neuronal [Ca(2+)](i) that lasted for weeks after the initial SE. These results provided direct evidence that DFP-induced SE altered Ca(2+) dynamics that could underlie some of the long-term plasticity changes associated with OP toxicity. This model is ideally suited to test effective countermeasures for OP exposure and study molecular mechanisms underlying neurological disorders following OP intoxication.
Daptomycin, a cyclic lipopeptide antibiotic, was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in September 2003 for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections due to susceptible strains of certain gram-positive microorganisms, including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). In May 2006, daptomycin was approved by the FDA for treatment of bacteremia and right-sided endocarditis due to MRSA and methicillin-sensitive S aureus.
The aim of this study was to assess the use of daptomycin in community-phenotype (CP)-MRSA infections.
This was a retrospective chart review of data from patients enrolled in a postlabeling registry who received daptomycin for MRSA infections from January to December 2005. CP-MRSA was defined as MRSA susceptible to clindamycin and trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole; all other phenotypes were considered other-phenotype MRSA (OP-MRSA). Success rates were calculated by dividing success (defined as cure plus improved) by success and failure (including non-evaluable patients).
A database search identified 352 patients (100 patients with CP-MRSA [57 men; 43 women]; 252 patients with OP-MRSA [136 men, 116 women]) who met study criteria. Most patients (79.2%) received gram-positive antibiotics before daptomycin. Compared with OP-MRSA, a greater proportion of patients with CP-MRSA were <50 years of age (50.0% vs 35.7%; P = 0.014) and had fewer underlying diseases (mean [SD], 1.7 [1.3] vs 2.5 [1.5]; P < 0.001). Success rate, time to clinical response, and duration of therapy were similar in both groups.
Daptomycin was found to be equally effective in treating CP-MRSA and OP-MRSA infections in this selected group of patients.
α-Viniferin is an oligostilbene of trimeric resveratrol and has anticancer activity; however, the molecular mechanism underlying the anti-inflammatory effects of α-viniferin has not been completely elucidated thus far. Therefore, we determined the mechanism by which α-viniferin regulates lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced expression of proinflammatory mediators in BV2 microglial cells. Treatment with α-viniferin isolated from Clematis mandshurica decreased LPS-induced production of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). α-Viniferin also downregulated the LPS-induced expression of proinflammatory genes such as iNOS and COX-2 by suppressing the activity of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) via dephosphorylation of Akt/PI3K. Treatment with a specific NF-κB inhibitor, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), indirectly showed that NF-κB is a crucial transcription factor for expression of these genes in the early stage of inflammation. Additionally, our results indicated that α-viniferin suppresses NO and PGE2 production in the late stage of inflammation through induction of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) regulated by nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor (Nrf2). Taken together, our data indicate that α-viniferin suppresses the expression of proinflammatory genes iNOS and COX-2 in the early stage of inflammation by inhibiting the Akt/PI3K-dependent NF-κB activation and inhibits the production of proinflammatory mediators NO and PGE2 in the late stage by stimulating Nrf2-mediated HO-1 signaling pathway in LPS-stimulated BV2 microglial cells. These results suggest that α-viniferin may be a potential candidate to regulate LPS-induced inflammation.
Clozapine is an antipsychotic drug that has a very low incidence of extrapyramidal side effects. Only few dyskinetic and dystonic motoric alterations are described. This brief review describes three patients who developed chorea-like symptoms during a Clozapine therapy. The possible causal mechanisms of these side effect are suggested.
Cigarette smoke is composed of over 4000 chemicals many of which are strong oxidizing agents and chemical carcinogens. Chronic cigarette smoke exposure (CSE) induces mild alterations in liver histology indicative of toxicity though the molecular pathways underlying these alterations remain to be explored. Utilizing a mouse model of 'active' developmental CSE (gestational day (GD) 1 through postnatal day (PD) 21; cotinine >50ng/mL) characterized by low birth weight offspring, the impact of developmental CSE on liver protein abundances was determined. On PD21, liver tissue was collected from pups for 2D SDS-PAGE based proteome analysis with statistical analysis by Partial Least Squares-Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA). Protein spots of interest were identified by ESI-MS/MS with impacted molecular pathways identified by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. Developmental CSE decreased the abundance of proteins associated with the small molecule biochemistry (includes glucose metabolism), lipid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, and inflammatory response pathways. Decreased gluconeogenic enzyme activity and lysophosphatidylcholine availability following developmental CSE were found and supports the impact of CSE on these pathways. Proteins with increased abundance belonged to the cell death and drug metabolism networks. Liver antioxidant enzyme abundances [glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and peroxiredoxins] were also altered by CSE, but GST enzymatic activity was unchanged. In summary, cigarette smoke exposure spanning pre- and post-natal development resulted in persistent decreased offspring weights, decreased abundances of liver metabolic proteins, decreased gluconeogenic activity, and altered lipid metabolism. The companion paper details the kidney proteome alterations in the same offspring.
Left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction occurring during dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) occurs in approximately 15-20% of patients undergoing DSE. The clinical significance and mechanism of LVOT obstruction has been debated, but is now generally felt to result from the pharmacological effects of dobutamine in increasing inotropy and causing peripheral vasodilation. It must be realized that in rare instances, ischemia may occur and lead to wall motion abnormalities and eventually myocardial infarction. We present the case of a 70-year-old asymptomatic woman who underwent a routine pre-operative cardiac stress evaluation and was found to develop a dynamic outflow tract obstruction leading to myocardial ischemia and infarction.
