A 79-year-old man, newly started on carbamazepine, presented with rash, eosinophilia and liver dysfunction progressing to acute renal failure despite discontinuation of the anti-epileptic agent. Percutaneous renal biopsy revealed acute granulomatous interstitial nephritis, which responded successfully to high-dose oral steroid therapy.
Organic anion transporting polypeptide 1B3 (OATP1B3) is a hepatocyte plasma membrane protein that transports various endogenous and xenobiotic compounds. Although it is exclusively expressed in the human liver under normal conditions, OATP1B3 can be also expressed in various human cancer tissues that have been associated with prognosis and clinical outcomes. However, despite the potential significance of the latter finding, no experimental evidence addressing the molecular entity of cancer-associated OATP1B3 has been provided to date. In this paper, we report the identification of a new OATP1B3 mRNA isoform expressed in human colon and lung cancer tissues, which we named cancer-type OATP1B3 (Ct-OATP1B3). Our results also make known a previously unidentified transcription start site and an alternative promoter region, localized at intron 2, from which Ct-OATP1B3 mRNA is generated. Isoform specific mRNA quantification showed that the Ct-OATP1B3 mRNA level was strikingly higher than that of Lt-OATP1B3 mRNA in human cancer tissues. In addition, the results showed that the translation occurred at three out of four open reading frames. To summarize, our results clearly demonstrate that the newly-identified Ct-OATP1B3 (but not Lt-OATP1B3) is the primary mRNA isoform, at least in the human cancerous samples we have examined. In line with the possibility that its translation products play important biological roles in cancer cells, we strongly believe that the existence of Ct-OATP1B3 should be taken into account during future studies of OATP1B3 associated with cancer prognosis and clinical outcomes.
The leukoencephalopathy induced by tacrolimus is increasingly recognised as an important cause of neurological complications after transplantation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is of major help in the differential diagnosis of infection or vascular injury. We describe two children with coma and seizures after transplantation, in whom the results of MRI with FLAIR (fluid-attenuated inversion-recovery) and DWI (diffusion-weighted images) were the main positive elements for the diagnosis of drug-induced toxicity. The results of DWI favoured the role of oedema and/or demyelination in the pathophysiology of this disorder. Unlike other reported patients, in whom all symptoms resolved, lesions persisted, albeit improved, on the control MRI, and both children demonstrated learning disabilities after several years of follow-up.
Ketamine is a rapid-acting anaesthetic agent which has been used for over 40 years. It is an antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and agonist of mu and sigma opiate receptors. Ketamine acts through inhibition of sensory parts in the brain and stimulation of the limbic system and optic thalamus. The most common psychiatric disorders observed after the use of ketamine are: psychomotor agitation, hallucinations, status of stupor, consciousness disorders. There are observed cases of non-medical use of ketamine since the sixties of the 20th century. The authors describe the case of a 52 year old man who has been addicted to ketamine for 15 years. The patient was admitted to hospital to observe and treat the withdrawal syndrome as an effect of abrupt discontinuation of a chronically abused substance. On the ground of medical examinations, standard tests, anamnesis and hospital observation, ketamine dependence syndrome of a person with personality disorders was recognized. There was no somatic symptoms of withdrawal syndrome observed. The patient complained of sleep disorders and anxiety. Diazepam, carbamazepine and vitamins was used during treatment. The patient was motivated to stop using ketamine. This case and the described symptoms were compared with others articles.
Primary cultures of intact, functional heptocytes were used to compare the relative toxicity of four nonsteroid antiinflammatory agents (NSAID)--benoxaprofen, orpanoxin, aspirin, and ibuprofen--with that of indomethacin. The relative toxicity of these compounds was evaluated on the basis of the release of lactate dehydrogenase, levels of urea (an indicator of a liver specific function), viability (based on dye exclusion), and morphology after a 12-h exposure to concentrations ranging from 0 to 1000 microM. Evaluation of the data obtained from these three parameters enabled us to rank these compounds from toxic to nontoxic, in decreasing order to toxicity: indomethacin greater than benoxaprofen greater than ibuprofen greater than or equal to aspirin greater than or equal to orpanoxin. Morphological evaluations of hepatocytes exposed to these agents under the same conditions supported the order of ranking for these compounds. Ultrastructurally, cells exposed to the two highest concentrations of indomethacin were severely damaged, as evidenced by marked cellular necrosis, nuclear pleomorphism, margination, swollen mitochondria, reductions in the number of microvilli, smooth endoplasmic reticulum proliferation, and cytoplasmic vacuolation. In comparison, exposure of hepatocytes to the highest dose of orpanoxin resulted only in increased vacuolation, a slight increase in cellular debris, and increased electron density of the cytoplasm of hepatocytes.
Minoxidil was used in 25 patients with severe hypertension whose blood pressure (BP) could not be controlled with conventional treatment or who suffered from intolerable side effects during treatment with other drugs. In 6 patients minoxidil was withdrawn after a short time owing to side effects or because hypertension could be controlled by regular dialysis treatment. The remaining 19 patients were treated with minoxidil for 0.5-4.5 years. The hypotensive effect of minoxidil in combination with beta-blockers and diuretics was good or acceptable in all patients. Neither orthostatic hypotension nor development of resistance was observed. Minoxidil was well tolerated in one patient with porphyria and in two patients who have had the hydralazine syndrome. Eighteen patients had kidney failure with elevated serum creatinine. With one exception the uraemia progressed if the serum creatinine level was above 300 mumol/litre at the start of the treatment. All patients tended to develop oedema, but this was controlled by concomitant diuretic therapy. Eighteen patients developed hypertrichosis. No other significant side effects were observed. One patient died and two patients developed pericarditis in the highly uraemic phase in connection with the start of dialysis. Neither the death nor the cases of pericarditis can be attributed to minoxidil. Minoxidil was found to be effective in severe hypertension in connection with advanced renal disease and can be considered as a valuable addition to the established therapeutic arsenal for treatment of severe hypertension.
The diagnostic type I ECG in Brugada syndrome (BS) is often concealed and fluctuates between the diagnostic and non-diagnostic pattern. Challenge with intravenous ajmaline is used to unmask the diagnostic Brugada ECG. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety of the test and to identify predictors for the response to an intravenous ajmaline challenge.
In four tertiary referral centres, 677 consecutive patients underwent an intravenous ajmaline challenge for diagnosis or exclusion of BS in accordance with the recommendations of the Brugada consensus conferences. Two hundred and sixty-two ajmaline challenges (39%) were positive. Male gender, familial BS, sudden cardiac arrest (SCA), first-degree AV-block, basal saddleback type ECG, and basal right bundle branch block were identified as predictors for a positive ajmaline challenge. A predictor for negative ajmaline test was the absence of ST-segment elevation at baseline. Six of 12 patients who had experienced SCA, and five of 25 patients with a familial sudden death exhibited a positive response to ajmaline. Only one patient (0.15%) developed sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias (ventricular fibrillation) during ajmaline challenge, which was terminated by a single external defibrillator shock.
Ajmaline challenge is a safe procedure to unmask the electrocardiographic pattern of BS. Electrocardiographic and clinical parameters were identified to predict patients' response to ajmaline. The results of this study guide the clinician in which setting an ajmaline challenge is an appropriate diagnostic step.
Metronidazole is a 5-nitroimidazole compound known as an antimicrobial agent widely used for the treatment of protozoal infection, anaerobic infection, Helicobacter pylori infection and hepatic encephalopathy. It may produce a number of neurologic side effects including peripheral neuropathy, seizure, encephalopathy, ataxic gait and dysarthritic speech. There have been ten or more reports of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy in the literatures including a few reports of brain imaging changes by magnetic resonance images (MRI). However, none of the case of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy in patients with hepatic encephalopathy has been reported yet. Recently, we experienced two cases of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy in patients with liver cirrhosis caused by chronic hepatitis B, which were diagnosed by brain MRI and MR spectroscopy. In this report, we present 2 cases of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy with MR imaging and MR spectroscopic changes including follow-up imaging performed after the discontinuation of the metronidazole with a review of the literatures.
The in vitro antibacterial activity of prulifloxacin (CAS 123447-62-1, NM441), a new quinoline prodrug, against clinical isolates from urinary tract infections was investigated. In addition, it was compared with ofloxacin (CAS 82419-36-1), levofloxacin (CAS 100986-85-4), ciprofloxacin urinary tract infections in mice, as well as its pharmacokinetics. 1. The antibacterial activity of NM394 (6-fluoro-1-methyl-4-oxo-7-(1-piperazinyl)-4H-[1,3]thiazeto[3,2- a]quinoline-3-carboxylic acid), an active metabolite of prulifloxacin, against gram-positive clinical isolates was inferior to that of levofloxacin and tosufloxacin, and equal to that of ofloxacin and ciprofloxacin. Against gram-negative clinical isolates, the activity of NM394 was superior to that of the reference drugs. 2. The therapeutic effect of prulifloxacin on experimental urinary tract infection with Escherichia coli in mice was equal to that of tosufloxacin and ciprofloxacin and superior to that of ofloxacin and levofloxacin. Its therapeutic effect on Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection was equal to that of tosufloxacin and ciprofloxacin, and superior to that of ofloxacin. Against urinary tract infection with olfloxacin-resistant Enterobacter cloacae, prulifloxacin was the most effective of all the drugs tested. 3. The maximal serum concentration of prulifloxacin was slightly higher than that of ciprofloxacin, and the area under the curve (AUC) for prulifloxacin was 1/4 that of ofloxacin, levofloxacin and tosufloxacin. The maximal concentration and AUC of prulifloxacin in lung and kidney were slightly higher than the corresponding values for ciprofloxacin but only 1/2 to 1/4 of the values for ofloxacin, levofloxacin and tosufloxacin. In conclusion, prulifloxacin (NM394) showed potent antibacterial activity against clinical isolates and potent therapeutic efficacy against experimental infection in spite of its lower AUCs compared with the reference drugs. These findings suggest that prulifloxacin may be a useful drug in the treatment of urinary tract infections.
Seven new 1,3-diazepinium chlorides exhibiting some structural similarities to the 1,4-benzodiazepines were synthesized. In a Hippocratic screen using mice, three of these salts, 3-methoxy-6-oxo-7,13-dihydro-6H-benzofuro[2,3-e]pyrido[1,2-a][1,3]diazepin-12-ium chloride (8a), 3-methoxy-9-methyl-6-oxo-7,13-dihydro-6H-benzofuro[2,3-e]pyrido[1,2-a][1,3]diazepin-12-ium chloride (8c) and 3-methoxy-11-methyl-6-oxo-7,13-dihydro-6H-benzofuro[2,3-e]pyrido[1,2-a][1,3]diazepin-12-ium chloride (8e) were examined for their effect on the central nervous system, and their activities compared to that of diazepam. On their own, salts 8a, 8c and 8e solicited no sedative effects on the behaviour of the animals. However, they elicited significant effects in combination with diazepam on diazepam-induced activities such as decreased motor activity, ataxia and loss of righting reflex. Compounds 8a and 8c were fitted into the pharmacophore/receptor model developed by Cook et al. with interaction at the L(1), H(1) and A(2) sites indicating that they are potential inverse agonists of the Bz receptor. The compounds displayed some affinity for the alpha1 isoform of the GABA(A)/BzR (L(Di) interaction) but are non-selective for alpha5 (no L(2) interaction). Results of binding affinity studies showed that compound 8a is mildly selective for the alpha1 receptor although not very potent (K(i)=746.5nM). The significant potentiation of diazepam-induced ataxia and decreased motor activity by compounds 8a and 8c in the Hippocratic screen may be associated with alpha1 selectivity.
Anti-viral therapy using hepatitis B immune globulin and lamivudine could not prevent HBV recurrence after liver transplantation (LT) completely. Adefovir dipivoxil is a acyclic nucleotide phosphate analogue and known to have potent anti-HBV effect. In this study, we analyzed the therapeutic effect of adefovir for recurrent or de novo HBV infection after LT.
From December 2002 to October 2004, adefovir was administered in 12 post-LT patients of HBV infection (11 recurrent and 1 de novo infection). In these patients, lamivudine and other combined therapies were used before the introduction of adefovir. Thereafter, adefovir combined with lamivudine was administered to all patients.
The duration of adefovir administration was 5.5-18 (median, 15.5) months. The median values of serum AST and ALT levels were significantly reduced from 86+/-80 IU/L and 140+/-103 IU/L, respectively before the adefovir administration to 42+/-19 IU/L and 38+/-33 IU/L after 2 months of administration. This trend of improved liver function persisted throughout the follow-up period. HBeAg seroconversion was achieved in 4 of 10 patients (40%) and HBsAg seroconversion was observed in 1 of 10 patients (10%). HBV DNA levels have decreased to undetectable levels by hybridization assay in 6 of 7 patients within the first 2 months of therapy. Nephrotoxicity and hypophosphatemia were not found in all of these patients.
Based on this preliminary result, adefovir dipivoxil seems to be an effective and safe antiviral agent leading to viral inhibition and clinical improvement in post-LT patients with recurrent or de novo HBV infection.
Pimecrolimus cream (SDZ ASM 981), a nonsteroid inhibitor of inflammatory cytokines, is effective in atopic dermatitis (AD). We assessed whether early treatment of AD signs/symptoms with pimecrolimus could influence long-term outcome by preventing disease flares.
Early intervention with pimecrolimus was compared with a conventional AD treatment strategy (ie, emollients and topical corticosteroids). In this 1-year, controlled, double-blind study, 713 AD patients (2-17 years) were randomized 2:1 to a pimecrolimus-based or conventional regimen. Both groups used emollients for dry skin. Early AD signs/symptoms were treated with pimecrolimus cream or, in the conventional treatment group, vehicle to prevent progression to flares. If flares occurred, moderately potent topical corticosteroids were mandated. The primary efficacy endpoint was ranked flares at 6 months. Safety was monitored clinically, and a skin recall-antigen test was performed at study completion.
BASELINE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PATIENTS: The mean age for both groups was approximately 8 years, and the majority of patients had moderate disease at baseline. PATIENT FOLLOW-UP AND EXPOSURE TO STUDY MEDICATION: The mean duration of follow-up (+/-standard error) was 303.7 (+/-5.30) days in the pimecrolimus group and 235.2 (+/-9.40) days in the control group. The discontinuation rate was significantly higher in the control group than in the pimecrolimus group (51.5% vs 31.6% at 12 months), and proportionately more patients with severe or very severe disease discontinued in the control group. The main reason for the higher discontinuation rate in the control group was unsatisfactory therapeutic effect (30.4% vs 12.4%). This resulted in a substantially higher mean number of study medication treatment days in the pimecrolimus group compared with the control group: 211.9 (69.8% of study days) versus 156.0 (66.3% of study days). Of those patients who completed 12 months on study, 14.2% and 7.0% of patients in the pimecrolimus and vehicle groups, respectively, used study medication continuously.
Patients in the pimecrolimus group experienced significantly fewer AD flares than those in the control group, according to the primary efficacy analysis on ranked flares of AD (Van Elteren test). The proportion of patients who completed 6 or 12 months with no flares was approximately twice as high in the pimecrolimus group compared with control (61.0% vs 34.2% at 6 months; 50.8% vs 28.3% at 12 months). Fewer flares were observed in the pimecrolimus group regardless of baseline disease severity, so even severe patients derived benefit from the treatment. The analysis of time to first flare showed that treatment with pimecrolimus was associated with a significantly longer flare-free period (log- rank test). Covariate analysis indicated a statistically significant effect on time to first flare of baseline Eczema Area and Severity Index score, and whether patients had "severe" or "very severe" disease at baseline according to the Investigators' Global Assessment, although patients in all baseline disease severity subgroups benefited from treatment. Age had no significant effect. Fewer patients in the pimecrolimus group required topical corticosteroid therapy compared with control (35.0% vs 62.9% at 6 months; 42.6% vs 68.4% at 12 months), and patients in the pimecrolimus group spent fewer days on topical corticosteroid therapy (57.4% vs 31.6% [pimecrolimus vs control, respectively] spent 0 days on topical corticosteroid therapy, 17.1% vs 27.5% 1-14 days, and 25.5% vs 41.0% >14 days over the 12 months of the study). This steroid-sparing effect of pimecrolimus was evident despite pimecrolimus-treated patients being on study longer than patients in the control group. The average proportion of study days spent on second-line corticosteroids was 4.08% in the pimecrolimus group and 9.10% in the control group. Analysis of Eczema Area and Severity Index over time showed significantly lower median scores, thus indicating better disease control in the pimecrolimus group compared with the control group. Similar results were obtained from analysis of the Investigators' Global Assessment (not shown). The treatment groups were well balanced with respect to the number of patients using antihistamines during the study (57.2% vs 62.9%, pimecrolimus vs control, respectively).
There were no appreciable differences between treatment groups in the overall incidence of adverse events. The most frequent adverse events were common childhood infections and ailments, including nasopharyngitis, headache, and cough. The incidence of suspected drug-related adverse events was not significantly different in the pimecrolimus group (24.7% vs 18.7%--pimecrolimus vs control), and the incidence of serious adverse events was low (8.3% vs 5.2%--pimecrolimus vs control). Life-table analysis of incidence of adverse events revealed no significant differences between the treatment groups, except for cough. Local tolerability was good in both treatment groups. The most common application site reaction reported was sensation of burning (10.5% vs 9.3%--pimecrolimus vs control). There were no major differences between treatment groups in the duration or severity of application site reactions, most of which were mild-to-moderate and transient, occurring within the first week of treatment. Skin infections were reported in both groups. There were no between-group differences in the life-table analysis of time to first occurrence of bacterial skin infections nor in the adjusted incidence of bacterial skin infections. Although there were no significant differences between treatment groups in the incidence of individual viral skin infections, the incidence of grouped viral skin infections (12.4% vs 6.3%--pimecrolimus vs control) showed a slightly higher incidence in the pimecrolimus group. Laboratory values and vital signs showed no significant between-group differences. There were no significant differences between treatment groups in response to recall antigens in those patients who remained on study for 12 months.
Treatment of early AD signs/symptoms with pimecrolimus was effective in preventing progression to flares in more than half the patients, reducing or eliminating the need for topical corticosteroids. The benefits were consistently seen at 6 months across important disease severity subgroups and with respect to the various predefined efficacy endpoints. Furthermore, these benefits were sustained for 12 months, providing evidence that long-term treatment with pimecrolimus leads to better control of AD. Treatment with pimecrolimus was well tolerated and was not associated with clinically relevant adverse events compared with the conventional treatment group. The results reported here offer the prospect of effective long-term management of AD with reduced need for topical corticosteroids.
Renal function was assessed in 72 children and adolescents 3.5 to 123 months after completion of chemotherapy employing ifosfamide (n = 39) or ifosfamide plus cisplatinum (n = 33). No patient had preexisting renal parenchymal disease. Whereas reduction in glomerular filtration rate was present in six of 69 patients (8.7%), impairment of tubular transport for phosphate, glucose, and amino acids was more frequent: 32.8% of the patients showed reduction in phosphate reabsorption, and glucose and amino acid reabsorption was lowered in 16.4% and 55.0%, respectively. Elevated sodium excretion was found only occasionally, and there was no evidence of renal tubular acidosis. Proximal tubular damage is related to ifosfamide chemotherapy, but correlation between ifosfamide dose and phosphate reabsorption was not linear. The most severe depletion of phosphate reabsorption was seen in patients treated with both ifosfamide and cisplatinum. On reexamination of phosphate reabsorption after a median interval of 8 months, the majority of patients with initially reduced values showed further deterioration of this function.
Gastric cancer is a heterogeneous disease with multiple environmental etiologies and alternative pathways of carcinogenesis. Beyond mutations in TP53, alterations in other genes or pathways account for only small subsets of the disease. We performed exome sequencing of 22 gastric cancer samples and identified previously unreported mutated genes and pathway alterations; in particular, we found genes involved in chromatin modification to be commonly mutated. A downstream validation study confirmed frequent inactivating mutations or protein deficiency of ARID1A, which encodes a member of the SWI-SNF chromatin remodeling family, in 83% of gastric cancers with microsatellite instability (MSI), 73% of those with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection and 11% of those that were not infected with EBV and microsatellite stable (MSS). The mutation spectrum for ARID1A differs between molecular subtypes of gastric cancer, and mutation prevalence is negatively associated with mutations in TP53. Clinically, ARID1A alterations were associated with better prognosis in a stage-independent manner. These results reveal the genomic landscape, and highlight the importance of chromatin remodeling, in the molecular taxonomy of gastric cancer.
Cutaneous necrotizing vasculitis is usually induced by an acute infection or exposure to a drug. Cutaneous vasculitis may precede severe systemic involvement, and may end in death. Accordingly, diagnosis of cutaneous vasculitis, identification of etiological factors, follow-up for systemic involvement and treatment are important. The authors present a case study of a 58-year-old male with fever and extensive eruption involving the trunk and extremities which appeared two days after initiation of treatment with oral naproxen. The clinical and histological findings were consistent with cutaneous necrotizing leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Two events of massive upper gastrointestinal bleeding occurred during treatment with systemic corticosteroids. The possible etiological factors and the mechanisms involved in the induction of the vasculitis and the gastrointestinal bleeding are discussed.
Changes in cardiac gene expression were studied during development and regression of cardiac hypertrophy in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) in an attempt to determine some of the biochemical factors responsible for alterations in cardiac mass. Chronic nifedipine treatment of SHR (30 mg/kg per day for 20 weeks) led to a marked reduction in arterial blood pressure and to a subsequent regression of cardiac hypertrophy. Cardiac mRNA concentration decreased, whereas cardiac protein concentration remained unchanged. Changes in cardiac gene expression, as reflected by the decrease in cardiac mRNA concentration, were thus identified as a major factor responsible for the regression of cardiac hypertrophy after nifedipine therapy of SHR.
Buspirone hydrochloride (abbr. to BH), an anxiolytic drug, was examined for its intravenous, subcutaneous or oral acute toxicity using Crj: CD-1 (ICR) mice, Crj: CD (Sprague-Dawley) rats and beagle dogs of both sexes. The results obtained were summarized as follows: 1. Drug-related toxic signs included decreased activity and convulsions accompanied with salivation and opisthotonus in mice and rats treated with BH regardless of administration routes, and tremors and clonic convulsions accompanied with salivation in dogs treated with BH orally. 2. Pathological examinations revealed distention of the stomach in dead rats treated with BH orally, and hypersecretion of gastric juice and alterations (viz. edema, necrosis and petechia) on the superficial mucous membrane in the gastropyloric region in dead dogs treated with BH orally. 3. The cause of death was considered to be due to respiratory insufficiency in every species of animals examined. 4. LD50 values (mg/kg) were as follows: [table: see text] 5. No sex differences were observed in every species of animals regardless of administration routes on the basis of toxicological parameters examined.
Sitagliptin, a new oral glucose lowering medication, is used for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. The anti-inflammatory property of sitagliptin is reported, yet no studies have been done on asthma. In the present study, the effect of sitagliptin on allergic asthma was investigated using ovalbumin (OVA)-induced asthma model in mice. Swiss male albino mice sensitized and challenged to ovalbumin were treated with sitagliptin (8 mg/kg administered orally twice a day). Drug treatment was done on each day from days 16 to 23, 1 h before the challenge on the days of challenge. Sitagliptin treatment markedly decreased inflammatory cell accumulation in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and in the lungs, as revealed by histopathological examination. Furthermore, the levels of interleukin (IL)-13 in BAL fluid, total and OVA specific immunoglobulins (Ig)-E in serum, were significantly reduced as compared to the OVA group. In addition, sitagliptin significantly increased superoxidase dismutase (SOD) and reduced glutathione (GSH) activities with significant decrease in malondialdehyde (MDA) content in the lung. Importantly, sitagliptin decreased mRNA expression of the inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and transforming growth factor-β(1) (TGF-β(1)) in lung tissues as compared to the OVA group. Moreover, nitric oxide content as well as the mRNA expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) was remarkably decreased by sitagliptin treatment. Sitagliptin attenuates the allergic airway inflammation suggesting that sitagliptin may have applications in the treatment of bronchial asthma.
Though resveratrol is known to have anti-cancer, anti-diabetic, anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory activities, the inhibitory mechanism of resveratrol in kidney stone formation has not been elucidated so far.
ELISA, flow cytometry, RT-PCR, and western blotting were performed. Human renal epithelial cells (HRCs) and rats with ethylene glycol (EG)-induced kidney stones were used.
A wound healing assay revealed that resveratrol significantly inhibited the oxalate-mediated migration of HRCs, considering oxalate mediates kidney stone formation. Also, resveratrol suppressed the mRNA expression of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate hydrogen (NADPH) oxidase subunits such as p22(phox) and p47(phox), monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) and osteopontin (OPN) in oxalate-treated HRCs. Furthermore, western blotting showed that resveratrol downregulated the expression of MCP-1-related proteins including transforming growth factor(TGF-β1), TGFR-I or II and hyaluronan in oxalate-treated HRCs. Consistently, resveratrol reduced oxalate-mediated production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in oxalate-treated HRCs, while the activities of anti-oxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) were enhanced by resveratrol in HRCs and EG-treated kidneys of rats. Consistently, resveratrol significantly reduced the number of urine calcium oxalate crystals and serum MDA, and attenuated the expression of OPN and hyaluroran in EG-treated rats.
Our findings suggest that resveratrol exerts anti-nephrolithic potential via inhibition of ROS, MCP-1 hyaluronan and OPN signaling.
Baclofen and aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA) depressed the explorative and locomotor activity in rats. Baclofen, but not AOAA, decreased the locomotor stimulation, produced by apomorphine. Both compounds did not affect hyperactivity, induced by D, L-amphetamine, amantadine and methylphenidate. Neither baclofen nor AOAA influenced stereotypy induced by the above four substances.
The effects of calcium chloride on cardiac responses to verapamil and diltiazem were investigated using isolated and perfused rat hearts with a Langendorff technique. Ionized calcium concentrations were increased approximately from 0.5 mM to 2.2 mM when the hearts were pretreated with 0.2 mg/L of verapamil or 0.28 mg/L of diltiazem, or were untreated with calcium blockers. Calcium significantly counteracted the negative inotropic effect produced by diltiazem and verapamil. In contrast, the negative chronotropic effects of both diltiazem and verapamil were potentiated by increasing concentrations of ionized calcium, and this potentiation was not eliminated by 1.0 mg/L of atropine. An atrioventricular block was induced by both verapamil and diltiazem when ionized calcium concentrations were lower than normal. It is suggested from this study that, although calcium chloride counteracts the negative inotropic effects of verapamil and diltiazem, abruptly increased ionized calcium may cause severe bradycardia clinically.
A case of pseudo-tumor cerebri is reported in a woman being treated with minocycline and tretinoin for acne who also ingested liver as a self-treatment for her condition. A possible cumulative effect between these agents is postulated.
To determine the effect of postnatal administration of the long-acting progestogen contraceptive, norethisterone enanthate, on postnatal depression and on serum hormone concentrations, and their association with depression.
Double-blind randomised placebo-controlled trial.
A tertiary care hospital in Johannesburg, South Africa. POPULATION Postnatal women using a non-hormonal method of contraception (n = 180).
Random allocation within 48 hours of delivery to norethisterone enanthate by injection, or placebo.
Depression scores in the three months postpartum as rated by the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) and the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS); 2. serum 17beta-oestradiol, progesterone, testosterone and the 17beta-oestradiol:progesterone ratio at six weeks postpartum.
There was a chance excess of caesarean section deliveries in the progestogen group. Mean depression scores were significantly higher in the progestogen group than in the placebo group at six weeks postpartum (mean MADRS score 8.3 vs 4.9; P = 0.0111; mean EPDS score 10.6 vs 7.5; P = 0.0022). Mean serum 17beta-oestradiol and progesterone concentrations were significantly lower in the progestogen group compared with the placebo group at six weeks postpartum. There were no correlations between any of the hormone parameters and depression at six weeks except in the formula feeding subgroup of the placebo group, where formula feeding and 17beta-oestradiol concentrations were positively associated with depression.
Long-acting norethisterone enanthate given within 48 hours of delivery is associated with an increased risk of developing postnatal depression and causes suppression of endogenous ovarian hormone secretion.
Lipoic acid (LA) is an antioxidant with antiobesity and antidiabetic properties. Adiponectin is an adipokine with potent anti-inflammatory and insulin-sensitizing properties. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a key enzyme involved in cellular energy homeostasis. Activation of AMPK has been considered as a target to reverse the metabolic abnormalities associated with obesity and type 2 diabetes.
The aim of this study was to determine the effects of LA on AMPK phosphorylation and adiponectin production in adipose tissue of low-fat (control diet) and high-fat diet-fed rats.
Dietary supplementation with LA reduced body weight and adiposity in control and high-fat-fed rats. LA also reduced basal hyperinsulinemia as well as the homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) levels, an index of insulin resistance, in high-fat-fed rats, which was in part independent of their food intake lowering actions. Furthermore, AMPK phosphorylation was increased in white adipose tissue (WAT) from LA-treated rats as compared with pair-fed animals. Dietary supplementation with LA also upregulated adiponectin gene expression in WAT, while a negative correlation between adiposity-corrected adiponectin levels and HOMA index was found. Our present data suggest that the ability of LA supplementation to prevent insulin resistance in high-fat diet-fed rats might be related in part to the stimulation of AMPK and adiponectin in WAT.
Four patients whose automedication had attracted medical attention had signs compatible with adult attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Two of them, men aged 42 and 28, were seen with their hyperactive children in the outpatient department; they appeared to drink huge amounts of coffee, smoked heavily or used cannabis to facilitate sleep. The other two patients, a man aged 25 and a woman aged 35, were initially not diagnosed with ADHD; they had noticed that dopaminergic drugs like cocaine and an amphetamine-containing medication taken to lose weight made their behaviour much more 'normal', although the man was addicted. All experienced relief of their chaotic mental activity when they were treated with methylphenidate. Smoking and addiction due to undiagnosed ADHD may lead to 'automutilation'. Early recognition and awareness of the symptoms of ADHD is important; the clinical interview should also cover items like automedication and other ADHD symptoms in the family.
We experienced resuscitation from latex anaphylaxis induced by surgical gloves during elective abdominal aorta aneurysm resection in a low risk adult with latex allergy. The patient developed severe circulatory collapse 10 minutes after the start of surgery. Although administration of dopamine, norepinephrine, and a large amount of fluid could not normalize this circulatory collapse, but addition of famotidine and chlorpheniramine could restore blood pressure. After resuscitation, we decided to postpone the operation. The re-operation was planned in the latex free setting one month later. All products, containing latex, had been excluded from operating room one day before the re-operation, and the patient entered operating room earlier than other patients to avoid latex-polluted powder from surgical gloves of other staffs. Y-shaped graft replacement was performed, and the perioperative course was uneventful. Latex is the second leading cause of intraoperative anaphylaxis, and the high-risk cases could be easily detected through the questionnaires, focusing on latex and other tropical fruits allergy. Moreover, because it is easy to get latex-free products, we recommend that a set of latex free products should be prepared at least for a high-risk case of latex allergy.
To investigate the ocular hypertensive and antiinflammatory response to different dosages of fluorometholone (FML).
Prospective clinical trial with randomization of fellow eyes to different postoperative treatment.
Thirty-one consecutive children undergoing bilateral symmetrical strabismus operation.
Among 31 children who received bilateral squint operations, one eye was randomized to receive topical FML six times daily (group 1), whereas the other eye received topical FML three times daily (group 2), both for 4 weeks. Intraocular pressure (IOP) and antiinflammatory response were measured serially in the postoperative period for 8 weeks.
Intraocular pressure was measured on the day before surgery and on postoperative days 1, 3, 6, 13, 20, 27, 41, and 55. The antiinflammatory response was also assessed subjectively and objectively at days 6, 13, 20, and 27 after the operations. Peak IOP, net increase in IOP, and antiinflammatory responses in the two study groups were analyzed.
Thirty-one children, age 3 to 9 years, (mean +/- standard deviation [SD], 5.52 +/- 1.81) participated in the study. Intraocular pressure increased significantly in both groups compared with the preoperative values (P < 0.001). The peak IOP ranged from 12.00 to 31.00 mmHg and 12.30 to 25.00 mmHg in groups 1 and 2, respectively. The mean peak IOP (19.00 +/- 5.06 mmHg vs. 17.13 +/- 3.32 mmHg) was significantly higher in group 1 (P < 0.001). The net increase in IOP was similar (mean +/- SD, 4.37 +/- 4.79 vs. 2.57 +/- 3.32 mmHg; P = 0.005). Ranges of the net IOP increase were -1.00 to 16.00 mmHg and -2.50 to 10.30 mmHg in groups 1 and 2, respectively. Children in group 1 reached the peak IOP earlier than those in group 2 (median, 6 vs. 13 days; P = 0.033). However, there was no significant difference in antiinflammatory response between the two groups.
Ocular hypertension occurs in a dose-dependent manner in children treated with FML. Children in group 1 had a quicker onset and more severe ocular hypertensive response than those in group 2. It would be desirable to monitor the IOP regularly when FML is used with a high frequency and for a long duration in children.
High tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) levels were present in the serum of 24 of 28 active visceral leishmaniasis (VL) patients (142.9 +/- 113.9 pg/ml, mean +/- SD), whereas levels were not elevated in 26 of 30 patients with cryptic leishmanial infection (16 asymptomatic, 4 with self-healing subclinical infection, and 10 posttreatment VL cases). Serum TNF alpha levels were also not elevated in 15 normal volunteers (11.3 +/- 15.6 pg/ml) and in 10 patients with tegumentary leishmaniasis (19.1 +/- 10.8 pg/ml). Leishmanial infection of human monocyte-derived macrophages enhanced the basal TNF alpha production by these cells, and this effect was further potentiated by treatment with recombinant interferon-gamma. After effective treatment of VL patients, serum TNF alpha levels dropped rapidly (129 +/- 112 vs. 9 +/- 13 pg/ml in 10 days), even before clinical parameters such as spleen size or parasitism, white blood cell count, or levels of hemoglobin returned to normal values. On the other hand, patients unresponsive to treatment remained with elevated levels (276 +/- 69 vs. 155 +/- 71 pg/ml in 10 days). Thus, serum TNF alpha levels in VL patients are a good parameter to monitor in determining host response to therapy.
Routine intravenous aminophylline therapy was monitored by drug level measurements in 45 hospitalized patients with chronic obstructive bronchitis. Only 44% had theophylline serum concentrations (Cp) in the optimum range (10-20 mg/l), while in 36% of patients potentially toxic Cp values were observed. The incidence of side effects was related to theophylline serum concentration: 78% in cases with Cp greater than 30 mg/l against 24% in cases with Cp less than 20 mg/l. Theophylline toxicity occurred most frequently in elderly patients with cardiac failure, who had markedly reduced theophylline clearances. To avoid excessive drug accumulation the usual aminophylline dose should be reduced by 50% when clinical signs of cardiac failure are present. In addition, measurement of theophylline serum concentration is often necessary for optimum dosage adjustment.
