Theophylline has been used widely as a bronchodilator for the treatment of bronchial asthma and has been suggested to modulate immune response. While the importance of macrophages in asthma has been reappraised and emphasized, their significance has not been well investigated. We conducted a genome-wide profiling of the gene expressions of macrophages in response to theophylline.
Microarray technology was used to profile the gene expression patterns of macrophages modulated by theophylline. Northern blot and real-time quantitative RT-PCR were also used to validate the microarray data, while Western blot and ELISA were used to measure the levels of IL-13 and LTC4.
We identified dozens of genes in macrophages that were dose-dependently down- or up-regulated by theophylline. These included genes related to inflammation, cytokines, signaling transduction, cell adhesion and motility, cell cycle regulators, and metabolism. We observed that IL-13, a central mediator of airway inflammation, was dramatically suppressed by theophylline. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR and ELISA analyses also confirmed these results, without respect to PMA-treated THP-1 cells or isolated human alveolar macrophages. Theophylline, rolipram, etazolate, db-cAMP and forskolin suppressed both IL-13 mRNA expression (~25%, 2.73%, 8.12%, 5.28%, and 18.41%, respectively) and protein secretion (<10% production) in macrophages. These agents also effectively suppressed LTC4 expression.
Our results suggest that the suppression of IL-13 by theophylline may be through cAMP mediation and may decrease LTC4 production. This study supports the role of theophylline as a signal regulator of inflammation, and that down regulation of IL-13 by theophylline may have beneficial effects in inflammatory airway diseases.
Folates are essential nutrients that are required for one-carbon biosynthetic and epigenetic processes. While folates are absorbed in the acidic milieu of the upper small intestine, the underlying absorption mechanism has not been defined. We now report the identification of a human proton-coupled, high-affinity folate transporter that recapitulates properties of folate transport and absorption in intestine and in various cell types at low pH. We demonstrate that a loss-of-function mutation in this gene is the molecular basis for hereditary folate malabsorption in a family with this disease. This transporter was previously reported to be a lower-affinity, pH-independent heme carrier protein, HCP1. However, the current study establishes that a major function of this gene product is proton-coupled folate transport required for folate homeostasis in man, and we have thus amended the name to PCFT/HCP1.
We have studied the effects of two D2 dopamine receptor-selective compounds, (-)-OSU 6162 and raclopride, on levodopa-induced dyskinesias in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Three monkeys developed a severe parkinsonian syndrome following administration of MPTP. In response to daily levodopa treatment the animals developed reproducible and idiosyncratic peak-dose dyskinesias. Pretreatment with (-)-OSU 6162 and raclopride, in doses increased by multiples of three, both dose-dependently relieved the levodopa-induced dyskinesias. However, in contrast to when raclopride pretreatment was given, (-)-OSU 6162 pretreatment did not induce akinesia. Our investigation suggests that (-)-OSU 6162 may be useful an an adjuvant treatment to levodopa in advanced Parkinson's disease to selectively combat levodopa-induced dyskinesias without affecting the antiparkinsonian response.
Dermatitis in a breeding colony of black (C57BL/6 Nya) mice was characterized by intense pruritus leading to self-mutilation and death. The cause appeared to be infestation with the mite, Myobia musculi. Ulceration of the skin resulted in exudation of serum proteins and exposure of the animals' immune defenses to microorganisms and irritants, with subsequent hyperplasia of regional lymph nodes and spleen. Affected mice had an increase in sessile plasma cells, serum immunoglobulin concentration, and percent of circulating granulocytes. The mites were eliminated by treatment with a dichlorvos-ronnel combination in liquid form, which was dispensed onto the bedding with an automatic syringe. The incidence of dermatitis was reduced to zero. Our experience with M musculi in two other strains of mice, both white, indicates that pathogenicity of this mite for mice varies according to the strain, sex, age, and individual differences in sensitivity of the mice as well as the mating ratios employed.
Periconceptional folic acid supplementation is widely believed to aid in the prevention of neural tube defects (NTDs), orofacial clefts, and congenital heart defects. Folate-binding proteins or receptors serve to bind folic acid and 5-methyltetrahydrofolate, representing one of the two major mechanisms of cellular folate uptake.
We herein describe abnormal cardiovascular development in mouse fetuses lacking a functional folate-binding protein gene (Folr1). We also performed a dose-response study with folinic acid and determined the impact of maternal folate supplementation on Folr1 nullizygous cardiac development.
Partially rescued preterm Folr1(-/-) (formerly referred to as Folbp1) fetuses were found to have outflow tract defects, aortic arch artery abnormalities, and isolated dextracardia. Maternal supplementation with folinic acid rescued the embryonic lethality and the observed cardiovascular phenotypes in a dose-dependant manner. Maternal genotype exhibited significant impact on the rescue efficiency, suggesting an important role of in utero folate status in embryonic development. Abnormal heart looping was observed during early development of Folr1(-/-) embryos partially rescued by maternal folinic acid supplementation. Migration pattern of cardiac neural crest cells, genetic signals in pharyngeal arches, and the secondary heart field were also found to be affected in the mutant embryos.
Our observations suggest that the beneficial effect of folic acid for congenital heart defects might be mediated via its impact on neural crest cells and by gene regulation of signaling pathways involved in the development of the pharyngeal arches and the secondary heart field.
Cardiovascular problems are among the most frequently seen medical complaints related to cocaine use, with chest pain as the most commonly encountered cardiac emergency. Multiple studies and case reports have documented myocardial infarction in young, otherwise low-risk cocaine users. Treatment should be consistent with that of any patient with myocardial ischemia, with particular attention devoted to decreasing the sympathomimetic effects of the cocaine. A 24-hour observation period identifies close to 100% of patients sustaining an acute myocardial infarction after cocaine use.
The cardiotoxicity of 5 fluoro-uracil is currently recognised. We report here a new case in which an effort test and a Methergin test were carried out in the hours following the episode and at a later date. With normal coronary arteriography the evidence is in favour of coronary artery spasm which is the usual mechanism for this type of toxicity.
Convulsive activity was induced in functionally decapitate cat preparations by topical and by systemic administration of toxic amounts of penicillin. The paroxysmal movement patterns and the electrographic signs of spinal seizure activity recorded from spinal ventral and dorsal roots and from the dorsal surface of the spinal cord are described. Paroxysms of interictal myoclonic twitching as well as tonic and clonic ictal seizures reminiscent of epileptiform convulsions of intact animals were seen in the absence of descending influences from the brain. Tonic seizures consisted of flexion--extension sequences; co-contraction of antagonistic muscles was the rule. Clonic activity consisted of rhythmic discharges at 4--6/sec, In dorsal roots, electrotonically conducted paroxysmal negative potential shifts as well as antidromically conducted trains of impulses were recorded. Ictal paroxysmal waves of the cord dorsum potential consisted of either biphasic positive--negative sequences or of purely negative waves. Diphenylhydantoin effectively controlled spinal seizures in the absence of a functioning cerebellum. Diphenylthiohydantoin changed the pattern of seizures, suppressing all ictal activity and greatly enhancing the amplitude and frequency of interictal bursts. Three different barbiturates suppressed seizure activity, but diazepam was ineffective, indicating that the site of its clinical anticonvulsant action may be supraspinal. Seizure activity, once induced, continued for up to 18 h. Intravenous administration of penicillinase abolished seizures indicating that their usual persistence is caused by the presence of the drug in the tissue, not by an irreversible biochemical lesion.
We employed physiogenomic analyses to investigate the relationship between myalgia and selected polymorphisms in serotonergic genes, based on their involvement with pain perception and transduction of nociceptive stimuli. We screened 195 hypercholesterolemic, statin-treated patients, all of whom received either atorvastatin, simvastatin, or pravastatin. Patients were classified as having no myalgia, probable myalgia, or definite myalgia, and assigned a myalgia score of 0, 0.5, or 1, respectively. Fourteen single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were selected from candidates within the 5-HT receptor gene families [5a-hydroxytryptamine receptor genes (HTR) 1D, 2A, 2C, 3A, 3B, 5A, 6, 7] and the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4). SNPs in the HTR3B and HTR7 genes, rs2276307 and rs1935349, respectively, were significantly associated with the myalgia score. Individual differences in pain perception and nociception related to specific serotonergic gene variants may affect the development of myalgia in statin-treated patients.
To evaluate the pharmacological complications and side effects of the chronic intrathecal baclofen infusion in patients suffering from intractable spinal spasticity in our Department as well as in the literature.
The pharmacological complications and side effects observed at long-term follow-up in 25 patients with chronic intrathecal baclofen infusion are evaluated; the search of the literature complications was carried out in Medline and in Ingenta web sites.
We have been able to observe in our series 3 (12%) patients with hypotonia, 2 with impairment on erection (8%) and 1 (4%) with constipation; 5 (20%) patients showed also tolerance but only 1 (4%) needed a ''drug holiday''. In the literature the side effects range from 4% to 16%. Moreover the tolerance is reported from 3% to 15%. The overdose has been reported from 0% to 14%, while the syndrome of withdrawal is reported in 16 patients with 6 fatalities. In our series these two last complications were not observed.
Lethal pharmacological complications are rare and, if promptly diagnosed and treated, are reversible. Side effects of minor importance can impair the patient quality of live and needed to be adjusted to patient's requirements. This kind of therapy should be restricted to specialized centres.
Fatty acid synthetase (FAS) is overexpressed in various tumor tissues, and its inhibition and/or malonyl-CoA accumulation have been correlated to apoptosis of tumor cells. It is widely recognized that both omega-3 and omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) depress FAS expression in liver, although epidemiological and experimental reports attribute antitumor properties only to omega-3 PUFA. Therefore, we investigated whether lipogenic gene expression in tumor cells is differently regulated by omega-6 and omega-3 PUFAs. Morris hepatoma 3924A cells were implanted subcutaneously in the hind legs of ACI/T rats preconditioned with high-lipid diets enriched with linoleic acid or alpha-linolenic acid. Both-high lipid diets depressed the expression of FAS and acetyl-CoA carboxylase in tumor tissue, this effect correlating with a decrease in the mRNA level of their common sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 transcription factor. Hepatoma cells grown in rats on either diet did not accumulate malonyl-CoA. Apoptosis of hepatoma cells was induced by the alpha-linolenic acid-enriched diet but not by the linoleic acid-enriched diet. Therefore, in this experimental model, apoptosis is apparently independent of the inhibition of fatty acid synthesis and of malonyl-CoA cytotoxicity. Conversely, it was observed that apoptosis induced by the alpha-linolenic acid-enriched diet correlated with a decrease in arachidonate content in hepatoma cells and decreased cyclooxygenase-2 expression.
Children and adults with chronic ENT and bronchopulmonary infections took ribomunyl tablets (Pierre Fabre) under immunological control. Even a 3 week course led to obvious clinical improvement of their condition in acute stage. Investigation of populations and subpopulations of lymphocytes showed that ribomunyl mainly increases the number of CD3+, CD3+4+, CD3-/16+56-, CD4+25+, CD4+69+, CD56+25+. CD56-25+ and CD8-38+ cells that is increased the number of T-, T-n and NK-cells and also increased expression on T-n and NK-cells of activation antigens. An increase in quantity and activation of these cells was more expressed in patients with initially smaller number of these cells and correlated with the treatment efficacy. Ribomunyl enhanced effector function of NK-cells, phagocytes (monocytes and granulocytes), this activation being more in patients with marked clinical effect. Ribomunyl appeared effective in Chernobyl accident victims also. A long-term course of ribomunyl (6 months) showed better clinical effect when compared to 3-week course.
Chronic aspirin ingestion in childhood is not uncommon, often goes undetected, and may cause serious anaemia from occult blood loss. Five cases are described.
The frequency of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) after clozapine or olanzapine is low and often of non-serious nature. A 49 year-old female patient developed NMS 12 days after olanzapine re-exposure. Olanzapine was stopped, the patient was transferred to an ICU and received a course of nine uni- and bilateral ECT treatments. This led to remission. 14 months earlier the patient had presented with a first severe NMS episode after haloperidol depot injection and 4 days after starting oral clozapine. Following the first NMS episode olanzapine (20 mg per day) was administered for 11 months without adverse effects.
The purpose of this study is to analyze the effect of a modified intraoperative anticoagulation strategy including acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) on complication rates during endovascular coil embolization.
Two hundred and sixty-one cerebral aneurysms were treated in 247 patients by endovascular coil embolization from January 2001 to September 2004. Additional intravenous administration of 250 mg ASA was applied since January 2003. Patients treated before (-ASA; n=102 aneurysms) and after that date (+ASA; n=159 aneurysms) were compared. End points were rates of thromboembolism and severity of hemorrhages after intraoperative aneurysm rupture.
Thromboembolic events during the procedure were observed more often in the -ASA group (18/102 aneurysms, 17.6%) in comparison with the +ASA group (14/159 aneurysms, 8.8%; P=0.028; Fisher exact test). Aneurysm perforation events occurring during or immediately after the procedure were observed equally often in the -ASA group (7/102 aneurysms, 6.9%) in comparison with the +ASA group (10/159 aneurysms, 6.3%).
Intravenous application of ASA is feasible and safe during interventional aneurysm embolization. ASA seems to be associated with a significant reduction in the rate of thromboembolic events without increase in the rate or severity of intraoperative bleedings.
Twelve male Lister hooded rats were conditioned to discriminate an 8 kHz tone (56.5 +/- 0.5 dB re 0.0002 dyne cm-2) and were subsequently injected subcutaneously with kanamycin (400 mg kg-1 day-1) for 28 days; during this time and for five weeks after dosage was stopped, the nature and extent of the resultant hearing deficits were studied. The animals' Preyer reflex thresholds were determined at intervals during the study. Only one rat was unaffected by the kanamycin dosage. The onset of hearing impairment (reduced discrimination performance), which was gradual in some rats and sudden in others, generally occurred during the fourth week of kanamycin dosage although the earliest onset was towards the end of the second week. In most animals the hearing impairment progressed after kanamycin was stopped and in one rat there was a latency between the end of drug dosage and onset of hearing impairment. Hearing impairment was irreversible in five rats. One rat, whose impairment was slight, recovered normal hearing. Some rats showed a reduced discrimination performance at a time when their Preyer reflex threshold showed no elevation suggesting that kanamycin, at least initially, caused a threshold elevation rather than reduced sensitivity to intense sounds.
Fallopia multiflora (Thunb.) Harald, a traditional Chinese medicinal plant, is used in treating dizziness. In this study, the samples of F. multiflora from ten different locations were collected, and five bioactive components (2, 3, 5, 4'-tetrahydroxystilbene-2-O-beta-D-glucoside, emodin, emodin-8-O-beta-D-glucoside, physcion and physcion-8-O-beta-D-glucoside) were quantified by high performance liquid chromatography. The correlations between 17 environmental factors and 5 bioactive components were analyzed. The results showed that the highest contents of bioactive components were in samples from Deqing, and the lowest in samples from Tianyang, which indicated that the quality of F. multiflora grown in Deqing was superior, while that grown in Tianyang was inferior. Emodin content was negatively correlated with the average temperature in January (p < 0.01) and the accumulated temperature (p < 0.01). Physician content was also negatively correlated with the average temperature in January (P < 0.01), the accumulated temperature (p < 0.05) and the organic matter (p < 0.05). However, emodin was positively correlated with the soil available K (p < 0.05) and Zn (p < 0.01). The results of stepwise regression showed that the accumulated temperature was the main factor influencing the contents of emodin and physcion. However, none of the environmental factors had significant correlation with 2, 3, 5, 4'-tetrahydroxystilbene-2-O-beta-D-glucoside, emodin-8- O-beta-D-glucoside and physcion-8-O-beta-D-glucoside. In conclusion, some environmental factors have significant influence on the content of dissociated anthraquinones, while some have no influence on that of combined anthraquinones.
N-acetyltransferase 2 is phase II metabolizing enzyme that participates in the bioconversion of heterocyclic arylamines into electrophilic nitrenium ions, which are important ultimate carcinogens that are directly implicated in tumor initiation process. This study was conducted to examine; (1) whether the N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) genotype is a risk factor for prostate cancer, (2) to study effect of NAT2 genotype on modifying prostate cancer risk from tobacco use.
The case control study was undertaken over a period of 28 months and included 130 prostate cancer patients (CaP) and 140 controls. The NAT2 genotypes were identified by PCR-RFLP method in DNA extracted from peripheral blood. Genotype frequencies and the association of genotypes with patients and control groups were assessed by logistic regression model.
We observed non-significant association of rapid acetylator genotype NAT2 (OR = 1.452, 95% CI: 0.54-1.87, P = 0.136) in prostate cancer patients. However significant association was observed between rapid acetylator genotype NAT2 and CaP tobacco users (OR = 3.43, 95% CI: 1.68-7.02, P-value < 0.001) when compared with controls.
The data suggests that the NAT2 rapid acetylator genotypes may play an important role in determining the risk of developing prostate cancer particularly in the tobacco users of north Indian population.
From January 1983 to August 1987, 29 evaluable patients with high-grade osteosarcoma were treated in our institution with preoperative intra-atrial cisplatin, 100 mg/m2 every 14 days for three courses. Surgery was done on day 42. Surgery consisted of limb salvage in six, amputations in 15, and disarticulations in eight. Postoperative chemotherapy included Adriamycin (ADR), 45 mg/m2 for 2 days every 6 weeks, alternated with cisplatin 120 mg/m2 every 6 weeks. The nephrotoxicity (18 out 29) was reversible in all cases. Cardiotoxicity was prominent; it was observed in 31% of patients. In six, there was congestive heart failure, but there were no fatal cases. The hematological toxicity was severe. There were three patients with fatal infections who had no evidence of disease after they had finished treatment. Seventeen of 29 patients (58.6%) were good responders and showed 60-100% tumoral necrosis after intra-atrial cisplatin. The 6-year, relapse-free survival rate was 58.6%--70.5% for the good responders and 41.6% for the poor responders (p less than 0.05). The size of the tumor was the other important prognostic factor. The rate of 6-year, relapse-free survival was 73.6% for small tumors (those measuring less than 100 cm2) and 33.3% for large tumors (p less than 0.05).
A self-limiting psychosis characterized by acute onset of visual and auditory hallucinations and poor sleep developed in six adults between 8 and 24 hours after oral administration of 750-1500 mg of the antimalarial mefloquine. All patients had no personal or family history of psychosis and were neurologically and mentally normal before mefloquine ingestion. These cases illustrate that acute psychotic symptoms may occur in patients treated with mefloquine.
We have demonstrated previously that the acid-treated multi-walled carbon nanotubes (aci-MWCNTs) and taurine functionalized MWCNTs (tau-MWCNTs) induced differential pulmonary toxicity in mice after instillation exposure. In order to compare differences of cytotoxicity between the aci- and tau-MWCNTs, RAW 264.7 cells (a murine macrophage cell line) were chosen to be exposed to the aci- and tau-MWCNTs at concentrations of 0, 5, 20, 40, and 80μg/ml for 12 or 24h respectively. The results showed that although the aci- and tau-MWCNTs induced only mild decrease in cell viability to RAW 264.7 cells, the two types of MWCNTs elicited significant increase in apoptosis and decreased ability in cellular phagocytosis. Moreover, by using the specific inhibitors, we found that the scavenger receptors (SR) and caspase-9 were actively involved in the apoptosis induced by the aci- and tau-MWCNTs. The taurine functionalized MWCNTs (tau-MWCNTs) showed less cytotoxicity and apoptotic effect to RAW 264.7 cells than those of aci-MWCNTs. Taken together, the results indicated the important role of scavenger receptors and mitochondria in the apoptosis induced by MWCNTs.
Lung tumor susceptibility in inbred mouse strains is caused by the susceptibility allele at the pulmonary adenoma susceptibility 1 (Pas1(s)) locus. However, after urethane treatment, most strains carrying the Pas1(s) allele show an intermediate (1-4 tumors/mouse) instead of a highly susceptible (15-30 tumors/mouse) lung tumor phenotype. To test the hypothesis that strains displaying the intermediate lung tumor phenotype carry dominant or codominant resistance alleles at pulmonary adenoma resistance (Par) loci, we crossed mice of intermediate susceptibility or resistance to lung tumorigenesis with the highly susceptible A/J strain. Eleven F(1) hybrids were treated with urethane to induce lung tumorigenesis. The A/J strain developed 35.3 tumors/mouse, while its F(1) hybrid with C57BL/6J mice (null allele at Par loci) developed 22.8 tumors/mouse due to the Pas1 allele dosage effect. F(1) hybrids of strains 129/SvJ, CBA/J, ST/J and LP/J (Pas1(s)) and of SPW, DBA/2J and C57L/J (Pas1(r)) mice showed significant reduction in lung tumor multiplicity (i.e., 0.3-12.8 tumors/mouse) compared to A/J and (A/J x C57BL/6J)F(1) mice. These results indicate that resistance alleles at Par loci are common in inbred mouse strains and account for the lung tumorigenesis intermediate phenotype of strains carrying the Pas1(s) allele.
The acute pharmacological effects of melatonin (5-methoxy-N-acetyl-tryptamine) were evaluated on behaviour and electrographic signs in the photosensitive baboon (Papio papio), including visually evoked potentials VEPs). Doses of 5 and 10 mg/kg i.v. had little effect, contrasting with the enhancement of spontaneous paroxysmal activity and latency of clinical signs elicited by intermittent light stimulation (ILS) produced by the 20 and 50 mg/kg doses. Moreover, a modification of the electrographic pattern of discharge during ILS-induced myoclonic responses was observed. These observations indicate a slight decrease of light sensitivity after melatonin. Only frontal VEPs were modified, with increase in amplitude of their late components for all doses tested. These effects lasted for 2-4 h. The participation of serotoninergic mechanisms involved in melatonin effect and in this model of experimental epilepsy are discussed.
Mutations in Sco2, a protein involved in copper trafficking to the terminal enzyme of the respiratory chain, cytochrome c oxidase, results in infantile hypertrophic cardioencephalomyopathy. We have recently shown that copper-histidine (Cu-his) supplementation of Sco2-deficient myoblasts rescues COX activity in vitro. Here, we report a patient with SCO 2 mutations and with resolution of severe hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Weighing up the evidence, the most likely explanation for the improved cardiac function in this patient was the subcutaneous application of Cu-his.
This study was performed to investigate the ameliorative role of p-coumaric acid against sodium arsenite-induced cardiotoxicity in rats. Sodium arsenite (5 mg/kg/b.wt) was orally administered once a day for 30 days to the animals to induce cardiotoxicity. After the experimental period, cardiotoxicity was assessed by estimating the levels of lipid peroxidation, anti-oxidant status (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione S-transferase, glutathione reductase, total reduced glutathione, protein sulfyhydryl and non-protein sulfhydryl groups) and DNA fragmentation in the cardiac tissue of control and experimental rats. In addition, cardiac tissue specific serum markers (triacylglycerides, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and high density lipoprotein cholesterol) in serum and histopathological changes in the cardiac tissue were also evaluated. From the results obtained in our study, sodium arsenite administration to the rats increased lipid peroxidation, DNA fragmentation, triacylglycerides, total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, whereas antioxidant status and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were found to be reduced. However, p-coumaric acid (75 and100 mg/kg/b.wt) treatment orally once per day for 30 days, immediately before a daily administration of sodium arsenite protected the abnormal biochemical abnormalities observed in the cardiac tissue of sodium arsenite treated rats as evidenced by the cardiac histopathology. For comparison purpose, a standard antioxidant vitamin C (100 mg/kg/b.wt) was used. In conclusion, this study concluded that p-coumaric acid could be a promising candidate for protecting the sodium arsenite-induced cardiotoxicity in rats through its antioxidant character.
To compare blood pressure control during 7 days of drug omission in patients taking bendroflumethiazide 2.5 mg, nifedipine LA 30 mg or enalapril 20 mg once daily and, secondarily, to measure patient compliance.
Twenty-four patients with hypertension were assigned, in a random crossover fashion, to a sequence of bendroflumethiazide, nifedipine LA and enalapril, each for 4 weeks, followed by a 1-week period of dose omission. The patients measured their own blood pressure daily using an Omron 705CP monitor. Differences in blood pressure from baseline (mean blood pressure during week 4 on treatment) and the week of dose omission were compared between the three drugs. Patient compliance was measured using pill counts and the Medication Event Monitoring System.
Bendroflumethiazide maintained blood pressure control during drug omission for longer than enalapril or nifedipine LA. The magnitudes of the increase in systolic blood pressure (SBP) between baseline and day 7 off treatment were 7.0, 12.2 and 9.7 mmHg for bendroflumethiazide, nifedipine LA and enalapril, respectively. For diastolic blood pressure (DBP), the values were 2.9, 5.3 and 7.3 mmHg for bendroflumethiazide, nifedipine LA and enalapril, respectively. Differences in SBP between bendroflumethiazide and the comparator drugs occurred at day 2 off treatment. Differences in DBP between bendroflumethiazide and nifedipine were apparent on days 2 and 3 off treatment. Differences in DBP between bendroflumethiazide and enalapril were apparent on days 2, 3, 4 and 5 off treatment. Patient compliance throughout the study was high in terms of both taking the medication when required and omitting the medication when required.
Bendroflumethiazide maintained blood pressure control during a period of drug omission better than nifedipine or enalapril.
