Hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy is used in the treatment of certain selected hepatic tumors, especially metastatic adenocarcinoma of the colon. Chemical cholecystitis has been recognized recently as a complication of hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy. We performed hepatobiliary scans on ten patients receiving hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy. All ten patients had abnormal hepatobiliary scintigraphy. We present case reports of three patients with abnormal hepatobiliary scans who have required cholecystectomy for symptoms of chemical cholecystitis to illustrate the clinical, scintigraphic, and pathologic findings in these patients.
Wnt5a is overexpressed during the progression of human non-small cell lung cancer. However, the roles of Wnt5a during smoking-related lung carcinogenesis have not been clearly elucidated. We investigated the associations between Wnt5a and the early development of cigarette smoke related lung cancer using human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells (NHBE, BEAS-2B, 1799, 1198 and 1170I) at different malignant stages established by exposure to cigarette smoke condensate (CSC). Abnormal up-regulation of Wnt5a mRNA and proteins was detected in CSC-exposed transformed 1198 and tumorigenic 1170I cells as compared with other non-CSC exposed HBE cells. Tumor tissues obtained from smokers showed higher Wnt5a expressions than matched normal tissues. In non-CSC exposed 1799 cells, treatment of recombinant Wnt5a caused the activations of PKC and Akt, and the blockage of Wnt5a and PKC significantly decreased the viabilities of CSC-transformed 1198 cells expressing high levels of Wnt5a. This reduced cell survival rate was associated with increased apoptosis via the down-regulation of Bcl2 and the induction of cleaved poly ADP-ribose polymerase. Moreover, CSC-treated 1799 cells showed induction of Wnt5a expression and enhanced colony-forming capacity. The CSC-induced colony forming efficiency was suppressed by the co-incubation with a PKC inhibitor. In conclusion, these results suggest that cigarette smoke induces Wnt5a-coupled PKC activity during lung carcinogenesis, which causes Akt activity and anti-apoptosis in lung cancer. Therefore, current study provides novel clues for the crucial role of Wnt5a in the smoking-related lung carcinogenesis.
To evaluate the effect of hyperprolactinemia induced by metoclopramide on the endometrium and myometrium of female mice in the proestrus phase.
24 female mice were randomly divided in two groups: CtrG/control and ExpG/treated with metoclopramide (6.7 mg/g daily). After 50 days, the animals were sacrificed in the proestrus phase, and the blood was collected to determine the levels of estradiol, progesterone and prolactin. The uterine horns were removed, fixed in 10% formaldehyde and processed before being included in paraffin. Slices of 4 microm were stained by hematoxylin and eosin (H/E). In the morphological analysis, a Carl Zeiss light microscope, with objectives varying from 4 to 400 X was used for each histological slice characterization. In the morphometrical analysis, the superficial epithelium, the lamina propria and the myometrium thickness were evaluated, with the help of an image analyzer (AxionVision - Carl Zeiss) attached to the light microscope (Carl Zeiss). The statistical analysis was done by ANOVA, followed by the Wilcoxon test. P-value was considered as significant, when <0.05.
Our findings have shown an increase in the seric levels of prolactin (295.6+/-38.0 ng/mL) and significant decrease in the progesterone levels (11.3+/-0.9 ng/mL) in the ExpG, as compared to the CtrG (45.5+/-5.2 ng/mL and 18.2+/-1.6 ng/mL, respectively; p<0.001). Concerning the seric level of estradiol, significant differences between the groups were not obtained (ExpG=119.1+/-12.3 pg/mL and CtrG=122.7+/-8.4 pg/mL; p=0.418). The morphological study has shown that the uterus from the ExpG presented the endometrium with more developed superficial epithelium and lamina propria, as compared to the CtrG, the same happening with the myometrium. The thickness morphometrical values of the luminal epithelium (8.0+/-1.1 microm) and endometrium (116.2+/-21.1x10(2) microm) from the CtrG were lower than the ones from the ExpG (10.2+/-0.8 microm and 163.2+/-23.3x10(2) microm, respectively) with p<0.05. Nevertheless, data obtained in the myometrium have not shown significant differences between the groups (CtrG=152.2+/-25.2x10(2) microm and ExpG=140.8+/-18.0x10(2) microm).
Data have shown that hyperprolactinemia induced by metoclopramide determines endometrial proliferation and interferes with the ovarian function, mainly in the progesterone production.
Amiodarone was administered to 80 patients with recurrent cardiac tachyarrhythmias previously resistant to drug treatment. Forty nine patients were treated for ventricular tachycardia or fibrillation and 31 for supra-ventricular arrhythmias. The mean (range six days to 51 months), permitting a total of 100 patient years of observation. Adverse reactions were observed in 69 patients. Severe side effects were encountered in 13: four patients developed interstitial pneumonitis, four patients developed incessant ventricular tachycardia, three patients taking amiodarone and digoxin sustained sinus node arrest with depression of escape foci, one patient developed hepatitis, and one patient developed hypercalcaemia with renal failure. Furthermore, a rise in the serum concentration of digoxin and potentiation of warfarin anticoagulation occurred in cases in which these agents were combined with amiodarone. Amiodarone was stopped in 14 patients because of side effects. Although amiodarone is effective in suppressing arrhythmias in most patients in whom extensive use of antiarrhythmic drugs has been unsuccessful, it is associated with diverse and serious toxicity. These observations suggest that at present the use of amiodarone should be reserved for patients with life threatening or seriously disabling arrhythmias in whom longer established drugs have been ineffective or are contraindicated.
We have previously demonstrated the vasorelaxant activity of 1,3,4-oxadiazole derivative (NOX-1) through L-type Ca2+ channel blockage. In the present study, we investigated whether the correction of endothelial dysfunction is dependent on the normalization of high blood pressure levels by 1,3,4-oxadiazole derivative (NOX-1) in deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA-salt) and N(G)-nitro-l-arginine (L-NNA) hypertensive rats. In DOCA-salt and L-NNA hypertensive rats, the mean systolic blood pressure (MSBB) was 185.3+/-4.7 and 170.2+/-4.1 mmHg, whereas after administration of NOX-1 to hypertensive rats, MSBB was 127.8+/-4.5 and 120.2+/-5.1 mmHg, respectively. To study the endothelial dysfunction, concentration-response curves of norepinephrine (NE) and acetylcholine (Ach) were constructed in rat aortic rings isolated from normotensive, hypertensive (DOCA and L-NNA) and NOX-1 treated rats. NE-induced contractions and Ach-induced relaxations were significantly (p<0.05) decreased and increased, respectively in the aorta of NOX-1 treated rats. Vasorelaxant activity of NOX-1 was not abolished by pretreatment of aortic rings with L-NNA, 1H-[1,2,4] oxadiazolo [4,3-A] quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), indomethacin or glibenclamide. The results suggest that the endothelial dysfunction can be corrected by the L-type Ca2+ channel blocker with endothelium-independent action and that is dependent on the normalization of high blood pressure levels. The antihypertensive and vasorelaxant effects of NOX-1 are mainly endothelial-independent and it can be used to treat hypertension, a state associated with endothelial dysfunction.
Morin--a bioflavonoid is a naturally available dietary agent believed to impede cancer promotion and progression. The present study was conducted to decipher, in vivo, the role of morin on the expression of matrix metalloproteinases, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB)-p65 during diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in Wistar albino rats. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis revealed that administration of DEN (200 mg/kg bodyweight in drinking water) to experimental animals caused inflammation of the liver due to up-regulation of NF-kappaB-p65 and COX-2. RT-PCR and immunoblot analysis also revealed that the oral supplementation of morin (500 ppm in diet) to DEN-induced hepatocellular carcinoma rats down-regulated the expression of COX-2 and NF-kappaB-p65, thereby preventing inflammation and angiogenesis mediated hepatocellular carcinogenesis. Further, immunohistological analysis for NF-kappaB-p65 nuclear localization confirms the above observations. Gelatin zymography was performed for matrix metalloproteinase MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression to confirm their role in angiogenesis in DEN induced hepatocellular carcinoma and its modulation by morin. Both MMP-2 and MMP-9 levels were found to be increased in DEN-induced animals when compared to control. MMP-2 and MMP-9 levels were down-regulated in morin post-treated animals when compared to DEN-induced animals favouring prevention of angiogenesis. In conclusion, our findings indicate that morin possessed anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties favouring suppression of DEN-induced hepatocellular carcinoma.
1. In the present study, the effect of taurine, on cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced urinary bladder toxicity was investigated. 2. Administration of a single dose of CP (150 mg/kg, i.p.) induced cystitis, as manifested by marked congestion, oedema and extravasation in rat urinary bladder, as well as a marked desquamative damage to the urothium, severe inflammation in the lamina propria, focal erosions and polymorphonuclear leucocytes associated with occasional lymphocyte infiltration as determined by macroscopic and histopathological examination. 3. A significant decrease in the endogenous anti-oxidant compound glutathione and elevation of lipid peroxidation also resulted in rat urinary bladder tissue. 4. Cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis markedly affected the contractile function of the urinary bladder, as revealed by a significant inhibition of tissue responsiveness to acetylcholine (ACh) at different molar concentrations in vitro. 5. Conversely, pretreatment with taurine (1% in drinking water to reach a dose of 1 g/kg per day) for 7 days before and 1 day after CP injection produced a significant decrease in urinary bladder weight (oedema) and a marked decrease in vascular congestion and haemorrhage, as well as a profound improvement in histological structure. Moreover, taurine pretreatment resulted in a significant decrease in lipid peroxide in urinary bladder tissue and glutathione content was greatly restored. 6. Urinary bladder rings isolated from rats treated concurrently with taurine and CP showed a significant increase in their responsiveness to ACh compared with the CP group. 7. These results suggest that taurine offers a protective effect against CP-induced urinary bladder toxicity and may, therefore, decrease the limitation on its clinical application. These results merit extension and further investigation of the impact of taurine on CP antitumour activity.
The main pathogens of inflammatory diseases of the kidneys and upper urinary tracts in inpatients of an urological unit were gramnegative organisms of the family Enterobacteriaceae while the pathogens of the infection of the lower urinary tracts (nonspecific urethritis) and male genitalia were grampositive cocci. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Enterobacter agglomerans and Proteus spp. (indole positive) were the chief causative agents of the hospital infections. The analysis of the materials revealed a tendency towards an increase in the microflora resistance to the most widely used antibiotics: aminoglycosides, cephalosporins and fluoroquinolones. This especially applied to the "problem" pathogen P.aeruginosa. Thus, in 1987 the portion of the P.aeruginosa gentamicin susceptible strains amounted to 52 per cent whereas in 1996 it was 13 per cent. The strains susceptible to ofloxacin equaled 79 per cent in 1988 and 44 per cent in 1995. At present the drugs of choice in the treatment of urinary tract infections due to P.aeruginosa are ceftazidime, cefpirome and amikacin (65, 64 and 62 per cent of the susceptible strains respectively). The importance of permanent microbiological monitoring and the respective correction of the therapy are indicated.
We have previously reported that troglitazone, a synthetic ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), and bitter gourd seed oil rich in 9cis,11trans,13trans-conjugated linolenic acid (9c,11t,13t-CLN) prevent colon carcinogenesis. To evaluate the chemotherapeutic effect and potency of these compounds on colon cancer cells, we investigated their antiproliferative and apoptosis-inducing effects using different human colon cancer cell lines.
The antiproliferative and apoptosis-inducing effects of troglitazone and 9c,11t,13t-CLN were evaluated and compared using HT-29, DLD-1 and Caco-2 cells at different stages of enterocytic differentiation.
Troglitazone and 9c,11t,13t-CLN decreased cell viability and induced apoptosis in three colon cancer cell lines. The susceptibility of HT-29, which expresses PPARgamma at high levels, to troglitazone and 9c,11t,13t-CLN was higher than that of Caco-2 cells with low levels of PPARgamma.
Troglitazone and 9c,11t,13t-CLN exhibited more effective chemotherapeutic effects on HT-29 cells than on Caco-2 cells.
Bromantan [N-2-(para-(bromphenyl)-N-2-(aminoadamantan)] possesses psychostimulating activity in experiments on animals. With LD50 8100 mg/kg (mice, intraperitoneal injection) activates simple and complicated forms of behavior, induces EEG effects typical of psychostimulators, is an antagonist of substances with a deprivationg neuropsychotropic effect. Bromantan is characterized by a positive effect on mnemonic processes and on obtaining the results of complex operant activity in rats.
The bioactive constituents isolated from the bark of Magnolia officinalis such as magnolol, honokiol and obovatol have anti-inflammatory properties through the inactivation of NF-kappaB which is an important factor in the regulation of inflammatory reaction. We recently isolated neolignan compound, 4-O-methylhonokiol, from M. officinalis. In the present study, we investigated whether or not 4-O-methylhonokiol inhibits inflammatory reaction through the inhibition of NF-B activity [corrected]. The results showed that 4-O-methylhonokiol (2.5-10 microM) inhibited LPS (1 microg/ml)-induced NO generation in macrophage Raw 264.7 cells in a concentration-dependent manner with IC(50) value 9.8 microM. The inhibition of NO generation by 4-O-methylhonokiol was consistent with the inhibitory effect on the expression as well as transcriptional activity of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). In addition, 4-O-methylhonokiol inhibited the LPS-induced transcriptional and DNA binding activities of NF-kappaB as well as p50 and p65 translocation into the nucleus. Topical application of 4-O-methylhonokiol (0.1-1 mg/ear) inhibited 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced inflammatory ear edema formation, NF-kappaB activity, and iNOS and COX-2 expression. The present results provided evidence that 4-O-methylhonokiol has anti-inflammatory properties through inhibition of the NF-kappaB pathway, and suggested that 4-O-methylhonokiol can be used as an anti-inflammatory agent.
Previously described neurologic damage induced by immunosuppressive treatments includes transient or reversible central nervous system involvement. We describe a 57-year-old man who underwent liver transplantation and was started on immunosuppressive therapy with tacrolimus (FK506). Six months later, he started complaining of a progressive motor and sensory impairment of the left side, together with cognitive impairment. Brain MRI showed an enlarging lesion of the white matter with peripheral contrast enhancement. PET study indicated severe hypometabolism in the right hemisphere and spectroscopic MRI showed a peak of choline and relative reduction of other metabolites. Findings of CSF examinations and cultures, serology, and molecular techniques were normal. Tacrolimus treatment was stopped. A cerebral biopsy of the lesion showed a sub acute necrotizing process. In the following months, cognitive status of the patient tended to improve although he remained hemiplegic, while serial MRI confirmed the tendency to the recovery of the lesion that was still present 1 year after. The present observation describes a progressive encephalopathy associated with immune suppression with an unusual feature and permanent brain damage.
We analyzed the imaging features of transient focal lesions in the splenium of the corpus callosum (SCC) in non-epileptic patients receiving antiepileptic drugs (AEDs).
We identified signal abnormalities in the SCC in three non-epileptic patients, all of them receiving AEDs. We examined two of these patients with multiplanar magnetic resonance (MR) imaging using 1.0-T equipment including fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR), T2-weighted (TSE) and T1-weighted (SE) sequences before and after injection of contrast agent. The third patient was studied using 1.5-T equipment with the same sequences. Additionally, a T1 SE sequence with a magnetization transfer contrast pulse off resonance (T1 SE/MTC), diffusion-weighted imaging (EPI-DWI) and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps were obtained.
We observed an identical pattern of imaging abnormalities in all patients characterized by round lesions, hyperintense on FLAIR and hypointense on T1 SE images, located in the central portion of the SCC. One lesion showed homogeneous gadolinium enhancement and perilesional vasogenic edema. This particular lesion showed restricted diffusion confirmed on the ADC map. This pattern was considered consistent with focal demyelination. Follow-up MR examinations showed complete disappearance or a clear reduction in lesion size. All patients had been treated with AEDs, but they did not show any clinical signs of toxicity, interhemispheric symptoms, or abnormal neurological findings (including seizures).
We believe that our MR findings might be interpreted as transient lesions related to AED toxicity. They presumably resulted from focal demyelination in the central portion of the SCC.
Cardiovascular hypertrophy is a common feature of hypertension, but it is not known if this is related only to increased blood pressure or also to non-hemodynamic factors. Indeed, drug treatment of hypertension with hydralazine does reduce blood pressure but not cardiovascular hypertrophy. We used Stroke-prone rats (SHRSP) who are sensitive to salt load in order to better characterize the action of an antihypertensive agent on salt-dependent vascular hypertrophy and change in reactivity of calcium channels. SHRSP were submitted to salt load from 8 to 14 weeks of age with or without lacidipine, a long acting dihydropyridine. We observed that the cardiovascular hypertrophy was attenuated by lacidipine 0.3 mgkg-1 day-1 which did not change high blood pressure. The action of 1 mgkg-1 day-1 was higher on hypertrophy but, in addition, it reduced blood pressure. The salt-related increase in vascular responsiveness to the calcium channel activator Bay K 8644 was blunted by lacidipine treatment in both basilar and mesenteric arteries. By contrast with basilar artery, in mesenteric artery, this increased responsiveness was insensitive to bosentan, an endothelin antagonist but could be related to smooth muscle cell depolarization inhibited by lacidipine treatment. The present results confirm that lacidipine has blood pressure-independent effect on tissue remodeling in hypertension. They show that vascular response to salt is heterogeneous among vessels but is equally sensitive to lacidipine.
The objective of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of long-acting preparations of two commonly used calcium antagonists with particular reference to their effects on heart rate. Twenty patients with chronic stable angina were recruited to a double-blind, double-dummy crossover study of controlled-release diltiazem (diltiazem CR) versus sustained-release nifedipine (nifedipine SR) and underwent clinical assessment, symptom and adverse event reporting, and repeated treadmill exercise tests over a 10- to 11-week period. The main outcome measures were heart rate at rest and exercise, incidence of angina and nitroglycerin use, treadmill exercise performance (duration, time to angina, time to 1-mm ST-segment depression, heart rate at equivalent maximal exercise, and maximal ST-segment depression), and adverse events. Diltiazem CR significantly reduced heart rate at rest and equivalent exercise and incidence of angina and nitroglycerin use compared with nifedipine SR. Exercise duration time to angina and time to 1-mm ST-segment depression (but not maximal ST-segment depression) were all significantly improved by diltiazem CR. Diltiazem CR also caused significantly fewer adverse events than nifedipine SR. Calcium antagonists with negative chronotropic effects (eg, diltiazem CR) are safer and more efficacious as monotherapy in chronic stable angina than dihydropyridines (eg, nifedipine SR) even when a long-acting formulation of the latter is used.
Recent studies indicated pulse pressure as a risk factor for left ventricular hypertrophy, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure and stroke as well as chronic renal failure progression. The present study examined the effects of carvedilol and its combination with captopril on blood pressure, left ventricular hypertrophy, kidney vascular changes and kidney function in spontaneously hypertensive rats with adriamycin nephropathy. Four groups of 20 SHR each were involved: (1) control group: SHR; (2) ADR group: SHR treated with ADR (2mg/kg i.v. twice in 20 days); (3) ADR-C group: SHR treated with ADR and carvedilol (30 mg/kg/day) and (4) ADR-CC group: SHR treated with ADR and carvedilol (30 mg/kg/day) and captopril (60 mg/kg/day). Systolic-, diastolic- and mean-pressures and pulse pressure were determined at weeks 6 and 12 after the second ADR injection; and body weight, creatinine clearance and proteinuria at weeks -3, 6 and 12. The rats were sacrificed at week 6 or 12, the weights of the left and right ventricles and kidneys measured and the kidney vascular index was calculated as described by Bader and Mayer. Both carvedilol alone and combined with captopril significantly reduced systemic blood pressure but the effect of the latter was more pronounced and registered from week 4 till the end of the study. Carvedilol and its combination with captopril significantly decreased SBP, DBP and MAP. They also decreased PP, prevented the development of LVH, and renal vascular changes and slowed the progression of chronic renal failure and these effects were stronger in the ADR-CC group than in the ADR-C group. The antihypertensive drugs failed to prevent proteinuria in ADR SHR. Significant positive correlations were found between PP (but not SBP, DBP and MAP) and both proteinuria and Ccr in all groups of rats. In conclusion, carvedilol alone, but more strongly in combination with captopril, significantly reduced blood pressure, PP, LVH, renal blood vessel changes and chronic renal failure progression.
Two children with Wilms tumor of the left kidney experienced severe anthracycline cardiomyopathy after irradiation to the tumor bed and conventional dosage of doxorubicin. The cardiomyopathy is attributed 1) to the fact that radiation fields for left Wilms tumor include the lower portion of the heart and 2) to the interaction of doxorubicin and irradiation on cardiac muscle. It is recommended that doxorubicin dosage be sharply restricted in children with Wilms tumor of the left kidney who receive postoperative irradiation.
Normally, cerebral blood flow (CBF) is quantitatively coupled to cerebral metabolic rate like other tissues and maintained basically by altering vascular geometry and appropriate perfusion pressure. However, the rheological properties of the blood are important factors for effective tissue perfusion. Although a lot of studies have reported that hemorheological parameters are affected by a wide range of pathophysiological conditions, to our knowledge no research related to the effects of epileptic seizures on hemorheological parameters has been carried out. Thus, the aim of this study was to explore possible changes in rheological parameters including red blood cell (RBC) deformability, rigidity and aggregation, whole blood and plasma viscosity during epileptic seizures induced by penicillin G in rats. Eighteen female albino rats were divided into three groups that included sham operated controls (Group S), epileptic group (Group E), intraperitoneal penicillin group (Group IPP). Epilepsy was induced by intracortical injections of penicillin G. Hemorheological studies had been carried out 3 h after the induction of epilepsy. Among the studied hemorheological parameters, only RBC deformability was found to be different in the E group compared to S group. Epileptic seizures led to an increase in RBC deformability in the E group. In conclusion, these results suggest that in addition to an increase in CBF, RBC deformability may also improve to better match brain metabolic demands during seizures.
Accumulation of mesangial matrix is a pivotal event in the pathophysiology of diabetic nephropathy. The molecular triggers for matrix production are still being defined. Here, suppression subtractive hybridization identified 15 genes differentially induced when primary human mesangial cells are exposed to high glucose (30 mM versus 5 mM) in vitro. These genes included (a) known regulators of mesangial cell activation in diabetic nephropathy (fibronectin, caldesmon, thrombospondin, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1), (b) novel genes, and (c) known genes whose induction by high glucose has not been reported. Prominent among the latter were genes encoding cytoskeleton-associated proteins and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), a modulator of fibroblast matrix production. In parallel experiments, elevated CTGF mRNA levels were demonstrated in glomeruli of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy. Mannitol provoked less mesangial cell CTGF expression in vitro than high glucose, excluding hyperosmolality as the key stimulus. The addition of recombinant CTGF to cultured mesangial cells enhanced expression of extracellular matrix proteins. High glucose stimulated expression of transforming growth factor beta1 (TGF-beta1), and addition of TGF-beta1 to mesangial cells triggered CTGF expression. CTGF expression induced by high glucose was partially suppressed by anti-TGF-beta1 antibody and by the protein kinase C inhibitor GF 109203X. Together, these data suggest that 1) high glucose stimulates mesangial CTGF expression by TGFbeta1-dependent and protein kinase C dependent pathways, and 2) CTGF may be a mediator of TGFbeta1-driven matrix production within a diabetic milieu.
The hypothesis that valproic acid-induced dysmorphogenesis may be due to an interference of this drug with folate metabolic pathways was further investigated by a study of a possible interaction of valproic acid (VPA) and the established folate antagonist methotrexate (MTX). The dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor MTX (1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) was injected 15 min prior to VPA (300 and 400 mg/kg, s.c.) in day 8 pregnant NMRI mice. Fetuses were examined for exencephaly, resorption, and fetal weight retardation on day 18 of gestation. MTX produced no exencephaly or reduction in fetal weight, and the 2.5-mg/kg dose caused 56% resorption. Higher doses (5-20 mg/kg) produced embryolethality and fetal weight retardation, but no exencephaly. VPA (300 and 400 mg/kg) administration resulted in 3.4% and 12.6% exencephaly and 9% and 19% resorptions, respectively. Coadministration of MTX with VPA significantly increased VPA-induced resorption and exencephaly rates as well as fetal weight retardation. Exencephaly induced by VPA 400 mg/kg was increased to 29.5% and 24.1% (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05) when given with 1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg MTX, respectively. MTX (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) did not alter transplacental VPA (400 mg/kg, s.c.) pharmacokinetics. These results support the view that VPA-induced teratogenesis may be mediated by interaction with folate metabolism.
An unexplained hypertensive response during the induction of anaesthesia for phaeochromocytoma resection is described. This response was not accompanied by elevations in plasma catecholamine levels. It occurred despite heavy premedication and followed induction with etomidate, alfentanil, lignocaine, vecuronium and magnesium sulphate (MgSO4). A bolus of esmolol (0.5 mg/kg) lowered the blood pressure rapidly. Subsequent haemodynamic manipulations were carried out by varying the rate of an esmolol infusion. A constant background infusion of MgSO4 was maintained throughout the procedure. These produced satisfactory haemodynamic control despite marked rises in plasma catecholamine levels.
Progesterone in hormone replacement therapy (HRT) preparations increases, while hysterectomy greatly reduces, the incidence of breast cancer. Cross-talk between the progesterone and growth factor signaling pathways occurs at multiple levels and this maybe a key factor in breast cancer survival and progression. To test this hypothesis, we characterized the effect of progesterone pre-treatment on the sensitization of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) signaling pathway to EGF in the breast cancer cell line ZR-75. For the first time in ZR-75 cells and in agreement with previous work using synthetic progestins, we demonstrate that pre-treatment with the natural ligand progesterone increases EGF receptor (EGFR) levels and subsequent ligand-dependent phosphorylation. Downstream we demonstrate that progesterone alone increases erk-1 + 2 phosphorylation, potentiates EGF-phosphorylated erk-1 + 2 and maintains these levels elevated for 24 h; over 20 h longer than in vehicle treated cells. Additionally, progesterone increased the levels of STAT5, another component of the EGF signaling cascade. Progesterone increased EGF mediated transcription of a c-fos promoter reporter and the nuclear localization of the native c-fos protein. Furthermore, progesterone and EGF both alone and in combination, significantly increase cell proliferation. Several results presented herein demonstrate the conformity between the action of the natural ligand progesterone with that of synthetic progestins such as MPA and R5020 and allows the postulation that the progestin/progesterone-dependent increase of EGF signaling provides a survival advantage to burgeoning cancer cells and may contribute to the breast cancer risk associated with endogenous progesterone and with progestin-containing HRT.
Chronic treatment of BALB and GRS mice with BHT (2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-methylphenol) following a single urethane injection increases lung tumor multiplicity, but this does not occur in CXB4 mice. Previous data suggest that promotion requires the conversion of BHT to a tert-butyl-hydroxylated metabolite (BHTOH) in lung and the subsequent oxidation of this species to an electrophilic quinone methide. To obtain additional evidence for the importance of quinone methide formation, structural analogs that form less reactive quinone methides were tested and found to lack promoting activity in BHT-responsive mice. The possibility that promotion-unresponsive strains are unable to form BHTOH was tested by substituting this compound for BHT in the promotion protocol using CXB4 mice. No promotion occurred, and in-vitro work demonstrated that CXB4 mice are, in fact, capable of producing BHTOH and its quinone methide, albeit in smaller quantities. Incubations with BALB lung microsomes and radiolabeled substrates confirmed that more covalent binding to protein occurs with BHTOH than with BHT and, in addition, BHTOH quinone methide is considerably more toxic to mouse lung epithelial cells than BHT quinone methide. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that a two-step oxidation process, i.e. hydroxylation and quinone methide formation, is required for the promotion of mouse lung tumors by BHT.
Increased cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) has associated with the development of L-dopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). To explore the mechanisms underlying the action of Cdk5 in the development of LID, we examined the impact of treatment with Cdk5 inhibitor, roscovitine, on the severity of LID in a rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD) induced by 6-OHDA. The expressions of Cdk5 and phosphorylation of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) in the striatum of LID rats were determined by Western blotting. The result showed that the induction of LID upregulated the expression of Cdk5 and phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr34. Roscovitine inhibited apomorphine-stimulated rotations in PD rats and enhanced L-dopa-induced abnormal involuntary movement (AIM), but downregulated the expression of Cdk5 in LID rats. These findings suggest that up-regulated expression of Cdk5 may compensate the high levels of phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at Thr34 in LID rats. Therefore, modulation of Cdk5 for therapy of human PD should be carefully reconsidered.
4-bromo-2,5-dimethoxyphenethylamine (2C-B) is a designer-drug variant of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (ecstasy) whose recreational use has increased significantly over the last 10 years. Neurologic consequences of 2C-B usage are currently unknown.
A 43-year-old woman experienced severe headaches within 48 hours of taking liquid 2C-B, after which time she developed progressive encephalopathy and quadraparesis, which did not improve over several months. MRA and cerebral angiogram imaging demonstrated profound vascular abnormalities of large, medium, and small-caliber vessels with subsequent watershed infarction. Brain biopsy and cerebrospinal fluid studies ruled out an inflammatory process.
This case demonstrates an idiosyncratic and devastating neurologic response to 2C-B, a recreational drug whose popularity has increased with widespread availability of online guides for its synthesis.
