Ocular injuries following sulfur mustard (HD) exposure are characterized by an inflammatory response, observed as eyelid swelling, conjunctivitis, corneal oedema and cellular infiltration starting 1-4 h after exposure, depending on dose. These effects heal partially during the first 1-2 weeks after exposure, with the later appearance of neovascularization, recurrent erosions and recurrent oedema of the cornea (delayed response). We have shown previously that topically applied steroid treatment, administered after HD exposure, attenuated the extent of neovascularization, one of the characteristics of delayed ocular pathology in rabbits. The present study was designed to characterize further the initial inflammatory response and to elucidate the role of anti-inflammatory (AI) drugs as a potential therapy. Rabbit eyes were exposed to HD vapour (390 microg l(-1) for 2 min) and were treated with a topical commercial ophthalmic solution of dexamethasone or diclofenac, starting 1 h post-exposure (four times a day). Inflammation was evaluated by clinical observations, biochemical analysis of aqueous humour and by histology. Sulfur mustard exposure initiated typical clinical ocular symptoms within 4-6 h after exposure. Biochemical analysis of aqueous humour showed that protein content and prostaglandin E (PGE) increased significantly at 6 h and were still high 48 h after HD exposure. Light microscopy evaluation revealed severe damage to the cornea, characterized by epithelial denudation, oedema and cellular infiltration (mostly eosinophiles) in the stroma. Both treatments were effective in alleviating the clinical symptoms and in preventing the HD-induced increase in protein and PGE in the anterior chamber, as well as the cellular infiltration, in the corneal stroma. However, the AI treatments had no therapeutic effect on corneal erosions, and a short delay in epithelial regeneration was noted. It is concluded that AI drugs are potential candidates for the treatment of ocular lesions following HD exposure.
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) are associated with over 200 medicines including lamotrigine, an antiepileptic drug. Previous studies have suggested the involvement of immune mechanisms in the development of drug-induced SCARs.
High-resolution HLA genotyping was performed for 65 patients of European ancestry treated with lamotrigine (22 cases with lamotrigine-induced SCARs and 43 controls on lamotrigine without SCAR-related symptoms). Association of HLA genetic variants with SCARs in these patients were evaluated by contrasting allele frequencies between the cases and the controls for each of 112 HLA four-digit alleles.
Five alleles were observed with higher frequencies in the cases compared with the treated controls with exact P values less than 0.05. These include B*5801 (P = 0.037), previously reported to be associated with allopurinol-induced SCARs. Marginal association evidence was also observed for alleles Cw*0718 and DQB1*0609, both of which were strongly correlated with B*5801. Other alleles identified were A*6801 (P = 0.012) and DRB1*1301 (P = 0.045). In contrast to the study of carbamazepine-induced Stevens-Johnson syndrome in Han Chinese patients, none of the cases carried B*1502. Accounting for the large number of hypothesis tests conducted, none of the associations identified were statistically significant.
No single major HLA-related genetic risk factor was identified for lamotrigine-induced SCARs in patients of European origin. Only suggestive evidence was obtained for B*5801, A*6801, Cw*0718, DQB1*0609, and DRB1*1301. Confirmation of these results in a larger, independent sample is needed to determine whether any of the HLA alleles identified are truly associated with the development of lamotrigine-induced SCARs.
The ELITE study showed an association between the angiotensin II antagonist losartan and an unexpected survival benefit in elderly heart-failure patients, compared with captopril, an angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitor. We did the ELITE II Losartan Heart Failure Survival Study to confirm whether losartan is superior to captopril in improving survival and is better tolerated.
We undertook a double-blind, randomised, controlled trial of 3,152 patients aged 60 years or older with New York Heart Association class II-IV heart failure and ejection fraction of 40% or less. Patients, stratified for beta-blocker use, were randomly assigned losartan (n=1,578) titrated to 50 mg once daily or captopril (n=1,574) titrated to 50 mg three times daily. The primary and secondary endpoints were all-cause mortality, and sudden death or resuscitated arrest. We assessed safety and tolerability. Analysis was by intention to treat.
Median follow-up was 555 days. There were no significant differences in all-cause mortality (11.7 vs 10.4% average annual mortality rate) or sudden death or resuscitated arrests (9.0 vs 7.3%) between the two treatment groups (hazard ratios 1.13 [95.7% CI 0.95-1.35], p=0.16 and 1.25 [95% CI 0.98-1.60], p=0.08). Significantly fewer patients in the losartan group (excluding those who died) discontinued study treatment because of adverse effects (9.7 vs 14.7%, p<0.001), including cough (0.3 vs 2.7%).
To determine the standardised mortality ratio (SMR) corresponding to different causes of death in workers from polyvinyl chloride polymerisation factories in Taiwan.
Retrospective cohort study of workers from six polyvinyl chloride polymerisation factories in Taiwan. A total of 3293 male workers who had been employed for at least one year during the period 1 January 1950 to 31 December 1992, and were alive on 1 January 1985 were included for analysis. Using data acquired from Taiwan's National Mortality Registry, it was found that 144 of these workers died during the period 1985-97. The follow up rate was 99% with a total number of person-years at risk of 40 557.
SMR for all causes of death was 0.78, indicating a possible "healthy worker" effect. The SMR for liver cancer decreased with increasing age of first exposure to vinyl chloride monomer. This association was more prominent for workers who were first employed in the industry prior to 1970 (SMR 4.82). Medical records indicated that most liver cancers in this study were hepatocellular carcinoma.
Polyvinyl chloride workers may experience a higher risk of developing liver cancer, particularly hepatocelluar carcinoma.
2,3-Butanedione monoxime and atropine alone or in combination were evaluated for their ability to alleviate the toxicity and to reverse the biochemical changes induced by dichlorvos in the blood of buffalo calves. Treatment with 2,3-butanedione monoxime plus atropine 30 min after oral administration of dichlorvos (160 mg/kg) eliminated the apparent toxic signs within 10-15 min, completely prevented lethality, and reversed the dichlorvos-induced alterations in the concentrations of serum carboxylesterase, total plasma proteins, blood glucose and plasma cholinesterase within 2, 4, 12 and 168 h, respectively. Treatment with either 2,3-butanedione monoxime or atropine alone was less effective but the former was the more potent of the two in counteracting the biochemical effects of dichlorvos. These antidotal studies suggest that 2,3-butanedione monoxime in conjunction with atropine would provide effective therapy against severe dichlorvos intoxication in buffalo.
The initial association between the development of valvular heart disease and drugs stems from observations made during the use of methysergide and ergotamine for migraine prophylaxis in the 1960s. Since then, the appetite suppressants fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, the dopamine agonists pergolide and cabergoline, and more recently, the recreational drug ecstasy (3,4 methylenedioxymethamphetamine; MDMA) have been implicated. Results from clinical trials show that drug dose and treatment duration affect both the risk of developing the disease and its severity. The natural history of the disease remains unclear, although regression of valvular lesions after the end of treatment has been reported. Interference with serotonin metabolism and its associated receptors and transporter gene seems a likely mechanism for development of the drug-induced valvular heart disease. Physicians need to balance the benefits of continued therapy with these drugs against possible risks. Further investigation is needed to assist with treatment decisions. Continued vigilance is necessary because several commonly prescribed treatments interact with serotonergic pathways.
A case of torsades de pointes associated with fluconazole use is described.
A 68-year-old woman with a history of hypertension treated with 2.5 mg of indapamide for 16 months sought medical treatment after having two falls 1 month apart. A computed tomography scan and subsequent magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed a lesion in the left pons and middle cerebellar peduncle. Biopsy of the pontine lesion revealed large yeast forms and subsequently revealed Cryptococcus neoformans var. gattii. The patient was initially treated with conventional amphotericin B and flucytosine for six weeks. The first week of therapy was complicated by hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia, and an episode of atrial fibrillation that was managed with electrolyte replacement, commencement of metoprolol, and switching from conventional amphotericin B to amphotericin B lipid complex. After six weeks, liposomal amphotericin was discontinued and high-dose oral fluconazole was initiated. Six days after beginning fluconazole therapy, the patient had a generalized tonic-clonic seizure and suffered cardiopulmonary arrest. Postresuscitation, an electrocardiogram demonstrated a corrected Q-T interval of 556 msec. Recurrent episodes of torsades de pointes were also recorded postarrest. Fluconazole was discontinued at this time, and liposomal amphotericin B was resumed. Neurologic and electroencephalographic assessment conducted 48 hours postarrest revealed that significant neurologic damage had been sustained. Supportive care was withdrawn, and the patient died two days later. A postmortem examination revealed no coronary artery disease or hemorrhagic transformation of the pontine cryptococcoma.
Treatment with high-dose fluconazole was the probable cause of torsades de pointes in a patient with risk factors for this condition. The benefits and risks of using fluconazole should be carefully weighed for patients with risk factors for Q-T interval prolongation.
We report a case of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis with cirrhosis in a woman receiving tamoxifen as adjuvant treatment for breast cancer. Despite the presence of other risk factors for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (such as diabetes, obesity and hyperlipidemia), the patient developed non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and cirrhosis only after tamoxifen was started. We suggest that patients receiving tamoxifen, especially patients with predisposing metabolic disorders, should be evaluated for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, because progression to cirrhosis may occur.
Between June 1980 and September 1981 we evaluated 24 cases of endocarditis from methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. All of the cases occurred in drug addicts and all were community-acquired. The patients ranged in age from 21 to 59 years and represented an older population than that generally reported for bacterial endocarditis in addicts. Men and women were equally represented (one man presented twice). This unusually high proportion of women may reflect a difference in the rate and location of carriage of methicillin-resistant S. aureus compared with that of methicillin-sensitive staphylococci. Three patients died, one of whom had signed out of the hospital on the 14th day and returned moribund 27 days later. Vancomycin treatment for 28 days was adequate therapy for most patients.
In vivo administration of an antisense oligonucleotide targeted toward the D2 dopamine (DA) receptor mRNA (D2 AS) markedly inhibited D2 receptor-mediated behaviors but produced only a relatively small reduction in the levels of D2 DA receptors in mouse striatum. This apparent dissociation between DA receptor-mediated behaviors and the levels of D2 DA receptors was addressed by inhibiting the total number of D2 DA receptors by intraperitoneal administration of the selective, irreversibly acting D2 DA receptor antagonist fluphenazine-N-mustard (FNM) and then determining the effects of D2 AS, administered intracerebroventricularly, on the rate of synthesis of D2 DA receptors and on the recovery of D2 receptor-mediated behaviors. FNM inactivated approximately 90% of D2 DA receptors within 4 hr of treatment, after which the receptors returned to normal levels by approximately 8 days. D2 AS treatment significantly inhibited the rate of recovery of D2 DA receptors in striatum of FNM-treated mice. FNM treatment also produced a number of behavioral alterations, including catalepsy, and the inhibition of stereotypic behavior induced by the D2/D3 DA receptor agonist quinpirole. Both of these behaviors returned to normal within 8 days after FNM treatment. D2 AS treatment delayed the restoration of these FNM-induced behaviors. Thus, it reduced the rate of disappearance of the cataleptic behavior induced by FNM and significantly delayed the restoration of the stereotypic behavior induced by quinpirole. The changes induced by D2 AS on D2 receptor-mediated behaviors were reversed on cessation of D2 AS treatment. A random oligomer given in the same amount and for the same length of time as that of the D2 AS had no significant effects on either D2 DA receptor synthesis or DA receptor-mediated behaviors. These studies demonstrate that in vivo administration of D2 AS decreased the rate of recovery of D2 DA receptors and inhibited the recovery of D2 DA receptor-mediated behaviors after irreversible receptor inactivation and suggest that D2 AS treatment inhibits the synthesis of a functional pool of D2 DA receptors.
There is a small body of literature on the interactions between lithium and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), but little data documenting the differences between these agents in their impact on serum lithium levels. We present the case of a 46-year-old male who sustained a five-fold increase in his serum lithium level after switching from fosinopril to lisinopril, with a peak serum lithium level of 3.4 meq/l. There was also an increase in serum creatinine from 1.1 on fosinopril to 1.4 after switching to lisinopril. The patient was hospitalized, and intravenously hydrated with 0.5 normal saline, with a reduction of the serum lithium level to 0.7 meq/l by 72 h after admission. The hospital course was marked by two episodes of bradycardia, but was otherwise uneventful, and the patient was discharged without any neurological sequelae. This case demonstrates that ACEIs may have differential effects on renal function, and the potential for significant alterations in lithium clearance that may not be clinically evident for several weeks. Lithium-treated patients who have a change in ACEI, especially those who are older or have below average renal function, must have diligent monitoring for the first 4-6 weeks after switching to detect potentially serious changes in serum lithium levels.
We report the case of a severe relapsing phenprocoumon-induced hepatitis. The first episode of hepatitis was thought to be caused by another drug (Verapamil). The anticoagulation with Phenprocoumon was therefore continued after healing of liver inflammation. The relapse typically developed after a shorter exposition-time supporting the hypothesis of an allergic etiology. Fortunately we didn't find any cross-reaction between Phenprocoumon and Acenocoumarol. The patient could thus be anticoagulated orally without complications. If long term anticoagulation is absolutely essential, it is reasonable to prescribe a different Coumarin-derivate. In the case of a cross-reaction, the therapy should be continued with low-molecular weight heparin.
Heart failure was induced in barbital-anesthetized dogs by administering high doses of pentobarbital. This procedure depresses cardiac function as indicated by a reduction in right ventricular contractile force (RVCF), left ventricular dp/dt and aortic blood flow. Bucindolol (0.1 mg/kg and 0.1 mg/kg/hr) elicited a pronounced and prolonged stimulant effect on these depressed indicators of cardiac function. Both RVCF and aortic blood flow returned to pre-failure levels, left ventricular dp/dt increased 43% but heart rate was elevated only slightly (14%). Total peripheral resistance was lowered 36% by bucindolol. The combination of myocardial stimulation and vasodilatation which contributed to the positive results in this acute model of pump failure suggests a possible role for bucindolol in the clinical management of congestive heart failure. Further these results suggest that bucindolol, in contrast to propranolol, could also be used in a sub-group of hypertensive patients with depressed cardiac function.
The aim of the study was to evaluate aetiological factors for postoperative headache after vestibular schwannoma (VS) surgery with respect to asymmetric activation of vestibular reflexes. After surgery, 27 VS patients with persistent postoperative headache, 16 VS patients without headache and 9 healthy controls were examined. The vestibular, cervicocollic and cervicospinal reflexes were evaluated to study whether asymmetric activation of vestibular reflexes could cause headache. The effect of neck muscle and occipital nerve anaesthesia and the effect of sumatriptan on headache were also evaluated. The vestibular function of VS patients with headache did not differ from that of VS patients without headache, but was abnormal when compared to that of normal controls. The cervicospinal and cervicocollic reflexes did not differ in the patient groups. Injection of lidocaine around the operation scar gave pain relief to two patients, and one of them had occipital nerve entrapment. Infiltration of lidocaine deep in the neck muscles in the vicinity of the C2 root did not alleviate headache, but caused vertigo. Nine patients with musculogenic headache got pain relief from supportive neck collars, and two patients with cervicobrachial syndrome got pain relief from manual neck traction. The study shows that asymmetric activation of cervicocollic reflexes does not seem to be the reason for headache. Headache seems to be linked to neuropathic pain, allegedly caused by trigeminal irritation of the inner ear and the posterior fossa, which has recently been linked to vascular pain.
The administration of 1 mg estradiol every other week for 12 weeks to female rats resulted in a high incidence (about 50%) of bladder stones. Most calculi were struvite, suggesting the predisposition to urinary tract infection. Enterobacteria, staphylococcus and streptococcus were identified as infecting organisms. Metaplasia of the transitional bladder epithelium by estrogen to a stratified or pseudostratified columnar epithelium may be involved in the underlying cause of urinary tract infection.
A hospital based prospective study on drug induced diseases (DID) in children below 14 years of age was done for a duration of two years. A total number of 20,310 patients were examined in pediatric department during this period, out of which 204 (1.004%) patients were diagnosed as DID. Children with severe reactions were admitted in pediatric ward for in hospital intensive surveillance. The male:female ratio in DID was 1.2:1. DID were most common in neonates (24.51%). Erythmatous maculopapular rashes (67.12%) formed the most common pool of DID in neonates. Thrombophlebitis (41.56%) was most commonly seen in infants above 28 days of life, and in children up to 14 years of age. Out of 204 cases of DID, 9 (4.41%) died. Aplastic anemia was most morbid DID, as all the 7 patients of aplastic anemia died. Chloramphenicol was responsible for all the cases of aplastic anemia. Other two deaths were from erythma multiforme and C.C.F. The most commonly involved drugs, other substances and vaccines were baby powders, massage oils, ampicillin, co-trimoxazole, i.v. infusions (electrolytes and mannitol), DPT and measles vaccines.
Diltiazem is commonly used to treat atrial fibrillation or flutter (AFF) with rapid ventricular response (RVR). Although it is very effective for rate control, up to an 18% prevalence of reported diltiazem-induced hypotension [defined by systolic blood pressure (SBP) < 90 mm Hg], and a mean of 9.7% hypotension have been reported from several studies totaling over 450 patients. This hypotension may complicate therapy. Our objective was to determine if calcium chloride (CaCl(2)) pre-treatment would blunt a SBP drop after i.v. diltiazem, while allowing diltiazem to maintain its efficacy. A prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was conducted. Seventy-eight patients with AFF and a ventricular rate of >/= 120 beats per minute were enrolled. Half received i.v. CaCl(2) pre-treatment; the other half received placebo. All patients then received i.v. diltiazem in a standard, weight-based dose. A second dose of CaCl(2) pre-treatment or placebo and diltiazem was given if clinically indicated for additional rate control. Both CaCl(2) and placebo pre-treatment groups had equal lowering of heart rate (p < 0.001). There were no adverse events in the calcium pre-treatment study arm. One patient in the placebo group became paradoxically more tachycardic and apneic after the diltiazem infusion. Although i.v. CaCl(2) seems to be equally safe compared to placebo as a pre-treatment in the management of AFF with RVR, we were unable to find a statistically significant blunting of SBP drop with CaCl(2) i.v. pre-treatment. Until further research determines a benefit exists, we cannot recommend i.v. CaCl(2) pre-treatment before diltiazem in the treatment of AFF with RVR.
This study used monophasic action potentials to investigate the effects of verapamil and propranolol on epinephrine-induced repolarization abnormalities in congenital long QT syndrome.
Early afterdepolarizations have been suggested to play a significant role in QT prolongation and ventricular arrhythmias in congenital long QT syndrome. Calcium channel blocking as well as beta-adrenergic blocking agents are reported to be effective in the management of this syndrome.
Monophasic action potentials from 2 to 4 sites were recorded simultaneously in eight patients with the long QT syndrome (22 sites) and in eight control patients (23 sites) and were obtained during constant atrial pacing 1) before epinephrine infusion; 2) during epinephrine infusion (0.1 microgram/kg body weight min); 3) after verapamil injection (0.1 mg/kg) during epinephrine infusion; and 4) after both propranolol (0.1 mg/kg) and verapamil injections.
Early afterdepolarizations were recorded in two of the eight patients (2 of 22 sites) during the control state. During epinephrine infusion, early afterdepolarizations were recorded in six patients (six sites), and ventricular premature complexes were induced in three and torsade de pointes in one. Epinephrine prolonged 90% monophasic action potential duration from 348 +/- 48 (mean +/- SD) to 381 +/- 49 ms (22 sites, p < 0.0005) and increased the dispersion of action potential duration (difference between the longest and shortest action potential duration) from 36 +/- 20 to 64 +/- 34 ms (p < 0.005). Verapamil eliminated (two sites) or reduced (four sites) early afterdepolarizations and abolished ventricular premature complexes in two of the three patients as well as suppressing torsade de pointes. Verapamil shortened the action potential duration to 355 +/- 28 ms (p < 0.01 vs. epinephrine) and decreased the dispersion to 44 +/- 19 ms (p < 0.05 vs. epinephrine). Propranolol further eliminated (two sites) or reduced (two sites) early after depolarizations, abolished ventricular premature complexes in the remaining one patient and further shortened the action potential duration to 337 +/- 32 ms (p = 0.09 vs. verapamil). In the control patients, none of the early afterdepolarizations, ventricular arrhythmias or marked prolongations of action potential duration were induced by epinephrine, and neither verapamil nor propranolol changed repolarization variables.
These results indicate that both verapamil and propranolol can improve repolarization abnormalities induced by epinephrine in congenital long QT syndrome.
Whole-body exposure to sulfur mustard (HD) produces cutaneous, respiratory and ocular impairment. Of these, ocular damage causes the most immediate incapacitation. Heretofore, characterization of HD ocular toxicity has been largely limited to gross and histological observations. In the present study we explore histological, ultrastructural and immunopathological acute effects of HD ocular exposure and establish correlations with HD toxicity data already documented for dermal exposure. Anesthetized rabbits were exposed to 0.4 microl of liquid HD placed directly on the cornea. Animals were euthanized at 6, 9 and 24 h post-exposure and the eyes were enucleated and processed for histopathology, ultrastructural and immunoperoxidase study. At 6 and 9 h, the most prominent histological feature was nuclear pyknosis, necrosis and loss of polarity of corneal epithelial basal cells to the exclusion of other epithelial cells. At 24 h, all corneal epithelial cells presented degenerative changes, with the epithelium eventually detaching from the underlying basement membrane at the level of the lamina lucida. Microblisters, a characteristic HD-induced skin pathology of the basement membrane zone of animals, were absent in this corneal study. Edema, degenerating fibroblasts and inflammatory cellular infiltrates were persistent stromal responses. Immunopathological effects included changes in antigenicity of bullous pemphigoid protein, laminin, desmosonal protein, Ki67 and p53. These morphological and immunopathological effects of corneal exposure to HD appear to be largely consistent with that previously reported for dermal exposures, perhaps providing shared anatomical considerations for the development of specific HD prophylaxis and therapy.
Five patients had apparently drug-induced seizures while simultaneously receiving theophylline and either imipenem (three patients), ciprofloxacin (one patient), or ciprofloxacin and metronidazole (one patient). Seizures ceased upon reduction in dosage or discontinuation of the suspected offending agents. Imaging studies failed to reveal new structural lesions in the central nervous system in any patient, and only one had a history of neurologic disease. Although the exact mechanism for seizure induction cannot be determined from these cases, potential drug interactions exist, because theophylline, imipenem, and ciprofloxacin are all believed to increase excitation of the central nervous system by inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid binding to receptors. In addition, ciprofloxacin decreases the clearance of theophylline from the body, predisposing the patient to elevated theophylline levels. Physicians prescribing theophylline with imipenem, ciprofloxacin, or metronidazole should carefully monitor patients for indications for drug therapy, drug dosage, organ impairment affecting drug metabolism, and signs of toxicity. Seizures may accompany oral theophylline therapy, even at "therapeutic" serum theophylline concentrations.
Oestrogen treatment has been found to improve memory in healthy post-menopausal women, but the effects are small, especially when socio-economic status is controlled. There is some evidence that with long-term treatment the benefits decline, or reverse.
To examine the effects of 10 years of oestradiol implants on attention, memory and frontal lobe function in healthy women (aged 51-72 years) who had undergone a surgical menopause.
In an open study, patients were recruited from the Guy's Hospital menopause clinic and were tested just before receiving a new implant. Exclusion criteria included any form of psychoactive medication, IQ<90, English not the first language and anxiety or depression scores in the clinical range. All patients had been receiving HRT with an oestradiol implant for about 10 years. Each patient was pair-matched to a woman who had never received HRT. Eighteen pairs were matched for age, IQ, socio-economic status, years of secondary education, and occupation. They completed questionnaires, mood rating scales and a battery of cognitive tests.
The patients with oestradiol implants had significantly greater psychological and somatic menopausal symptoms and significantly worse mental flexibility (rule reversal) and long-term episodic memory than did the control group who had never received HRT. Analysis of covariance showed that the difference in menopausal symptoms did not account for the cognitive differences. There were no differences in a test of sustained attention or in a category generation task or in self-ratings of mood after the stress of cognitive testing.
Long-term treatment with oestradiol implants does not convey cognitive benefits and may lead to impaired function.
A patient with acute myeloblastic leukaemia showed atypical findings on MRI following combination therapy including intrathecal methotrexate and radiation. MRI findings not previously been reported are ring as well as patchy enhancement, marked mass effect and lesions extending to the putamen and corpus callosum.
Hepatotoxicity, which may lead to fibrosis and cirrhosis, often limits the use of long-term low dose methotrexate for psoriasis and autoimmune diseases. Standard light microscopy lacks sensitivity for early fibrosis.
This is a retrospective study of immunohistochemical markers of early fibrosis including laminin and fibronectin, collagen deposition and lipocyte activation in hepatic biopsies of 36 psoriatic patients treated with methotrexate for one to five years, at an average dose of 20 mg/week. Biopsies before initiation of methotrexate (n = 36) showed minimal immunohistochemical expression of desmin, transforming growth factor alpha, matrix proteins, and collagen. Expression of laminin, fibronectin, collagens III and IV increased significantly and progressively over baseline values after cumulative doses of 1.5 +/- 0.25 g (n = 20) and 3 +/- 0.5 g methotrexate, respectively. Increases in desmin, smooth muscle actin and collagen type I also occurred but the changes were less consistent. Light microscopic abnormalities of hepatotoxicity were not detectable in any of these biopsies.
Immunohistochemical quantification of matrix proteins and collagens type III and IV may be early, sensitive and dose responsive markers of methotrexate hepatotoxicity which progress with increasing cumulative doses of methotrexate.
Cocaine is metabolized in part by plasma cholinesterase to form ecgonine methyl ester. Decreased plasma cholinesterase activity is associated with enhanced cocaine toxicity in both humans and animals. This study was designed to determine whether the administration of exogenous plasma cholinesterase is protective against cocaine toxicity.
Using a blinded protocol, female Swiss albino mice were randomized to receive an intraperitoneal injection of either 13.7 mg/kg of purified human plasma cholinesterase dissolved in phosphate buffered saline, or an equal volume of phosphate buffered saline as a control. One hour later, all animals received an intraperitoneal injection of either 100 or 125 mg/kg of cocaine, and the incidence of seizures and death was recorded. In a similar fashion, another group of animals was randomized to receive a human plasma cholinesterase dose of either 13.7 or 27.4 mg/kg, followed by 150 mg/kg of cocaine.
Administration of 13.7 mg/kg of human plasma cholinesterase increased plasma cholinesterase activity by a mean of 63 +/- 13 fold, with a Tmax of 90 minutes and a Vd of 85 +/- 13 mL/kg. Cocaine's effects on seizures and death were attenuated by human plasma cholinesterase. A cocaine dose of 150 mg/kg represents an ED100 for seizures and an LD100. At this dose, lethality was reduced to 30% (p < 0.001) and seizures were reduced to 40% (p < 0.001) by administration of 27.4 mg/kg of human plasma cholinesterase.
Pretreatment with purified human plasma cholinesterase protects mice against the convulsive and lethal effects of cocaine.
Clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic used in the treatment of refractory schizophrenia, causes neutropenia and agranulocytosis in 3 and 0.8% of patients, respectively. Clozapine undergoes bioactivation to a chemically reactive nitrenium ion, which has been shown to cause neutrophil cytotoxicity. To define further the mechanism of cell death, we have investigated the toxicity of clozapine, its stable metabolites, and its chemically reactive nitrenium ion to neutrophils and lymphocytes. Clozapine was able to induce neutrophil apoptosis at therapeutic concentrations (1-3 microM) only when it was bioactivated to the nitrenium ion. The parent drug caused apoptosis at supratherapeutic concentrations (100-300 microM) only. Neutrophil apoptosis induced by the nitrenium ion, but not by the parent drug itself, was inhibited by antioxidants and genistein and was accompanied by cell surface haptenation (assessed by flow cytometry) and glutathione depletion. Dual-color flow cytometry showed that neutrophils that were haptenated were the same cells that underwent apoptosis. No apoptosis of lymphocytes was evident with the nitrenium ion or the parent drug, despite the fact that the former caused cell surface haptenation, glutathione depletion, and loss of membrane integrity. Demethylclozapine, the major stable metabolite in vivo, showed a profile that was similar to, although less marked than that observed with clozapine. N-oxidation of clozapine or replacement of the nitrogen (at position 5) by sulfur produced compounds that were entirely nontoxic to neutrophils. In conclusion, the findings of the study expand on potential mechanisms of clozapine-induced cytotoxicity, which may be of relevance to the major forms of toxicity encountered in patients taking this drug.
It remains unclear whether myocardial ischemia due to coronary microvascular dysfunction is the cause of chest pain in syndrome X (chest pain, ischemic-like stress ECG despite angiographically normal coronary arteries). To assess the function of the coronary microcirculation and its relation to pain perception, we measured myocardial blood flow (MBF) and coronary vasodilator reserve (CVR) in 29 patients with syndrome X and 20 matched normal control subjects.
MBF at rest and after intravenous dipyridamole (0.56 mg.kg-1 over 4 minutes) was measured using positron emission tomography with H2(15)O. CVR was calculated as MBFdipyridamole/MBFrest. ECG changes and chest pain after dipyridamole in syndrome X were compared with those in 35 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). Resting and postdipyridamole MBFs were homogeneous throughout the left ventricle in syndrome X patients and control subjects. MBF was 1.05 (0.25), mean (SD) versus 1.00 (0.22) mL.min-1.g-1 (P = NS) at rest and 2.73 (0.81) versus 3.00 (1.00) mL.min-1.g-1 (P = NS) after dipyridamole in patients and control subjects, respectively. CVRs were 2.66 (0.76) and 3.06 (1.08) (P = NS) and after correction of resting MBF for rate-pressure product were 2.35 (0.83) and 2.34 (0.90) (P = NS) in patients and control subjects, respectively. Female syndrome X patients had higher resting MBF than males, at 1.18 (0.20) versus 0.88 (0.19) mL.min-1.g-1 (P < .001). Chest pain after dipyridamole occurred in syndrome X as frequently as in CAD (21/29 versus 22/35, P = NS).
When patients with syndrome X are compared with control subjects, no differences are found in MBF either at rest or after dipyridamole, despite syndrome X patients experiencing chest pain after dipyridamole to the same extent as patients with CAD. These findings, together with the absence of any relation among MBF, chest pain, and ECG changes under stress, cast further doubt on ischemia as the basis of the chest pain, at least in the majority of syndrome X patients.
Reperfusion of ischaemic myocardium is accompanied by cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Although a protective role of propofol in this process has been suggested, the exact mechanism of propofol activity remains to be elucidated. Here, we report that propofol protects cardiac H9c2 cells from hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced cell death by attenuating the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) and by up-regulating heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) expression levels. Treatment with 25 µM propofol significantly protected against hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced cell death, as determined by the MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) assay and Western blot analysis using anti-apoptotic signal proteins, such as apoptotic protease activating factor 1 and caspase 9. Propofol furthermore suppressed the ERK signaling pathway in cardiac H9c2 cells subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation. The up-regulation of anti-oxidant enzymes such as HO-1, manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and catalase is also associated with the protective effect of propofol on hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced cell death. Taken together, the results reveal a new mechanism by which propofol inhibits hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced cell death in cardiac H9c2 cells, supporting a potential application of propofol as a preemptive cardioprotectant.
