Neurochemical mechanisms of actions of atypical neuroleptics carbidine (a derivative of gamma-carboline) and sulpiride on dopamine (DA) biosynthesis in synaptosomes of the nucleus accumbens septi of the rat brain were studied. Carbidine caused a dose-dependent decrease of the animals' locomotor hyperactivity induced by apomorphine (1 mg/kg). Both carbidine and sulpiride administered in a dose of 5 mg/kg increased the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase in synaptosomes of the nucleus accumbens septi. In vitro carbidine decreased and sulpiride exerted no effect on the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase of the nucleus accumbens septi synaptosomes. Carbidine as well as sulpiride in vitro failed to modify the release of 3H-DA from superfused synaptosomes. At the same time, both in vivo and in vitro, the two neuroleptics reduced the inhibitory effect of DA on the 3H-DA release from synaptosomes of the nucleus accumbens septi and on the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase.
Among the various adverse reactions to local anesthetics, IgE-mediated reactions, particularly to the more commonly used amide group, are extremely rare. We report the case of a 39-year-old man who suffered itching and generalized urticaria with facial angioedema 15 minutes after administration of mepivacaine. Skin tests revealed a strong positive reaction to mepivacaine, lidocaine, and ropivacaine, but negative reactions to bupivacaine and levobupivacaine. Furthermore, double-blind placebo-controlled subcutaneous challenge with bupivacaine and levobupivacaine was well tolerated. We conclude that an extensive allergologic study must be carried out in rare cases of true allergic reaction to amide-type local anesthetics in order to rule out cross reactivity.
Isoniazid is widely used to treat tuberculosis. In populations with a high prevalence rate of tuberculosis, acute ingestion of isoniazid has been reported as a potential cause of coma. In this study, we present the diagnosis and treatment of isoniazid poisoning in a case with acute coma as the major clinical presentation.A 32-year-old male who ingested 12 g isoniazid (2 hours prior to medical attention) was brought to the emergency department while in a coma and experiencing frequent seizures. Initial treatment with large doses of pyridoxine (for 6 hours) failed to awaken this patient. The patient was then given hemodialysis and pyridoxine; after 3 days he awoke from coma, with no further reported seizures.Isoniazid poisoning should be suspected in patients whose major symptoms are coma and seizure, especially those who have access to isoniazid. Monitoring the blood level of isoniazid will establish the diagnosis and help clinical management. A combination of hemodialysis and pyridoxine is effective in treating isoniazid poisoning.
Studies were conducted to determine the impact of self-administered cocaine on extracellular striatal dopamine in four rhesus monkeys. The extent to which external cue conditioning contributed to the effects of cocaine and whether there is activation of striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission during drug-seeking behavior was also examined. Microdialysis measurements were made at 2 min intervals in sensorimotor (dorsolateral) and mesolimbic (central and ventromedial) striatum. A fixed-ratio schedule of reinforcement was used, with cocaine availability signaled by a visual cue. Studies examined the effects of cocaine or cocaine cues against a drug-free baseline. Large (fivefold to eightfold) increases in extracellular dopamine after a self-administered infusion of 0.5 mg/kg cocaine were quite rapid and matched the time course of reported subjective effects in human laboratory studies. To determine if conditioning to external cues contributed to the cocaine-induced increases, saline was substituted for cocaine in the infusion, leaving all other visual and auditory stimuli unchanged. No increase in extracellular dopamine in either sensorimotor or mesolimbic striatal subdivisions was observed. Extracellular dopamine during extended periods of drug-seeking behavior triggered by a visual cue was determined in both central and ventromedial striatum. This procedure also did not result in any measurable changes in extracellular dopamine. These studies demonstrate rapid and pronounced pharmacological actions of self-administered cocaine. No apparent conditioned component of those actions was associated with external environmental cues, suggesting that cues that trigger drug-seeking behavior in nonhuman primates do not cause conditioned increases in mesolimbic striatal dopamine.
Morphine-3-glucoronide (M3G) is a major morphine metabolite detected in cerebrospinal fluid of humans receiving systemic morphine. M3G has little-to-no affinity for opioid receptors and induces pain by unknown mechanisms. The pain-enhancing effects of M3G have been proposed to significantly and progressively oppose morphine analgesia as metabolism ensues. We have recently documented that morphine activates toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), beyond its classical actions on mu-opioid receptors. This suggests that M3G may similarly activate TLR4. This activation could provide a novel mechanism for M3G-mediated pain enhancement, as (a) TLR4 is predominantly expressed by microglia in spinal cord and (b) TLR4 activation releases pain-enhancing substances, including interleukin-1 (IL-1). We present in vitro evidence that M3G activates TLR4, an effect blocked by TLR4 inhibitors, and that M3G activates microglia to produce IL-1. In vivo, intrathecal M3G (0.75 microg) induced potent allodynia and hyperalgesia, blocked or reversed by interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, minocycline (microglial inhibitor), and (+)-and (-)-naloxone. This latter study extends our prior demonstrations that TLR4 signaling is inhibited by naloxone nonstereoselectively. These results with (+)-and (-)-naloxone also demonstrate that the effects cannot be accounted for by actions at classical, stereoselective opioid receptors. Hyperalgesia (allodynia was not tested) and in vitro M3G-induced TLR4 signaling were both blocked by 17-DMAG, an inhibitor of heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) that can contribute to TLR4 signaling. Providing further evidence of proinflammatory activation, M3G upregulated TLR4 and CD11b (microglial/macrophage activation marker) mRNAs in dorsal spinal cord as well as IL-1 protein in the lumbosacral cerebrospinal fluid. Finally, in silico and in vivo data support that the glucuronic acid moiety is capable of inducing TLR4/MD-2 activation and enhanced pain. These data provide the first evidence for a TLR4 and IL-1 mediated component to M3G-induced effects, likely of at least microglial origin.
Didemnin B is a depsipeptide extracted from the marine tunicate Trididemnin cyanophorum. This agent is a potent inhibitor of L1210 growth in vitro and has activity against murine B16 melanoma, P388 leukemia, and M5076 sarcoma in vivo. The results of preclinical toxicologic tests demonstrated abnormalities in clotting parameters thought to be secondary to drug-induced liver dysfunction. Thirty-five patients with advanced cancer received didemnin B according to a 5-day bolus schedule with dose levels ranging from 0.03 to 2.00 mg/m2/d. The dose-limiting toxicity was nausea and vomiting. Sporadic elevation of the hepatic enzyme level occurred but was not dose limiting. Two patients had anaphylactic symptoms possibly related to the 5% polyoxyethylated castor oil (Cremophor EL, BASF, Ludwigshafen, Germany) vehicle during the drug infusion. Clinical bleeding was not observed and myelosuppression was not significant. No partial or complete tumor responses were seen. The recommended Phase II dose for the 5-day schedule is 1.6 mg/m2/d.
To describe a case of a patient who developed drug-induced cholestasis after being on risperidone maintenance therapy for 8 years.
A 30-year-old male with schizoaffective disorder, bipolar type, and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus had been stable on risperidone 6 mg at night for 8 years. His other medications included lithium 900 mg twice daily and enalapril 5 mg daily, as well as regular insulin and NPH insulin as needed. The patient developed cholestasis that resolved once risperidone was discontinued. Over the next 11 months, he tolerated trials of ziprasidone and olanzapine. When quetiapine was initiated, the patient developed signs and symptoms of cholestasis within 3 weeks after starting this medication. The signs and symptoms of cholestasis resolved with removal of quetiapine. The Naranjo probability scale indicated that these atypical antipsychotics (risperidone and quetiapine) were the probable cause of cholestasis in this patient.
It is well known that atypical antipsychotics can cause isolated asymptomatic increases in aminotransferase levels. Liver injury, both the hepatic and cholestatic type, has been described previously, although the incidence with atypical antipsychotics is rare.
To our knowledge, this is the first case of cholestasis that developed after years of treatment and reappeared with another antipsychotic agent. Given that liver failure, of either the hepatic or cholestatic type, is a relatively rare phenomenon with atypical antipsychotics, it seems that the most reasonable approach to manage this risk is through education. By educating patients on early warning signs of hepatotoxicity, this rare but potentially fatal consequence could be detected early to allow appropriate intervention.
The aim of lipid-lowering treatment is to reduce the risk for cardiovascular events. Patients not at target lipid levels while on hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statin) monotherapy are at increased cardiovascular risk.
To describe the impact of coadministration of ezetimibe with a statin on the estimated 10 year risk for coronary artery disease (E-R(CAD)) in patients with hypercholesterolemia and above-target low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels after statin monotherapy.
Post hoc analysis was conducted of a prospective, open-label, single-cohort, multicenter Canadian study of 953 patients who were treated for 6 weeks with ezetimibe 10 mg/day coadministered with their current statin at an unaltered dose. For each patient, E-R(CAD) at baseline and at 6 weeks was calculated using the Framingham model. The primary outcome measure of the analysis was the change in E-R(CAD).
A total of 825 patients with data at baseline and 6 weeks were included in the analysis. There were 423 (51.3%) patients with hypertension, 107 (13.0%) with diabetes mellitus but not metabolic syndrome, 160 (19.4%) with metabolic syndrome but not diabetes mellitus, and 235 (28.5%) with both diabetes mellitus and metabolic syndrome. After 6 weeks of ezetimibe coadministration with statin therapy, mean E-R(CAD) was reduced by 4.1% from 15.6% to 11.5%, which is equivalent to a 25.3% risk reduction (p < 0.001). Of the 225 (27.3%) patients with high E-R(CAD) (> or = 20.1%) at baseline, 144 (64.0%) converted to a lower E-R(CAD) category (p < 0.001). Patients with both diabetes mellitus and metabolic syndrome experienced the highest mean percent reduction in E-R(CAD) of -29.4% (p < 0.001).
For patients with above-target LDL-C levels while on statin monotherapy, coadministration of ezetimibe with the statin is effective in significantly reducing the E-R(CAD).
Cisplatin (CDDP), a major chemotherapeutic agent used to treat solid tumors, is known to induce acute renal failure (ARF). The progression of tissue injury involves the coordination of inflammatory and repair responses. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) has been suggested to modulate inflammatory and repair processes in various tissue injuries. In this study, we analyzed IL-6 regulation during CDDP-induced ARF in wild-type (WT) mice and determined the pathological role of IL-6 using IL-6 knockout ((-/-)) mice. A correlation between increase in serum IL-6 level and blood urea nitrogen level was found in WT mice. Renal IL-6 expression in most proximal tubular cells and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (SOCS3) gene expression significantly increased in WT mice after administration of CDDP, suggesting active IL-6 signaling during CDDP-induced ARF development. Interestingly, renal dysfunction occurred soon after administration of CDDP and became more severe in IL-6(-/-) mice than that in WT mice. In contrast, the survival rate of IL-6(-/-) mice (50% at 8 days) was better than that of WT mice (10%). Induction levels of proapoptotic Bcl-2 associated X protein (Bax) in renal proximal tubular cells was significantly higher in IL-6(-/-) mice than in WT mice at 24h after CDDP injection. Levels of antiapoptotic proteins, Bcl-2 and Bcl-extra large (Bcl-x(L)), in IL-6(-/-) groups were significantly higher than those in CDDP-treated WT groups throughout the experimental period. Bax might contribute to the development of CDDP-induced ARF at 24h; however, high expression levels of Bcl-x(L) and Bcl-2 might overcome the proapoptosis signaling at 72 h in IL-6(-/-) mice. These results indicated that local and systemic elevation of IL-6 contributes to the development of CDDP-induced ARF and that IL-6 produced in renal tubular cells prevents progression of ARF at the early stage. IL-6 deficiency accelerates CDDP-induced ARF but not development of systemic injury.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of tonic pain evoked by topical application of capsaicin on the somatosensory sensation of warmth. The warmth pathways were studied in ten healthy subjects by recording the scalp potentials evoked by non-painful warm laser stimuli delivered on both the right and left perioral region (warmth C-fiber related laser-evoked potentials (C-LEPs)). Tonic pain was induced by topical capsaicin application above the lateral part of the right upper lip. The area of primary and secondary hyperalgesia were mapped. C-LEPs were obtained from 31 scalp electrodes before, during, and after capsaicin application. C-LEPs from the right perioral region were evoked by laser stimuli delivered to the area of secondary hyperalgesia during capsaicin application and on both the areas of primary and secondary hyperalgesia after capsaicin removal. While the lateralized N1/P1 component (around 185 ms of latency) was not affected by the capsaicin, the amplitudes of the later vertex C-LEPs (around 260 and 410 ms of latency for the N2a and P2 potentials, respectively) evoked from the secondary hyperalgesic area on the right side and from a symmetrical non-hyperalgesic area on the left perioral region were significantly decreased during capsaicin application and after capsaicin removal, as compared with the baseline recordings. At the same times, the rating of the laser-evoked warmth sensation was reduced significantly. This inhibitory effect can occur at brainstem level and is possibly due to: 1) trigemino-cortico-trigeminal circuits, similar to those mediating the classical diffuse noxious inhibitory control, or 2) an increased background activity of the capsaicin-insensitive A-fibers, which mediate the secondary hyperalgesia. Probably due to a peripheral inhibitory mechanism, neither reliable C-LEP components nor warmth sensation were evoked by laser pulses delivered to the primary hyperalgesic area. This is the first neurophysiological evidence in humans of an inhibitory effect of pain on warmth sensation.
Similar to findings in the nephrotic syndrome in humans, rats with the doxorubicin-induced nephrotic syndrome (which resembles minimal change disease) have reduced serum levels of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I). This is mainly caused by glomerular ultrafiltration of IGF-I-containing binding protein complexes, primarily of a molecular weight of approximately 50 kilodaltons, and urinary losses of the peptide. Despite urinary excretion of IGF-binding protein (IGFBP)-2, serum levels are increased more than twofold in the nephrotic syndrome compared with controls, because of increased synthesis of this binding protein by the liver. In contrast, the liver synthesis of IGFBP-3, the predominant binding protein in normal serum, is unchanged in the nephrotic syndrome. However, binding and serum levels of IGFBP-3 are reduced in nephrotic rat serum, apparently due to proteolytic degradation of IGFBP-3. The glomerular ultrafiltration of IGF-I, which leads to biologically significant IGF-I concentrations of about 1.35 nM in proximal tubule fluid, may have metabolic consequences, such as increased tubular phosphate absorption. Hypothetically, tubule fluid IGF-I may also contribute to progressive tubulointerstitial fibrosis which is sometimes present in protractive nephrotic glomerulopathies. The profound changes in the IGF-I/IGFBP system in the nephrotic syndrome may also contribute to systemic metabolic abnormalities and growth failure.
To review our clinical experience and determine if there are appropriate signs and symptoms to consider POLG sequencing prior to valproic acid (VPA) dosing in patients with seizures.
Four patients who developed VPA-induced hepatotoxicity were examined for POLG sequence variations. A subsequent chart review was used to describe clinical course prior to and after VPA dosing.
Four patients of multiple different ethnicities, age 3-18 years, developed VPA-induced hepatotoxicity. All were given VPA due to intractable partial seizures. Three of the patients had developed epilepsia partialis continua. The time from VPA exposure to liver failure was between 2 and 3 months. Liver failure was reversible in one patient. Molecular studies revealed homozygous p.R597W or p.A467T mutations in two patients. The other two patients showed compound heterozygous mutations, p.A467T/p.Q68X and p.L83P/p.G888S. Clinical findings and POLG mutations were diagnostic of Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome.
Our cases underscore several important findings: POLG mutations have been observed in every ethnic group studied to date; early predominance of epileptiform discharges over the occipital region is common in POLG-induced epilepsy; the EEG and MRI findings varying between patients and stages of the disease; and VPA dosing at any stage of Alpers-Huttenlocher syndrome can precipitate liver failure. Our data support an emerging proposal that POLG gene testing should be considered in any child or adolescent who presents or develops intractable seizures with or without status epilepticus or epilepsia partialis continua, particularly when there is a history of psychomotor regression.
A case of transient neurologic deficit associated with the acetazolamide challenge conducted in conjunction with dynamic enhanced computed tomography (CT) perfusion imaging for the evaluation of cerebral hemodynamic impairment is reported in a patient with known cerebrovascular steno-occlusive disease. Combining the acetazolamide challenge with dynamic CT perfusion provides a rapid and widely available technique to assess cerebrovascular reactivity; however, one must be cognizant of this serious potential adverse response.
The prevention of the decrease in neostriatal tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) activity with a single dose of methamphetamine (MA) was attempted by lesioning the nigrostriatal dopaminergic projections with bilateral nigral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). The rats were injected with MA (10 mg/kg) 11 days later, and killed 3 h after the injection. The 6-OHDA lesions prevented the decrease of TPH activity in the neostriatum, while the decrease of enzyme activity was slightly attenuated in the hippocampus and unaffected in the frontal cortex. This study demonstrates: that the attenuation of TPH activity can be prevented in a selected brain area by destroying its dopaminergic afferents, and implicates central dopamine (DA), or its metabolite, in the decrease in central TPH activity observed after a single injection of MA.
To investigate the effect of chemotherapy on gonadal function of young men cured of childhood Hodgkin's disease.
Young adult males surviving Hodgkin's disease, aged 17 and over at least 2 years after therapy were studied in Ali Asghar Children's Hospital, Tehran, Iran from March 2000 to March 2005. Clinical evaluation for secondary sexual characteristics, semen analysis, follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), and testosterone was studied in 33 survivors of Hodgkin's disease.
The age at diagnosis was 5-15 years, median 9 years, age at study 17-29 years, median 19 years old. The median duration off therapy was 7 years (2-20 years). All 33 patients received chemotherapy as follows: 32 patients received nitrogen mustard (mechlorethamine), vincristine (Oncovin), procarbazine, prednisone (MOPP) / doxorubicin (adriamycin), bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine (ABVD) 6-8 cycles, 5 of whom after relapses received other protocols. One received only MOPP. Twenty-seven (81.8%) had azoospermia, 2 had severe oligospermia, 3 had oligospermia, and one had normal sperm count (58000,000). All patients had normal secondary sexual characteristic. The FSH, and LH in 6/33 patients were above normal. Testosterone in 3/33 was below normal.
A prepubertal status does not protect the gonads from the harmful effect of chemotherapy, and approximately 87% of male survivors of Hodgkin's disease develop azoospermia or severe oligospermia.
The present work has been planned in order to elucidate the effect of phenobarbital (PB: 15 mg per rat of ingested dose) on carcinogenesis when it is administered simultaneously with diethylnitrosamine (DEN: 10 mg/kg/day). Wistar rats (180 g) were treated by DEN alone or by DEN + PB during 2, 4 and 6 weeks according to our schedule for hepatocarcinogenesis. After the end of the treatment, the number and the size of induced PAS positive preneoplastic foci was significantly reduced when PB was given simultaneously with DEN for 4 and 6 weeks. The mitotic inhibition and the production of micronuclei normally observed after partial hepatectomy in DEN treated rats were also significantly decreased in DEN + PB treated rats. When the treatment last only 2 weeks, the presence of PB did not change significantly the last parameters. In DEN + PB treated rats, the survival was prolonged and the tumor incidence decreased as compared with the results obtained by DEN alone. It is concluded that PB, which promotes carcinogenesis when administered after the DEN treatment, reduces the carcinogen effect when given simultaneously with DEN. This 'anti-carcinogen' effect acts on the initiation as well as on the promotion of the precancerous lesions. Biochemical investigations are in progress to obtain more information about this 'paradoxical' PB effect.
Prolongation of QT interval is associated with repetitive paroxysm of a particular ventricular tachycardia. It is a typical complication of quinidine therapy but may occur in various other conditions. We used endocardial pacing in nine patients with prolongation of the QT interval who suffered from bouts of ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation. In six patients, the syndrome was due to quinidine and in three, to prenylamine. Acceleration of heart rate resulted in immediate suppression of all arrhythmias. Pacing was continued until the condition producing the QT prolongation disappeared. In one case, a permanent pacemaker was implanted, as the QT prolongation was congenital and permanent. The absolute QT interval was shortened by overdrive pacing from a mean value of 0.65 s to 0.50 s. The corrected QT interval remained prolonged (about 0.56 s). Thus, the arrhythmia was associated with the duration of the actual QT interval, and overdrive pacing was able to suppress it without shortening the corrected QT interval.
Lindane (gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane) is an organochlorine insecticide with known neurotoxic effects. Its mechanism of action is not well understood although it has been proposed that lindane acts as a non-competitive antagonist at the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-A receptor. We studied the effect of lindane (150 mg/kg) on the GABAergic and dopaminergic systems by measuring the concentration of GABA, dopamine and its metabolites in 7 brain areas at the onset of seizures. All animals suffered tonic convulsions at 18.3 +/- 1.4 min after lindane administration. The concentration of GABA was only slightly but significantly decreased in the colliculi without modifications in the other areas. The concentration of dopamine was increased in the mesencephalon and that of its metabolite DOPAC was also increased in the mesencephalon and the striatum.
Five weeks following the initiation of chlorpropamide therapy for diabetes mellitus, hypoglycemic coma, cholestatic jaundice, and RBC aplasia developed in a 41-year-old woman. Within 40 days of stopping the drug, she had made a complete recovery. To our knowledge, this is the first case in which these three complications of chlorpropamide have occurred simultaneously.
Topiramate is a new antiepileptic drug which acts in the sodium channels, GABA and glutamatergic receptors. It is an efficient treatment in epilepsy and has been approved as co-therapy for partial seizures. Topiramate has a safe profile of side effects, however, as any other antiepileptic drug, could produce psychiatric side effects. We present the case of a woman who develops a schizophreniform disorder after topiramate treatment. Before this one, she also had a very similar disorder when she was treated with vigabatrin. The gabaergic action of topiramate is proposed as the principal reason for the psychotic crisis, in relation to an inhibition in the substantia nigra which could produce an overactivity in ascending dopaminergic systems.
The objective was to assess whether polymorphisms in the dopamine receptor and transporter genes are associated with development of primary cervical dystonia. A case-control allelic association study is described of 100 patients with cervical dystonia and 100 controls using polymorphisms within D1-5 receptor and dopamine transporter genes. No significant association was found between patient and control allele frequencies for polymorphisms in genes for the D1 to 4 receptors and dopamine transporter. Significant associations, however, were found for alleles 2 and 6 of the D5 receptor microsatellite. Carriage of allele 2 was associated with cervical dystonia, whereas allele 6 was overrepresented in the control group, implying a possible protective effect. The association with allele 6 remained significant after Bonferroni correction. In conclusion, the finding of a significant association with an allele in the D5 receptor gene in patients with cervical dystonia may indicate a pathogenic role of this gene (or neighbouring genes). Further studies are required to confirm this finding and to assess whether these alleles are part of distinct haplotypes associated with other polymorphisms imparting a functional effect on the D5 receptor.
We used limbic seizures induced in rats by systemic injection of the cholinergic agonist pilocarpine (380 mg/kg; i.p.) to study the neuronal pathways within the basal ganglia that modulate seizure threshold. N-Methyl-D-aspartate (N-Me-D-Asp) is an excitatory amino acid derivative that is a powerful convulsant agent when injected into the cerebral cortex, amygdala, or hippocampus in rats. Bilateral microinjections of N-Me-D-Asp into the caudate-putamen, however, protected against limbic seizures induced by pilocarpine (injected systemically), with an ED50 of 0.7 nmol (range 0.5-1.0 nmol). Lesioning the caudate-putamen (by bilateral microinjection of the excitotoxin ibotenate) converted subconvulsant doses of pilocarpine into convulsant ones. The anticonvulsant action of N-Me-D-Asp in the caudate-putamen was reversed by blocking gamma-aminobutyrate-mediated inhibition in the substantia nigra pars reticulata or in the entopeduncular nucleus. The results suggest that the caudate-putamen and its gamma-aminobutyrate-dependent efferent pathways modulate the threshold for seizures in the limbic forebrain.
Purulent pericarditis is an infrequent complication of infections originating in another body location. Symptoms and signs are often absent; a high index of awareness is required for its diagnosis. A patient recovering from extensive necrotic-hemorrhagic pancreatitis presented with tamponade due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) purulent pericarditis, further complicated by MRSA endocarditis. Treatment included pericardectomy, IV vancomycin and teicoplanin.
The pleiotropic actions of statins have been largely explored. These drugs have been tested in several models of progressive renal disease, most of them accompanied by hypertension. We sought to investigate more closely the effects of simvastatin on renal interstitial fibrosis due to unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO).
Munich-Wistar rats were submitted to UUO and studied after 14 days. Animals were divided into two groups: vehicle (VH) or simvastatin (SIMV) 2 mg/kg b.i.d. by gavage. At sacrifice kidneys were harvested for morphology, mRNA and protein analysis. RT-PCR was done to assess expression of collagen I and III, fibronectin, MCP-1, TGF-beta1 and bFGF. Protein expression was assessed by western blot (TGF-beta) and immunostaining (macrophage, lymphocyte, PCNA, vimentin and alpha-smooth muscle actin). Contralateral kidneys (CL) were used as controls.
SIMV-treated animals had less severe renal inflammation. MCP-1 was markedly expressed in obstructed kidneys and diminished with SIMV (48.9+/- 2.5 vs 64.3+/-3.1 OD in VH, P<0.01). Interstitial fibrosis (IF) was significantly attenuated with SIMV (8.2+/-1.3 vs 13.2+/-0.6%, P<0.01 SIMV vs VH), which was confirmed by a decrease in collagen I and fibronectin renal expression. Vimentin, a marker of dedifferentiation, was expressed in tubular cells of VH and decreased with SIMV treatment. alpha-SMA, a marker of myofibroblast-type cells, was increased in renal interstitium of VH rats and SIMV significantly reduced its expression. PCNA was increased in the UUO kidneys, but SIMV did not decrease tubular or interstitial proliferating cells. TGF-beta1, which was highly induced in the obstructed kidneys, decreased at the post-transcriptional level with SIMV treatment (5.35+/-0.75 vs 13.10+/-2.9 OD in VH, P<0.05). bFGF mRNA was also overexpressed in the obstructed kidneys, although SIMV treatment did not significantly decrease its expression.
SIMV had an evident protective effect on renal interstitial inflammation and fibrosis. It is conceivable that by attenuating inflammation, SIMV prevented tubular activation and transdifferentiation, two processes largely involved in the renal fibrosis of the UUO model.
Previous in vitro studies have shown that Al(3+) binds to calmodulin, inducing alterations in its capability to interact with target proteins, accompanied by loss of immunological recognition by its conformational specific monoclonal antibody CAM1. In spite of the wealth of data of calmodulin action in vitro, little information is available on the possible involvement of this protein in the pathology typical of Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we investigated calmodulin immunoreactivity in post-mortem human brains affected by Alzheimer's disease, compared with age-matched control brains. Conformational monoclonal antibodies raised against Ca(2+)-calmodulin, namely CAM1 and CAM4, were used in this study for the characterization of calmodulin. Calmodulin immunorecognition by monoclonal antibody CAM1 was found to be lost in cortical tissue sample from brains affected by Alzheimer's disease. This finding leads to the hypothesis of a new, possibly inactive, conformation of the molecule during the disease. On the other hand, CAM4 immunoreactivity was decreased in neurons of brains affected by Alzheimer's disease. Anti-Al(3+) monoclonal antibodies revealed instead more marked aluminium immunoreactivity in the affected brains compared to normal ones. The loss of CAM1 immunoreactivity and the occurrence of large amounts of aluminium suggest an alteration of the active conformation of calmodulin in disease-affected brains. These alterations could be involved in the development of Alzheimer's disease pathology.
The relationship between brain concentration of lindane and its convulsant effect have been studied in rats after repeated low doses of lindane. The mean brain plateau concentration was achieved in 5-8 days. The doses administered (5, 12 and 20 mg/kg) and the brain concentration of lindane at the plateau were highly correlated. The incidence rate of response (percentage of rats with tonic convulsions) was also highly correlated with the log of concentration of lindane in brain for all doses and days studied. A decrease in brain concentration of lindane was observed after 12 days of daily administration at doses of 5 and 12 mg/kg but not at the highest dose (20 mg/kg).
The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase (PARP) activity in vancomycin (VCM)-induced renal injury and to determine whether 1,5-isoquinelinediol (ISO), a PARP inhibitor agent, could be offered as an alternative therapy in VCM-induced renal impairment. Rats were divided into four groups as follows: (i) control (Group 1); (ii) VCM-treated (Group 2); (iii) VCM plus ISO-treated (Group 3); and (iv) ISO-treated (Group 4). VCM (200mg/kg, i.p., twice daily) was administered to Groups 2 and 3 for 7 days. ISO (3mg/kg/day, i.p.) treatment was started 24h before the first administration of VCM and continued for 8 days. After the 14th VCM injection, the animals were placed in metabolic cages to collect urine samples. All the rats were sacrificed by decapitation, blood samples were taken in tubes and kidneys were excised immediately. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and plasma creatinine, and urinary N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase (NAG, a marker of renal tubular injury) were used as markers of VCM-induced renal injury in rats. Light microscopy was used to evaluate semi-quantitative analysis of the kidney sections. Poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR, the product of activated PARP) and PARP-1 expressions in renal tissues were demonstrated by immunohistochemistry and Western blot. VCM administration increased BUN levels from 8.07+/-0.75 mg/dL to 53.87+/-10.11 mg/dL. The plasma creatinine levels were 0.8+/-0.04 mg/dL and 3.38+/-0.51 mg/dL for the control and VCM-treated groups, respectively. Also, urinary excretion of NAG was increased after VCM injection. Besides, there was a significant dilatation of the renal tubules, eosinophilic casts within some tubules, desquamation and vacuolization of renal tubule epithelium, and interstitial tissue inflammation in VCM-treated rats. In VCM-treated rats, both PAR and PARP-1 expressions were increased in renal tubular cells. ISO treatment attenuated VCM-induced renal injury, as indicated by BUN and plasma creatinine levels, urinary NAG excretion, and renal histology. PARP inhibitor treatment also decreased PAR and PARP-1 protein expressions similar to that of controls. Herewith, the overactivation of the PARP pathway may have a role in VCM-induced renal impairment and pharmacological inhibition of this pathway might be an effective intervention to prevent VCM-induced acute renal injury.
