To observe the effects of Danggui Buxue Decoction (DBD) on liver fibrosis and to explore its mechanism related to hepatic lipid peroxidation in rats.
Liver fibrosis model was established in 28 rats by the combination of injecting carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) subcutaneously and feeding high lipid and low protein diet. The model rats were randomly divided into 2 groups, the model group (n = 14) and the treated group (n = 14). Besides, a normal group was set up with 10 normal rats. For the treated group, rats were administered with DBD at a dosage of 6 g/kg body weight once a day by gastrogavage starting from the day of modeling for 6 successive weeks and to the control group, equal volume of normal saline was administered instead. The inflammation and fatty degeneration in rat liver tissues were examined with HE staining; the collagen deposition observed with sirius red; the liver function including serum level of alanine transaminase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), albumin (Alb) and total bilirubin (TBil) were determined using corresponding test kits; the hepatic lipid peroxidation indexes, including triglyceride (TG), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and malondialdehyde (MDA) were measured by biochemical methods; the hepatic hydroxyproline (Hyp) content was detected with Jamall's method and the expression of collagen type I was analyzed by Western blotting.
Compared with those in the normal rats, serum ALT, AST, TBil level, TG and MDA content remarkablely increased, level of Alb and SOD activity decreased, and hepatic fatty degeneration and collagen pathological deposition in liver was more obvious in the model rats (all P < 0.05). While in the DBD group, the hepatic fatty degeneration and collagen deposition were significantly improved, changes of all the above-mentioned indexes were significantly reversed (P <0.05).
DBD has a good antagonist effect against experimental liver fibrosis, and its mechanism may be related to the anti-lipid peroxidation injury effect.
Glyburide, a second-generation sulfonylurea hypoglycemic agent, is metabolized by the P-450 hepatic enzyme system. Ciprofloxacin, a widely used quinolone antibiotic, is a recognized P-450 enzyme inhibitor. Conflicting data exist in the medical literature on the ability of quinolone antibiotics to inhibit glyburide hepatic metabolism. We present a case of hypoglycemia and an elevated serum glyburide level after 1 week of ciprofloxacin use in a patient receiving long-term glyburide therapy. Clinicians should consider this potential interaction in patients taking glyburide who require antibiotic therapy.
S-1 is an oral formulation of ftorafur (FT), oxonic acid and 5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine (CDHP) at a molar ratio of 1:0.4:1. FT is a 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) prodrug, CDHP is a dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) inhibitor and oxonic acid is an inhibitor of 5-FU phosphoribosylation in the gastrointestinal mucosa and was included to prevent gastrointestinal toxicity. We determined the pharmacokinetics of S-1 in 28 patients at doses of 25, 35, 40 and 45 mg/m(2). The plasma C(max) values of FT, 5-FU, oxonic acid and CDHP increased dose-dependently and after 1-2 h were in the ranges 5.8-13 microM, 0.4-2.4 microM, 0.026-1.337 microM, and 1.1-3.6 microM, respectively. Uracil levels, indicative of DPD inhibition, also increased dose-dependently from basal levels of 0.03-0.25 microM to 3.6-9.4 microM after 2-4 h, and 0.09-0.9 microM was still present after 24 h. The pharmacokinetics of CDHP and uracil were linear over the dose range. The areas under the plasma concentration curves (AUC) for CDHP and uracil were in the ranges 418-1735 and 2281-8627 micromol x min/l, respectively. The t(1/2) values were in the ranges 213-692 and 216-354 min, respectively. Cumulative urinary excretion of FT was predominantly as 5-FU and was 2.2-11.9%; the urinary excretion of both fluoro-beta-alanine and uracil was generally maximal between 6 and 18 h. During 28-day courses with twice-daily S-1 administration, 5-FU and uracil generally increased. Before each intake of S-1, 5-FU varied between 0.5 and 1 microM and uracil was in the micromolar range (up to 7 microM), indicating that effective DPD inhibition was maintained during the course. In a biopsy of an esophageal adenocarcinoma metastasis that had regressed, thymidylate synthase, the target of 5-FU, was inhibited 50%, but increased four- to tenfold after relapse in subsequent biopsies. In conclusion, oral S-1 administration resulted in prolonged exposure to micromolar 5-FU concentrations due to DPD inhibition, and the decrease in uracil levels after 6 h followed the pattern of CDHP and indicates reversible DPD inhibition.
Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2E1 was suggested to be the major enzyme involved in trichloroethylene (TRI) metabolism and TRI-induced hepatotoxicity, although the latter molecular mechanism is not fully understood. The involvement of CYP2E1 in TRI-induced hepatotoxicity and its underlying molecular mechanism were studied by comparing hepatotoxicity in cyp2e1+/+ and cyp2e1-/- mice. The mice were exposed by inhalation to 0 (control), 1000, or 2000 ppm of TRI for 8 h a day, for 7 days, and TRI-hepatotoxicity was assessed by measuring plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) activities and histopathology. Urinary metabolites of trichloroethanol and trichloroacetic acid (TCA) were considerably greater in cyp2e1+/+ compared to cyp2e1-/- mice, suggesting that CYP2E1 is the major P450 involved in the formation of these metabolites. Consistent with elevated plasma ALT and AST activities, cyp2e1+/+ mice in the 2000 ppm group showed histopathological inflammation. TRI significantly upregulated PPARalpha, which might function to inhibit NFkappaB p50 and p65 signalling. In addition, TRI-induced NFkappaB p52 mRNA, and significantly positive correlation between NFkappaB p52 mRNA expression and plasma ALT activity levels were observed, suggesting the involvement of p52 in liver inflammation. Taken together, the current study directly demonstrates that CYP2E1 was the major P450 involved in the first step of the TRI metabolism, and the metabolites produced may have two opposing roles: one inducing hepatotoxicity and the other protecting against the toxicity. Intermediate metabolite(s) from TRI to chloral hydrate produced by CYP2E1-mediated oxidation may be involved in the former, and TCA in the latter.
Recently, a cluster of patients was observed in France in whom primary pulmonary hypertension developed in patients exposed to derivatives of fenfluramine in appetite suppressants (anorexic agents), which are used for weight control. We investigated the potential role of anorexic agents and other suspected risk factors for primary pulmonary hypertension.
In a case-control study, we assessed 95 patients with primary pulmonary hypertension from 35 centers in France, Belgium, the United Kingdom, and the Netherlands and 355 controls recruited from general practices and matched to the patients' sex and age.
The use of anorexic drugs (mainly derivatives of fenfluramine) was associated with an increased risk of primary pulmonary hypertension (odds ratio with any anorexic-drug use, 6.3; 95 percent confidence interval, 3.0 to 13.2). For the use of anorexic agents in the preceding year, the odds ratio was 10.1 (95 percent confidence interval, 3.4 to 29.9). When anorexic drugs were used to a total of more than three months, the odds ratio was 23.1 (95 percent confidence interval, 6.9 to 77.7). We also confirmed an association with several previously identified risk factors: a family history of pulmonary hypertension, infection with the human immunodeficiency virus, cirrhosis, and use of cocaine or intravenous drugs.
The use of anorexic drugs was associated with the development of primary pulmonary hypertension. Active surveillance for this disease should be considered, particularly since their use is expected to increase in the near future.
Although adriamycin (Doxorubicin) is one of the most effective and useful antineoplastic agents for the treatment of a variety of malignancies, its repeated administration can induce irreversible myocardial damage and resultant heart failure. Currently, no marker to detect early cardiac damage is available. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether an assessment of the acoustic properties of the myocardium could enable the earlier detection of myocardial damage after adriamycin chemotherapy. Forty Wistar rats were treated with adriamycin (2 mg/kg, i.v.) once a week for 2, 4, 6 or 8 weeks consecutively. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was calculated using M-mode echocardiography data. The magnitude of cardiac cycle dependent variation of integrated backscatter (CVIB) of the myocardium was measured in the mid segment of the septum and in the posterior wall of the left ventricle, using a real time two dimensional integrated backscatter imaging system. LVEF was significantly lower in the adriamycin-treated 8-week group than in the controls (75+/-9 vs 57+/-8%, p<0.05). Myocyte damage was only seen in the 8-week adriamycin-treated group. However, no significant changes of CVIB were observed between baseline or during follow-up in the ADR or control group. In conclusion, serial assessment of the acoustic properties of the myocardium may not be an optimal tool for the early detection of myocardial damage after doxorubicin chemotherapy in a rat model.
The renal benefits of agents inhibiting the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system in renal transplant recipients, i.e. preventing the development of chronic graft nephropathy, are supposed but not finally proven. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study, we evaluated the influence of losartan on surrogate markers of tubular injury, urine excretion of transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-beta1) and amino-terminal propeptide of type III procollagen (PIIINP) in 16 patients after transplantation. The patients received randomly either losartan (50-100 mg daily) or the beta-blocker carvedilol (12.5-25 mg) for 8 weeks, allowing a placebo washout between treatments. The target office through blood pressure (BP) was below 130/85 mmHg. The BP did not differ in the treatment periods. Losartan significantly decreased N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase and alfa-1 microglobulin excretion relative to placebo and carvedilol. Urine excretion of TGF-beta1 and PIIINP was significantly lower after losartan. In conclusion, losartan reduces urine excretion of proteins associated with tubular damage and graft fibrosis.
An ethanol extract of Helichrysum maracandicum showed antiproliferative activity against cultured cells of SENCAR mouse in an in vitro assay, and activity-guided fractionation of the extract resulted in the isolation of isosalipurposide as an active substance. Naringenin chalcone, the aglycone of isosalipurposide, also showed strong antiproliferative activity. An in vivo assay of two-stage carcinogenesis on mouse skin revealed that epidermal application of isosalipurposide resulted in delayed formation of papillomas. Western blot analysis showed that the expression of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase was suppressed by the administration of naringenin chalcone or isosalipurposide, which might be related to the anticarcinogenic activity.
We recently demonstrated that Sirt1, a NAD(+) -dependent histone deacetylase, was overexpressed in prostate cancer (PCa) and its inhibition resulted in a significant antiproliferative response in human PCa cells. Studies have suggested a link between Sirt1 and circadian rhythms, the disruption of which has been linked to cancer. Interestingly, a decreased production of the pineal melatonin has been shown to deregulate the circadian rhythm machinery and increase cancer risk. Furthermore, disruption in melatonin production and circadian rhythmicity has been associated with aging. Here, we challenged our hypothesis that melatonin will impart antiproliferative response against PCa via inhibiting Sirt1. We demonstrated that melatonin significantly inhibited Sirt1 protein and activity in vitro in multiple human PCa cell lines, and melatonin-mediated Sirt1 inhibition was accompanied with a significant decrease in the proliferative potential of PCa cells, but not of normal cells. Forced overexpression of Sirt1 partially rescued the PCa cells from melatonin's antiproliferative effects, suggesting that Sirt1 is a direct target of melatonin. Employing transgenic adenocarcinoma of mouse prostate (TRAMP) mice, we also demonstrated that oral administration of melatonin, at human-achievable doses, significantly inhibited PCa tumorigenesis as shown by decreases in (i) prostate and genitourinary weight, (ii) serum insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1)/IGF-binding protein-3 (IGFBP3) ratio, (iii) mRNA and protein levels of the proliferation markers (PCNA, Ki-67). This anti-PCa response was accompanied with a significant decrease in Sirt1 in TRAMP prostate. Our data identified melatonin as a novel inhibitor of Sirt1 and suggest that melatonin can inhibit PCa growth via Sirt1 inhibition.
Test staged on rats have brought evidence that lithium chloride acts damagingly on all parts of the nephron, inhibiting, first of all, the processes of filtration and then of secretion and reabsorption. Polyuria arising under the effect of lithium is caused by reduced reabsorption of water in the tubules and anuria--by depression of the glomerular filtration.
Sotalol is a unique beta-blocker that prolongs repolarization. Its use in 626 patients with complex ventricular ectopic activity, as reported in the literature, resulted in suppression of arrhythmia in 50 to 60% of treatment attempts. Detailed analysis of data on arrhythmias in 356 patients that were entered prospectively into a database revealed a median reduction in ventricular premature beats of 76%, compared to a median suppression of repetitive ventricular ectopic activity of 91% and of episodes of nonsustained ventricular tachycardia of 97% (p = 0.002 vs reduction of ventricular premature beats). This marked antiarrhythmic potency of sotalol in repetitive ventricular arrhythmias is thought to be due to its class III activity. Drug efficacy was independent of age, sex, the presence or absence of organic heart disease and the degree of sotalol-induced prolongation of corrected QT interval. Evaluation of left ventricular function in 215 patients treated with the drug demonstrated that depression of left ventricular ejection fraction occurred far less frequently than expected with conventional beta-blockers. Even patients with severely depressed pump function tolerated sotalol surprisingly well. There is a propensity of the drug to aggravate arrhythmia, which resulted in serious proarrhythmic events in 30 (3.5%) of 853 patients. These often consisted of torsades de pointes (9 of 30 patients). Proarrhythmia occurred primarily within the first 3 days of dosing, and exhibited a dose-dependence. In conclusion, sotalol is an effective and well-tolerated antiarrhythmic drug in patients with complex ventricular ectopic activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Amifostine increases in vitro burst-forming unit-erythroid and colony-forming unit-granulocyte/granulcoyte-macrophage cultured from bone-marrow cells from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Several small clinical studies give divergent informations about the potential of amifostine as single agent to improve hematopoiesis in MDS patients. In these studies, patients with refractory anemia (RA), RA with excess of blasts (RAEB), and RAEB in transformation (RAEB-T) were analyzed together, resulting in response rates varying from 8% to 30%. The present multi-center study evaluated whether treatment with amifostine is of clinical benefit in patients with RA who are transfusion dependent. The effect on transfusion frequency as well as on platelets and absolute neutrophil count (ANC) was examined in 14 patients with RA [median age 67 years (55-72 years), male:female 9:5]. Four treatment cycles were planned, each consisting of intravenous amifostine at 200 mg/m2/day three times per week followed by a 2-week interval. Since tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha is a main suppressive cytokine for hematopoiesis in RA patients, serum samples for analyzing endogenous levels of TNF alpha were collected prior to the study and after four treatment cycles. In three patients (21%), reduced transfusion requirement with prolongation of the transfusion interval from 4 weeks to 8 weeks (two patients) and 4 weeks to 6 weeks was seen. An increase in ANC from 400/microliter to 2600/microliter and 200/microliter to 3400/microliter was observed in two patients. Platelets increased from 129,000/microliter to 277,000/microliter in an additional patient. In one patient, disease progression from RA to RAEB was observed. Serum TNF alpha levels were increased in MDS patients compared with normal controls (18.8 pg/ml vs 9.1 pg/ml), and there was no change during the treatment with amifostine (17.5 pg/ml). In conclusion, treatment with amifostine as a single agent was of limited benefit in patients with RA. The serum TNF alpha levels were unchanged during treatment with amifostine in RA patients.
We present the case of a 28-year-old man being treated with Nardil for chronic depression who developed a hypertensive crisis and a severe occipital headache one hour after ingesting an over-the-counter appetite suppressant. The adverse reactions between MAO inhibitors and phenylpropanolamine and discussed, as are the dangers of using Demerol to treat the headache and Aldomet to treat the hypertension.
Forty patients have been treated with Sinemet (L-carbidopa/L-dopa) for a period of up to two years. The results are in agreement with those in the literature. In two-thirds of cases a good to very good improvement was obtained. The principal side effects were dyskinesia, hypotonia, and gastrointestinal and psychotic symptoms, though they seldom necessitated treatment interruption. L-carbidopa/L-dopa affords a real alternative therapy in the modern treatment of Parkinson's disease with L-dopa and a decarboxylase inhibitor. Generally the dosage range was up to a maximum of one tablet three times daily. Sinemet tablets are simple and convenient to handle for both doctor and patient. Dosage titration to therapeutic efficacy can be achieved in one week to ten days without complications, though we recommended a slower titration based on individual patient reaction and requirements.
The aim of the present study was to explore whether ultrasound microbubble destruction augments site-targeted engraftment of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs) to kidney tissue and promotes recovery of the kidney in acute kidney injury (AKI) in rats. AKI was induced by the subcutaneous injection of mercuric chloride (HgCl₂). Forty Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into the following groups after the establishment of rat models of AKI (n = 10): (1) Model group alone (control group); (2) 1.0 W/cm² ultrasound (US) + microbubble (MB) (US/MB group); (3) MSCs group; and (4) 1.0 W/cm² US+MB + MSCs group (US/MB + MSCs group). The number of 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) labelled MSCs was evaluated by fluorescence microscopy and real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blotting and histological examination were performed 7 days after MSCs transplantation. It was observed via fluorescence microscopy that the number of DAPI-labelled MSCs in the kidney for the US/MB + MSCs group was significantly more than the MSCs group (p < 0.05). The results from RT-PCR revealed that the US/MB and US/MB + MSCs groups markedly increased the level of inter-cellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) compared with the control group and the MSCs group (p < 0.05). Western blot analysis showed that the expression of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and epidermal growth factor (EGF) in the US/MB + MSCs group were markedly increased compared with the all other groups (p < 0.01). The extent of tubular necrosis and dilation was significantly milder in the US/MB + MSCs group (acoustic exposure conditions: 5s at 1 MHz and 1.0 W/cm² with a 5s pause, totalling 60 s) than the all other groups (p < 0.05). Microbubble destruction by 1.0 W/cm² ultrasound can promote both the homing of BM-MSCs to kidney tissue and the recovery of the kidney in AKI in rats.
Nifedipine caused acute, reversible deterioration in renal function in four patients with chronic renal insufficiency. The absence of hypotension, clinical course, benign urinary sediments, and normal results of renal ultrasound examinations excluded acute tubular necrosis, pyelonephritis, interstitial nephritis, obstructive uropathy, and acute glomerulonephritis. It is postulated that this slow calcium channel blocker produced deleterious intrarenal hemodynamic alterations in the setting of moderate to severe renal functional impairment. Nifedipine may alter renal function by blocking calcium entry into renal vascular smooth muscle, thereby reducing the efficacy of vasoconstrictor hormones in regulation of renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate. An alternative explanation is that nifedipine may inhibit the compensatory synthesis of vasodilatory prostaglandin E2 analogous to the clinical observation of acute deterioration in renal function by nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in patients with pre-existing renal insufficiency. These observations suggest that clinicians should monitor renal function closely and exercise caution when administering nifedipine to patients with underlying renal insufficiency.
The 5beta-reductases (AKR1D1-3) are unique enzymes able to catalyze efficiently and in a stereospecific manner the 5beta-reduction of the C4-C5 double bond found into Delta4-3-ketosteroids, including steroid hormones and bile acids. Multiple-sequence alignments and mutagenic studies have already identified one of the residues presumably located at their active site, Glu 120, as the major molecular determinant for the unique activity displayed by 5beta-reductases. To define the exact role played by this glutamate in the catalytic activity of these enzymes, biochemical and structural studies on human 5beta-reductase (h5beta-red) have been undertaken. The crystal structure of h5beta-red in a ternary complex with NADP (+) and 5beta-dihydroprogesterone (5beta-DHP), the product of the 5beta-reduction of progesterone (Prog), revealed that Glu 120 does not interact directly with the other catalytic residues, as previously hypothesized, thus suggesting that this residue is not directly involved in catalysis but could instead be important for the proper positioning of the steroid substrate in the catalytic site. On the basis of our structural results, we thus propose a realistic scheme for the catalytic mechanism of the C4-C5 double bond reduction. We also propose that bile acid precursors such as 7alpha-hydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one and 7alpha,12alpha-dihydroxy-4-cholesten-3-one, when bound to the active site of h5beta-red, can establish supplementary contacts with Tyr 26 and Tyr 132, two residues delineating the steroid-binding cavity. These additional contacts very likely account for the higher activity of h5beta-red toward the bile acid intermediates versus steroid hormones. Finally, in light of the structural data now available, we attempt to interpret the likely consequences of mutations already identified in the gene encoding the h5beta-red enzyme which lead to a reduction of its enzymatic activity and which can progress to severe liver function failure.
Puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis is a well-described model of human idiopathic nephrotic syndrome, but the mechanism of PAN's effect is not completely understood. To investigate whether proteinuria in the PAN model is associated with an alteration of zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1) expression within the glomeruli, and whether cyclosporin A (CsA) has an effect on proteinuria and ZO-1 expression in this model, eighteen Sprague Dawley (SD) rats were assigned into three groups. Twelve rats received a single intraperitoneal injection of PAN (15 mg/100 g). The other six rats received an equal volume of saline (normal control group; control). CsA solution was administered intraperitoneally once a day for 20 days after the PAN injection (n=6, PAN+CsA). The remaining six rats received PAN, but they didn't receive CsA (n=6, PAN). Compared to control rats (35.1+/-5.4 mg/day), the 24-hour urinary protein excretion on day 18 was significantly higher in the PAN rats (1021.9+/-128.9 mg/day, p<0.01), and the CsA treatment partly reversed the increase in proteinuria in the PAN rats (556.4+/-102.3 mg/day, p<0.05). Glomerular ZO-1 protein expressions were significantly increased in the PAN rats as compared to the control group on day 20 (176%, p<0.01). CsA treatment for 20 days in the PAN rats inhibited the increase in ZO-1 protein expression by 71.1% (p<0.05). CsA treatment significantly diminished the glomerular ZO-1 expression in the PAN rats as assessed by immunohistochemistry. CsA treatment significantly reduced proteinuria and the diminished glomerular ZO-1 expression in a PAN nephrosis rat model. These findings suggest the potential role of the slit diaphragm associated proteins in the development of the nephrotic syndrome, and CsA decreased the proteinuria probably by a direct action on the expression of these proteins in podocytes. Further investigations are needed to clarify the role of slit diaphragm associated proteins in the development of PAN nephrosis.
A 04 years old boy with 02 months history of generalized oedema and scanty micturition was diagnosed as nephrotic syndrome with hepatitis B viral infection. He had evidence of active viral replication. After 01 month treatment with oral lamivudine, his urine became protein free and after 04 months, he had seroconversion from HBeAg+ve to HBeAg-ve. Lamivudine was continued for 01 year. He had no relapse after discontinuation of therapy and remained well after 36 months of completion of therapy. He had no evidence of active viral replication during this period, however HBsAg remained positive indication carrier state. As most children with HBV associated nephropathy have no evidence of chronic hepatitis, all such children must undergo HBV screening and for chronic liver disease if HBV screening is positive. As such children do not respond to prednisolone or other immunosuppresive therapy which might harm them, antiviral therapy should be considered. Lamivudine is a suitable alternative to IFN alpha owing to its low cost, ease of administration and fewer side effects.
4-Hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE), a major lipid peroxidation product, reacts with histidine, lysine or cysteine residues of proteins to form hemiacetal Michael adducts and thus interferes with the functions of the proteins. Here we undertook to identify HNE-modified proteins in the target organ of a ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA)-induced renal carcinogenesis model with histidine-specific HNEJ-2 antibody. Immunoaffinity column separation and sequencing identified one of the major modified proteins as actin. To further explore the characteristics of actin as an HNE acceptor, we produced four novel monoclonal antibodies against HNE-modified keyhole limpet hemocyanin. All these antibodies (HNEJ-1, 3-5) recognized histidine adducts, but were different from HNEJ-2 in recognizing lysine and cysteine adducts to some extent. Actin, albumin, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), metallothionein and superoxide dismutase were treated in vitro with HNE and evaluated with these antibodies. The results revealed that actin was most sensitive to HNE modification and metallothionein most resistant. Furthermore, the residue-specificity of GAPDH was in accord with that shown by our recent mass spectrometry data. Immunohistochemistry with the antibodies revealed cytoplasmic staining with or without nuclear staining in the renal proximal tubules after Fe-NTA administration. The results suggest that actin is a major target protein for HNE modification in vivo, and that our monoclonal antibodies are useful for evaluating the HNE adducts produced.
Side effects due to ingestion of nalidixic acid in a 46 year old patient with phenacetine-induced interstitial nephritis and severe renal failure are reported. This observation underlines the point that, besides the direct neurotoxic effect of nalidixic acid, disturbance of the acid-basic equilibrium could be seen in patients with renal failure in particular. A hypothetical pharmacokinetic model suggests that two metabolites of nalidixic acid could provide enough hydrogen ion to induce acidosis in cases of renal failure.
Amyloid beta protein (Abeta)-induced free radical-mediated neurotoxicity is known as a leading hypothesis for a cause of Alzheimer's disease. Abeta increased free radical production and lipid peroxidation in PC12 nerve cells, resulting in apoptosis and cell death. The protective effect of naringenin, a major flavanone constituent isolated from Citrus junos, against Abeta-induced neurotoxicity was investigated using PC12 cells. Pretreatment with isolated naringenin and vitamin C prevented the generation of the Abeta-induced reactive oxygen species. Naringenin resulted in the decrease of Abeta toxicity in a manner of concentration dependence, which was assessed by the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. However, treatment with these antioxidants inhibited the Abeta-induced neurotoxic effect. The antiamnestic activity of naringenin in vivo was also evaluated using ICR mice with amnesia induced by scopolamine (1 mg/kg body weight). Naringenin, when administered to ICR mice at 4.5 mg/kg body weight, significantly ameliorated scopolamine-induced amnesia as measured in the passive avoidance test. Therefore, these results indicate that micromolecular Abeta-induced in vitro oxidative cell stress is reduced by naringenin and naringenin may be a useful chemopreventive agent against a neurodegenerative disease such as Alzheimer's disease.
Sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was used to produce deliberate hypotension in 30 selected patients, 9 to 78 years of age, for total hip replacement under halothane-N2O-O2 anesthesia. Hypotension was induced in the first 13 patients by infusing a 0.01% (100 mug/ml) solution of nitroprusside (NP) in 5% dextrose. Blood pressure was diminished to a level just producing a dry surgical field. Preliminary data demonstrated that the mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) achieving this condition was 65 torr (p less than 0.01) and that the minute dosage of NP (mug/min) required to consistently reduce MAP to 65 torr could not be predicted on the basis of body weight. However, the age/weight ratio (yr/kg) of each patient, plotted against the known minute dosage of NP given during anesthesia, produced a highly significant dose-response curve (p less than 0.001, r = -0.8226). The preliminary dose-response curve was examined in a double-blind study on an additional 17 patients. The curve derived from the prospective study did not differ from that of the preliminary study. In addition, the combined data from the retrospective and prospective studies (30 patients) gave a better statistical fit than did those from the preliminary study alone (p less than 0.001, r = -0.8939). The nomogram provides an additional margin of safety in the use of this potent, fast-acting drug. SNP has been found predictable and effective in reducing surgical blood loss in selected patients undergoing total hip replacement.
The deletorious health effects of smoking are generally known. In spite of that, great numbers of people still smoke tobacco in the whole world. It is primarily due to the addictive properties of nicotine. Cigarette smoking is also dependent on various social and psychologic factors making quitting very difficult. Among various treatment modalities for tobacco dependence we aimed to assess the efficacy of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) vs group therapy. 325 subjects smoking at least 15 cigarettes/day for more than 3 years were studied. They were allocated to group therapy (neurolinguistic programming) or NRT (gum or patch) at their will. Non-smoking was validated at each of follow-up visits, at 1 and 2 weeks 1, 3, 6, 12 months by measuring CO in expired air. All groups were matched in age, smoking history and nicotine dependence. The best quit rate was observed as a result of group therapy (41% at 1 year, p. < 0.001) as compared to nicotine patch (2%) and nicotine gum (9%).
The purpose of this study was to examine the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying alcoholic cardiomyopathy.
The mechanism for alcoholic cardiomyopathy remains largely unknown.
The chronic cardiac effects of alcohol were examined in mice feeding with alcohol or isocaloric control diet for 2 months. Signaling pathways of alcohol-induced cardiac cell death were examined in H9c2 cells.
Compared with controls, hearts from alcohol-fed mice exhibited increased apoptosis, along with significant nitrative damage, demonstrated by 3-nitrotyrosine abundance. Alcohol exposure to H9c2 cells induced apoptosis, accompanied by 3-nitrotyrosine accumulation and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase (NOX) activation. Pre-incubation of H9c2 cells with urate (peroxynitrite scavenger), N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor), manganese(III) tetrakis(1-methyl-4-pyridyl)porphyrin (a superoxide dismutase mimetic), and apocynin (NOX inhibitor) abrogated alcohol-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, alcohol exposure significantly increased the expression of angiotensin II and its type 1 receptor (AT1). A protein kinase C (PKC)-α/β1 inhibitor or PKC-β1 small interfering RNA and an AT1 blocker prevented alcohol-induced activation of NOX, and the AT1 blocker losartan significantly inhibited the expression of PKC-β1, indicating that alcohol-induced activation of NOX is mediated by PKC-β1 via AT1. To define the role of AT1-mediated PKC/NOX-derived superoxide generation in alcohol-induced cardiotoxicity, mice with knockout of the AT1 gene and wild-type mice were simultaneously treated with alcohol for 2 months. The knockout AT1 gene completely prevented cardiac nitrative damage, cell death, remodeling, and dysfunction. More importantly, pharmacological treatment of alcoholic mice with superoxide dismutase mimetic also significantly prevented cardiac nitrative damage, cell death, and remodeling.
Alcohol-induced nitrative stress and apoptosis, which are mediated by angiotensin II interaction with AT1 and subsequent activation of a PKC-β1-dependent NOX pathway, are a causal factor in the development of alcoholic cardiomyopathy.
Endothelin (ET) antagonists do not decrease blood pressure in normal rats. Since angiotensin II (AII) and ET both induce smooth muscle cell contraction through the same transduction pathways we designed experiments to assess whether blockade of the renin angiotensin system would unmask a vasodilatory response to ET receptor antagonists in rats. For this purpose, we tested the effect on arterial blood pressure of the mixed ETA-ETB receptor antagonist bosentan or of the ETA antagonist BQ-123 in the absence or the presence of the AII receptor antagonist losartan. In control conditions bosentan did not affect arterial blood pressure. In contrast, in losartan-pretreated rats, bosentan induced a marked, dose-dependent decrease in arterial pressure (% change after bosentan 10 mg/kg: control -3 +/- 3, losartan -32 +/- 6; cilazapril -28 +/- 3). Similarly, BQ-123 decreased blood pressure in losartan-pretreated but not in control rats. Bosentan also increased the hypotensive effect of losartan in conscious, normotensive rats. The hypotensive effect of the combination of bosentan and losartan was not associated with any changes in cardiac output or heart rate, and thus was entirely due to a decrease in total peripheral resistance. We conclude that blockade of angiotensin II, AT1 receptors unmasks a vasodilator response to ET antagonists. This suggests that endogenous ET plays an active role in the maintenance of arterial blood pressure in rats which can be unmasked by a concomitant inhibition of the renin angiotensin system.
We previously found that the lack of nuclear xenobiotic receptor, PXR, decreases femoral bone mineral density (BMD) in Pxr-/- mice. Our present study aims to elucidate the inherited phenotype that correlates with the decreased BMD and to identify the PXR-regulated gene that may link with this phenotype.
Pxr+/+ and Pxr-/- mice were used to measure the serum levels of inorganic phosphate (Pi), calcium and vitamin D3. Real time PCR and western blots were used to determine the intestinal and renal expressions of Pi and calcium transporters and various other genes involved in bone homeostasis. Cell-based reporter and gel shift assays were performed to characterize the promoter of the identified PXR-regulated gene.
In both Pxr-/- male and female mice, lumbar, sternum, and skull were all also found to have decreased their BMD values. Serum Pi levels, but not calcium levels, are attenuated in Pxr-/- mice, exhibiting a phenotype of hypophosphatemia. Among the members of the Na/Pi contransporter family, only the SLC34A2 mRNA and protein are repressed in Pxr-/- mice. PXR can directly activate the transcription of the SLC34A2 gene through an ER6 motif on its promoter.
Pxr-/- mice show the inherited phenotype of hypophosphatemia. The lack of PXR results in a severe repression of the Na/Pi cotransporter NaPi-IIb/Npt2b (SLC34A2), thus leading Pxr-/- males and females to develop a type of hypophosphatemia.
Since the introduction of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors into the adjunctive treatment of patients with congestive heart failure, cases of severe hypotension, especially on the first day of treatment, have occasionally been reported. To assess the safety of the ACE inhibitor enalapril a multicenter, randomized, prazosin-controlled trial was designed that compared the incidence and severity of symptomatic hypotension on the first day of treatment. Trial medication was 2.5 mg enalapril or 0.5 prazosin. Subjects were 1210 inpatients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class II and III. Patients who received enalapril experienced clinically and statistically significantly less symptomatic hypotension (5.2%) than the patients who received prazosin (12.9%). All patients recovered. It was concluded that treatment with enalapril was well tolerated and it is, therefore, unreasonable to restrict the initiation of treatment with enalapril to inpatients.
Acrylonitrile (ACN) is a widely used intermediate in the manufacture of plastics, acrylic ﬁbers, synthetic rubbers and resins that are used in a variety of products including food containers and medical devices. ACN is a possible human carcinogen and a documented animal carcinogen, with the stomach being an important target of its toxicity. ACN has been previously reported to require metabolic activation to reactive intermediates and finally to cyanide (CN⁻). The current study aimed at exploring the potential role of neutrophils in ACN-induced gastric damage in rats. Experimental neutropenia was attained by injecting rats with methotrexate. This significantly ameliorated gastric mucosal injury induced by ACN. This is evidenced by protection against the increase in gastric ulcer index, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and CN⁻ level. Also, neutropenia guarded against the decrease in prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), induction of oxidative stress and reduction of total nitrites and alleviated histopathological alterations in rat stomachs. These data indicate that neutrophil infiltration is, at least partly, involved in ACN-induced gastric damage in rats.
