The clinical and EEG data of a 49-year-old man with myoclonic and generalized tonic-clonic seizures resulting from early childhood encephalitis are described. He experienced no tonic-clonic seizure for 10 years before brief exposure first to 60 mg/day duloxetine and then to 20mg/day paroxetine for depressive symptoms. These drugs were separately prescribed at a 9-month interval, and after beginning each drug, the patient experienced tonic-clonic seizures of worsening intensity and myoclonus of increasing frequency. Clinical features correlated with subcontinuous, generalized spike-wave discharges on the EEG. Discontinuation of antidepressant treatment resulted in rapid disappearance of clinical and electrophysiological manifestations of myoclonic status. We suggest care must be taken when using serotonin-noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), as these drugs pose the risk of complications in the specific population of people with myoclonic seizures.
Danazol is a synthetic androgenic steroid used clinically for the treatment of a wide variety of disorders. Although there is no extensive evidence that androgens are thrombogenic in humans, there are case reports of cerebral, coronary, and peripheral arterial thrombosis in young male athletes abusing anabolic-androgenic steroids. There are also two reported cases of arterial and venous thrombotic events attributed to danazol therapy. We report two additional cases of limb-threatening arterial thrombosis in patients undergoing danazol therapy, and suggest the possibility that danazol may be an independent risk factor for arterial thrombosis.
Manganese (Mn) is a redox-active element, and whereas its uptake, disposition, and toxicity in mammals may depend in part on its oxidation state, the proteins affecting manganese oxidation state and speciation in vivo are not well known. Studies have suggested that the oxidase protein ceruloplasmin (Cp) mediates iron and manganese oxidation and loading onto plasma transferrin (Tf), as well as cellular iron efflux. We hypothesized that ceruloplasmin may also affect the tissue distribution and eventual neurotoxicity of manganese. To test this, aceruloplasminemic versus wild-type mice were treated with a single i.p. (54)Mn tracer dose, or elevated levels of manganese subchronically (0, 7.5, or 15 mg Mn/kg s.c., three doses per week for 4 weeks), and evaluated for transferrin-bound manganese, blood manganese partitioning, tissue manganese disposition, and levels of brain glutathione, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), and protein carbonyls as measures of oxidative stress, and open arena activity. Results show that ceruloplasmin does not play a role in the loading of manganese onto plasma transferrin in vivo, or in the partitioning of manganese between the plasma and cellular fractions of whole blood. Ceruloplasmin did, however, affect the retention of manganese in blood and its distribution to tissues, most notably kidney and to a lesser extent brain and lung. Results also indicate that ceruloplasmin interacted with chronic elevated manganese exposures to produce greater levels of brain oxidative stress. These results provide evidence that metal oxidase proteins play an important role in altering neurotoxicity arising from elevated manganese exposures.
Approximately 15 percent of the Taiwanese population are chronic carriers of hepatitis B virus (HBV), among the highest rates in Asia. In July 1984, the Taiwanese government initiated a nationwide HBV-vaccination program. The program began with educational efforts and voluntary prenatal screening for HBsAg. Infants of HBsAg-carrier mothers received a four-dose regimen of hepatitis B vaccine. Those born to highly infectious mothers also received a dose of hepatitis-B immune globulin within 24 hours after birth. Seroepidemiologic studies were conducted using a random sample of infants. Serum samples were collected at 18, 24, 36, and 48 months and analyzed via radioimmunoassay for HBsAg, anti-HBs, and anti-HBc. Infants of highly infectious mothers had HBsAg positivity rates of 14.2 percent (vaccine plus HBIG) and 19.7 percent (vaccine only) when on schedule, and 17.0 percent when off schedule. Infants of moderately infectious mothers had an HBsAg positivity rate of 3.0 percent when on schedule and 6.4 percent when off schedule. These low positivity rates persisted throughout the 48-month follow-up period. This represents a dramatic improvement upon the 40 to 96 percent vertical transmission rate seen before the program implementation. This program demonstrates that mass immunoprophylaxis for HBV is feasible, and provides practical strategies for other Asian countries.
The neurobehavioral changes in wild-type and metallothionein (MT)-null mice after the cessation of long-term, low-level exposure to Hg0 were investigated. MT-null and wild-type females were continuously (24 h/day) exposed to mercury vapor (Hg0) at 0.055 mg/m3 (range: 0.043-0.073 mg/m3), which was similar to the current threshold limit value (TLV), for 29 weeks. The effects on behavior, such as locomotor activity in the open field (OPF), learning ability in the passive avoidance response (PA) and spatial learning ability in the Morris water maze (MM) were examined immediately and 12 weeks after the cessation of exposure. Immediately after the exposure had ceased, total locomotor activity in OPF was decreased in the both strain of mice, although the MT-null mice appeared to show more distinct effect. In the PA test, the exposed animals of both strains showed learning impairment as compared to un-exposed mice. Twelve weeks after the cessation of exposure, the locomotor activity in OPF was elevated in the exposed mice of both strains, while the learning ability in the PA test appeared normal in both strains. Spatial learning ability was not affected at all. Immediately after the exposure had ceased, the brain mercury concentration of the exposed wild-type mice was 1.75 microg/g, twofold of that in the MT-null mice. In 12 weeks, brain mercury levels decreased to approximately 1/20 of those in immediately after the exposure in both of the strains. These results for the first time indicated that long-term, low-level exposure to Hg0 could exert neurobehavioral effects, which were not reversible even after a long exposure-free period. Whereas the effects on learning ability were presumably transient, the effects on spontaneous behavior as evaluated in OPF were persistent. Finally, the MT-null mice seemed more susceptible to Hg0-induced neurotoxicity than the wild-type mice, confirming our previous results.
Recently we demonstrated that centrally administrated melittin, a phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) activator, caused pressor and bradycardic effect in the normotensive conscious rats. In the current study we aimed to determine the mediation of central cholinergic system in the pressor and bradycardic effect of centrally administrated melittin. Studies were performed in normotensive male Sprague-Dawley rats. 1.5, 3.0 or 6.0microg/5.0microl doses of melittin were injected intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.). Melittin caused dose- and time-dependent increases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and decrease in heart rate (HR). In order to test the mediation of central cholinergic system on the pressor and bradycardic effect of melittin, the rats were pretreated with mecamylamine (50microg; i.c.v.), cholinergic nonselective nicotinic receptor antagonist, atropine sulfate (10microg; i.c.v.), a cholinergic nonselective muscarinic receptor antagonist, hemicholinium-3 (20microg; i.c.v.), a high affinity neuronal choline uptake inhibitor, methyllycaconitine (10 and 25microg; i.c.v.) or alpha-bungarotoxin (10 and 25microg; i.c.v.), selective antagonists of alpha-7 subtype nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (alpha7nAChRs), 15min prior to melittin (3.0microg) injection. Pretreatment with mecamylamine, hemicholinium-3, methyllycaconitine or alpha-bungarotoxin partially attenuated the pressor and bradicardia effect of elicited by melittin in the normotensive conscious rats whereas pretreatment with atropine had no effect. In conclusion, i.c.v. administration of melittin increases MAP and decreases HR in conscious rats. The activation of central nicotinic cholinergic receptors, predominantly alpha7nAChRs, partially acts as a mediator in the pressor responses to i.c.v. injection of melittin in the normotensive conscious rats. Moreover, decreased uptake of choline to the cholinergic terminals may consider that melittin activates central choline and acetylcholine release, as well.
Graves' disease (GD), a prototypical autoimmune disorder, is associated with other autoimmune diseases, including vasculitis. Antithyroid drugs, despite their postulated immunosuppressive effects, may cause several autoimmune disorders. Here we describe the first patient with central nervous system (CNS) vasculitis that developed shortly after the start of methimazole (MMI) treatment for GD.
CNS vasculitis was suspected on the basis of the clinical features and neurologic examination, showing a reinforcement of deep reflexes, especially of the left knee and Achilles reflexes. The diagnosis was confirmed by a brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which showed some hyperintensive spots in the subcortical substantia alba and in the parietal area bilaterally, and by a single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) imaging, which showed a nonhomogenous distribution of the blood flow in the brain, with a reduced perfusion on the left side of the frontotemporal and parietal regions, and on the right side of the frontotemporal area. MMI was stopped before total thyroidectomy, and symptoms resolved in the next 5 weeks. Six months after MMI was stopped, the brain MRI and SPECT had become normal.
To our knowledge, this is the first report of CNS vasculitis related to MMI therapy.
Thromboelastography was carried out to examine the coagulation and fibrinolytic systems in experimental nephrotic rats following treatment with daunomycin. The daunomycin rats showed augmentation of ma on thromboelastography. The response to the plasminogen activator, urokinase, on thromboelastography differed between the daunomycin and control rats. Most daunomycin rats failed to reveal any fibrinolytic effect of urokinase on thromboelastography. Experimental nephrotic rats induced by daunomycin may thus possibly develop hypercoagulability and exhibit a depressed fibrinolytic activity.
Safety in the drug treatment of hypertension can only be seen in relation to efficacy, which has now come to mean not just blood pressure (BP) reduction but improvements in hard end points including mortality. Information on safety can come from a variety of sources, in an ascending hierarchy, which is as follows: case-control studies, cohort studies, randomized control trials (RCTs), and metaanalyses based on good RCTs. Only in the case of metaanalyses are definite criteria for acceptability established, but evaluation of case-control and cohort studies remains subjective. Despite these reserves about the data sources, it is proposed that the case-control study pointing to the risk of acute myocardial infarction during therapy with short-acting calcium channel blockers (CCBs) can be balanced out by another better more recent study, and by a large cohort study from Israel. In a very elderly population, a well-designed cohort study strongly suggests that short-acting nifedipine can be linked to increased mortality and that the specific links may be with a high dose and when the initial BP is less than 160/90 mm Hg. However, initial BP was only available in an unspecified number of patients. The risk of using short-acting verapamil was no more than that of beta-blockade. These differences can be attributed at least in part to the low catecholamine profile of verapamil and the marked rapid adrenergic activation with short-acting nifedipine, which could also explain the adverse effects found when this agent is given to patients with acute coronary syndromes. During the chronic use of long-acting dihydropyridine (DHP) CCBs, most evidence suggests that there is little or no catecholamine activation, or in the case of amlodipine, even a decrease in plasma catecholamine levels. These differences may explain why the expected regression of left ventricular hypertrophy is obtained with long- but not short-acting DHPs. At present the results of several large randomized controlled trials with long-acting CCBs are awaited. In the meantime, when the decision has been made to use a CCB, the preferential choice is for the use of a non-DHP for hypertension with clinical ischemia or for postinfarct hypertension, for a long-acting CCB for the control of left ventricular hypertrophy, and for the DHP amlodipine when there is associated depression of myocardial function.
Hepatic complications in erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP) have been attributed to toxic actions of accumulated protoporphyrin (PP). PP can only be removed via the bile but transport systems involved have not been defined. The aim of this study was to gain insight in the mode of biliary PP excretion, with emphasis on the potential contribution of the Mdr1 P-glycoprotein export pump and biliary lipids as PP carriers. Control mice and mice homozygous for Mdr1a/b (Abcb1) or Mdr2 (Abcb4) gene disruption, the latter unable to secrete phospholipids and cholesterol into bile, were treated with griseofulvin to chemically induce protoporphyria. All groups showed dramatically increased PP levels in erythrocytes and liver after griseofulvin treatment. Histologically, massive PP deposits were found in livers of control and Mdr1a/b(-/-) mice but not in those of Mdr2(-/-) mice. Serum unesterified cholesterol and phospholipids were increased by griseofulvin because of formation of lipoprotein-X in control and Mdr1a/b(-/-) mice only. Yet, bile flow was not impaired in griseofulvin-treated mice, and biliary bile salt, phospholipid, and cholesterol secretion rates were significantly increased. Surprisingly, biliary PP excretion was similar in all 3 groups of griseofulvin-treated mice: the observed linear relationship between hepatic and biliary PP concentrations and identical liver-to-bile concentration ratios in treated and untreated mice suggest a passive mode of excretion. In conclusion, the data show that Mdr P-glycoproteins are not critically involved in biliary removal of excess PP and indicate that the presence of biliary lipids is required for formation of intrahepatic PP deposits.
Rats were exposed to hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD) or tetrachloroethylene (TET) in order to determine which of these chemicals was more likely to be responsible for elevations in individual serum bile acids (SBA) found in workers exposed primarily to these two chemicals. Increases in cholic and taurocholic acids were found on exposure to high doses of HCBD. Elevations of SBA occurred right down to low exposures for TET, however, with cholic, chenodeoxycholic, and glycocholic acids being the most sensitive bile acids. Only at high doses for each chemical was there any indication of liver injury as determined by routinely used parameters such as serum enzymes or bilirubin. The data suggest that TET is likely to play a role in the elevated individual SBA in an exposure situation where both this chemical and HCBD are found.
In this double-blinded, randomized study, we examined the hemodynamic effects of lumbar epidural injection of alkalinized lidocaine with phenylephrine in 81 patients undergoing inguinal herniorrhaphy. Patients assigned to four equal groups received 20 mL of alkalinized lidocaine (17 mL of 2% lidocaine + 3 mL of 7% sodium bicarbonate) with one of four doses of phenylephrine: 0 (Group 1), 50 (Group 2), 100 (Group 3), or 200 microg (Group 4) injected via a lumbar epidural catheter. Blood pressure, heart rate, and skin temperature on the foot were recorded every 5 min for 1 h after injection and were compared among groups. Hypotension was defined as mean arterial pressure < 80% of baseline. The incidence of hypotension was 45%, 55%, 35%, and 15% in Groups 1-4, respectively. Patients in Group 4 showed the smallest reduction in blood pressure compared with Groups 1 and 2 (one-sided Fisher's exact test, P < 0.05). We conclude that the 200-microg dose of epidural phenylephrine (1:100,000 concentration) reduced the incidence of hypotension after epidural anesthesia with alkalinized lidocaine.
Hypotension after epidural anesthesia is common in general clinical practice. Phenylephrine administered epidurally in combination with alkalinized lidocaine may reduce the incidence of hypotension.
Intra-arterial ambulatory blood pressure was measured over 24 hours, in 34 patients with newly diagnosed hypertension, both before and after double-blind randomisation to treatment with atenolol (n=9), metoprolol (n=9), pindolol (n=9), or propranolol in its slow-release form (n=7). The dosage of each drug was adjusted at monthly clinic visits until satisfactory control of blood pressure was achieved (140/90 mm Hg or less by cuff) or the maximum dose in the study protocol was reached. A second intra-arterial recording was made after these drugs had been taken once daily at 0800 for three to eight months (mean 5.0+/-SD 1.4) and was started four hours after the last dose.At the end of the 24-hour recordings blood pressure was significantly lower with all four drugs. The extent to which the drugs reduced blood pressure, however, differed over the 24 hours. Atenolol lowered mean arterial pressure significantly throughout all 24 recorded hours, metoprolol for 12 hours, pindolol for 15 hours, and slow-release propranolol for 22 hours. Neither metoprolol nor pindolol lowered blood pressure during sleep. A significant reduction in heart rate was observed over 20 hours with atenolol, 20 hours with metoprolol, 10 hours with pindolol, and 24 hours with slow-release propranolol. Atenolol, metoprolol, and slow-release propranolol continued to slow the heart rate 24 hours after the last tablet was taken; this effect on heart rate, however, was not sustained throughout the second morning in those patients taking atenolol. Pindolol, the only drug studied that has intrinsic sympathomimetic activity, increased heart rate and did not lower blood pressure during sleep.Atenolol and slow-release propranolol are effective as antihypertensive agents over 24 hours when taken once daily, whereas metoprolol and pindolol may need to be taken more frequently. At times of low sympathetic tone, however, such as during sleep, beta-blockers with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity may raise heart rate and attenuate the fall in blood pressure with treatment.
To assess the frequency and clinical features of an acute febrile toxic reaction (AFTR) in patients with refractory rheumatoid arthritis (RA) receiving combined therapy with methotrexate (MTX) and azathioprine (AZA).
A cohort of 43 RA patients being treated with MTX/AZA combination therapy were studied. In all of them, RA had been refractory to single-therapy disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. We analyzed the frequency and clinical features of AFTR, which consisted mainly of the development of fever, leukocytosis, and cutaneous leukocytoclastic vasculitis when AZA was added to the MTX regimen.
Four of the 43 patients (9.3%) who had been receiving long-term, well-tolerated treatment with MTX (mean +/- SD 375.5 +/- 159.5 days, range 227-561 days) developed AFTR shortly (mean +/- SD 25.7 +/- 13.6 days, range 17-46 days) after the addition of AZA to the regimen. The AFTR resolved rapidly (3 +/- 1.4 days) after discontinuation of AZA and MTX. In 2 cases, rechallenge with AZA and MTX was linked to a new flare of AFTR.
The knowledge of this side effect is particularly important because it mimics a severe infectious complication related to immunosuppressive therapy, and because rechallenge can produce severe toxicity. Most of the new combined therapies for RA do not seem to be more toxic than single-drug treatment. Nevertheless, clinicians should be aware of a possible increase in side effects due to drug interactions or some other unidentified mechanism.
Heparin since the early sixties has played an important part in prevention and treatment of thromboembolic processes. It has hardly any side effects like allergic reactions but haemorrhage is seen more frequently. A less well-known complication is so-called heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HITT). There are two different forms: a mild thrombocytopenia, characterised by a decrease in platelet count to 100-150 x 10(9)/l. This form causes no clinical symptoms. The more severe form occurs between the 7th and the 11th day after heparin administration and is characterised by paradoxically occurring thromboembolic complications. This syndrome results from formation of an antigen-antibody complex. If heparin has been administered in the past patients may develop this severe form at the moment of renewed administration. In our hospital during the past 8 years we observed 9 patients with the HITT syndrome presenting with thromboembolic complications. A thrombocyte aggregation test is diagnostically useful. Heparin-free plasma of the patient is mixed with donor thrombocytes, and heparin is added; in the HITT syndrome aggregation occurs. The main therapy is stopping the heparin administration and giving antiaggregants such as dextrans.
The objective of this study was to identify dopamine (DA) metabolism pattern in Lewy body Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with dyskinesia (Dysk) only, with wearing-off (WO) only, or no motor complications (NMC) induced by levodopa (LD). DA, homovanillic acid (HVA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT) were measured individual basal ganglia nuclei of nine PD patients who received LD for 6-18 years. Three patients had only Dysk, three only WO, and three had neither Dysk nor WO. Biochemical measurements in PD brains were compared with four non-neurological control brains from individuals matched for age and post-mortem retrieval time. DA levels in the PD were reduced in the caudate by 87% and putamen by 99%. In the caudates, the HVA/DA molar ratio as an index of DA metabolism was similar in the WO and the Dysk patients. However, in the putamen, the ratio of HVA/DA was significantly higher in the WO compared with the Dysk (p = 0.03)and the NMC (p = 0.04) groups of patients. In the putamen, the DOPAC levels were higher in the WO cases while in the Dysk cases, 3-MT levels were higher. The results suggest that in the WO only cases, the putaminal DA was in large measure metabolized intraneuronally while the DA metabolism in our Dysk only patients was mainly extraneuronal. We conclude that the magnitude and the site (intra vs. extraneuronal) of the synaptic DA metabolism in the putamen plays a significant role in LD-induced Dysk and WO.
To determine the incidence of cardiovascular and renal toxicity of a nonionic contrast agent when used for cardiac catheterization, and to assess the value of electrolytes and urinalysis results as predictors of nephropathy induced by a contrast agent.
Nonrandomized trial using a criterion standard and a cohort analytic study with a 48-hour follow-up.
Referral-based university hospital.
Convenience sample of patients having diagnostic cardiac catheterization. Renal function and clinical status were evaluated at baseline in 1,144 patients; at 24 hours in 1,077 (94%); and at 48 hours in 663 (57%).
After patients received saline for hydration, coronary angiography and left ventriculography were done with iopamidol (average dose, 203 +/- 56 cc).
The definite and possible incidence of major acute cardiovascular complications from nonionic contrast media was 0.2% and 0.7%, respectively. The mean serum creatinine level increased 11.5 mumol/L from baseline at 24 hours (P less than 0.0001) and 16.8 mumol/L from baseline at 48 hours (P less than 0.0001). Results in a randomly selected training sample were studied to determine predictors of a rise in serum creatinine of 44.2 mumol/L or more. The baseline serum creatinine level and age were significant predictors of renal injury, but hypertension, diabetes mellitus, congestive heart failure, vascular disease, the volume of contrast agent injected or baseline values of urinary variables did not predict nephrotoxicity. In an independent validation sample, only the baseline serum creatinine level was confirmed as a predictor of nephrotoxicity, whereas age was not. A model that predicted contrast-induced nephropathy by the serum creatinine level showed an exponential increase in the risk for nephrotoxicity if the baseline level was 106.1 mumol/L or higher.
Patients have a small but significant rise in serum creatinine after cardiac catheterization with a nonionic contrast agent. Baseline renal insufficiency is the only confirmed predictor of nonionic contrast-induced nephrotoxicity.
Selegiline protects nigral dopaminergic neurons and is recommended for the treatment of patients in the early stage of Parkinson's disease (PD). We treated 112 PD patients and noted that those given selegiline had a high incidence of hallucination. Our objective was to determine which clinical therapeutic factors cause such hallucinations. The Kruskal-Wallis and chi-square test showed that in 94 patients, the severity of the hallucinations was significantly related to the duration of illness, Hoehn and Yahr stage, doses of levodopa and cabergoline, whether or not selegiline was used, and whether or not medication for constipation was required. In addition, patients who were treated with a low dose of levodopa (< or =300 mg/day), who had a low Hoehn and Yahr stage, and a short duration of illness (< or =8 years) together with a high dose of selegiline or cabergoline also tended to have hallucinations. MRI findings were not related to the incidence of hallucination. When selegiline is given to patients who have PD of long duration and a high Hoehn and Yahr stage, and who already are receiving levodopa and a dopamine agonist, the doses of levodopa and the dopamine agonists given, as well as the presence of constipation, may be related to the incidence of hallucination.
Little is known about the effects of mixed opioid analgesics on gastrointestinal propulsion. In 20 patients, nalbuphine (0.1 mg/kg) was given after routine neuroleptanesthesia consisting of 70 micrograms/kg droperidol, 7 micrograms/kg fentanyl, and N2O/O2 (3:1) ventilation, to study its effect on gastrointestinal motility in the postoperative period. For comparison, another group of patients (n = 20) undergoing similar interventions received placebo (0.9% NaCl) at the end of the procedure. Gastrointestinal transit time was determined by measuring the exhaled H2 concentration following gastric lactulose administration. As lactulose is degraded only in the cecum, resulting in the release of hydrogen, the arrival of the polysaccharide at the terminal ileum could thus be determined. Compared to placebo, gastrointestinal transit was significantly longer in patients after nalbuphine (mean transit time 270 min vs 380 min). Pain estimation by visual analogue scale (VAS 0-10) suggested an antagonistic effect at the 10th and 20th min postoperatively, as pain scores in the nalbuphine group were higher when compared to placebo (3.5 vs 1.8 and 2.5 vs 1.4). There was a similar pain score in both groups (1.3 vs 1.4) 30 min after drug administration. However, there was significantly better pain relief after nalbuphine (0.7 vs 1.4 and 0.7 vs 1.1) in the late postoperative period (120th and 240th min). When given after potent opioids, it must be borne in mind that the antagonistic effect of nalbuphine is initially apparent. The agonistic potency of the compound will come into effect around the 30th min post-injection. Delayed gastrointestinal transit after nalbuphine is explained by agonist-like effects on peripheral opioid receptors in the gut.
The clinical picture of neuropathy caused by dapsone is usually progressive muscle weakness and wasting, most often involving distal muscles of the extremities. Two patients with neurologic symptoms following the use of dapsone for dermatitis herpetiformis are reported. Both patients had normal motor conduction velocities, and negative results on physical examination of muscle wasting. We conclude that their clinical presentation was not due to dapsone-induced neuropathy. A discussion and a review of cases of this unusual effect of dapsone are included.
Activity-guided fractionation of methanol-chloroform (1:1) extract of Ferula gummosa was carried out to investigate the isolation of the active component(s) responsible for the alleviation of morphine withdrawal syndrome induced by naloxone. Dependence was induced using subcutaneous (s.c.) injections of morphine daily for three days. On day 4, morphine was injected 0.5 h before the interaperitoneal (i.p.) injections of fractions or diazepam (5 mg/kg, i.p.) as positive control. Naloxone was injected (5 mg/kg, s.c.) 2 h after the final dose of morphine. The number of episodes of jumping during 30 min after the injection of naloxone was considered as the intensity of the withdrawal syndrome. The methanol-chloroform (1:1) extract of the aerial parts of plant was prepared and partitioned between water and chloroform. The active chloroform layer was concentrated and partitioned between methanol-water (9:1) and n-hexane. Activity was observed in the hydroalcoholic layer. This layer was concentrated and partitioned further between methanol-water (3:2) and chloroform. The chloroform layer showed a dose-dependent and significant activity. For all fractions the activity was observed at 470 mg/kg. Further purification on silica gel column chromatography gave a pure compound, which was 10 times as effective as the crude extract. The results of this study indicated that the plant extract contained component(s) that could be useful for the alleviation of morphine withdrawal syndrome.
Surface changes in the epithelium of the choroid plexuses of the lateral and third ventricles of rats induced by chronic administration of acetazolamide have been studied by scanning electron microscopy. After 3 weeks atrophic changes were evident, the microvilli and blebs normally seen on the ventricular surface of the cells appeared attenuated, and in extreme cases they disappeared, leaving the cell surface completely denuded. Localized areas of hypertrophy, indicated by secondary spherical budding, were occasionally observed. The atrophic changes accord with the known inhibitory effects of acetazolamide on CSF formation: perhaps the small number of cells undergoing hypertrophy compensate to some extent for the atrophic ones and maintain some CSF secretion.
Exposure to aristolochic acid I (AAI) is associated with aristolochic acid nephropathy, Balkan endemic nephropathy, and urothelial cancer. Individual differences in xenobiotic-metabolizing enzyme activities are likely to be a reason for interindividual susceptibility to AA-induced disease. We evaluated the reductive activation and oxidative detoxication of AAI by cytochrome P450 (P450) 1A1 and 1A2 using the Cyp1a1(-/-) and Cyp1a2(-/-) single-knockout and Cyp1a1/1a2(-/-) double-knockout mouse lines. Incubations with hepatic microsomes were also carried out in vitro. P450 1A1 and 1A2 were found to (i) activate AAI to form DNA adducts and (ii) detoxicate it to 8-hydroxyaristolochic acid I (AAIa). AAI-DNA adduct formation was significantly higher in all tissues of Cyp1a1/1a2(-/-) than Cyp1a(+/+) wild-type (WT) mice. AAI-DNA adduct levels were elevated only in selected tissues from Cyp1a1(-/-) versus Cyp1a2(-/-) mice, compared with those in WT mice. In hepatic microsomes, those from WT as well as Cyp1a1(-/-) and Cyp1a2(-/-) mice were able to detoxicate AAI to AAIa, whereas Cyp1a1/1a2(-/-) microsomes were less effective in catalyzing this reaction, confirming that both mouse P450 1A1 and 1A2 are both involved in AAI detoxication. Under hypoxic conditions, mouse P450 1A1 and 1A2 were capable of reducing AAI to form DNA adducts in hepatic microsomes; the major roles of P450 1A1 and 1A2 in AAI-DNA adduct formation were further confirmed using selective inhibitors. Our results suggest that, in addition to P450 1A1 and 1A2 expression levels in liver, in vivo oxygen concentration in specific tissues might affect the balance between AAI nitroreduction and demethylation, which in turn would influence tissue-specific toxicity or carcinogenicity.
We used cloning in silico coupled with polymerase chain reaction to demonstrate that IHG-2 is part of the 3'-untranslated region of gremlin, a member of the DAN family of secreted proteins that antagonize the bioactivities of members of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta superfamily. Mesangial cell gremlin mRNA levels were induced by high glucose, cyclic mechanical strain, and TGF-beta1 in vitro, and gremlin mRNA levels were elevated in the renal cortex of rats with streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy in vivo. gremlin expression was observed in parallel with induction of bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), a target for gremlin in models of cell differentiation. Together these data indicate that (a) IHG-2 is gremlin, (b) gremlin is expressed in diabetic nephropathy in vivo, (c) both glycemic and mechanical strain stimulate mesangial cell gremlin expression in vitro, (d) high glucose induces gremlin, in part, through TGFbeta-mediated pathways, and (e) Gremlin is a potential endogenous antagonist of BMPs within a diabetic glomerular milieu.
The effect of an oral adsorbent (AST-120) was examined in rats with daunomycin-induced chronic renal failure. Sixteen pairs of daunomycin rats which had similar levels of proteinuria at 4 weeks after being injected with daunomycin were selected. One rat of each pair served as a control and was fed on a standard diet, while the other rats were fed on a diet containing AST-120. The blood creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) were significantly lower in the rats fed with AST-120 than in the controls. Moreover, the life span of the rats fed with AST-120 was significantly prolonged as compared to that of the control rats. These findings suggest that oral administration of AST-120 may help to prevent rapid deterioration of renal function in experimental chronic renal failure induced by daunomycin in rats.
Some people in states of excited delirium die while in police custody. Emerging evidence suggests that physical restraint in certain positions may contribute to such deaths. In this study the authors determined the frequency of physical restraint among people in a state of excited delirium who died unexpectedly.
The authors reviewed the records of 21 cases of unexpected death in people with excited delirium, which were investigated by the Office of the Chief Coroner for Ontario between 1988 and 1995. Eyewitness testimony, findings during postmortem examinations, clinical history, toxicological data and other official documents describing the events surrounding the deaths were analyzed. Specific reference was made to documented eyewitness testimony of restraint method, body position and use of capsicum oleoresin (pepper) spray. Because cocaine was detected in the blood of some of these people during the postmortem examination, the role of cocaine in excited delirium was examined by comparing the cocaine levels in these cases with levels in 2 control groups: 19 people who died from acute cocaine intoxication and 21 people who had used cocaine shortly before they died but who had died from other causes.
In all 21 cases of unexpected death associated with excited delirium, the deaths were associated with restraint (for violent agitation and hyperactivity), with the person either in a prone position (18 people [86%]) or subjected to pressure on the neck (3 [14%]). All of those who died had suddenly lapsed into tranquillity shortly after being restrained. The excited delirium was caused by a psychiatric disorder in 12 people (57%) and by cocaine-induced psychosis in 8 (38%). Eighteen people (86%) were in police custody when they died. Four (19%) had been sprayed with capsicum oleoresin, and heart disease was found in another 4 at autopsy. The blood level of cocaine in those whose excited delirium was cocaine induced was similar to levels found in recreational cocaine users and lower than levels found in people who died from cocaine intoxication.
Restraint may contribute to the death of people in states of excited delirium, and further studies to test this hypothesis are recommended. Meanwhile, law enforcement authorities and others should bear in mind the potential for the unexpected death of people in states of excited delirium who are restrained in the prone position or with a neck hold.
The effect of the D1 dopamine (DA) receptor agonist SKF 38393 was compared with that produced by the D1-receptor antagonist, SCH 23390, in rats implanted with electrodes for chronic sleep recordings. SKF 38393 (0.1 to 4.0 mg/kg) significantly suppressed rapid-eye-movement sleep (REMS) after the highest dose. SCH 23390 (0.1 to 2.0 mg/kg) increased slow-wave sleep (SWS), whereas wakefulness (W) and REMS were decreased. Pretreatment with SKF 38393 (0.5 mg/kg) prevented the effects of SCH 23390 (0.25 mg/kg) on W and SWS. However, REM sleep showed a further depression. Pretreatment with SKF 38393 (2.0 mg/kg) or SCH 23390 (0.25 mg/kg) failed to modify the increase of SWS and decrease of W induced by D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine (0.5 mg/kg) in a dose that selectively stimulates DA autoreceptors. On the other hand, SCH 23390 (0.25 mg/kg) failed to prevent REMS depression induced by bromocriptine (6.0 mg/kg) in a dose that preferentially acts at postsynaptic sites. Pretreatment with SCH 23390 (0.25 mg/kg) prevented the increase of W and decrease of SWS induced by the 5-HT2 receptor agonist DOI (0.25 mg/kg). Given the "fragility" of REMS in the rat, nonspecific factors could be contributing to its depression after SKF 38389 or SCH 23390 administration. Inhibition of D1 receptors could be responsible for SCH 23390-induced increase of SWS and decrease of W. However, a blockade of 5-HT2 receptors could be partly involved in these effects. Neither SKF 38393 nor SCH 23390 exerted activity on the sleep-wake cycle, which could be considered to reflect effects at DA autoreceptors.
