The progressive ankylosis gene (ank) is a transmembrane protein that transports intracellular pyrophosphate to the extracellular milieu. Human mutations of ank lead to craniometaphyseal dysplasia, a disease which is characterized by the overgrowth of craniofacial bones and osteopenia in long bones, suggesting that ANK plays a regulatory role in osteoblast differentiation. To determine the role of ANK in osteoblast differentiation, we suppressed ANK expression in the osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cell line using siRNA and determined the expression of osteoblastic marker genes and the transcription factors osterix and runx2. In addition, we determined the osteoblastic differentiation of bone marrow stromal cells isolated from the bone marrow of ank/ank mice, which express a truncated, nonfunctional ANK protein, or wild-type littermates. Suppression of ANK expression in MC3T3-E1 cells led to a decrease in bone marker gene expression, including alkaline phosphatase, bone sialoprotein, osteocalcin and type I collagen. In addition, osterix gene expression was decreased in ANK expression-suppressed MC3T3 cells, whereas runx2 expression was increased. Bone marrow stromal cells isolated from ank/ank mice cultured in the presence of ascorbate-2-phosphate for up to 35 days showed markedly reduced mineralization compared to the mineralization of bone marrow stromal cells isolated from wild-type littermates. In conclusion, these findings suggest that ANK is a positive regulator of differentiation events towards a mature osteoblastic phenotype.
Although recent studies suggest that opioid rotation could be an effective treatment strategy for morphine-induced delirium, there have been no prospective studies to investigate the treatment effects of opioid rotation using fentanyl. The primary aim of this study was to clarify the efficacy of opioid rotation from morphine to fentanyl in symptom palliation of morphine-induced delirium. Twenty-one consecutive cancer patients with morphine-induced delirium underwent opioid rotation to fentanyl. Physicians recorded the symptom severity of delirium (the Memorial Delirium Assessment Scale, MDAS), pain, and other symptoms (categorical verbal scale from 0: none to 3: severe) and the Schedule for Team Assessment Scale (STAS) (from 0: none to 4: extreme); and performance status at the time of study enrollment and three and seven days after. Of 21 patients recruited, one patient did not complete the study. In the remaining 20 patients, morphine was substituted with transdermal fentanyl in 9 patients and parenteral fentanyl in 11 patients. Total opioid dose increased from 64 mg oral morphine equivalent/day (Day 0) to 98 mg/day (Day 7), and the median increase in total opioid dose was 42%. Treatment success, defined as an MDAS score below 10 and pain score of 2 or less, was obtained in 13 patients on Day 3 and 18 patients on Day 7. The mean MDAS score significantly decreased from 14 (Day 0) to 6.4 and 3.6 (Days 3 and 7, respectively, P < 0.001). Pain scores significantly decreased from 2.2 (Day 0) to 1.3 and 1.1 on the categorical verbal scale (Days 3 and 7, respectively, P < 0.001); from 2.6 (Day 0) to 1.6 and 1.3 on the STAS (Days 3 and 7, respectively, P < 0.001). Symptom scores of dry mouth, nausea, and vomiting significantly decreased, and performance status significantly improved. Opioid rotation from morphine to fentanyl may be effective in alleviating delirium and pain in cancer patients with morphine-induced delirium.
This study was designed to evaluate the effects of trimethaphan-induced hypotension on renal function in healthy young patients undergoing maxillofacial surgery. Anaesthesia was induced with thiopentone and was maintained with halothane 1.5-2.0 per cent in oxygen. Each patient served as his own control, and data were analyzed using the paired t-test. Trimethaphan was infused at a rate of 45-52 microgram.kg-1.min-1 for an average hypotensive period of 53 +/- 4 (mean +/- SEM) minutes to reduce the mean arterial pressure (MAP) to 49 +/- 2 torr. Endogenous creatinine clearance, urinary Po2, sodium reabsorption rate (Tna), and serum and urine osmolalities were determined before, during and after arterial hypotension with trimethaphan. Urine flow averaged 2.9 +/- 1 ml/min during the period of hypotension. Endogenous creatinine clearance and Tna were significantly decreased (p less than 0.05) in the hypotensive period. These values returned to normal levels within one hour upon discontinuation of trimethaphan and restoration of blood pressure. We found no statistical difference in urine Po2, and serum and urine osmolalities during control, hypotensive and recovery periods. These results suggest that medullary renal tissue oxygenation, an index of tissue viability, may have remained adequate despite a significant reduction in endogenous creatinine clearance during the hypotensive period. Furthermore, it appears that the effect of trimethaphan-induced hypotension on renal function is similar to the sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension in man which we have reported previously.
A 68-year-old woman, with type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolemia, and prior long-term simvastatin therapy, self-resumed troglitazone after running out of metformin. She developed an acute severe hepatitis with microvesicular steatosis and mysositis. There was subsequent resolution of the myositis but progression of the hepatitis to symptomatic cirrhosis over a period of 12 weeks. Both troglitazone and simvastatin are metabolized by cytochrome P-450 3A4. Troglitazone typically induces metabolism of drugs metabolized by this cytochrome so that simple simvastatin toxicity seems less likely to have been involved. The association with myositis, the severity of the hepatitis with progression to cirrhosis, and the presence of microvesicular steatosis suggests altered mitochondrial metabolism, which has been described with each agent, as the underlying pathogenic mechanism. Although troglitazone (Rezulin) has been withdrawn from the market, other similar agents are available for therapy of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Increased awareness of a potential interaction between these two classes of drugs is warranted.
To determine risk factors, prognostic implications and prophylaxis of contrast-inducible nephropathy (CIN) during coronarography (CG) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM).
Records for 151 patients with type 2 DM and 50 non-diabetic patients examined with CG in A.N. Bakulev Research Center for Cardiovascular Surgery in 2000-2007 were analysed retrospectively. All the patients have undergone clinical examination including tests for blood serum creatinine before and after 48 hours after CG, standard ECG and echocardiography. Glomerular filtration rate was estimated by MDRD formula. Selective CG was made with application of contrast agent Omnipak-300 (iohexol).
CIN after CG more frequently developed in diabetics than in non-diabetic patients matched for age, renal function, dose of contrast medium and hydration regime (40.4 and 16%, respectively; p < 0.002). Risk of CIN in patients with type 2 DM was associated with cardiac failure of NYHA class III-IV, anemia, dose of the contrast agent, intake of diuretic drugs before and after the procedure, multiple affection of the coronary vessels, necessity of intervention. Patients with type 2 DM and CIN showed more rapid decline of the renal function, more frequently developed severe cardiovascular events, had worse 1-year survival.
High probability of CIN and its prognostic significance in type 2 DM patients necessitates assessment of an individual risk for taking preventive measures during conduction of contrast diagnostic procedures.
Fibrates are lipid lowering drugs and found as ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). A clinical study has shown that one type of fibrate gemfibrozil reduces stroke incidence in men. However, it remains unknown whether gemfibrozil improves outcome after stroke. We hypothesized that prophylactic administration of gemfibrozil improves outcome after ischemic stroke. In this study, we measured the impact of gemfibrozil in two permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) models in young adult male mice on normal diet. First, we tested gemfibrozil in a filamentous MCAO model. Pretreatment with gemfibrozil (30 mg/kg) for 7 days moderately but significantly reduced infarct size at 24 h after MCAO. A higher dose (120 mg/kg) did not attenuate infarct size. Rather, it tended to increase brain swelling. Second, we tested in a distal MCAO model. Gemfibrozil (30 mg/kg) for 7 days before and after stroke significantly attenuated cortical lesion size at 7 days after MCAO. Cortical blood flow measured by laser speckle imaging was improved by gemfibrozil in the ischemic hemisphere. In non-stroke animals gemfibrozil also altered gene expression levels of PPARs in both the aorta and brain in organ specific manners; however, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) was not significantly affected. These findings suggested the possibility that the observed infarct reductions and cortical blood flow improvements in ischemic brains were not through eNOS-mediated mechanisms. Further investigations may be meritorious to examine whether prophylactic usage of gemfibrozil against stroke is beneficial.
During the last 5 years we have identified a total of 17 patients (nine females and eight males aged between 53 and 85 years) with immune haemolytic anaemia related to diclofenac (a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug). All patients developed acute intravascular haemolysis. Two patients died, and eight patients developed temporary renal failure that required haemodialysis. The direct antiglobulin test was positive with anti-IgG and anti-C3d in all cases, with anti-IgA in 4/10 cases tested, and negative with anti-IgM. The indirect antiglobulin test was moderately or weakly positive in 11 cases, and IgG autoantibodies could be eluted from the red blood cells (RBCs) of all patients. Initially, the diagnosis of autoimmune haemolytic anaemia of warm type was suggested in all cases. All patients had simultaneously developed autoantibodies and drug-dependent antibodies. The majority of drug-dependent antibodies (n = 13) reacted with urine containing the drug and its metabolites (ex vivo antigen), the native drug, and diclofenac-treated RBCs. The antibodies in the remaining four cases were detectable only in the presence of ex vivo antigen. Diclofenac appears to bind only weakly to RBCs in the absence of the drug-dependent antibodies. We conclude that diclofenac forms neoantigens with RBCs that may stimulate the production of autoantibodies and drug-dependent antibodies. The resulting haemolytic syndrome is very similar to autoimmune haemolytic anaemia of warm type.
Bone marrow toxicity, mainly neutropenia, has been described as an uncommon secondary effect of most beta-lactams, and it is usually related to large cumulative doses. Although previously described for piperacillin, no cases of marrow depression caused by piperacillin/tazobactam have been reported to date. We report a case of reversible pancytopenia, with evidence of bone marrow depression, which occurred after a 17 d course of piperacillin/tazobactam. The drug was given to an underweight 18-year-old woman, at the usual dosage of 4/0.5 g three times a day. We stress the need for reducing the recommended dosage when treating underweight adult patients, and also of monitoring haematological parameters during prolonged treatments.
Glycine N-methyltransferase (GNMT) affects genetic stability by regulating DNA methylation and interacting with environmental carcinogens. In a previous study, we showed that GNMT acts as a susceptibility gene for hepatocellular carcinoma. Here, we report on our efforts to characterize the haplotypes, loss of heterozygosity (LOH), and expression levels of the GNMT in prostate cancer.
Peripheral blood mononuclear cell DNA collected from 326 prostate cancer patients and 327 age-matched controls was used to determine GNMT haplotypes. Luciferase reporter constructs were used to compare the promoter activity of different GNMT haplotypes. GNMT LOH rates in tumorous specimens were investigated via a comparison with peripheral blood mononuclear cell genotypes. Immunohistochemical staining was used to analyze GNMT expression in tissue specimens collected from 5 normal individuals, 33 benign prostatic hyperplasia patients, and 45 prostate cancer patients.
Three major GNMT haplotypes were identified in 92% of the participants: A, 16GAs/DEL/C (58%); B, 10GAs/INS/C (19.9%); and C, 10GAs/INS/T (14.5%). Haplotype C carriers had significantly lower risk for prostate cancer compared with individuals with haplotype A (odds ratio, 0.68; 95% confidence interval, 0.48-0.95). Results from a phenotypic analysis showed that haplotype C exhibited the highest promoter activity (P < 0.05, ANOVA test). In addition, 36.4% (8 of 22) of the prostatic tumor tissues had LOH of the GNMT gene. Immunohistochemical staining results showed abundant GNMT expression in normal prostatic and benign prostatic hyperplasia tissues, whereas it was diminished in 82.2% (37 of 45) of the prostate cancer tissues.
Our findings suggest that GNMT is a tumor susceptibility gene for prostate cancer.
To evaluate the analgesic and anti-migraine activities of senkyunolide I from Ligusticum chuanxiong.
Mice were orally administered various doses of senkyunolide I, and their pain levels were assessed in a hot-plate test and by application of acetic acid. The levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) in plasma and brain were assessed, and the monoamine turnover rates (5-HT/5-HTP, 5-HIAA/5-HT and NE/DA) were also calculated.
Mice given senkyunolide I at 16 and 32 mg/kg had significantly elevated pain thresholds in the hot-plate test, and a dose of 32 mg/kg also reduced the number of abdominal writhing responses caused by acetic acid. Significant improvements were observed in the neurotransmitter levels of the drug-treated rats compared with the saline-administered controls. Compared to the rats with nitroglycerin-induced migraines, the levels of nitric oxide in the plasma and whole brain of rats given senkyunolide I were lower.
The present study suggests that senkyunolide I may be an active component of L. chuanxiong, traditionally used to treat migraine. The mechanism of pain relief in migraine model rats may be through adjusting the levels of monoamine neurotransmitters and their turnover rates, as well as decreasing nitric oxide levels in the blood and brain. Therefore, senkyunolide I may be developed as a potential treatment for migraine pain.
Report the resolution of a persistent exudative retinal detachment in a patient with Sturge-Weber syndrome following intravitreal pegaptanib injection.
Case report.
A 13-year-old male with Sturge-Weber syndrome presented with a choroidal hemangioma associated with an exudative retinal detachment that failed to resolve 6 months after external beam radiation therapy.
A single intravitreal pegaptanib injection resulted in 50% resolution of the detachment within 1 week and complete resolution within a month. Despite anatomic success, vision remained poor.
VEGF likely plays a role in the pathogenesis of Sturge-Weber choroidal hemangioma-associated exudative retinal detachment and offers potential treatment.
Mercury (Hg) is neurotoxic, and children may be particularly susceptible to this effect. A current major challenge is identification of children who may be uniquely susceptible to Hg toxicity because of genetic predisposition. We examined the possibility that common genetic variants that are known to affect neurologic functions or Hg handling in adults would modify the adverse neurobehavioral effects of Hg exposure in children. Three hundred thirty subjects who participated as children in the recently completed Casa Pia Clinical Trial of Dental Amalgams in Children were genotyped for 27 variants of 13 genes that are reported to affect neurologic functions and/or Hg disposition in adults. Urinary Hg concentrations, reflecting Hg exposure from any source, served as the Hg exposure index. Regression modeling strategies were employed to evaluate potential associations between allelic status for individual genes or combinations of genes, Hg exposure, and neurobehavioral test outcomes assessed at baseline and for 7 subsequent years during the clinical trial. Among boys, significant modification of Hg effects on neurobehavioral outcomes over a broad range of neurologic domains was observed with variant genotypes for 4 of 13 genes evaluated. Modification of Hg effects on a more limited number of neurobehavioral outcomes was also observed for variants of another 8 genes. Cluster analyses suggested some genes interacting in common processes to affect Hg neurotoxicity. In contrast, significant modification of Hg effects on neurobehavioral functions among girls with the same genotypes was substantially more limited. These observations suggest increased susceptibility to the adverse neurobehavioral effects of Hg among children, particularly boys, with genetic variants that are relatively common to the general human population. These findings advance public health goals to identify factors underlying susceptibility to Hg toxicity and may contribute to strategies for preventing adverse health risks associated with Hg exposure.
We previously demonstrated that tracheobronchial innervation, originated from the vagus nerve and hence of neural crest origin, is deficient in rats with experimental congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). The present study examines the development of this innervation during fetal life in an attempt to understand the nature of these deficiencies.
Pregnant rats were given either 100 mg nitrofen or vehicle on E 9.5. Embryos were recovered on E15 and E18. Control and nitrofen/CDH pups (n = 10 each) were studied on each of these days and compared with our previous results on E21. Whole mount preparations of tracheas stained for anti-protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) and smooth muscle contractile alpha-actin were examined under confocal microscopy for the morphology of intrinsic neural network. Sections of tracheas were immunostained with anti-low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)), neural cell marker PGP 9.5, and anti-glial cell marker S100 antibodies. The proportions of sectional areas occupied by neural and glial structures were measured in the proximal and distal trachea. PGP 9.5 protein, and mRNA expressions were determined. Mann-Whitney tests with a threshold of significance of P < 0.05 were used for comparison.
Positive staining for p75(NTR) confirmed the neural crest origin of tracheal neural cells. The neural network appeared less organized on E15, and it was less dense on E18 in nitrofen-exposed embryos than in controls. The proportions of section surface occupied by neural elements were similar in both groups on E15, but that of glial tissue was significantly increased in nitrofen-exposed embryos. On E18, the relative neural surface was significantly reduced in CDH embryos in contrast with increased glial tissue surface. On E21 the proportion of neural tissue was reduced only in the distal trachea. The expression of PGP 9.5 protein was decreased in CDH fetuses on E18 and E21. In contrast, PGP 9.5 mRNA levels were increased in CDH fetuses on E18 and E21.
The development of intrinsic innervation of the trachea in rats with CDH is abnormal with reduction of neural tissue accompanied by increase of glial tissue that could represent a response to neural damage. The significance of increased PGP 9.5 mRNA levels is unclear.
Nephrobiopsies of 20 patients with drug-induced membranous glomerulonephritis were studied. Renal injury was produced by diuretics (7 patients), gold salts (6), penicillamine (4), captopril (3). Drug-induced membranous glomerulonephritis in contrast to idiopathic one ran a benign course after proper therapy based on discontinuation of the drug. Main pathomorphological features of secondary membranous glomerulonephritis that help to differentiate it from the primary one were established: absence of total injury of the glomeruli, hypercellularity of the damaged glomeruli, pathomorphological changes only of the part of the capillary loops, presence of both subepithelial and mesangial deposits.
The HER-2/neu oncoprotein, a 185 kDa membrane-associated tyrosine kinase with extensive homology to the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-R), is overexpressed in breast and ovarian carcinomas. Its overexpression is closely associated with poor prognosis in the course of disease. Here we demonstrate HER-2/neu overexpression in both established cell lines and biopsy material obtained from renal epithelial tumors. Immunohistochemical analysis of human kidney tumor lesions using 2 HER-2/neu-specific antibodies revealed HER-2/neu expression in more than 40% of primary epithelial renal tumors and more than 30% of primary renal cell carcinoma (RCC) specimens. A distinctive HER-2/neu expression pattern was found in different subtypes of kidney tumors with the highest frequency in chromophilic and chromophobic RCC, but neither associated with disease stage nor tumor grade. Eight of 10 RCC cell lines expressed significant levels of HER-2/neu mRNA and protein, but at a lower level compared with HER-2/neu overexpressing ovarian carcinoma cells. To evaluate the immune response against HER-2/neu expressing HLA-A2-positive (HLA-A2(+)) RCC cells, allogeneic HLA-A2-restricted cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) lines generated by pulsing dendritic cells with 3 different HER-2/neu-derived peptides, (HER-2(9.369), HER-2(9.435) and HER-2(9.689), were utilized in chromium-release assays. Specific lysis of HER-2/neu expressing HLA-A2(+) RCC cell lines was mediated by CTL lines specific for each of these 3 HER-2/neu-derived epitopes. The fine specificity of 2 CTL clones was defined to the epitopes HER-2(9.435) and HER-2(9.689). Their specificity was then confirmed by cold target inhibition assays. In addition, CTL-mediated lysis was enhanced by pulsing tumor cells with exogenous HER-2/neu-specific peptides. Our data suggest that (i) HER-2/neu is heterogeneously expressed in different subtypes of RCC, (ii) HER-2/neu is naturally processed by RCC and (iii) HER-2/neu epitopes presented by RCC can be recognized by HLA-A2-restricted, HER-2/neu-specific CTL.
Although immunotherapy and biochemotherapy have shown promise, producing a subset of durable responses, for the majority of patients with metastatic melanoma the prognosis is still poor. Therefore there is a great need for predictive tests to identify patients with a high probability of responding. Furthermore, there is also a need for a better understanding of the mechanisms of action during treatment in order to be able to monitor the relevant antitumour reactivity during treatment and to optimize the efficacy of future immunotherapy and biochemotherapy. In the present study histopathological regression criteria were used to study the efficacy of biochemotherapy. Thirty-two patients with metastatic malignant melanoma (18 with regional disease and 14 with systemic disease) were treated with biochemotherapy (cisplatin 30 mg/m2 intravenously on days 1-3, dacarbazine 250 mg/m2 intravenously on days 1-3 and interferon-alpha2b 10 million IU subcutaneously 3 days a week, every 28 days). Pre-treatment fine needle aspirates were obtained from metastases to analyse the number of tumour-infiltrating CD4+ lymphocytes. Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in metastases resected after treatment using histopathological criteria of tumour regression. Comparisons were also made with metastases from 17 untreated patients, all with regional disease. Regressive changes of 25% or more (of the section area) were found in two of the 17 untreated patients with regional disease compared with 13 of the 18 patients with regional disease and 10 of the 14 patients with systemic disease after biochemotherapy. Fifty per cent of the patients with regional disease showed a high degree of regressive changes (75-100% of the section area) after biochemotherapy. These results demonstrate the occurrence of an antitumour reactivity in the majority of patients. Patients with extensive regressive changes in 75-100% of the analysed biopsies were also found to have a longer overall survival (P = 0.019). In patients with regional disease there was a close correlation between a larger number of CD4+ lymphocytes pre-treatment and a higher degree of regressive changes post-treatment (P < 0.05). Thus, immunohistochemical analysis of tumour biopsies shortly after treatment seems to be a good surrogate endpoint. This technique also allows detailed analysis of antitumour reactivity and escape mechanisms.
TREX1 acts in concert with the SET complex in granzyme A-mediated apoptosis, and mutations in TREX1 cause Aicardi-Goutières syndrome and familial chilblain lupus. Here, we report monoallelic frameshift or missense mutations and one 3' UTR variant of TREX1 present in 9/417 individuals with systemic lupus erythematosus but absent in 1,712 controls (P = 4.1 x 10(-7)). We demonstrate that two mutant TREX1 alleles alter subcellular targeting. Our findings implicate TREX1 in the pathogenesis of SLE.
Multiple sclerosis is a demyelinating neurodegenerative disease with a strong genetic component. Previous genetic risk studies have failed to identify consistently linked regions or genes outside of the major histocompatibility complex on chromosome 6p. We describe allelic association of a polymorphism in the gene encoding the interleukin 7 receptor alpha chain (IL7R) as a significant risk factor for multiple sclerosis in four independent family-based or case-control data sets (overall P = 2.9 x 10(-7)). Further, the likely causal SNP, rs6897932, located within the alternatively spliced exon 6 of IL7R, has a functional effect on gene expression. The SNP influences the amount of soluble and membrane-bound isoforms of the protein by putatively disrupting an exonic splicing silencer.
The purpose of this prospective study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of adefovir dipivoxil with or without ongoing lamivudine in decompensated lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B patients. Forty-six hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive patients with decompensated liver function and lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) were assigned to adefovir dipivoxil monotherapy (n=18) or combination therapy with ongoing lamivudine (n=28) according to their own preference. After 24 weeks of treatment, 83% of monotherapy and 86% of combination therapy showed serum HBV DNA below detection limit (<0.5 pg/mL). Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) normalized in 78% and 82% respectively. Median Child-Pugh-Turcotte (CPT) score or Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score reduced significantly by 3 or 5 point in monotherapy and 2 or 2 point in combination therapy respectively. There were no significant differences in rate of undetectable serum HBV DNA, median change of ALT and median reduction of CPT or MELD scores between the two groups. In conclusion, both adefovir dipivoxil monotherapy and combination therapy with ongoing lamivudine result in comparable virologic, biochemical, and clinical improvements in HBeAg-positive patients with decompensated liver function and lamivudine-resistant HBV. Combination with lamivudine showed no additional benefit over monotherapy during 24 weeks of treatment in these patients.
A recent large randomized controlled trial revealed that patients with lung cancer with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations had better prognoses when treated with the EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor, gefitinib, than with cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents. Lung cancer with EGFR mutations is highly sensitive to EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors. The previous trial implied that EGFR mutations might be predictive of the response to cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Forty-six tumor tissue specimens (32 adenocarcinomas and 14 nonadenocarcinomas) were obtained from patients with lung cancer who underwent surgical resection. EGFR mutations were detected using polymerase chain reaction-invader assay. A histoculture drug response assay was used as an in vitro drug sensitivity test. The inhibition rates of cisplatin, docetaxel (DOC), vinorelbine, and gemcitabine were measured.
Sensitizing EGFR mutations were detected in samples from 14 patients, all with adenocarcinomas. The inhibition rate of cisplatin in tumors with EGFR mutations (group M) was 34.8 ± 15.5%, which was significantly lower (p = 0.0153) than in wild-type tumors (group W; 46.6 ± 14.0%). The inhibition rate of DOC in group M (18.8 ± 13.4%) was also significantly lower (p = 0.0051) than in group W (35.4 ± 19.1%). There were no significant differences in inhibition rates of gemcitabine and vinorelbine between groups M and W. Inhibition rates of DOC were significantly lower in group M (p = 0.0256) than in group W (32.6 ± 18.4) in samples from patients with adenocarcinoma.
The histoculture drug response assay indicated that lung cancers with EGFR mutations were less sensitive to DOC than EGFR wild-type tumors.
Multiple sclerosis is a chronic, often disabling, disease of the central nervous system affecting more than 1 in 1,000 people in most western countries. The inflammatory lesions typical of multiple sclerosis show autoimmune features and depend partly on genetic factors. Of these genetic factors, only the HLA gene complex has been repeatedly confirmed to be associated with multiple sclerosis, despite considerable efforts. Polymorphisms in a number of non-HLA genes have been reported to be associated with multiple sclerosis, but so far confirmation has been difficult. Here, we report compelling evidence that polymorphisms in IL7R, which encodes the interleukin 7 receptor alpha chain (IL7Ralpha), indeed contribute to the non-HLA genetic risk in multiple sclerosis, demonstrating a role for this pathway in the pathophysiology of this disease. In addition, we report altered expression of the genes encoding IL7Ralpha and its ligand, IL7, in the cerebrospinal fluid compartment of individuals with multiple sclerosis.
Large doses of atracurium (1.5 mg/kg) (six times the ED95) can result in significant histamine release, resulting in systemic hypotension. The efficacy of histamine receptor blockade in attenuating atracurium induced hypotension was therefore studied. Four groups of seven patients each were studied: group I, control; group II, H1 blockade (1 mg/kg diphenhydramine); group III, H2 blockade (cimetidine 4 mg/kg); and group IV, H1 and H2 blockade (diphenhydramine 1 mg/kg and cimetidine 4 mg/kg). All patients were anesthetized with an intravenous narcotic-nitrous oxide technique and then given 1.5 mg/kg atracurium. In group I, mean arterial pressure (MAP) decreased 30 mm Hg after 2 minutes and remained 25 mm Hg below baseline at 3 minutes, a change significantly greater than that in group IV, in which MAP decreased 8 and 7 mm Hg, respectively. H1 receptor blockade was associated with no significant attenuation of changes in MAP. H2 receptor blockade alone was associated with significant decreases in MAP, possibly secondary to enhanced release of histamine via an antagonist effect on recently described H3 receptors. Plasma histamine levels increased significantly 2 minutes after atracurium administration and correlated with hemodynamic changes. It is concluded that combined H1 and H2 receptor blockade attenuates cardiovascular effects associated with large doses of atracurium in humans. Histamine-releasing agents may be contraindicated in patients subject to chronic H2 receptor blockade.
Dalcetrapib is a cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) modulator in clinical assessment for cardiovascular outcome benefits. In compliance with regulatory requirements, dalcetrapib was evaluated in rodent 2-year carcinogenesis bioassays. In the mouse bioassay, male mice demonstrated increased liver weight and statistically increased incidences of hepatocellular adenoma/carcinoma. Hepatic cytochrome p450 (Cyp) 2b10 mRNA induction and increased Cyp2b10 enzyme activity signify activation of hepatic nuclear receptor constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), a widely established promoter of rodent-specific hepatic tumors. We therefore monitored hepatic Cyp2b10 mRNA and its enzyme activity in a subset of dalcetrapib-treated male mice from the bioassay.
Liver samples were obtained from ~1/3 of male mice from each dose group including vehicle-controls (mean and earliest study day of death 678 and 459 respectively). Quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR) was performed to determine Cyp2b10 mRNA expression and Cyp1a-, Cyp2b10- and Cyp3a-selective activities were monitored.
Cyp2b10 mRNA was strongly induced by dalcetrapib with an expected wide inter-individual variation (5-1421-fold). Group average fold-induction versus vehicle-controls showed a dose-related increase from 48-fold (250mg/kg/day) to 160-fold (750mg/kg/day), which declined slightly at 2000mg/kg/day (97-fold). Cyp enzyme activities showed approximate doubling of total Cyp P450 content per milligram protein and a 9-fold increase in Cyp2b10-selective pentoxyresorufin O-dealkylase activity (750mg/kg/day).
These data from hepatic Cyp2b10 monitoring are strongly suggestive of CAR activation by dalcetrapib, a mechanism devoid of relevance towards hepatocarcinogenesis in humans; results show feasibility of Cyp2b10 as a surrogate marker for this mechanism at cessation of a carcinogenesis bioassay.
Fibrous dysplasia (FD) of bone is a non-inheritable congenital disorder affecting both genders. It is characterized by expanding fibrous lesions, which contain bone-forming mesenchymal cells.
FD is caused by a somatic activating mutation of the alpha subunit of the Gs protein (Gsalpha). Bone mesenchymal cells produce a matrix of randomly distributed collagen fibres and islands of woven bone. Osteoclasts are responsible for the spread of the lesions.
The symptoms are bone pain, fracture, bone deformities and neurological deficits. Spontaneous regression of lesions does not occur.
Recently, an observational study of treatment with bisphosphonate has yielded promising results. There was a decreased intensity of bone pain, a decrease in biochemical markers of bone turnover and a radiographically apparent 'refilling of osteolytic sites' in about half of the patients.
Very little is known about the effects of bisphosphonate treatment in children and adolescents with FD. Most patients report decreased bone pain after the first pamidronate infusion, which, in our view, justifies the use of this drug in severely affected patients. The many unanswered questions regarding this form of treatment can only be addressed when a large number of patients is treated in a standardized fashion, and data on the outcome are collected.
alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) administration to rats results in periportal hepatic inflammation and injury. Glutathione (GSH) appears to be necessary for the liver injury to occur. The leukotrienes (LTs) are metabolites of arachidonic acid and potent mediators of inflammation that have been implicated in certain liver injury models. Inasmuch as GSH is a cofactor for the synthesis of cysteinyl-LTs and since inflammation is a prominent component of ANIT injury, we hypothesized that LTs are involved in producing the hepatic insult that results from ANIT administration. To test this hypothesis, rats were treated with one of several inhibitors of LT biosynthesis, A63162, Zileuton or MK-886. Each of these agents prevented the formation of LTB4 in Ca++ ionophore-stimulated whole blood from rats treated with the inhibitors. A63162 attenuated the hepatic parenchymal injury caused by ANIT and resulted in a modest decrease in ANIT-induced cholestasis. In contrast, neither Zileuton nor MK-886 attenuated liver injury. AT-125 (Acivicin) inhibits gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), the enzyme that catalyzes the formation of LTD4 from LTC4. AT-125 pretreatment did not prevent ANIT-induced hepatic parenchymal insult. It did, however, ameliorate the cholestasis caused by ANIT. In conclusion, the partial protection afforded by A63162 and AT-125 likely results from effects unrelated to the formation of LTs, since Zileuton and MK-886 inhibited LT synthesis without affording protection. The lack of protection by Zileuton and MK-886 in the face of LT synthesis inhibition suggests that LTs are not necessary for the expression of injury after ANIT administration.
Furosemide treatment in the human neonate is associated with sodium depletion, growth retardation, hypercalciuria and nephrocalcinosis. Dietary sodium intake is known to directly influence urinary calcium excretion. The objectives of this study were to create a rat model of furosemide-induced nephrocalcinosis and to test the effects of dietary sodium supplementation on growth, electrolyte balance, calciuria, and renal calcifications.
Initially, 18 weanling Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into three groups. Groups A (control) and B were fed a basal diet. Group C was fed a sodium-enriched diet. Groups B and C received furosemide (40 mg/kg) intraperitoneally daily for 28 days. At the end of the study, serum, urine, and kidney samples were obtained for biochemical and histologic analyses. The three groups were then compared for differences in growth, electrolyte homeostasis, calcium excretion and nephrocalcinosis. Subsequently an additional 15 rats were studied to confirm our findings regarding urinary calcium excretion and kidney calcifications.
Treatment with furosemide without sodium supplementation (group B) resulted in decreased weight gain compared with group A (137.5 +/- 12.9 vs 154.0 +/- 10.6 g; p < 0.05), hypokalemia (3.7 +/- 0.1 vs. 4.4 +/- 0.4 mEq/l; p < 0.05), and nephrocalcinosis (187.1 +/- 155 vs. 18.8 +/- 6.9 micrograms Ca/g dry kidney; p < 0.05). Sodium supplementation (group C) normalized weight gain and corrected electrolyte abnormalities without increasing calciuria or nephrocalcinosis.
We conclude that in this animal model, chronic furosemide treatment results in growth failure and development of nephrocalcinosis. Sodium supplementation protects against the deleterious effects of furosemide on weight gain and electrolyte homeostasis with no adverse effect on nephrocalcinosis.
Among 547 preterm infants of < or = 34 weeks gestation born between 1987 and 1991, 8 children (1.46%) developed severe progressive and bilateral sensorineural hearing loss. Perinatal risk factors of infants with hearing loss were compared with those of two control groups matched for gestation and birth weight and for perinatal complications. Our observations demonstrated an association of hearing loss with a higher incidence of perinatal complications. Ototoxicity appeared closely related to a prolonged administration and higher total dose of ototoxic drugs, particularly aminoglycosides and furosemide. Finally, we strongly recommend to prospectively and regularly perform audiologic assessment in sick preterm children as hearing loss is of delayed onset and in most cases bilateral and severe.
Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the leading cause of death from gynecological malignancy in the developed world, accounting for 4% of the deaths from cancer in women. We performed a three-phase genome-wide association study of EOC survival in 8,951 individuals with EOC (cases) with available survival time data and a parallel association analysis of EOC susceptibility. Two SNPs at 19p13.11, rs8170 and rs2363956, showed evidence of association with survival (overall P = 5 × 10⁻⁴ and P = 6 × 10⁻⁴, respectively), but they did not replicate in phase 3. However, the same two SNPs demonstrated genome-wide significance for risk of serous EOC (P = 3 × 10⁻⁹ and P = 4 × 10⁻¹¹, respectively). Expression analysis of candidate genes at this locus in ovarian tumors supported a role for the BRCA1-interacting gene C19orf62, also known as MERIT40, which contains rs8170, in EOC development.
Ovarian cancer accounts for more deaths than all other gynecological cancers combined. To identify common low-penetrance ovarian cancer susceptibility genes, we conducted a genome-wide association study of 507,094 SNPs in 1,768 individuals with ovarian cancer (cases) and 2,354 controls, with follow up of 21,955 SNPs in 4,162 cases and 4,810 controls, leading to the identification of a confirmed susceptibility locus at 9p22 (in BNC2). Here, we report on nine additional candidate loci (defined as having P ≤ 10⁻⁴) identified after stratifying cases by histology, which we genotyped in an additional 4,353 cases and 6,021 controls. We confirmed two new susceptibility loci with P ≤ 5 × 10⁻⁸ (8q24, P = 8.0 × 10⁻¹⁵ and 2q31, P = 3.8 × 10⁻¹⁴) and identified two additional loci that approached genome-wide significance (3q25, P = 7.1 × 10⁻⁸ and 17q21, P = 1.4 × 10⁻⁷). The associations of these loci with serous ovarian cancer were generally stronger than with other cancer subtypes. Analysis of HOXD1, MYC, TIPARP and SKAP1 at these loci and of BNC2 at 9p22 supports a functional role for these genes in ovarian cancer development.
