To highlight the increase in the number of cases of clonidine overdose admitted to a specialist paediatric hospital, with particular reference to the clinical features, clinical course and circumstances surrounding the incident.
Cases of clonidine overdose were identified by review of the emergency department attendance register, the intensive care unit database and inpatient statistics collection. Case notes were reviewed to determine the clinical features, history and clinical course in each case.
Fifteen patients experienced 16 overdoses during the period 1990-97 inclusive. Only one case occurred before 1994. Depressed level of consciousness and bradycardia were the most common clinical manifestations, and were observed in 75 and 88% of cases respectively. There were no fatalities. Five patients received naloxone. Other treatment modalities included gastrointestinal decontamination, atropine, ventilation and inotropic support. Fourteen cases occurred in association with medication prescribed for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Clonidine overdose is a potentially serious condition, often requiring intensive care management. Our experience suggests that it is a growing problem, related in part to its increased use in the treatment of ADHD. Preventive strategies, including raising the level of awareness of risks, changes to packaging and appropriate selection of patients for treatment, need consideration if further overdoses are to be prevented.
The androgen receptor co-activator CREB (cAMP-response element binding protein)-binding protein (CBP) enhances androgen receptor activity after stimulation by androgenic hormones and androgen receptor antagonists. The aim of the present study was to investigate the regulation of CBP expression by steroid and peptide hormones in prostate cancer. For this purpose, LNCaP cells were treated with the synthetic androgen methyltrienolone (R1881), epidermal growth factor, insulin-like growth factor-I or interleukin-6 (IL-6). CBP protein and mRNA expression were studied by western blotting and real-time PCR, respectively. CBP expression was also investigated in tissue specimens obtained from 26 patients with therapy-resistant carcinoma of the prostate. In LNCaP cells, CBP protein was down-regulated by R1881 or IL-6. The non-steroidal anti-androgen bicalutamide antagonized the effects of R1881 and the Janus kinase inhibitor AG 490 reversed the effects of IL-6. In contrast, neither R1881 nor IL-6 caused any effect on CBP expression in the PC-3 cell line. In LNCaP cells, the inhibition of CBP expression by R1881 or IL-6 was also observed at the mRNA level. CBP protein was detected in all 26 specimens by immunohistochemistry. The results suggest that up-regulation of CBP during androgen ablation may be relevant to the failure of endocrine therapy in patients with prostate carcinoma.
The role of nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitors in indomethacin (INDO) -induced enteropathy was investigated in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Rats were subcutaneously administered 5% sodium bicarbonate (controls), two doses of INDO 7.5 mg/kg, and three different inducible NO synthase (iNOS) inhibitors at various concentrations 24 hr, apart; aminoguanidine (AG), guanidinoethyldisulfide (GED), and n-(3-aminomethyl)benzylacetamidine (1400W). Rats were killed four days after the initial injection and small intestinal mucosa was assayed for myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and iNOS expression by western blot analysis. Serum nitrite/nitrate (NOx) concentration was measured colorimetrically. INDO produced acute ulcers along the mesenteric border from the ileum to proximal jejunum. Rats treated with AG (25 and 50 mg/kg), GED (2.5 mg/kg), and 1400W (0.1 mg/kg) showed decreased total ulcer length and MPO activity by 51, 72, 53, and 61% and by 58, 88, 68, and 70%, respectively, compared to INDO alone. All inhibitors similarly reduced INDO-enhanced serum NOx concentrations to its basal levels. Significant iNOS expression was detected in INDO-treated rats, but the inhibitors did not alter iNOS expression. Our data suggest that NO derived from iNOS may be a key factor in the pathogenesis of acute INDO-induced enteropathy in rats.
Tacrolimus has been used extensively for immunosuppressive therapy in pediatric liver transplant recipients. However, patients who are exposed to high levels of serum tacrolimus tend to be associated with a higher incidence of significant nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity, pruritus, alopecia, diabetes and infection. We herein report a child who developed increased serum transaminase levels and liver steatosis as a result of raised trough blood level of tacrolimus (30 ng/ml for 3 days) in association with rotavirus gastroenteritis.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the incidence and outcome of acute renal failure (ARF) in patients submitted to intravenous (IV) acyclovir treatment.
All patients over 13 years of age that used intravenous acyclovir for 5 or more days were retrospectively analyzed. When serum creatinine levels, previously in the normal range, increased above 2 mg/dl, the case was considered an ARF. Treatment and outcome of patients that developed ARF were analyzed.
Eighty-five patients received IV acyclovir during the study period. Forty-one patients were included in the study. ARF developed in 8 out of 41 patients (19.5%). In the ARF cases, after beginning of treatment, the average time for increase of the serum creatinine levels was 4.2 days. Creatinine levels reached their peak in a mean time of 7.1 days (ranging from 3 to 14 days). Recovery of the renal function, evaluated by decrease of the creatinine level, varied from 1 to 7 days (mean of 3.6 days). ARF had a good outcome with hydration, lengthening of drug infusion time and adjustment of the drug dosage.
Acyclovir induced ARF in 19.5% of the patients. All patients had a positive response with return to a normal renal function after hydration, lengthening of drug infusion time and adjustment of the drug dosage. None of the patients required treatment with hemodialysis. Acyclovir is a safe drug when administered with certain preventive measures.
The pathogenic role of interleukin-1 (IL-1) in the progression of established rat crescentic glomerulonephritis was investigated by administration of the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra). Passive accelerated antiglomerular basement membrane (GBM) disease was induced in three groups of six rats. One group was killed on day 7 with no treatment. The other groups received a constant infusion of IL-1ra or saline from day 7 until being killed on day 21. All animals developed moderate glomerular injury, a significant loss of renal function and marked histological damage including crescent formation by day 7. Saline treated animals showed a significant deterioration in these parameters over days 7 to 21. In contrast, animals treated with the IL-1ra over this period showed stabilization of glomerular injury (protein-uria; P < 0.001) and a recovery of normal renal function (creatinine clearance; P < 0.05). Histologically, IL-1ra treatment suppressed glomerular cell proliferation (PCNA expression; P < 0.001) and significantly inhibited crescent formation (P < 0.005), glomerular sclerosis (P < 0.005), tubular atrophy (P < 0.05) and interstitial fibrosis (P < 0.05). A key finding was that IL-1ra treatment not only stopped renal leukocyte accumulation over days 7 to 21 (P < 0.01), but that treatment also suppressed immune activation of the infiltrate (P < 0.01). In conclusion, this study provides direct evidence that IL-1 plays a key role in the progressive/chronic phase of renal injury in experimental crescentic glomerulonephritis and indicates that IL-1ra treatment may be of therapeutic benefit in human rapidly progressive crescentic glomerulonephritis.
Congenital afibrinogenaemia is an autosomal recessive disorder characterised by the complete absence of detectable fibrinogen. We previously identified the first known causative mutations for this disorder in a non-consanguineous Swiss family. The four affected male individuals (two brothers and their first two cousins) were shown to have homozygous deletions of approximately 11 kb of the fibrinogen alpha chain (FGA) gene. Haplotype data suggested that the deletions occurred on three distinct ancestral chromosomes, implying that the FGA region of the fibrinogen locus is susceptible to deletion by a common mechanism, but the sequences responsible for the recombination remained to be identified. Here, we report the detailed characterisation of the deletion by nucleotide sequence analysis of all three deletion junctions and comparison with normal sequences. We found that all three deletions were identical to the base-pair and probably resulted from non-homologous (illegitimate) recombination. The centromeric and telomeric deletion junctions featured both a 7 bp direct repeat, AACTTTT, situated in FGA intron 1 and in the FGA-FGB intergenic sequence and a number of inverted repeats which could be involved in the generation of secondary structures. Analysis with closely linked flanking polymorphic markers revealed the existence of at least two haplotypes, further suggesting independent origins of the deletions in this family.
This study was designed to determine whether the antioxidants ascorbic acid, aminotriazole, and glutathione acutely reduce blood pressure (BP) by endothelium-independent or -dependent vasorelaxation in spontaneously hypertensive rats. Blood pressure of male Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) was measured before and 4 h after administration of antioxidants. Thoracic aortic rings with and without endothelium were suspended in organ chambers for isometric tension recordings. Each of the antioxidants, administered in vivo, significantly decreased blood pressure in SHR but had no significant effect on BP in WKY rats. The endothelium-dependent impaired relaxation of SHR aortic rings to acetylcholine (ACh) was improved by prior in vivo administration of each antioxidant. ACh-induced relaxations of aortic rings from WKY was not affected by prior antioxidant treatment. Addition of each antioxidant directly to the organ chamber containing SHR or WKY aortas produced dose- and endothelium-dependent relaxations. Moreover, antioxidant pretreatment of SHR aortic rings significantly potentiated ACh-induced relaxations in these aortas, suggesting that this effect was endothelium dependent. Relaxations induced by the antioxidants alone or by ACh in the presence of antioxidants were inhibited by addition of either xanthine plus xanthine oxidase or nitro-L-arginine. These findings suggest that either excess production of oxidants or a deficiency of antioxidant systems may contribute to the high blood pressure and the endothelium-dependent impairment of vascular relaxation in SHR.
Strategies based on the introduction of pro-drug activating enzymes or the restoration of tumour suppressor genes have been proposed as encouraging methods to improve the efficiency of treatments in pancreatic cancer. The in situ bioactivation of cyclophosphamide by cytochrome p450-2B1 and subsequent p53 delivery were examined.
NP-18 cell line derived from a human pancreatic adenocarcinoma was treated in vitro with a combination of the Adenovirus-CYP2B1/cyclophosphamide and adenoviral-mediated wt-p53 reintroduction. Cell viability and cytometric cell cycle profiles were analyzed to evaluate the sensitivity of NP-18 cells to this treatment. The efficiency of this combination was assessed in an in vivo model consisting of xenografts into the subcutaneous tissue of Balb/c mice by tumour growth, histological analysis and cell cycle determinations.
Ad-CYP2B1/cyclophosphamide or Ad-p53 treatments led to a marked decrease in cell viability of NP-18 cells. Combination of both treatments elicited a higher loss of cell viability and marked increases in sub-G1 population in cell cycle profiles. Animals treated with the combination strategy showed a quick reduction of tumour volumes due to the bioactivation of cyclophosphamide by CYP2B1 and sustained growth inhibition throughout the period evaluated after p53 delivery. Only this group of animals presented statistically significant differences with respect to control and cyclophosphamide-treated groups (P < 0.05).
These results indicate that in situ bioactivation of cyclophosphamide by CYP2B1 and the recognition of the damaged DNA by p53 increase tumour regressions and may be a promising therapy for solid tumour therapy in man.
The carcinogenic effects of a mixture of 1-nitropyrene and three dinitropyrenes (1,3-, 1,6- and 1,8-dinitropyrene) were investigated in rats. Female F344/Jcl rats were given one of three doses (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg body weight) of the mixture by repeated intragastric instillations twice a week for 55 weeks, and then autopsied 49 weeks later. Mammary adenocarcinomas were induced in rats of all the three experimental groups dose-dependently, while no adenocarcinoma was induced in the control rats which were given only vehicle. Clitoral gland tumors, most of which were diagnosed as squamous cell carcinomas, were also commonly observed in the NP-treated rats in a dose-dependent way. In addition, high incidences of mononuclear cell leukemias were noted in the NP-treated rats. Other tumors were frequently induced in the uterus and endocrine organs, such as the pituitary, adrenal, and thyroid glands. However, the incidences of these tumors were almost equal in both the control and NP-treated groups. The results of the present study indicated the potential carcinogenic activities of nitropyrene compounds in female rats when they were treated by oral route, and suggest that the oral intake of nitropyrene compounds might be related to the incidence of cancer in humans.
Three patients developed hepatic injury two months, ten months and two years, respectively, after hydralazine therapy for hypertension. Clinical and biochemical recovery followed discontinuation of drug therapy. Liver biopsies of the three patients revealed varying degrees of centrilobular necrosis. Complement 3 and Complement 4 levels were measured and found to be low in the patient with poor liver synthetic function, as was evident from the low serum albumin level and prolonged prothrombin time. Hydralazine-induced liver injury may be due to abnormality of drug metabolism in the liver.
Protein homeostasis in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) has recently emerged as a therapeutic target for cancer treatment. Disruption of ER homeostasis results in ER stress, which is a major cause of cell death in cells exposed to the proteasome inhibitor Bortezomib, an anti-cancer drug approved for treatment of multiple myeloma and Mantle cell lymphoma. We recently reported that the ERAD inhibitor Eeyarestatin I (EerI) also disturbs ER homeostasis and has anti-cancer activities resembling that of Bortezomib.
Here we developed in vitro binding and cell-based functional assays to demonstrate that a nitrofuran-containing (NFC) group in EerI is the functional domain responsible for the cytotoxicity. Using both SPR and pull down assays, we show that EerI directly binds the p97 ATPase, an essential component of the ERAD machinery, via the NFC domain. An aromatic domain in EerI, although not required for p97 interaction, can localize EerI to the ER membrane, which improves its target specificity. Substitution of the aromatic module with another benzene-containing domain that maintains membrane localization generates a structurally distinct compound that nonetheless has similar biologic activities as EerI.
Our findings reveal a class of bifunctional chemical agents that can preferentially inhibit membrane-bound p97 to disrupt ER homeostasis and to induce tumor cell death. These results also suggest that the AAA ATPase p97 may be a potential drug target for cancer therapeutics.
The mutagenic potential of chronic treatments of male CF-1 mice with ethanol and delta 9-tetrahydrocannibinol (THC), and their comutagenic potential with a known mutagenic agent, Trenimon, were examined. This was accomplished by measuring the frequency of dominant lethal mutations arising from mating of treated males with nontreated females. Adult male mice were treated with 5% (v/v) ethanol as part of a liquid diet (28% ethanol-derived calories) for five weeks; 10 mg/kg body weight (p.o.) THC every two days for five weeks; a single injection of Trenimon (0.125 mg/kg, i.p.) on day 28 of diet treatment; and all combinations of treatments. The control group was pair-fed a liquid diet in which isocaloric sucrose replaced ethanol; these males were also given sesame oil (vehicle for THC) and saline (vehicle for Trenimon) on the same schedule as that for the treated males. Neither body weights nor hematocrits were adversely affected by any treatment. Both ethanol and Trenimon treatments resulted in a small (8-9%; p less than 0.05) decrease in testicular weight. The effect of combined treatment with ethanol and Trenimon was roughly additive. Treatment with THC had no effect on testicular weight. Seminal vesicle weights were not affected by any treatment. Treatments were without significant effect on fertility, as measured by the frequency of males producing pregnancies. Ethanol and Trenimon treatments produced approximately 3- and 7-fold increases, respectively in the frequencies of preimplantational loss over that seen for the control group (7.3%), resulting in significant ethanol and Trenimon effects (p less than 0.001). No interactive effects of ethanol and Trenimon treatments were noted. Frequencies of dead fetuses per pregnancy in the ethanol- and Trenimon-treated groups were increased approximately 2.5- and 4-fold, respectively, over the control value of approximately 16%. However, the effect of combined treatments was not greater than that due to Trenimon alone, resulting in Trenimon and ethanol effects (p less than 0.001) and ethanol-Trenimon interaction (p less than 0.001). The calculated mutation index resulting from each treatment yielded significant (p less than 0.001) ethanol- and Trenimon-induced effects. In contrast to effects of ethanol and Trenimon treatments, THC, given alone, or in combination with ethanol and/or Trenimon, had no effect on either preimplantational loss, fetal mortality or the resulting mutation index. The data suggest that chronic ethanol treatment, at levels resulting in minimal fertility impairment, increases the frequency of dominant lethal mutations. In contrast, chronic treatment with THC, as administered in the present study, appears to be without effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
An early stage of focal cortical interstitial fibrosis and nephronic atrophy was found by light microscopy in the kidneys of nine out of twelve rats which had received lithium for 9 weeks. The animals had excessive polyuria and increased requirement for sodium. The histological changes were in their distribution and the morphological structure similar to the lesions recently found in renal biopsy specimens from patients on long-term lithium treatment.
A 70-year-old man with chronic renal failure was treated with clofibrate, 2.0 g daily for 6 days, and subsequently developed clofibrate-induced muscular syndrome (CMS), i.e., myalgia with severe muscle weakness and tenderness. Elevated muscular enzyme activities were found upon examination of his blood. Electron microscopic studies revealed atrophy of some muscle fibers and massive degenerative changes. The atrophic fibers were associated with damaged neuromuscular junctions. A literature survey of 44 cases with CMS is included.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and -2 play an important role in cytoprotection and are physiologic regulators of heme-dependent protein synthesis in renal tissues. The impact of HO-2 deletion comparing hyperglycemic HO-2 (+/+) mice and HO-2 knockout (-/-) mice was examined. Hyperglycemia was induced by streptozotocin (STZ) injection, and its effect on renal HO-1/HO-2 protein, HO activity, and creatinine levels were assessed. The effect of HO induction using systemic administration of the HO inducers heme or cobalt protoporphyrin and the effect of HO inhibition using systemic administration of the HO inhibitor tin mesoporphyrin also were assessed in STZ-treated mice. In STZ-treated HO-2 (-/-) mice, there was marked renal functional impairment as reflected by an increase in plasma creatinine, associated with acute tubular damage and microvascular pathology as compared with HO-2 (+/+). In these animals, HO activity was decreased with a concomitant increase in superoxide anion. Upregulation of HO-1 in HO-2 (-/-) mice by weekly administration of cobalt protoporphyrin prevented the increase in plasma creatinine levels and tubulointerstitial and microvascular pathology. Inhibition of HO activity by administration of tin mesoporphyrin accentuated superoxide production and increased creatinine levels in hyperglycemic HO-2 (-/-) mice. In conclusion, HO-2 deficiency enhanced STZ-induced renal dysfunction and morphologic injury and HO-1 upregulation in HO-2 (-/-) mouse rescue and prevented the morphologic damage. These observations indicate that HO activity is essential in preserving renal function and morphology in STZ-induced diabetic mice probably via mitigation of concomitant oxidative stress.
Treatment options for bacterial vaginosis are numerous, however for urinary tract infection (UTI) by Gardnerella vaginalis have been not reported. Our purpose was to compare the efficacy and treatment complications of oral metronidazole versus oral ampicillin for treatment of this condition in a prospective randomized, nonblinded study. Fifty-seven women who had symptoms of UTI and a positive culture for G. vaginalis were enrolled in the study. Only forty-five subjects were considered valuable: 25 treated with oral metronidazole 500 mg twice daily for 7 days, and 20 with oral ampicillin 2 g for 10 days. Positive culture was defined as the presence of 10(4) or 10(5) UFC/ml of G. vaginalis in pure culture in HBT media. The clinical and bacteriological cure rates were 92% and 96% respectively for metronidazole and 90% in both for ampicillin. Chi-squared analysis reveals no statistical significance between two treatments. Adverse events were common in-patients treated with metronidazole whereas relatively few side effects were experienced in-patients treated with ampicillin. Ampicillin is effective, safe and well-tolerated therapy for UTI by G. vaginalis. In contrast oral metronidazole is effective but no safe and bad-tolerated therapy for the same condition.
Clinically overt central nervous system (CNS) involvement occurs in 10%-15% of patients with advanced breast cancer.
The International Breast Cancer Study Group (IBCSG) conducted a dose-finding phase I trial of epirubicin (E) and docetaxel (D) as first-line therapy in advanced breast cancer patients. The study was expanded into a phase II at the recommended doses of E 90 mg/m2 and D 75 mg/m2 every three weeks. From July 1996 to May 1998, a total of 92 patients (median age 50 years) entered the two studies.
Twenty-eight out of ninety-two patients treated with the combination of E and D (30%) developed CNS metastases (95% confidence limits, 26%-35%), which were cerebral in twenty-five patients, leptomeningeal in two, and both in one. Of these 28 patients, 19 (68%) had an objective response. Median time for the development of CNS metastases from the start of chemotherapy was 15 months (range 5-42), if excluding the 6 patients presenting CNS progression within 3 months from start of treatment. It is notable that 11 patients (39%) had progression in the CNS only. Median survival from appearance of brain metastases in the whole group was only three months (range 1-22). C-erbB-2 overexpression was found in 14 out of 16 patients (87%) in whom the assay was performed (3+ in 10, 2+ in 1 and 1+ in 3 cases).
As anthracycline- and taxane-containing regimens are increasingly used both in the metastatic and in the adjuvant setting, a careful monitoring of any neurological symptom is advisable. Our preliminary observation on the possible increase of incidence of CNS involvement in patients with advanced breast cancer receiving this effective drug combination requires further evaluation.
Standard lipoprotein measurements may not adequately reflect the increased atherogenic risk found in patients with abnormalities in lipoprotein particle size and subfraction distribution such as disproportionate amounts of small, dense low-density lipoprotein particles, small high-density lipoprotein particles, or large very-low-density lipoprotein particles. Measurement or anticipation of patients most susceptible to lipoprotein subfraction abnormalities may influence therapeutic choices for the optimal management of dyslipidemia. Previously, the ADvicor Vs. Other Cholesterol-modulating Agents Trial Evaluation demonstrated that niacin extended release/lovastatin provided greater global improvement in lipid parameters such as low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, lipoprotein (a), apolipoprotein B, and apolipoprotein A-I blood levels compared with atorvastatin and simvastatin monotherapies. In this report, niacin extended release/lovastatin was also more effective than atorvastatin and simvastatin monotherapies in reducing small, dense low-density lipoprotein particles and improving low-density lipoprotein phenotype pattern at relative starting doses, and was more effective in increasing the proportion of high-density lipoprotein in the potentially cardioprotective 2b subclass at all doses.
This retrospective study was carried out to assess the effectiveness of statin-gemfibrozil combination therapy in a community practice lipid clinic and to review safety data from published literature. Forty-six consecutive patients received a statin and gemfibrozil combination for resistant hyperlipidemia to either agent therapy. Fasting total cholesterol (mg/dL), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (mg/dL), and triglycerides (mg/dL) were measured. Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (mg/dL) was calculated using the Friedewald formula if triglycerides were <400 mg/dL. Combination therapy reduced total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides by 11% (p=0.02), 22% (p=0.049), and 39% (p=0.0002), respectively, and raised high-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 5% (p=0.3). A pooled analysis of 838 patients from the literature on statin-gemfibrozil combination therapy revealed an incidence of myositis and severe myopathy of 0.7% and 0.6%, respectively (excluding cerivastatin). We conclude that statin-gemfibrozil combination therapy is effective in significantly reducing total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides with a trend toward raising high-density lipoprotein cholesterol in patients with hyperlipidemia resistant to either agent alone. Myositis and severe myopathy are infrequent, but not rare side effects which may be statin-specific regarding the incidence of occurrence.
Chloroquine (Chl) is an anti-rheumatic drug that is widely used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). It seems that T cells are important in the pathogenesis of RA, but it is not known whether Chl acts via inhibition of T cell function. We here present evidence that Chl, just like cyclosporine A (CsA), inhibits T cell proliferation as induced with immobilized alpha CD3 MoAb in a concentration-dependent manner, at least partly through interfering with the production of IL-2 protein and the induction of IL-2 mRNA. Furthermore, Chl impedes the responsiveness of T cell clones to IL-2 since (1) the inhibition of alpha CD3 MoAb-induced proliferation by Chl could not be reversed by rIL-2 and (2) Chl directly blocks IL-2-driven proliferation of cloned T cells. Chl appeared to interfere with the internalization (50% inhibition) and degradation (total blockade) of rIL-2. Finally, the combination of Chl and CsA synergistically inhibited T cell proliferation. We conclude that Chl may inhibit functional properties of human T cells, although the drug is 100- to 1000-fold less potent than CsA in inhibiting T cell proliferation and IL-2 production, respectively. It is speculated that the in vitro effects of Chl might be relevant in explaining the anti-rheumatic effect of this drug in patients with RA.
