The antimicrobial activity of telavancin against 2279 clinical Gram-positive cocci obtained from patients with nosocomial pneumonia [NP; including those with ventilator-acquired pneumonia (VAP)] located in numerous medical centres worldwide was evaluated.
A contemporary collection of 2279 non-duplicate consecutive Gram-positive clinical isolates were submitted from 87 hospitals located in North America (913 isolates), Latin America (222 isolates), Europe (690 isolates), and the Asia-Pacific region (454 isolates) as part of the international telavancin surveillance programme for 2007-08. Isolates were tested for susceptibility by the reference broth microdilution method (with 2%-5% lysed horse blood added for testing of streptococci). Interpretive criteria were those from CLSI (M100-S20, 2010) except for telavancin, for which the susceptible breakpoints approved by the US FDA were applied.
Telavancin was highly active against Staphylococcus aureus (MIC(90), 0.25 mg/L; 100% susceptible), coagulase-negative staphylococci (MIC(90), 0.25 mg/L), Streptococcus pneumoniae (MIC(90), 0.03 mg/L), viridans group streptococci (MIC(90), 0.06 mg/L; 100% susceptible), β-haemolytic streptococci (MIC(90), 0.06 mg/L; 100% susceptible) and vancomycin-susceptible enterococci (MIC(90), 0.5 mg/L; 100% susceptible). Telavancin inhibited all staphylococci at ≤ 0.5 mg/L. Among enterococci non-susceptible to vancomycin (all Enterococcus faecium), telavancin was active against isolates exhibiting a VanB phenotype (MIC, 0.06-0.12 mg/L), but less potent against VanA strains (MIC, ≥ 2 mg/L).
Telavancin demonstrated equal or greater potency than the comparators (vancomycin, teicoplanin, daptomycin, linezolid and quinupristin/dalfopristin) against Gram-positive pathogens implicated in NP. Telavancin showed elevated MIC values only against enterococcus isolates showing a VanA phenotype. The continued appearance of multidrug-resistant pathogens among Gram-positive isolates, mainly S. aureus, necessitates the introduction of new agents and longitudinal surveillance to monitor for the potential emergence of resistance.
The structural modifications to PRL-secreting pituitary adenomas induced by medical treatment with bromocryptine are described. Whereas the consistency of the tumour diminishes after a shgort period of treatment, making surgical removal easier, it increases after a long period (years) owing to interstitial fibrosis phenomena that impede surgical removal.
Acute aminonucleoside nephrosis progresses to glomerulosclerosis. The mechanisms for this phenomenon are not entirely known. Our objectives were to identify macrophage (m phi)-derived peptide growth factors (i.e., tumor necrosis factor and interleukin 1), using immunohistochemical means, in glomeruli of rats with acute aminonucleoside nephrosis. Recently, a role for glomerular m phi s has been suggested as one of the possible mechanisms responsible for this transition from acute glomerular injury to glomerulosclerosis. Since peptide growth factors are elaborated by m phi s and produce alterations in mesangial cell proliferation and protein biosynthesis, we investigated whether these cytokines were present in glomeruli during aminonucleoside nephrosis, which has been typically regarded as a nonimmune toxic glomerulopathy. Fourteen days after puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) delivery, nephrotic control rats (PA/control) and nephrotic animals that had been maintained on an essential fatty acid-deficient (EFAD) diet (PA/EFAD) for 8 weeks before PA, manifested cytoplasmic tumor necrosis factor and interleukin 1 within cells located in the glomerular mesangium as detected by immunohistochemical means. Despite equivalent levels of albuminuria and fasting total cholesterol during peak nephrosis, the PA/EFAD rats had significant reductions in the number of tumor necrosis factor-positive glomerular cells (1.8 +/- 0.1 versus 8.5 +/- 0.4, p less than .001) and interleukin 1-positive glomerular cells (1.5 +/- 0.1 versus 7.2 +/- 0.5, p less than .001) in comparison with the PA/control group. These data correlated with a reduction in the number of ED-1-positive cells (i.e. glomerular m phi s) in glomeruli of PA/EFAD animals as compared with PA/control rats (2.2 +/- 0.3 versus 10.9 +/- 1.4, p less than .001), suggesting that m phi-derived peptide growth factors may be important determinants in initiating a pathobiologic sequence culminating in glomerulosclerosis in this model.
FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) is an independent poor prognostic marker of acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and strategies that specifically target FLT3 are therefore of substantial interest. However, previous studies with FLT3 inhibitors as single agents in patients with AML showed few clinical responses. In the present study, combined effects of FLT3 selective inhibitor (SC-203048) and NF-κB selective inhibitor (Parthenolide, PTL) on AML xenograft tumor growth in vivo were examined, and the possible antitumor mechanisms by which SC-203048 and PTL affect AML xenograft tumor growth were also detected. Results showed that the tumor growth was strongly inhibited, and increased cell apoptosis was also observed after treatments, especially in the combination group; meanwhile, the expressions of FLT3, p65, cyclin D1, and Bc1-2 decreased significantly, and the expression of nuclear Silencing mediator for retinoic acid and thyroid hormone receptors (SMRT) increased notably. All results indicate that synergism exists between FLT3 and NF-κB inhibitors, and inhibitors combination treatment may be a potential strategy for AML.
The goal of this study was to assess the interactive effects of chronic anabolic androgenic steroid (AAS) exposure and brain serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) depletion on behavior of pubertal male rats. Serotonin was depleted beginning on postnatal day 26 with parachlorophenylalanine (PCPA 100 mg/kg, every other day); controls received saline. At puberty (P40), half the PCPA-treated rats and half the saline-treated rats began treatment with testosterone (T, 5 mg/kg, 5 days/week). Behavioral measures included locomotion, irritability, copulation, partner preference, and aggression. Animals were tested for aggression in their home cage, both with and without physical provocation (mild tail pinch). Brain levels of 5-HT and its metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), were determined using HPLC. PCPA significantly and substantially depleted 5-HT and 5-HIAA in all brain regions examined. Chronic T treatment significantly decreased 5-HT and 5-HIAA in certain brain areas, but to a much lesser extent than PCPA. Chronic exposure to PCPA alone significantly decreased locomotor activity and increased irritability but had no effect on sexual behavior, partner preference, or aggression. T alone had no effect on locomotion, irritability, or sexual behavior but increased partner preference and aggression. The most striking effect of combining T+PCPA was a significant increase in attack frequency as well as a significant decrease in the latency to attack, particularly following physical provocation. Based on these data, it can be speculated that pubertal AAS users with low central 5-HT may be especially prone to exhibit aggressive behavior.
Some hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI))-containing compounds are human lung carcinogens. While ample information is available on the genetic lesions produced by Cr, surprisingly little is known regarding the cellular mechanisms involved in the removal of Cr-DNA adducts. Nucleotide excision repair (NER) is a highly versatile pathway that is responsive to a variety of DNA helix-distorting lesions. Binary Cr-DNA monoadducts do not produce a significant degree of helical distortion. However, these lesions are unstable due to the propensity of Cr(III) to form DNA adducts (DNA interstrand crosslinks, DNA-protein/amino acid ternary adducts) which may serve as substrates for NER. Therefore, the focus of this study was to determine the role of NER in the processing of Cr-DNA damage using normal (CHO-AA8) and NER-deficient [UV-5 (XP-D); UV-41 (ERCC4/XP-F)] hamster cells. We found that both UV-5 and UV-41 cells exhibited an increased sensitivity towards Cr(VI)-induced clonogenic lethality relative to AA8 cells and were completely deficient in the removal of Cr-DNA adducts. In contrast, repair-complemented UV-5 (expressing hamster XPD) and UV-41 (expressing human ERCC4) cells exhibited similar clonogenic survival and removed Cr-DNA adducts to a similar extent as AA8 cells. In order to extend these findings to the molecular level, we examined the ability of Cr(III)-damaged DNA to induce DNA repair synthesis in cell extracts. Repair synthesis was observed in reactions using extracts derived from AA8, or repair-complemented, but not NER-deficient cells. Cr(III)-induced repair resynthesis was sensitive to inhibition by the DNA polymerase delta/epsilon inhibitor, aphidicolin, but not 2',3'-dideoxythymidine triphosphate (ddTTP), a polymerase beta inhibitor. These results collectively suggest that NER functions in the protection of cells from Cr(VI) lethality and is essential for the removal of Cr(III)-DNA adducts. Consequently, NER may represent an important mechanism for preventing Cr(VI)-induced mutagenesis and neoplastic transformation.
Obesity is associated with increased systemic and airway oxidative stress, which may result from a combination of adipokine imbalance and antioxidant defenses reduction. Obesity-mediated oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of dyslipidemia, vascular disease, and nonalcoholic hepatic steatosis. The antidyslipidemic activity of pigeon pea were evaluated by high-fat diet (HFD) hamsters model, in which the level of high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C), low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C), total cholesterol (TC), and total triglyceride (TG) were examined. We found that pigeon pea administration promoted cholesterol converting to bile acid in HFD-induced hamsters, thereby exerting hypolipidemic activity. In the statistical results, pigeon pea significantly increased hepatic carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 (CPT-1), LDL receptor, and cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase (also known as cytochrome P450 7A1, CYP7A1) expression to attenuate dyslipidemia in HFD-fed hamsters; and markedly elevated antioxidant enzymes in the liver of HFD-induced hamsters, further alleviating lipid peroxidation. These effects may attribute to pigeon pea contained large of unsaturated fatty acids (UFA; C18:2) and phytosterol (β-sitosterol, campesterol, and stigmasterol). Moreover, the effects of pigeon pea on dyslipidemia were greater than β-sitosterol administration (4%), suggesting that phytosterone in pigeon pea could prevent metabolic syndrome.
Acute myocardial infarction is the second cause of mortality in most countries, therefore, it is important to know the evolution and sequence of the physiological and biochemical changes involved in this pathology. This study attempts to integrate these changes and to correlate them in a long-term model (96 h) of isoproterenol-induced myocardial cell damage in the rat. We achieved an infarct-like damage in the apex region of the left ventricle, occurring 12-24 h after isoproterenol administration. The lesion was defined by histological criteria, continuous telemetric ECG recordings, and the increase in serum marker enzymes, specific for myocardial damage. A distinction is made among preinfarction, infarction, and postinfarction. Three minutes after drug administration, there was a 60% increase in heart rate and a lowering of blood pressure, resulting possibly in a functional ischemia. Ultrastructural changes and mitochondrial swelling were evident from the first hour of treatment, but functional alterations in isolated mitochondria, such as decreases in oxygen consumption, respiratory quotient, ATP synthesis, and membrane potential, were noticed only 6 h after drug administration and lasted until 72 h later. Mitochondrial proteins decreased after 3 h of treatment, reaching almost a 50% diminution, which was maintained during the whole study. An energy imbalance, reflected by a decrease in energy charge and in the creatine phosphate/creatine ratio, was observed after 30 min of treatment; however, ATP and total adenine nucleotides diminished clearly only after 3 h of treatment. All these alterations reached a maximum at the onset of infarction and were accompanied by damage to the myocardial function, drastically decreasing left ventricular pressure and shortening the atrioventricular interval. During postinfarction, a partial recovery of energy charge, creatine phosphate/creatine ratio, membrane potential, and myocardial function occurred, but not of mitochondrial oxygen consumption, rate of ATP synthesis, total adenine nucleotides, or mitochondrial proteins. Interesting correlations of the sequential changes in heart and mitochondrial functions with energy metabolism were obtained at different stages of the isoproterenol-induced cardiotoxicity. These correlations could be useful to study and understand the cellular events involved in this pathology.
Cardiovascular complications are common in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and myocardial infarctions are the leading cause of increased mortality. The ADP receptor P2Y(12) plays a central role in platelet activation and the P2Y(12) blocker clopidogrel reduces the incidence of cardiovascular events. Clusterin, a complement inhibitory protein suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of SLE, has been found recently in a microarray study to be expressed at very high levels in platelets. Using a new protocol for mRNA quantification in platelets we set out to study if gene expression is altered in SLE patients compared with a healthy control group. Quantitative assay based on real-time PCR was used to measure mRNA expression, Western blot for P2 receptor protein expression and PFA-100 for platelet aggregation. The P2Y(12) receptor expression was decreased in SLE compared to the controls (P < 0.05), while expression of P2Y(1) and P2X(1) were unaltered. These findings were consistent at the protein level. The clusterin mRNA expression was very high. However, SLE patients had significantly lower levels than controls (P < 0.05). Platelet aggregation was similar in both groups. It may be suggested that a decreased level of P2Y(12) receptors could represent a protective response in SLE against thrombotic complications. Lowered clusterin levels could be involved in the pathogenesis of SLE due to decreased protective effects. These findings could help to achieve a better understanding of the platelet function in SLE and serve as a guide for further research and drug use.
To study 5-aminosalicylate nephrotoxicity in patients with inflammatory bowel disease in the UK.
A detailed postal questionnaire was sent to all 1298 names in the British Society of Gastroenterology database and 290 consultant members of the Renal Association. The British Society of Gastroenterology reported new cases monthly, the Renal Association 6 monthly. Results were expressed as estimated glomerular filtration rate.
Retrospective study: cases--British Society of Gastroenterology:Renal Association 202:87, aged 15-76 years. Median peak (range) creatinine (British Society of Gastroenterology:Renal Association) - 300:301 (78-1200) micromol/L. Prospective study - 59 cases, median age 52 years (M:F ratio: 47:12). Median pre-treatment estimated glomerular filtration rate: 76.9 (123.9-39), at diagnosis 28.4 (80.5-3.6, creatinine range: 92-1361 micromol/L), recovery 46.8 [111.2-end stage renal failure] mL/min/1.73 m2. Recovery of renal function was significantly improved for patients treated for < 12 months [n = 10, median recovery estimated glomerular filtration rate 70.5 (92-26.9) vs. > 12 months 38.4 (111.2-end stage renal failure) mL/min/1.73 m2, P = 0.028].
Regular monitoring of renal function may allow earlier detection of nephrotoxicity, particularly during the first year of therapy. Based on an inflammatory bowel disease prevalence in the United Kingdom of 412 x 10(5) with about 50% on treatment, we estimate that the incidence of clinical nephrotoxicity in patients taking 5-aminosalicylate therapy is approximately one in 4000 patients/year.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of trazodone prolonged-release compared with sertraline in the treatment of patients with major depression.
A total of 122 patients aged 19-64 years were enrolled in this multicenter, double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, comparator-controlled study. Patients received 7 days of single-blind placebo treatment followed by 6 weeks of double-blind treatment with trazodone prolonged-release 150-450 mg/day (n = 62) or sertraline 50-100 mg/day (n = 60).
Efficacy was evaluated by mean changes from baseline in the Hamilton Depression Rating scale (HAM-D), Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale, Hamilton Anxiety Rating scale, and the Clinical Global Impression-Global Improvement/Severity scores; and by the rates of patients responding to treatment and considered to be in remission. Time to onset of efficacy and safety were assessed.
Trazodone and sertraline were equally effective in reducing depressive symptoms and promoting remission, and had similar onset times. In the Intent-to-Treat population, there were no significant differences in favor of trazodone at study endpoint in all efficacy measures, while a statistically significant difference was detected in the Per-Protocol population on HAM-D and in the percentage of responders. Analysis of HAM-D factors (anxiety/somatization, cognitive disturbance, retardation, and sleep disturbance) indicated that sleep disturbances were significantly less evident for patients taking trazodone at study endpoint. Adverse drug reactions, mostly of mild intensity, were reported in 42% of trazodone-treated patients (mainly of the nervous system) and 43% of sertraline-treated patients (mainly gastrointestinal). One event was considered to be serious: a patient treated with trazodone 450 mg/day showed moderate anxiety/tremor/insomnia and was hospitalized. Treatment was discontinued; the patient made a full recovery.
This study showed that after 6 weeks, trazodone and sertraline were not different in reducing symptoms of depression and in producing disease remission. Tolerability profiles reflected the differing pharmacological properties of these antidepressants. Trazodone may be a therapeutic option in the treatment of patients with major depression showing prevalent sleep disturbances.
1. Continuous intravenous noradrenaline infusion for 1 week into rats by osmotic minipumps significantly increased blood pressure and left ventricular weight. 2. Concomitant alpha-receptor-blockade infusion significantly lowered blood pressure and the aortic weight without significant reduction in left ventricular weight. 3. Two beta-receptor-blocking agents in noradrenaline-infused rats normalized left ventricular weight and significantly reduced the aortic weight, although blood pressure was still higher than control non-infused rats. 4. In 7-week-old spontaneously hypertensive rats, propranolol (perorally for 2 weeks) did not lower blood pressure but reduced significantly cardiovascular protein synthesis ([14C]lysine and [3H]uridine incorporation into non-collagen protein and RNA respectively) in both left ventricle and aorta. This effect was in contrast to hydralazine, which normalized blood pressure but did not reduce cardiovascular protein synthesis. 5. Results suggest that beta-receptors play a modulating role in the structural cardiovascular response to blood pressure.
Four cases of severe peripheral neuropathy directly attributable to nitrofurantoin are reported. The neuropathy was not dose-related and not necessarily associated with abnormal renal function. Recovery was slow, and neither severity nor recovery was related to the total dose of the drug. The pathological changes seen on light microscopy and electron microscopy were those of acute, severe axonal degeneration. It is emphasised that nitrofurantoin is a neurotic drug and should not be prescribed to the elderly not to anyone with impairment of renal function.
Sustained hepatic inflammation induced by various causes can lead to liver fibrosis. Transcription factor NF-kappaB is important in regulating inflammatory responses, especially in macrophages. We presently investigated whether an NF-kappaB decoy, a synthetic oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) imitating the NF-kappaB binding site, inhibited the inflammatory response after CCl(4) intoxication to prevent CCl(4)-induced hepatic injury and fibrosis. The NF-kappaB decoy was introduced into livers by injecting the spleens of mice, using a hemagglutinating virus of Japan (HVJ)-liposome method. ODN was transferred mainly to macrophages in normal or fibrotic livers. Increases in serum transaminases and production of inflammatory cytokines after a single challenge with CCl(4) were inhibited by the NF-kappaB decoy, which suppressed nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB in liver macrophages. Liver fibrosis induced by CCl(4) administration for 8 wk was suppressed by the NF-kappaB decoy, accompanied by diminished mRNA expression for transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta, procollagen type 1 alpha(1), and alpha-smooth muscle actin (SMA). In vitro, isolated liver macrophages showed increased DNA binding activity of NF-kappaB and inflammatory cytokine production after hydrogen peroxide treatment; both increases were inhibited significantly by the NF-kappaB decoy. In contrast, NF-kappaB decoy transferred to isolated hepatic stellate cells (HSC) had no effect on their morphological activation or alpha-SMA expression, although the decoy accelerated tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha-induced apoptosis in activated HSC. The effect of NF-kappaB decoy suppressing fibrosis probably results mainly from anti-inflammatory effects on liver macrophages, with a possible minor contribution from its direct proapoptotic effect on activated HSC.
PGE2 plays a critical role in colorectal carcinogenesis. We have previously shown that COX-2 expression and PGE2 synthesis are mediated by IGF-II/IGF-I receptor signaling in the Caco-2 cell line and that the pathway of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt protects the cell from apoptosis. In the present study, we demonstrate that PGE2 has the ability to increase Ras and PI3K association and decrease the level of apoptosis in the same experimental system. The effect of PGE2 on PI3K/Ras association is dependent on the activation of EP4 receptor, the increase of cAMP levels, and the activation of PKA. In fact, treatment of cells with the PKA inhibitor H89 decreases the association of Ras and PI3K and Ras-associated PI3K activity. PKA inhibitor H89 is able to decrease threonine phosphorylation of Akt and to increase serine phosphorylation of Akt by p38 MAPK and counteracts the cytoprotective effect induced by PGE2. In addition, PGE2 is able to activate p38 MAPK and the inhibition of p38 MAPK, with SB203580 specific inhibitor or with dominant negative MKK6 kinase, is able to revert the apoptotic effect of H89 and serine phosphorylation of Akt. The effect of PGE2 on Caco-2 cell survival through PKA activation is mediated and regulated by the balance of threonine/serine phosphorylation of Akt by p38 kinase and PI3K. In conclusion, our data elucidate a novel mechanism for regulation of colon cancer cell survival and provide evidences for new combinatory treatments of colon cancer.
A randomized, double-blinded trial was performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the S-Caine Patch (ZARS, Inc., Salt Lake City, UT), a eutectic mixture of lidocaine and tetracaine, for pain relief during venipuncture in children.
With institutional review board approval, parental consent, and patient assent, 64 children who were scheduled for medically indicated vascular access at two centers were randomly assigned (2:1) to receive either an S-Caine Patch or a placebo patch for 20 min before venipuncture procedures. The primary outcome measure was the child's rating of pain during venipuncture using the Oucher pain scale. Additional measures of efficacy included the blinded investigator's and an independent observer's four-point categorical scores. Variables were compared between treatments using Mantel-Haenszel summary chi-square tests or Pearson chi-square tests.
The S-Caine Patch produced significantly greater pain relief compared with placebo (median Oucher scores of 0 vs. 60; P < 0.001). Fifty-nine percent of the children in the S-Caine Patch group reported no pain compared with 20% of the children in the placebo patch group. The investigator estimated that 76% of the children in the S-Caine Patch group experienced no pain during venipuncture versus 20% in the placebo patch group (P = 0.001). Independent observer ratings also favored the S-Caine Patchtrade mark (P < 0.001). Mild skin erythema (< 38%) and edema (< 2%) occurred with similar frequencies between the groups.
This study demonstrated that a 20-min application of the S-Caine Patch is effective in lessening pain associated with venipuncture procedures. Adverse events after S-Caine Patch application were mild and transient.
Tetrabamate (Atrium), a composite preparation of phenobarbital, difebarbamate and febarbamate, is widely used to reduce ethanol withdrawal symptoms such as tremor, agitation and anxiety. Generally this drug is well tolerated and a few cases of reversible hepatitis as well as clinically mild symptoms of asthenia have been described. We report on a 28-year-old female patient admitted to hospital with acute liver failure after treatment with tetrabamate because of alcohol withdrawal symptoms. Liver biopsy revealed a drug-induced toxic alteration with extensive panlobular necrosis without signs of alcoholic hepatitis. Under supportive therapy liver parameters normalized in 3 months. In view of this potentially lethal adverse effect of tetrabamate, it should not be used for ethanol withdrawal symptoms.
Acetaminophen (APAP) is an analgesic-antipyretic drug widely used in children. In the present study, we used an in vivo model of APAP-induced nephrotoxicity in male Wistar rats. We analyzed whether toxic doses of APAP could induce heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) in the kidney and whether HSP70 could be detected in urine. Renal function and histological evaluation of the kidneys were performed at different times after APAP administration (1,000 mg/kg body weight i.p.). Cellular injury was assessed by Triton X-100 solubilization of Na(+)/K(+) ATPase. Renal and hepatic glutathione levels were also measured. Urinary N-acetyl-beta-D glucosaminidase (NAG) excretion increased 4 h after intoxication. At this time, urea and creatinine were at control levels and a slight degree of histological alteration was detected. Kidney microscopic evaluation, Na(+)/K(+) ATPase solubility, creatinine, and urea levels and NAG excretion did not differ from those of controls 48 h after APAP administration. HSP70 was detected in urine obtained from 4 to 24 h after APAP administration. HSP70 abundance in renal cortex was increased at early time points and 48 h after APAP administration. Urinary HSP70 excretion would be a marker of its renal induction combined with the loss of tubule integrity. NAG would be a suitable early biomarker of APAP-induced nephrotoxicity.
A 7-year-old boy developed renal tubular dysfunction and hypophosphatemic rickets following treatment for relapsed embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma. Multi-agent chemotherapy included ifosfamide; the child received a total of 108 g/m2. The complete Fanconi syndrome which ensued, including excessive loss of calcium, resolved spontaneously and progressively 18 months after the last dose of ifosfamide. The patient had no further symptoms of rickets and radiological signs had almost completely normalized. Further follow-up was not possible as, despite further treatment, the child died of progressive disease.
Torsade de pointes is a serious ventricular arrhythmia which is usually associated with a long QT interval. It is important to recognize the possible predisposing factors for the management of this arrhythmia. Prolongation of the QT interval and torsade de pointes has been reported in patients with an overdose of astemizole. We report on a 63-year-old woman presenting with torsade de pointes and a long QT interval caused by the combined use of astemizole (at recommended dosage), and ketoconazole. After discontinuation of these drugs and treatment with a temporary pacemaker, magnesium sulfate and lidocaine, the arrhythmia was no longer observed and she was discharged in good condition with a normal electrocardiogram. This case should alert clinicians to the possibility of torsade de pointes with the combined use of astemizole and ketoconazole.
We performed a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group study to compare the renal effects of iomeprol-400 and iodixanol-320 in patients with preexisting chronic kidney disease undergoing contrast-enhanced multidetector computed tomography of the liver.
One hundred forty-eight patients with moderate-to-severe chronic kidney disease, ie, serum creatinine (SCr) > or =1.5 mg/dL (132.6 micromol/L) and/or calculated creatinine clearance (CrCl) <60 mL/min, undergoing contrast-enhanced multidetector computed tomography of the liver were randomized to equi-iodine doses (40 gI) of either the low-osmolar agent iomeprol-400 (400 mgI/mL, 726 mOsm/kg, N = 76) or the isotonic agent iodixanol-320 (320 mgI/mL, 290 mOsm/kg, N = 72), injected intravenously at 4 mL/S, followed by a bolus of 20 mL normal saline solution at the same rate. SCr was obtained at screening, baseline and at 48 to 72 hours postdose. SCr measurements and CrCl calculations were performed by a central laboratory. Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) was defined as an absolute SCr increase of > or =0.5 mg/dL (44.2 micromol/L) from baseline to 48 to 72 hours postdose. Mean SCr changes from baseline were also assessed. A Renal Safety Review Board comprised 3 medical experts reviewed the renal safety data, demographics, medical history, CIN risk factors, concomitant medications, and hydration status of each subject in a blinded manner.
The 2 study groups were comparable with regard to age, gender distribution, concomitant nephrotoxins, hydration status, and total iodine dose; however, the iomeprol-400 group showed a significantly higher proportion of patients with diabetes mellitus (P = 0.02). Baseline SCr was 1.7 +/- 0.6 mg/dL (150.3 +/- 53.0 micromol/L) in the iomeprol-400 group and 1.7 +/- 0.7 mg/dL (150.3 +/- 61.9 micromol/L) in the iodixanol-320 group (P = 0.87). Predose CrCl was 41.5 +/- 13.1 mL/Min in the iomeprol-400 group and 43.0 +/- 13.3 mL/Min in the iodixanol-320 group (P = 0.49). Five of 72 patient receiving iodixanol-320 (6.9%) and none of the patients receiving iomeprol-400 showed an increase of > or =0.5 mg/dL (44.2 micromol/L) from baseline [P = 0.025, 95% CI (-12.8%, -1.1%)]. The mean SCr change from baseline was significantly higher (P = 0.017 ANCOVA) after iodixanol-320 (0.06 +/- 0.27) than after iomeprol-400 (-0.04 +/- 0.19).
The incidence of CIN was significantly higher after IV administration of iodixanol-320 than iomeprol-400. The mean rise in SCr from baseline was also higher in patients receiving iodixanol.
Structure based design led directly to 1,3-oxazinan-2-one 9a with an IC(50) of 42 nM against 11β-HSD1 in vitro. Optimization of 9a for improved in vitro enzymatic and cellular potency afforded 25f with IC(50) values of 0.8 nM for the enzyme and 2.5 nM in adipocytes. In addition, 25f has 94% oral bioavailability in rat and >1000× selectivity over 11β-HSD2. In mice, 25f was distributed to the target tissues, liver, and adipose, and in cynomolgus monkeys a 10 mg/kg oral dose reduced cortisol production by 85% following a cortisone challenge.
Chronic liver disease is associated with endotoxemia, oxidative stress, increased endocannabinoids and decreased cardiac responsiveness. Endocannabinoids activate the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha)-nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB) pathway. However, how they interact with each other remains obscure. We therefore aimed to clarify the relationship between the TNFalpha-NFkappaB pathway and endocannabinoids in the pathogenesis of cardiodepression of cholestatic bile duct ligated (BDL) mice.
BDL mice with TNFalpha knockout (TNFalpha-/-) and infusion of anti-TNFalpha antibody were used. Cardiac mRNA and protein expression of NFkappaBp65, c-Jun-N-terminal kinases (JNK), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK), extracelullar-signal- regulated kinase (ERK), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), Copper/Zinc and Magnesium-superoxide dismutase (Cu/ Zn- and Mn-SOD), cardiac anandamide, 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), nitric oxide (NOx) and glutathione, and plasma TNFalpha were measured. The effects of TNFalpha, cannabinoid receptor (CB1) antagonist AM251 and the endocannabinoid reuptake inhibitor UCM707, on the contractility of isolated cardiomyocytes, were assessed.
In BDL mice, cardiac mRNA and protein expression of NFkappaBp65, p38MAPK, iNOS, NOx, anandamide, and plasma TNFa were increased, whereas glutathione, Cu/Zn-SOD, and Mn-SOD were decreased. Cardiac contractility was blunted in BDL mice. Anti-TNFa treatment in BDL mice decreased cardiac anandamide and NOx, reduced expression of NFkappaBp65, p38MAPK, and iNOS, enhanced expression of Cu/Zn-SOD and Mn-SOD, increased reductive glutathione and restored cardiomyocyte contractility. TNFa-depressed contractility was worsened by UCM707, whereas AM251 improved contractility.
Increased TNFalpha, acting via NFkappaB-iNOS and p38MAPK signaling pathways, plays an important role in the pathogenesis of cardiodepression in BDL mice. TNFalpha also suppressed contractility by increasing oxidative stress and endocannabinoid activity.
To determine whether the incidence and duration of bleeding complications after transrectal prostate biopsy (PB) in patients not discontinuing low-dose aspirin (LDA) are greater than in those discontinuing it.
A total of 200 consecutive subjects taking chronic LDA were enrolled in a prospective trial and were randomly assigned to undergo transrectal PB while continuing LDA (group 1, n = 67), replacing LDA with low-molecular-weight heparin (group 2, n = 67), or discontinuing LDA (group 3, n = 66). The incidence and duration of hematuria, rectal bleeding, and hematospermia for each group were assessed with a self-administered questionnaire. On days 14 and 30 after PB, all men were evaluated with an outpatient visit and a telephone interview, respectively.
The cohort comprised 196 assessable subjects. The median number of biopsy cores taken was 10 (range 6 to 10). The overall bleeding rate was 78.5%, 69.7%, and 81.5% in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively (P = 0.26). No significant difference was found for hematuria, rectal bleeding, or hematospermia among the groups. No severe bleeding complications occurred. The median duration of hematuria and rectal bleeding was significantly greater statistically in groups 1 and 2 compared with group 3 (6, 4, and 2 days versus 3, 2, and 1 days, respectively; P <0.0001). The proportion of men still reporting hematospermia at 30 days after PB was 21.4%, 18.5%, and 9.3% in groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively (P = 0.2).
The continued use of LDA in men undergoing transrectal PB did not increase the incidence of mild bleeding complications, although it prolonged the duration of self-limiting hematuria and rectal bleeding. Its effect, however, on severe bleeding remains to be determined.
We examined the possibility of continuing oxazaphosphorine therapy in patients with previously documented cyclophosphamide- or ifosfamide-induced hematuria by concomitant use of the uroprotective agent, mesna. Twenty-six patients with oxazaphosphorine-induced hematuria received additional cyclophosphamide or ifosfamide with mesna. Twelve, who had previously experienced hematuria with ifosfamide, received a median of 3.5 more cycles of ifosfamide/mesna. One patient developed further hematuria (grade 1). Of seven patients who experienced acute hematuria with cyclophosphamide, one experienced further hematuria after an additional course of cyclophosphamide with mesna, but none of the other six patients developed further hematuria when administered either cyclophosphamide/mesna (two) or ifosfamide/mesna (four). Seven patients who had chronic cyclophosphamide-induced hematuria had further oxazaphosphorine with mesna without worsening of their hematuria. Mesna is an effective uroprotective agent that prevents recurrent acute hemorrhagic cystitis, or worsening of chronic hemorrhagic cystitis, in patients receiving further oxazaphosphorine after previous ifosfamide- or cyclophosphamide-induced hematuria.
Cytokines are upregulated in a variety of inflammatory conditions and cytokine/receptor interactions can activate JAK-STAT signaling. Previous studies demonstrated upregulation of numerous cytokines in the urinary bladder following cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. The role of JAK-STAT signaling in urinary bladder inflammation and referred somatic sensitivity has not been addressed. The contribution of JAK-STAT signaling pathways in CYP-induced bladder hyperreflexia and referred somatic hypersensitivity was determined in CYP-treated rats using a JAK2 inhibitor, AG490. Acute (4 h; 150 mg/kg ip), intermediate (48 h; 150 mg/kg ip), or chronic (75 mg/kg ip, once every 3 days for 10 days) cystitis was induced in adult, female Wistar rats with CYP treatment. Phosphorylation status of STAT-3 was increased in urinary bladder after CYP-induced cystitis (4 h, 48 h, chronic). Blockade of JAK2 with AG490 (5-15 mg/kg ip or intravesical) significantly (P < or = 0.05) reduced bladder hyperreflexia and hind paw sensitivity in CYP-treated rats. These studies demonstrate a potential role for JAK-STAT signaling pathways in bladder hyperreflexia and referred pain induced by CYP-induced bladder inflammation.
