The incidence of headaches during the first year on oral cotraceptives corrleates closely with the incidence of well-developed arterioles in endometrial biopsy specimens. This relationship appears to depend on the ratio between progestogenic and oestrogenic components of the pill as well as the particular steroids. Therefore endometrial biopsies are useful for assessing the vascular response to an oral contraceptive and also provide a short cut to clinical evaluation of new formulations.
Many consider proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) to be devoid of adverse effects; however, PPIs can cause serious adverse effects. We report on the case of an emergency department patient with omeprazole-induced hyponatremic delirium and rhabdomyolysis. Proton pump inhibitors are initially overlooked as a cause of hyponatremia and myopathy in the emergency department, as with our case. This case is also unique because no publication has reported on both hyponatremia and severe myopathy after PPI therapy. The patient recovered completely after cessation of omeprazole and initiation of intravenous saline hydration and desmopressin infusion.
We investigated the effects of silica particles and nanoparticles (NPs) (50 nm and 200 nm) with a neutral and positively charged surface when dispersed in saline, bovine serum albumin (BSA) or lung lining fluid (LLF) 24 h post instillation into the lungs of rats. There was a significant increase in the recruitment of neutrophils in animals instilled with 50 nm plain and aminated NPs compared with 200 nm particles when dispersed in saline or BSA, but not when dispersed in LLF. There was no evidence of toxicity or an increase in the albumin content of the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Immunostaining for the transcription factor Nrf2 in BAL cells indicated that there was a significant increase in nuclear colocalisation in animals treated with plain and aminated 50 nm NPs compared with plain and aminated 200 nm particles when dispersed in saline, but no difference was observed between 50 nm and 200 nm aminated particles when dispersed in BSA. There was no difference in nuclear colocalisation with any of the particle types dispersed in LLF.This study suggests that low dose intratracheal exposure to silica nanoparticles can produce an acute inflammatory response and that the dispersion medium may influence the magnitude of this response.
Fifteen 7-16-year-old patients, treated in 1981-1984 for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in first complete remission, were studied. As a central nervous system prophylaxis, all the children were treated with repeated methotrexate (MTX) instillations, but none were irradiated. The study protocol included magnetic resonance (MR) and a battery of neuropsychological tests. Small, punctate white-matter lesions were found by MR in eight children, probably minor vascular lesions. All the children were within normal intelligence range with a mean total WISC-R IQ of 109. Minor neuropsychologic problems were found in two patients, while one child showed a more extensive specific learning disorder in school.
A clinical trial of bacampicillin was carried out in 20 patients. The antibiotic was found to be effective in acute lobar pneumonia, pyogenic meningitis, acute and chronic bronchitis, acute pharyngitis, acute tonsillitis, cellulitis, furunculosis, and pyomyositis caused by such ampicillin-sensitive organisms as Neisseria meningitidis, Diplococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pyogenes, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Escherichia coli. Rash in three patients was the only side effect encountered. It is concluded that while bacampicillin may have overcome some of the disadvantages of ampicillin, it retains its main attributes and some shortcomings.
Most available antimalarial drugs induce cardiac side effects. These side effects include various mild heart rate changes (amodiaquine) to excessive prolongation of the QT interval (halofantrine) which may lead to lethal arrhythmias such as Torsade de Pointes (TdP). The cellular mechanism of such events during antimalarial therapy is principally related to ion channel inhibition (e.g., human ether-a-go-go related gene channel) which may slow the repolarisation process and create a good substrate for arrhythmia (when dispersion of repolarisation is present). However, other antimalarial drugs do not show as potent cardiac side effects, like co-arthemeter and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine. Considering that TdP are favoured by a complex combination of electrophysiological changes, a predictive cardiosafety strategy for new antimalarial drugs should comprise assays with an increasing level of information from ion channel level, cellular and organ level, to the whole organism. In this review, the actual knowledge on underlying mechanisms of QT prolongation and TdP is described, followed by the cardiac safety profiles of present antimalarial drugs.
High glucose driven reactive oxygen intermediates production and inflammatory damage are recognized contributors of nerve dysfunction and subsequent damage in diabetic neuropathy. Sulforaphane, a known chemotherapeutic agent holds a promise for diabetic neuropathy because of its dual antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. The present study investigated the effect of sulforaphane in streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic neuropathy in rats. For in vitro experiments neuro2a cells were incubated with sulforaphane in the presence of normal (5.5 mM) and high glucose (30 mM). For in vivo studies, sulforaphane (0.5 and 1 mg/kg) was administered six weeks post diabetes induction for two weeks. Motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV), nerve blood flow (NBF) and pain behavior were improved and malondialdehyde (MDA) level was reduced by sulforaphane. Antioxidant effect of sulforaphane is derived from nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) activation as demonstrated by increased expression of Nrf2 and downstream targets hemeoxygenase-1 (HO-1) and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO-1) in neuro2a cells and sciatic nerve of diabetic animals. Nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) inhibition seemed to be responsible for antiinflammatory activity of sulforaphane as there was reduction in NF-κB expression and IκB kinase (IKK) phosphorylation along with abrogation of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukine-6 (IL-6) levels. Here in this study we provide an evidence that sulforaphane is effective in reversing the various deficits in experimental diabetic neuropathy. This study supports the defensive role of Nrf2 in neurons under conditions of oxidative stress and also suggests that the NF-κB pathway is an important modulator of inflammatory damage in diabetic neuropathy.
Pergolide is an ergot derivative dopamine agonist used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and restless legs syndrome. Ergot derivatives are known to be associated with fibrotic conditions, including a carcinoid-like, fibrotic, valvular heart disease (VHD). Recently, pergolide was identified in association with the development of VHD. This article includes a summary of the literature published on pergolide-associated VHD, a description of the potential mechanisms of drug-induced VHD, and the clinical implications for the management of patients taking pergolide.
Biliary pancreatitis is the most common etiology for acute pancreatitis, yet its pathophysiological mechanism remains unclear. Ca(2+) signals generated within the pancreatic acinar cell initiate the early phase of pancreatitis, and bile acids can elicit anomalous acinar cell intracellular Ca(2+) release. We previously demonstrated that Ca(2+) released via the intracellular Ca(2+) channel, the ryanodine receptor (RyR), contributes to the aberrant Ca(2+) signal. In this study, we examined whether RyR inhibition protects against pathological Ca(2+) signals, acinar cell injury, and pancreatitis from bile acid exposure. The bile acid tauro-lithocholic acid-3-sulfate (TLCS) induced intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations at 50 μM and a peak-plateau signal at 500 μM, and only the latter induced acinar cell injury, as determined by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage. Pretreatment with the RyR inhibitors dantrolene or ryanodine converted the peak-plateau signal to a mostly oscillatory pattern (P < 0.05). They also reduced acinar cell LDH leakage, basolateral blebbing, and propidium iodide uptake (P < 0.05). In vivo, a single dose of dantrolene (5 mg/kg), given either 1 h before or 2 h after intraductal TLCS infusion, reduced the severity of pancreatitis down to the level of the control (P < 0.05). These results suggest that the severity of biliary pancreatitis may be ameliorated by the clinical use of RyR inhibitors.
The pathogens of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are still unclear, while accumulating evidences have indicated that both genetic and environmental factors are involved in the pathogenesis of AD. Recent studies suggest that AD is primarily a vascular disorder and copper (Cu) may play an important role in AD pathology. However, the consequences of chronic Cu exposure at the presence of other AD risk factors remain to be clarified. To investigate the effects of chronic Cu intake on cerebral hypoperfusion-induced AD pathology, Sprague-Dawley rats suffered bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (2VO) were administrated with 250 ppm copper-containing water or not. Morris water maze test showed that Cu exposure for 3 months exacerbated cognitive impairment induced by 2VO. Elevated amyloid precursor protein (APP) and beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) expression in mRNA and protein levels were also observed in brain of Cu-exposed rats suffered 2VO. In contrast, these Cu-exacerbated changes were ameliorated after Cu was withdrawn from drinking water. In summary, our findings demonstrate that chronic Cu exposure might exacerbate AD pathology in 2VO rats.
Macroprolactinemia is hyperprolactinemia in humans mainly due to anti-PRL (prolactin) autoantibodies and is a pitfall for the differential diagnosis of hyperprolactinemia. Despite its high prevalence, the pathogenesis remains unclear. In this study, we examined whether anti-PRL autoantibodies develop via immunization with homologous rat pituitary PRL in rats to elucidate what mechanisms are involved and whether they cause hyperprolactinemia with low PRL bioactivity, as seen in human macroprolactinemia. Anti-PRL antibodies were developed in 19 of 20 rats immunized with homologous rat pituitary PRL and 29 of 30 rats with heterogeneous bovine or porcine pituitary PRL but did not develop in 25 control rats. In rats with anti-PRL antibodies, the basal serum PRL levels were elevated, and a provocative test for PRL secretion using dopamine D2 receptor antagonist (metoclopramide) showed a normal rising response with a slower clearance of PRL because of the accumulation of macroprolactin in blood. Antibodies developed by porcine or rat pituitary PRL reduced the bioactivity of rat serum PRL, and gonadal functions in these rats were normal despite hyperprolactinemia. Anti-PRL antibodies were stable and persisted for at least 5 wk after the final injection of PRL. These findings suggest that pituitary PRL, even if homologous, has antigenicity, leading to the development of anti-PRL autoantibodies. We successfully produced an animal model of human macroprolactinemia, with which we can explain the mechanisms of its clinical characteristics, i.e. asymptomatic hyperprolactinemia.
Effects of CD-832 on isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial ischemia were studied in dogs with partial coronary stenosis of the left circumflex coronary artery and findings were compared with those for nifedipine or diltiazem. In the presence of coronary artery stenosis, 3-min periods of intracoronary ISO infusion (10 ng/kg/min) increased heart rate and maximal rate of left ventricular pressure rise, which resulted in a decrease in percentage segmental shortening and ST-segment elevation of the epicardial electrocardiogram. After the control ISO infusion with stenosis was performed, equihypotensive doses of CD-832 (3 and 10 micrograms/kg/min, n = 7), nifedipine (1 and 3 micrograms/kg/min, n = 9) or diltiazem (10 and 30 micrograms/kg/min, n = 7) were infused 5 min before and during the second and third ISO infusion. Both CD-832 and diltiazem, but not nifedipine, significantly reduced the increase in heart rate induced by ISO infusion. In contrast to nifedipine, CD-832 (10 micrograms/kg/min) prevented the decrease in percentage segmental shortening from 32 +/- 12% to 115 +/- 26% of the control value (P < .01) and ST-segment elevation from 5.6 +/- 1.0 mV to 1.6 +/- 1.3 mV (P < .01) at 3 min after ISO infusion with stenosis. Diltiazem (30 micrograms/kg/min) also prevented the decrease in percentage segmental shortening from 34 +/- 14% to 63 +/- 18% of the control value (P < .05) and ST-segment elevation from 4.7 +/- 0.7 mV to 2.1 +/- 0.7 mV (P < .01) at 3 min after ISO infusion with stenosis. These data show that CD-832 improves myocardial ischemia during ISO infusion with stenosis and suggest that the negative chronotropic property of CD-832 plays a major role in the beneficial effects of CD-832.
The current prospective study sought to trace the incidence and severity of cisplatin plus paclitaxel (DDP+P)-induced neuropathy and to determine its clinical and electrophysiological pattern. Furthermore, it was attempted to describe its evolution by following up the course of peripheral neuropathy (PN) during chemotherapy as well as 3 months after its discontinuation. Thirteen adult patients scheduled to be treated with six courses of cumulative DDP+P-based regimens for a non-myeloid malignancy participated in this study. These patients were clinically and electrophysiologically monitored at baseline, during chemotherapy and 3 months after its discontinuation. The severity of PN was summarized by means of a modified PN score. Evidence of PN was disclosed in nine of the 13 patients (69.2%). The mean PN score for patients that manifested some grade of PN was 17.3 +/- 6.1 (range 9-28). All longitudinal comparisons concerning the motor conduction velocities (MCV) variables failed to reach significance. By contrast, comparisons of the mean changes at baseline and each of the follow-up studies revealed a significant decrease in all sensory action potentials examined. The follow-up evaluation performed 3 months after the discontinuation of chemotherapy showed that the DDP+P-induced neuropathy persists and progresses over time. Our results indicate that the majority of patients treated with a DDP+P-based regimen at full dose intensities would manifest an axonal, predominately sensory PN, of mild to moderate severity, which would persist for several months after the discontinuation of chemotherapy.
Forty-nine consecutive patients (44 with atrial fibrillation and five with atrial flutter) received 10 mg of verapamil five to seven minutes before elective electroversion, to evaluate the feasibility of the latter while verapamil effects were present. Excluded were patients with moderate-to-severe heart failure, acute myocardial infarction, mean ventricular rate lower than 70 beats/minute, those receiving any antiarrhythmic drug other than digoxin, and those in whom sinus node dysfunction was suspected. In six patients, eight complications took place: four instances of hypotension (systolic blood pressure below 80 mm Hg), two instances of junctional escape rhythm (47 and 63 beats/minute) and two instances of junctional tachycardia. In all four instances of hypotension, return to normal values of blood pressure was spontaneous (within five minutes in three patients). Rhythm disturbances were transient, without clinical relevance. This study suggests that electroversion can be safely carried out during clinical action of verapamil in properly selected patients, and that occasional, self-limited hypotension is the only complication of clinical significance to be expected.
The pathway for de novo synthesis of the suite of niacin congeners, the kynurenine pathway, has been shown to be upregulated in prior studies of postmortem brain tissue from individuals with schizophrenia. The cause of the upregulation is unknown, but one factor may be a defect in feedback regulation via receptors responsive to niacin. A high-affinity and low-affinity receptor for niacin have been identified, HM74A and HM74, respectively. We used RT-QPCR and Western blots to quantify expression of HM74A and HM74 receptors in brain tissue obtained postmortem from patients with schizophrenia (N=12) or bipolar disorder (N=14) and from normal controls (N=14). Although the protein for the HM74 receptor was unchanged, the protein for HM74A was significantly decreased in the schizophrenia group, both when normalized to GAPDH protein or to HM74 as an internal control for degradation and gel-loading error (0.56-fold+/-0.36, p=0.016 and 0.58-fold+/-0.19 the mean control value, p=0.001, respectively). In contrast, the transcript for HM74A was significantly increased, revealing a striking dysregulation between gene transcription and final protein product. No significant differences in HM74A were found for the bipolar group relative to controls. These results are consistent with the blunted niacin flush response reported for individuals with schizophrenia and may be relevant to different rates of comorbid disease.
Propafenone may aggravate the preexisting arrhythmia or induce another one. Usually, such proarrhythmic effects occur in patients with spontaneous ventricular arrhythmias and/or coronary heart disease with poor left ventricular function. We report the case of a 5-year-old girl with junctional automatic tachycardia and no structural heart disease, in whom malignant ventricular tachycardia occurring during propafenone treatment could be terminated by molar sodium lactate (MSL) infusion. The serum propafenone level obtained before MSL infusion was within the therapeutic range. Two hypothesis could explain the beneficial effects of MSL in our patient: (1) alkalinization facilitates the cell membrane hyperpolarization and thus can decrease the voltage-dependent effect of Class Ic drugs, (2) alkalinization could displace propafenone from its tissue receptor sites by an increase in the nonionized fraction.
A patient with hepatic angiosarcoma is described. This tumour, thought rare, still generates clinical interest, because of its characteristic association with occupational exposure to certain chemicals such as vinyl chloride and thorotrast. That association has led to extensive screening of high risk populations. An additional case of liver angiosarcoma which probably developed following long-term treatment with cyclophosphamide. The significant aspects of this tumour are delineated and the diagnostic modalities are discussed.
To investigate the effect of administration of the catechol-Omethyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor tolcapone on the concentration-effect relationship of levodopa in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease and on-off fluctuations.
Nonblind single-group 2-period pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic study.
12 patients, mean age 59 years, with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and response fluctuations.
The pharmacokinetics [plasma concentrations of levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa (3-OMD)] and motor effects [global score of the Columbia University Rating Scale (CURSsigma)] of levodopa (plus the peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor benserazide 1:4) were determined for 4 consecutive dosage intervals (4 hours each, starting at 8.00am) in 12 patients before (day 1) and during (day 8) coadministration of tolcapone 100 mg 3 times daily for 7 days.
Under tolcapone, exposure to levodopa [area under the plasma concentration-time for the dosage interval (AUCt)] observed for the separate doses increased by 1.6- to 2.2-fold, and peak plasma drug concentrations (Cmax) increased by 1.1 - to 2.1 -fold. 3-OMD concentrations at day 8 were reduced to about 20% of the values at day 1. At baseline (day 1, before the first levodopa dose), CURSsigma averaged 40 +/- 10 points. After the first levodopa dose. CURSsigma declined to 20 +/- 9 points. At day 8. the predose CURSsigma decreased to a final score of 31 +/-13 points, and the maximal decline after the first levodopa dose was to a final score of 16 +/- 8 points. Population analysis (NONMEM) of the concentration-effect relationship of levodopa according to a sigmoidal Emax model and over all dosage intervals did not show differences in levodopa responsiveness with or without tolcapone. The population mean of the 50% effective concentration (EC50) of levodopa was 1350 microg/L with an standard error of the population parameter estimate of 18%: adding tolcapone treatment as a covariate did not significantly change the population fit. Circadian influences on levodopa respon- siveness were not evaluable by the NONMEM model due to overparametrisation, but visual inspection of plotted data did not suggest differences in the concentration-effect relationship between the 4 consecutive dosage intervals on days 1 and 8.
The gain in clinical improvement with levodopa under tolcapone can be fully explained by tolcapone-induced changes of peripheral levodopa pharmacokinetics. We suggest that this interaction study, performed in patients and using clinical data, excludes any central effects of tolcapone or any inhibiting effect of 3-OMD on levodopa permeation through the blood-brain barrier, which otherwise would have led to a decrease in the EC50 of levodopa.
An examination was made of the effect of REM sleep deprivation (REMSD) on some forms of altered motor activity, such as akinesia and catalepsy, induced by intraperitoneal (i.p.) or intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of morphine in adult, male Wistar rats. Administration of morphine (25 mg/kg i.p.) induced an akinetic-cataleptic syndrome and decreased spontaneous vertical motor activity (SVMA) in animals allowed undisturbed sleep. REMSD decreased the morphine-induced akinesia and catalepsy that are known to be mediated by an inhibitory mu-opiate system. The locomotor depressant action of morphine was converted to excitation (manifested as increased SVMA and hopping behavior) by REMSD. Similarly, decreased motor activity following i.c.v. administration of morphine (25 micrograms) was replaced by excitation in the form of jumping behavior after REMSD. Naltrexone (1 mg/kg i.p.) blocked the akinetic and cataleptic effects, but not the excitatory effects, of morphine. It is suggested that REMSD is associated with a functional insufficiency of an inhibitory mu-opiate system, thus unmasking the excitatory morphine effects. The proposed insufficiency of an endogenous opioid system might explain an increase in neuronal excitation during REMSD and the therapeutic effect of REM deficiency in some types of depression.
Cardiotoxicity limits the use of anthracyclines which are potent anticancer agents. In the isolated rat heart, we investigated the mechanism of acute anthracycline cardiotoxicity and compared a new anthracycline, carminomycin, with daunomycin which is in established use. Daunomycin 1.75 X 10(-5) M produced a fall in cardiac output (36 +/- 2 versus 58 +/- 1 ml/min; p less than 0.01), left ventricular power production (9 +/- 0.7 versus 16 +/- 0.3 mJ/sec/g; p less than 0.01), and efficiency of heart work (3.3 +/- 0.2 versus 6.3 +/- 0.2 mJ/sec/ml O2; p less than 0.01; mean +/- S.E. 40 min after daunomycin). Carminomycin (1.75 X 10(-5) M) produced a greater fall in cardiac output than equimolar daunomycin (26 +/- 2 versus 36 +/- 2 ml/min; p less than 0.01). Daunomycin did not reduce coronary flow rate, heart rate, or oxygen consumption. From the preceding data, we inferred that, since afterload and preload were constant in this model, heart failure was due to a depressed inotropic state. Procedures that increased cytosolic calcium relieved heart failure namely, pretreatment with digoxin (62.4 micrograms), isoproterenol (10(-6) M), and increased perfusate Ca2+ (5 mM versus 2.5 mM) all prevented carminomycin-induced fall in cardiac output (41 +/- 1, 47 +/- 5, and 52 +/- 1, respectively, versus 26 +/- 2 ml/min; p less than 0.01). Acute anthracycline contractile failure was also associated with a fall in high-energy phosphate compounds which could also have contributed to the decreased inotropic state. We conclude that carminomycin is more cardiotoxic than daunomycin in equimolar concentrations and that a lowered cytosolic calcium and decreased energy stores might cause the contractile failure. The cytosolic calcium and high-energy phosphate compounds were lowered by separate mechanisms.
Bortezomib (VELCADE) is a proteasome inhibitor, which has been recently used for the treatment of relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (MM) with encouraging results. Tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) has been described during chemotherapy for many haematological malignancies, such as acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and high-grade lymphomas. TLS is very rare in MM with ten reported cases, including approximately 1% of patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell support (ASCT). We report here a patient with refractory MM and deletion 13q, who had received more than four lines of previous treatment, including two ASCT, and had relapsed. The patient received bortezomib, as a single agent, at a dose of 1.3 mg/m(2) twice per week for 2 weeks, in a 3-week cycle, and developed TLS after the second dose of cycle one. Bortezomib therapy, due to the rapidity of its action, may result in TLS in myeloma patients who have rapidly proliferative disease with a high tumour burden. Therefore, TLS should be looked for during the first cycle of bortezomib treatment and suitable precautions should be considered.
We evaluated the roles of reactive oxygen species and intrinsic antioxidant enzymes in the development of daunomycin (DM)-induced nephropathy in mice. A single dose of DM (20 mg/kg intravenously) induced proteinuria by day 7 and the nephrotic syndrome by day 14 in DM-sensitive strain (A/J) but not in DM-resistant strain (C57BL/6J) (B6). Renal cortical lipid peroxide levels in the A/J mice significantly increased at days 2, 4, and 7 after DM injection, whereas no increase was observed in the B6 mice. The resistance to DM in B6 mice was associated with higher activities in renal cortical superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase. The administration of superoxide dismutase or of dimethylthiourea significantly suppressed the DM-induced proteinuria in the A/J mice. Four days of superoxide dismutase or dimethylthiourea administration suppressed the proteinuria. These findings suggested that murine DM-nephropathy appeared to be mediated by reactive oxygen species and that intrinsic antioxidant enzyme activities may play an important role in the susceptibility to DM-induced nephropathy in mice.
Breast cancer is among the commonest malignancies in women and tamoxifen has been widely used for more than two decades for treatment of breast cancer. It has been known that long term use of tamoxifen significantly increases the risk of endometrial cancer but there is no generally accepted recommendation regarding the surveillance of endometrial pathologies in breast cancer patients taking tamoxifen. Although the incidence of endometrial cancer associated with tamoxifen use is not high, the risk is true and these patients could be helped by screening methods such as transvaginal ultrasonogrphy. We report here a case of endometrial cancer detected by transvaginal 2D scan in an asymptomatic postmenopausal woman taking tamoxifen.
Further studies on the effects of certain irrigating fluids on the rat bladder for 18 hours are reported. The results have shown that the degradation product p-choloroaniline is not a significant factor in chlorhexidine-digluconate associated erosive cystitis. A high percentage of kanamycin-colistin and povidone-iodine irrigations were associated with erosive cystitis and suggested a possible complication with human usage. Picloxydine irrigations appeared to have a lower incidence of erosive cystitis but further studies would have to be performed before it could be recommended for use in urological procedures.
To report on a patient developing hepatic veno-occlusive disease while being treated with immunosuppressive doses of cyclophosphamide (< or =2 mg/kg).
A 66-year-old woman with autoimmune hemolytic anemia developed hepatic veno-occlusive disease while being treated with immunosuppressive cyclophosphamide 100 mg/day in combination with roxithromycin (total dose 600 mg/day). After all drugs were stopped, the patient recovered within 2 weeks. The Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between veno-occlusive disease and treatment with cyclophosphamide in this patient.
Since roxithromycin inhibits CYP3A4, which is involved with cyclophosphamide metabolism, a drug-drug interaction could have been responsible. In addition, roxithromycin is an inhibitor of the drug transporter P-glycoprotein, possibly leading to accumulation of cyclophosphamide in endothelial cells. Alternatively, since cyclophosphamide has been reported to induce apoptosis, roxithromycin could have rendered endothelial cells more vulnerable for apoptosis.
In specific patients, cyclophosphamide can be associated with hepatic veno-occlusive disease at immunosuppressive doses.
Reactive oxygen species and cytokines have been implicated in the nephrotoxicity induced by doxorubicin. The goal of the present study was to determine protective effect of aminoguanidine on doxorubicin-induced nephrotoxicity in rats. Different groups of male Wistar rats received doxorubicin (67.75 mg/kg/i.p./2 days), aminoguanidine alone and aminoguanidine (200 and 400 mg/kg/i.p./30 days) prior to doxorubicin, respectively. Doxorubicin significantly increased serum creatinine (505%), blood urea nitrogen (333%), nitric oxide (406%), and plasma tumor necrosis factor-alpha (706%) as well as urinary albumin (452%) and N-acetyl-β-D-glucosaminidase (415%) compared to control. Moreover, renal glutathione (334%), superoxide dismutase (283%), and catalase (513%) were significantly reduced accompanied with elevation in renal malondialdehyde compared to control. Pretreatment with aminoguanidine mitigated such changes in all mentioned parameters. Histopathological changes showed that doxorubicin-caused significant structural damages to kidneys that were reduced with aminoguanidine. Results indicate that reactive oxygen species and cytokines are involved in doxorubicin-induced nephrotoxicity, which can be reduced by aminoguanidine.
Milrinone is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor which combines vasodilating effects with inotropic effects. Hemodynamic improvement after acute administration and increased survival with chronic milrinone therapy in rats with heart failure have been reported before, and suggest long-term hemodynamic improvement. However, no detailed hemodynamic studies are available on prolonged milrinone therapy in rats with heart failure. Therefore, the hemodynamic effects of 2 weeks' milrinone therapy were now investigated in conscious rats with heart failure due to myocardial infarction. The effects were compared to hemodynamic changes after acute administration. Acute milrinone increased the baseline cardiac output in infarcted rats by increasing heart rate rather than stroke volume. However, the maximal cardiac output achieved when the heart was stimulated through a volume load was improved due to increased stroke volume as well as increased heart rate. The increase in maximally stimulated cardiac output after acute milrinone was found to be related to infarct size. Two weeks' milrinone therapy in chronically infarcted rats dose dependently restored the hemodynamic changes which were caused by infarction. In contrast to acute administration, two weeks' milrinone restored cardiac function without an increase in heart rate. The effects were achieved at a rate of administration which presumably has no acute inotropic effects. The data indicate that acute milrinone in infarcted rats has vasodilating effects. Positive inotropic effects, possibly masked by concomitant venodilatation at baseline conditions, became overt after stimulation by volume loading. Long-term milrinone dose dependently restored cardiac function in infarcted rats without effects on heart rate or mean arterial pressure, suggesting that different mechanisms may be involved.
This prospective, double-blind and randomized study is designed to determine the effect of menstrual cycle on the injection pain of propofol.
Seventy-two patients scheduled for elective surgery under general anaesthesia were divided into two groups according to the phase of the menstrual cycle. Patients were at follicular phase (Pd 8-12) in Group F (n = 36) and luteal phase (Pd 20-24) in Group L (n = 36). Injection pain was evaluated with 10-point numeric rating scale after 25% of the total propofol dose was injected over 20 s.
There were no significant differences in terms of patient characteristics (P > 0.05). The mean propofol pain score was found 1.81 +/- 2.30 in Group F and 4.83 +/- 3.09 in Group L. Group L was found to have higher propofol injection pain scores than Group F (P < 0.001).
We conclude that the menstrual phase changes the perception of pain due to propofol injection, which is higher in the lutheal phase. In clinical practice, the phases of the menstrual cycle may have a significant role on injection pain of propofol in woman.
Cardiac troponins I (cTnI) and T (cTnT) have been shown to be highly sensitive and specific markers of myocardial cell injury. We investigated the diagnostic value of cTnI and cTnT for the diagnosis of myocardial damage in a rat model of doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiomyopathy, and we examined the relationship between serial cTnI and cTnT with the development of cardiac disorders monitored by echocardiography and histological examinations in this model.
Thirty-five Wistar rats were given 1.5 mg/kg DOX, i.v., weekly for up to 8 weeks for a total cumulative dose of 12 mg/kg BW. Ten rats received saline as a control group. cTnI was measured with Access(R) (ng/ml) and a research immunoassay (pg/ml), and compared with cTnT, CK-MB mass and CK. By using transthoracic echocardiography, anterior and posterior wall thickness, LV diameters and LV fractional shortening (FS) were measured in all rats before DOX or saline, and at weeks 6 and 9 after treatment in all surviving rats. Histology was performed in DOX-rats at 6 and 9 weeks after the last DOX dose and in all controls.
Eighteen of the DOX rats died prematurely of general toxicity during the 9-week period. End-diastolic (ED) and end-systolic (ES) LV diameters/BW significantly increased, whereas LV FS was decreased after 9 weeks in the DOX group (p<0.001). These parameters remained unchanged in controls. Histological evaluation of hearts from all rats given DOX revealed significant slight degrees of perivascular and interstitial fibrosis. In 7 of the 18 rats, degeneration and myocyte vacuolisation were found. Only five of the controls exhibited evidence of very slight perivascular fibrosis. A significant rise in cTnT was found in DOX rats after cumulative doses of 7.5 and 12 mg/kg in comparison with baseline (p<0.05). cTnT found in rats after 12 mg/kg were significantly greater than that found after 7.5 mg/kg DOX. Maximal cTnI (pg/ml) and cTnT levels were significantly increased in DOX rats compared with controls (p=0.006, 0.007). cTnI (ng/ml), CK-MB mass and CK remained unchanged in DOX rats compared with controls. All markers remained stable in controls. Analysis of data revealed a significant correlation between maximal cTnT and ED and ES LV diameters/BW (r=0.81 and 0.65; p<0.0001). A significant relationship was observed between maximal cTnT and the extent of myocardial morphological changes, and between LV diameters/BW and histological findings.
Among markers of ischemic injury after DOX in rats, cTnT showed the greatest ability to detect myocardial damage assessed by echocardiographic detection and histological changes. Although there was a discrepancy between the amount of cTnI and cTnT after DOX, probably due to heterogeneity in cross-reactivities of mAbs to various cTnI and cTnT forms, it is likely that cTnT in rats after DOX indicates cell damage determined by the magnitude of injury induced and that cTnT should be a useful marker for the prediction of experimentally induced cardiotoxicity and possibly for cardioprotective experiments.
Beta-Adrenergic stimulation with isoproterenol hydrochloride in animals causes an antidiuresis similar to antidiuretic hormone. This investigation was undertaken to determine whether isoproterenol inhibits water diuresis in man. Seven young male volunteers were studied during water diuresis in three phases: (1) water-loading, (2) water-loading plus isoproterenol, and (3) water-loading plus isoproterenol plus propranolol hydrochloride. Antidiuresis occurred 20 minutes following isoproterenol infusion (0.03mug to 0.06mug/kg/min) from a mean of 19.4 to 2.0 ml/min. We found that antidiuresis is due to the hormonal (antidiuretic hormone) and nonhormonal changes (decreased glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow). These in turn are due to the cardiovascular effects of the drug.
