Although tardive dyskinesia is a known adverse reaction of sustained treatment with traditional neuroleptic agents, it was only rarely reported in association with sulpiride, a selective D2-receptor antagonist. We describe six patients who developed tardive dyskinesia after treatment with sulpiride for depression or gastrointestinal symptoms. In three patients, involuntary movements emerged during the course of treatment and in the others only after discontinuation of the drug. These cases indicate that sulpiride can cause tardive dyskinesia and that this drug should be administered with caution.
Pentobarbital is standard treatment for refractory status epilepticus (SE) and is almost uniformly effective, but the morbidity of treatment and the mortality of refractory SE are high. Recurrence of SE after pentobarbital discontinuation may predict a worsened outcome. We sought to determine the optimal use of barbiturate anesthetic treatment of refractory SE.
We reviewed 44 episodes of barbiturate anesthetic treatment for refractory SE in 40 patients, seeking factors predicting freedom from relapse to clinical or electrographic SE after treatment and predicting survival.
Eight of 9 patients with relapse of seizures after barbiturate treatment died, whereas only 9 of 26 with persistently controlled seizures died (p < 0.005). Both likelihood of relapse and survival correlated strongly with etiology, with 19 of 20 patients with chronic epilepsy, infections, or focal lesions having good control as compared with 2 of 9 with multiple medical problems (p < 0.001). Treatment delay did not predict a worsened outcome. Hypotension caused dose reduction but never required treatment discontinuation. Patients with more prolonged treatment and those receiving phenobarbital (PB) at the time of pentobarbital taper were less likely to relapse.
Relapse of SE after barbiturate anesthetic treatment is a poor prognostic sign and should be prevented, if possible. Etiology was the primary predictor of outcome, but more prolonged treatment and the use of PB during pentobarbital withdrawal appeared to provide protection against relapse.
Accumulating evidences have showed that gatifloxacin causes dysglycemia in both diabetic and non-diabetic patients. Our preliminary study demonstrated that gatifloxacin stimulated glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) secretion from intestinal cells. The aim of the study was to investigate the association between gatifloxacin-stimulated GLP-1 release and dysglycemia in both normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats and explore the possible mechanisms. Oral administration of gatifloxacin (100 mg/kg/day and 200 mg/kg/day) for 3 and 12 days led to marked elevation of GLP-1 levels, accompanied by significant decrease in insulin levels and increase in plasma glucose. Similar results were found in normal rats treated with 3-day gatifloxacin. Gatifloxacin-stimulated GLP-1 release was further confirmed in NCI-H716 cells, which was abolished by diazoxide, a K(ATP) channel opener. QT-PCR analysis showed that gatifloxacin also upregulated expression of proglucagon and prohormone convertase 3 mRNA. To clarify the contradiction on elevated GLP-1 without insulinotropic effect, effects of GLP-1 and gatifloxacin on insulin release were investigated using INS-1 cells. We found that short exposure (2h) to GLP-1 stimulated insulin secretion and biosynthesis, whereas long exposure (24 h and 48 h) to high level of GLP-1 inhibited insulin secretion and biosynthesis. Moreover, we also confirmed gatifloxacin acutely stimulated insulin secretion while chronically inhibited insulin biosynthesis. All the results gave an inference that gatifloxacin stimulated over-secretion of GLP-1, in turn, high levels of GLP-1 and gatifloxacin synergistically impaired insulin release, worsening hyperglycemia.
A 67 year-old patient receives 5-fluorouracil for vocal chord cancer. During the perfusion, atypical angina pain occurs, accompanied with offset of ST above the baseline in standard leads and in V4 through V6. The pain subsides spontaneously in 45 minutes. These ECG alterations are followed 48 hours later by diffuse inverted T waves with lengthened QT. Cardiac ultrasonography and isotopic angiography do not show any abnormality of the left ventricular function, but myocardial tomoscintigraphy with labelled thallium show a lower hypofixation on exertion. The cardiac toxicity of 5-fluorouracil is in frequent. It is usually believed that it involves a coronary spasm, as suggested by the ECG tracing in the reported cases. The incident, which may be painful or painless, may result in a myocardial infarction or even sudden death during the perfusion. Therefore, it is advisable to discontinue the treatment as soon as an angina-type pain occurs.
Hurler's syndrome, or mucopolysaccharidosis type I, is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding the lysosomal enzyme iduronidase (IDUA). The disease affects both peripheral tissues and the central nervous system (CNS). Recombinant IDUA treatment does not affect the CNS, because IDUA does not cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). To enable BBB penetration, human IDUA was re-engineered as an IgG-IDUA fusion protein, where the IgG domain is a genetically engineered monoclonal antibody (MAb) against the human insulin receptor (HIR). The HIRMAb penetrates the brain from the blood via transport on the endogenous BBB insulin receptor and acts as a molecular Trojan horse to deliver the fused IDUA to the brain. Before human testing, the HIRMAb-IDUA fusion protein was evaluated in a 6-month weekly dosing toxicology study at doses of 0, 3, 9, and 30 mg/kg/week of the fusion protein administered to 40 rhesus monkeys. The focus of the present study is the effect of chronic high dose administration of this fusion protein on plasma glucose and long-term glycemic control. The results show that the HIRMAb has weak insulin agonist activity and causes hypoglycemia at the high dose, 30 mg/kg, after intravenous infusion in normal saline. When dextrose is added to the saline infusion solution, no hypoglycemia is observed at any dose. An intravenous glucose tolerance test performed at the end of the 6 months of chronic treatment showed no change in glucose tolerance at any dose of the HIRMAb-IDUA fusion protein.
The relationship between systemic cytokine release and chronic beta-adrenergic activation-induced left ventricular dysfunction (LVSD) has not been widely reported in the literature. In the present study,we examined changes in the serum levels of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1-beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha) following chronic beta-adrenergic activation-induced LVSD. Male Wistar rats were administered isoproterenol (ISO, 5 mg/kg, sc, once daily) for 4 weeks (ISO 4) or 12 weeks (ISO 12). Echocardiography was done and serum levels of IL-1-beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha were estimated at the end of each protocol. In the ISO 4 group, there was a significant increase in relative wall thickness (p < 0.01) and heart weight: body weight ratio (p < 0.001) without any significant changes in fractional shortening (FS) or serum cytokine levels. However, in the ISO 12 group, there was a 32% decrease in FS along with increased serum levels of IL-1-beta and TNF-alpha. The present findings indicate that LVSD induced by chronic beta-adrenergic activation in rats is accompanied by increased serum cytokine levels.
Octreotide therapy in acromegaly is associated with an increased prevalence of gall stones, which may be the result of an inhibition of gall bladder motility. Gall stone prevalence in untreated acromegalic patients relative to the general population is unknown, however, and the presence of gall stones and gall bladder motility in these patients and in acromegalic patients receiving octreotide was therefore examined. Thirty four percent of 39 patients who had taken octreotide for a mean of 20 months had gall stones compared with 16% of 38 patients who had not been treated with octreotide (p < 0.005). In a subgroup of 21 patients studied prospectively over 4 to 18 months, two patients developed stones. No patient had symptoms referrable to their gall stones. In 31 untreated acromegalic patients, the mean fasting gall bladder volume was similar to that in normal subjects. Maximal percentage emptying, however, was impaired (34 v 64%, p < 0.001) and the mean postprandial residual gall bladder volume increased (21.7 v 9.0 ml, p < 0.001). Treatment with octreotide increased the mean postprandial residual volume further to 36.8 ml (p < 0.001). Gall bladder emptying in untreated acromegalic subjects is impaired. Octreotide further increases postprandial residual gall bladder volume and this may be a factor in the increased gall stone prevalence seen in these patients.
Making treatment decisions for patients with infiltrating low-grade gliomas (LGGs) is challenging. Patients frequently present with seizures and usually have little or no neurologic deficit. In this younger and relatively well patient population, despite the potential for significant morbidity, we believe that surgical resection, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy each play an important role in the optimal management of these tumors. Randomized clinical trials have begun to address some of the many questions about prognosis, natural history, and treatment, but most questions have yet to be answered. We believe that, when possible, a maximal surgical resection consistent with preservation of neurologic function should be performed, even though it is likely that no randomized clinical trial will ever be done to demonstrate a survival advantage for this approach. External beam radiation therapy is most often given to a total dose of 50.4 or 54 Gy in 1.8-Gy fractions. The role of chemotherapy is less certain, but a growing body of evidence suggests that temozolomide, a generally well-tolerated drug, is active in the treatment of LGGs. In recent years, loss of heterozygosity of chromosome 1p and 19q, as well as silencing of the MGMT gene, have been identified as promising predictors of response to adjuvant therapy in gliomas. Although randomized trials have not yet shown a survival benefit for early radiation therapy or chemotherapy, one study by the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer did show an improvement in time to tumor progression with the earlier use of radiation therapy. In addition, a trial by the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (soon to be analyzed and reported) is comparing radiation alone with radiation followed by a year (six cycles) of standard-dose PCV chemotherapy (procarbazine, CCNU, and vincristine); this trial may shed light on the use of chemotherapy in conjunction with radiation therapy for the initial treatment of LGGs. Because patients remain at risk for tumor progression for the remainder of their lives, we recommend lifelong follow-up with MRI scans, even for patients without documented tumor regrowth over long intervals. To give clinicians a more solid basis for guiding therapy recommendations, we encourage participation in large cooperative group clinical trials.
1,1-Dichloroethene is used as intermediate in the manufacture of polymers. In male mice, 1,1-dichloroethene caused renal tumors after inhalation. Renal tumors were not observed in female mice or in both sexes of rats. We investigated the metabolic basis for the species- and sex-specific nephrotoxicity and tumorigenicity of 1,1-dichloroethene. Kidney microsomes from male mice biotransformed 1,1-dichloroethene to chloroacetic acid; the amounts of chloroacetic acid formed were dependent on the hormonal status of the animals and correlated well with the ability of kidney microsomes to oxidize p-nitrophenol and chlorozoxazone, specific substrates for cytochrome P450 2E1. In kidney microsomes from naive females, significantly lower rates of oxidation of 1,1-dichloroethene, p-nitrophenol, and chlorozoxazone were observed; oxidation could be induced by testosterone. With a rabbit anti-rat liver cytochrome P450 2E1 antibody, a cross-reactive protein was detected in male mouse kidney microsomes with a molecular weight very similar to that of rat liver cytochrome P450 2E1; the expression of this protein was regulated by testosterone and correlated well with the ability of the microsomes to oxidize p-nitrophenol, chlorozoxazone, and 1,1-dichloroethene. When the relative cytochrome P450 2E1 contents of renal microsomes of male mice from different strains were compared, differences in the expression of cytochrome P450 2E1 were observed. Moreover, nephrotoxicity in Swiss-Webster mice after inhalation of 1,1-dichloroethene was observed only in males and testosterone-treated females, but not in naive females. In kidney microsomes obtained from both sexes of rats and in six samples of human kidney (male donors), no p-nitrophenol oxidase activity was detected. These data suggest that cytochrome P450 2E1 or a P450 enzyme with very similar molecular weight, substrate specificities, and immunological properties is expressed only in male mouse kidney and bioactivates 1,1-dichloroethene.
The therapeutic value of progestogens in threatened abortion is still under debate. In the presence of sufficient progesterone levels during pregnancy, lymphocytes synthesize a mediator [progesterone-induced blocking factor (PIBF)] that is anti-abortive in mice. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of dydrogesterone on pregnancy outcome of threatened aborters.
Twenty-seven threatened aborters were treated for 10 days with dydrogesterone (30-40 mg/day). Sixteen healthy pregnant controls received no treatment. Serum progesterone and estradiol concentrations as well as urine PIBF concentrations were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
Pregnancy outcomes in dydrogesterone-treated threatened aborters did not statistically differ from those in healthy controls. Serum progesterone concentrations in control patients, but not those in threatened aborters increased as pregnancy progressed. Following dydrogesterone treatment, initially low PIBF concentrations of threatened aborters significantly increased (P = 0.001) to reach the PIBF level found in healthy controls.
These data suggest that by inducing PIBF production, dydrogesterone might improve pregnancy success rates in threatened aborters.
Despite their nearly universal activation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling, glioblastomas (GBMs) are strikingly resistant to mTOR-targeted therapy. We analyzed GBM cell lines, patient-derived tumor cell cultures, and clinical samples from patients in phase 1 clinical trials, and find that the promyelocytic leukemia (PML) gene mediates resistance to mTOR-targeted therapies. Direct mTOR inhibitors and EGF receptor (EGFR) inhibitors that block downstream mTOR signaling promote nuclear PML expression in GBMs, and genetic overexpression and knockdown approaches demonstrate that PML prevents mTOR and EGFR inhibitor-dependent cell death. Low doses of the PML inhibitor, arsenic trioxide, abrogate PML expression and reverse mTOR kinase inhibitor resistance in vivo, thus markedly inhibiting tumor growth and promoting tumor cell death in mice. These results identify a unique role for PML in mTOR and EGFR inhibitor resistance and provide a strong rationale for a combination therapeutic strategy to overcome it.
Cephalosporins are frequently associated with positive direct antiglobulin tests (DAT) and may rarely cause immune hemolytic anemia (IHA). We describe a patient who developed hemolytic anemia while she was receiving intravenous cefotetan.
Immunohematologic studies of drug-dependent antibodies were performed by using cefotetan-treated red blood cells (RBCs) and untreated RBCs in the presence of cefotetan.
The patient's serum contained antibodies that reacted with both drug-coated RBCs (adsorption mechanism) and with uncoated RBCs when cefotetan was added to the serum (immune complex mechanism). The prompt recognition of the problem and discontinuation of the drug prevented the onset of renal failure and rapidly resolved the hemolytic reaction.
Our report underlines the importance of close laboratory and immunohematologic monitoring of patients treated with cephalosporins in order to recognize swiftly any hemolytic reaction due to these antibiotics thus reducing the chance of serious sequelae.
Hydroxyurea (HU), a chemotherapeutic agent, used increasingly in the treatment of sickle cell disease (SCD) stimulates the release of a tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) from human macrophages in vitro and the concentration of TNF-alpha is greater than normal in subjects affected by SCD. It is widely accepted that HU may inhibit vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC) by stimulating the production of fetal hemoglobin (HbF) and nitric oxide (NO) in SCD; however, the beneficial effects of HU in vivo may be counteracted by the release of TNF-alpha and, in turn, the expression of a vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM-1) on leukocytes. Previous studies have shown that the severity of SCD increases with the leukocyte count. Therefore, we examined the relationship between plasma levels of TNF-alpha and HbF in SCD patients during steady-state (StSt) conditions (in the absence of VOC) and during VOC conditions after the acute administration of HU. Venous blood was collected in SCD patients over 6 h after administering a single dose of HU. Plasma TNF-alpha was found to be greater in SCD subjects than in reported normal adult controls (p<0.05). TNF-alpha in the StSt group was not significantly different than in the VOC group; however, the plasma TNF-alpha tended to greater in the VOC group (p>0.1). An increase in the HbF concentration after acute administration of HU (p<0.01) was not associated with a significant change in plasma TNF-alpha (p>0.1). Contrary to the results of in vitro studies, HU did not increase the plasma concentration of TNF-alpha. These findings suggest that a HU-induced increase in TNF-alpha does not contribute to VOC and sickle cell patients can be counseled that the HU-induced increase in TNF-alpha does not counteract the beneficial effects of HU in SCD.
A 6-week, double-blind, randomized, multicentre, parallel-group study was conducted to compare the efficacy of quetiapine ('Seroquel') (n=101) with that of chlorpromazine (n=100) in hospitalized patients with acute exacerbation of subchronic or chronic schizophrenia, or schizophreniform disorder. The tolerabilities of the two treatments were also compared. The mean daily doses of quetiapine and chlorpromazine at the end of the study were 407 mg and 384 mg, respectively. Both treatments were effective in the treatment of positive and negative symptoms, with a trend towards superior efficacy for quetiapine. The quetiapine group had a lower incidence of adverse events than the chlorpromazine group, and a low incidence of treatment-emergent extrapyramidal symptoms. Quetiapine was not associated with a sustained increase in serum prolactin. These clinical data support the preclinical profile of quetiapine as an atypical antipsychotic agent.
The aim of this study was to define predisposing factors in patients with sulphasalazine-induced systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Eleven patients with onset of SLE or SLE-like syndromes during sulphasalazine treatment are reported. Before the onset of SLE, five of the patients suffered from rheumatoid arthritis (RA), one from psoriatic arthropathy (PsoA), two from juvenile chronic arthritis (JCA) and three from ulcerative colitis (UC). At the time of diagnosis of drug-induced SLE, analysis of antinuclear antibodies (ANA), anti-double-stranded DNA antibodies (anti-dsDNA), anti-histone antibodies (anti-histones), acetylator status of the enzyme N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) and HLA classification were performed. All patients were anti-DNA positive at disease onset and were determined to be slow acetylators. HLA A1 occurred in 4/10 patients, B8 in 5/10. HLA DR 3 was represented in one patient and DR 3(17) in five patients. The DQA1* 0501 allele was observed in 7/10 patients and DQB1 0201* in 6/10. Persistent SLE and development of nephritis were noted in patients with long duration of treatment and high cumulative dose of sulphasalazine (> 1000 g). In sulphasalazine-induced SLE, slow acetylator genotype and HLA haplotypes associated with idiopathic SLE seem to predict disease induction. Further, as the risk of developing persistent SLE and nephritis increases with long-standing sulphasalazine medication, it is of importance to monitor the patients with regard to signs of SLE during the entire treatment period.
In this case report, we describe the postoperative occurrence of electrocardiogram changes suggestive for the Brugada syndrome in a patient receiving a continuous epidural bupivacaine infusion. After withdrawal of bupivacaine, the electrocardiogram changes were reversible. The patient's history was unremarkable except for an incomplete right bundle branch block. We conclude that local anesthetics, particularly bupivacaine, have the potential to induce serious arrhythmias in patients with Brugada syndrome.
To establish a relation between the survival rate of island skin flaps submitted to prolonged ischemia and the effect of streptokinase and allopurinol administered after the ischemic period.
A total of 48 male Winstar rats, each weighing between 300 and 350 grams,were separated into four groups of twelve as follows: control, allopurinol, streptokinase and association of allopurinol and streptokinase, were submitted to an epigastric island flap dissection followed by epigastric vessel bundle clamping. Flaps remained this way for 8 hours in normothermic mixed ischemia. After the ischemic period, clamps were removed and each rat received the therapeutical scheme proposed for the group by intravenous injections. Flap survival analysis was performed on the seventh post operative day. Variance and descriptive analyses (as a percentage of the necrotic area) as well as Dunnett-T3 multiple comparisons among the 4 groups and median tests were carried out.
Rats in the control group presented an average of 79.88% of necrosis in the flap total area; those which received allopurinol presented an average of 64.05% of necrosis whereas the group which received streptokinase showed an average of 55.52% of necrosis. With the association of both drugs, rats presented an average of 54.30% of necrosis in the flap total area. By applying Dunnet test and the median test, it could be verified that, in this study the streptokinase group had the lowest necrosis rate.
The systemic administration of streptokinase after 8 hours of normothermic global ischemia resulted in an increased survival rate of epigastric island skin flaps in rats, when compared to the administration of allopurinol, association of the two drugs and the control group.
In a prospective, double-blinded, randomized trial, we evaluated the efficacy of IV (a) dexamethasone 8 mg, (b) ondansetron 8 mg, and (c) dexamethasone 8 mg plus ondansetron 4 mg for the prevention of postoperative nausea, vomiting (PONV), and pruritus in 130 (ASA physical status I to III) patients undergoing elective major orthopedic surgery after spinal anesthesia with hyperbaric 0.5% bupivacaine and intrathecal morphine. After spinal anesthesia, patients were randomized to one of three groups. Failure of PONV prophylaxis in the 24-h postoperative period occurred more frequently in patients who received dexamethasone alone (29 of 40; 73%) compared with those who received either ondansetron alone (23 of 47; 49%) (P = 0.02) or dexamethasone plus ondansetron together (19 of 43; 44%)(P = 0.01). There was no difference in the incidence of failure of prophylaxis of pruritus (70%, 72%, and 70% in dexamethasone 8 mg, ondansetron 8 mg, and dexamethasone 8 mg plus ondansetron 4 mg, respectively) (P > 0.1) in the 24-h postoperative period. We conclude that the administration of dexamethasone 8 mg with ondansetron 4 mg has no added benefit compared with ondansetron 8 mg alone in the prophylaxis of PONV and pruritus.
Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) and pruritus are common side effects after spinal opioid administration. In this study, dexamethasone 8 mg plus ondansetron 4 mg was as effective as ondansetron 8 mg. The administration of dexamethasone alone was associated with a frequent incidence of PONV, demonstrating a lack of efficacy. This has important cost implications.
Interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) and nitric oxide (NO) are the major players of the host defense against Leishmania. In the present study circulating levels of IFN-gamma, NO, interleukin (IL)-6 and C-reactive protein (CRP) were compared in kala azar (KA), post-kala azar dermal leishmaniasis (PKDL) and healthy controls. A significantly elevated level of these parameters was evident in KA compared to PKDL or control. Further, significantly elevated levels of IFN-gamma, NO and CRP were observed in sodium antimony gluconate (SAG) unresponsive cases compared to responsive cases. In PKDL cases, NO was significantly elevated while other parameters were comparable to control. At post-treatment stage, KA patients showed a significant decrement in all the parameters, however, IL-6 and CRP remained above control level. Hence, data implies that the parasites survive in spite of the presence of effector molecules, and the excessive release of IFN-gamma and NO could be associated with the progression of the disease.
Significant changes in the plasma electrolytes were found in a group of ninety-two female patients in the first 5 min following suxamethonium administration. The plasma potassium rose to a higher level in those patients who developed suxamethonium pains than in those who did not; the plasma calcium decreased in the former group, but increased in the latter. The plasma sodium decreased early in most patients, with the greatest reduction in those patients who did not develop symptoms. A decrease in the level of plasma calcium at 1 min correlated well with the incidence of 'the pains'. There were significant differences in the electrolyte changes, depending on whether thiopentone or Althesin was used for induction, but there was no difference in the incidence of suxamethonium pains. Suxamethonium pains are attributed to damaged muscle-spindles with enhanced calcium release playing an important part.
A case is described in which a highly detailed time course of serum lithium levels and mental status observations was consistent with neurotoxicity from the rapid decrease in high lithium levels rather than from the high lithium levels alone. The highest lithium level observed was 4.89 mEq/L; the patient remained oriented until about 40 h after hospital admission and the serum lithium level fell below 1.65 mEq/L. An EEG taken during the 2-day period of gross disorientation showed focal sharp epileptiform waves and paroxysmal bursts of slowing without full seizure. In view of these and previous complementary observations, and a rationale of similarity between hyperlithemia and hyponatremia, the potential toxicities of dialysis and abrupt lithium dose discontinuation should be considered in patients who develop high lithium levels after taking regular doses.
The synthetic progestin cyproterone acetate (CPA) has been shown to be a hepatocarcinogen in the rat, but little is known of its effects in mice. A 52 week CPA study in the mouse strain C57Bl/10J has been reported not to produce liver tumours, although CPA induced significant liver enlargement and induction of the mixed function oxidase CYP3A. The present study is a further investigation of the effects of CPA in mice of the C57Bl/10J strain dosed for 104 weeks. A group of 40 mice/sex were fed 800 p.p.m. CPA in the diet for 104 weeks with a control group of eight/sex. Mortality was high in females after 40 weeks due to hormonal effects in the uterus; no female and only four CPA-dosed males survived to 104 weeks. Liver cell hypertrophy with increased fat and glycogen and single cell or small multifocal areas of hepatocellular necrosis were universal. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen demonstrated an increase in proliferating cells within tumours and within the non-tumour bearing liver of CPA-dosed mice compared with normal livers of control mice. Hepatocellular tumours developed in 44% of males and 22% of females dosed with CPA, compared with none in the controls (the strain has a low, <10%, incidence of spontaneous liver tumours compared with other mouse strains). In addition, over 85% of both sexes dosed with CPA developed adenomatous polyps of the pyloric antrum and pancreatic islet cell hyperplasia, shown by immunostaining to be chiefly of insulin-secreting cells. Adrenocortical atrophy was also observed with other widespread effects in the endocrine system. The results suggest that the liver tumours, as in the rat, are likely to be related to effects on liver growth and mitogenesis. It is suggested that the tumours of the stomach and the pancreatic islet cell hyperplasia are manifestations of the effects of CPA in the endocrine system.
Breast cancer affects Iranian women one decade younger than their counterparts in other countries and the underlying risk factors have remained controversial. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) mediates the effects of many environmental endocrine disruptors and contributes to the many other genes and Gd is an endocrine-regulated glycoprotein which may induce by AhR ligands in endometrium. This study has aimed to compare the interactions between Gd and AhR and other fundamental genes (p53, K-Ras, ER, PgR, AR) between pre and post menopausal Iranian breast cancer patients. To conduct immunohistochemical studies with appropriate monoclonal antibodies, 25 premenopausal invasive ductal carcinomas and 29 postmenopausal invasive ductal carcinomas were selected retrospectively in 2008-2010 from the pathology department of Imam Khomeini hospital complex of Tehran. Higher levels of AhR in epithelial cells of premenopausal patients and breast fibroadenoma emphasized the susceptibility of these cells to environmental induced tumors. Current study demonstrated a significant association between tumoral levels of Gd and AhR (p=0.002) in breast cancers which confirms the preliminary hypothesis about the role of TCDD exposure on Gd biosynthesis and secretion in TCDD-treated endometrial epithelial cells. In summary this study showed the dual prognostic role of Gd especially in premenopausal breast cancer which could be induced by AhR overexpression. Further studies are necessary to find the direct role of breast carcinogens as well as endocrine disrupting chemicals on the differential levels of Gd in breast tumors.
Among endocrine disruptors, the xenoestrogen bisphenol A (BPA) deserves particular attention due to widespread human exposure. Besides hormonal effects, BPA has been suspected to be involved in breast and prostate carcinogenesis, which share similar estrogen-related mechanisms. We previously demonstrated that administration of BPA to female mice results in the formation of DNA adducts and proteome alterations in the mammary tissue. Here, we evaluated the ability of BPA, given with drinking water, to induce a variety of biomarker alterations in male Sprague-Dawley rats. In addition, we investigated the formation of DNA adducts in human prostate cell lines. In BPA-treated rats, no DNA damage occurred in surrogate cells including peripheral blood lymphocytes and bone marrow erythrocytes, where no increase of single-strand DNA breaks was detectable by comet assay and the frequency of micronucleated cells was unaffected by BPA. Liver cells were positive at transferase dUTP nick end labeling assay, which detects both single-strand and double-strand breaks and early stage apoptosis. BPA upregulated clusterin expression in atrophic prostate epithelial cells and induced lipid peroxidation and DNA fragmentation in spermatozoa. Significant levels of DNA adducts were formed in prostate cell lines treated either with high-dose BPA for 24 h or low-dose BPA for 2 months. The BPA-related increase of DNA adducts was more pronounced in PNT1a nontumorigenic epithelial cells than in PC3 metastatic carcinoma cells. On the whole, these experimental findings support mechanistically the hypothesis that BPA may play a role in prostate carcinogenesis and may, potentially, affect the quality of sperm.
