Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified multiple loci associated with plasma lipid concentrations. Common variants at these loci together explain <10% of variation in each lipid trait. Rare variants with large individual effects may also contribute to the heritability of lipid traits; however, the extent to which rare variants affect lipid phenotypes remains to be determined. Here we show an accumulation of rare variants, or a mutation skew, in GWAS-identified genes in individuals with hypertriglyceridemia (HTG). Through GWAS, we identified common variants in APOA5, GCKR, LPL and APOB associated with HTG. Resequencing of these genes revealed a significant burden of 154 rare missense or nonsense variants in 438 individuals with HTG, compared to 53 variants in 327 controls (P = 6.2 x 10(-8)), corresponding to a carrier frequency of 28.1% of affected individuals and 15.3% of controls (P = 2.6 x 10(-5)). Considering rare variants in these genes incrementally increased the proportion of genetic variation contributing to HTG.
We investigated the effect of blocking endogenous LH-RH, by injection of anti-LH-RH sera, on serum prolactin levels previously elevated by treatment with haloperidol for 5 days. An acute intravenous injection of rabbit anti-LH-RH serum significantly reduced serum LH levels and blocked the hyperprolactinemia induced by haloperidol. In another group of rats, sheep anti-LH-RH serum induced a significant decrease of serum LH and also lowered serum prolactin levels previously elevated by haloperidol. In ovariectomized rats, sheep anti-LH-RH serum markedly reduced serum LH levels and also decreased serum prolactin elevated by the pretreatment with haloperidol. It is concluded that the blocking of endogenous LH-RH action results in a decreased release of prolactin in response to stimuli like haloperidol. These results support the possible existence of a paracrine interaction between the pituitary gonadotrophs and lactotrophs.
Acquired resistance to tamoxifen (TAM) is a serious therapeutic problem in breast cancer patients. Here, we found that TAM-resistant MCF-7 cells (TAMR-MCF-7 cells) produced higher levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) than control MCF-7 cells. Molecular analyses using reporter genes and Western blots supported the involvement of c-Jun/activator protein-1 and hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha in enhanced VEGF transcription in TAMR-MCF-7 cells. Pin1, a peptidyl prolyl isomerase, was consistently overexpressed in TAMR-MCF-7 cells, and c-Jun/activator protein-1-dependent VEGF transcription in TAMR-MCF-7 cells was almost completely inhibited by Pin1 siRNA and by the Pin1 inhibitor juglone. Chick chorioallantoic membrane assays confirmed that the increased angiogenic intensity of TAMR-MCF-7 cells was significantly suppressed by Pin1 inhibition. These results show that Pin1 overexpression is closely associated with VEGF-mediated angiogenesis and suggest that Pin1 is a potential therapeutic target of excessive angiogenesis in TAM-resistant breast cancer cases.
The present study was conducted to measure ob mRNA abundance in the zinc-deficient (ZD) rats and the secretion of leptin from adipose tissue obtained from ZD, zinc-adequate (ZA), and pair-fed (PF) rats. It was found that ob mRNA abundance was greatest (P < 0.05) in adipose tissue obtained from ZA and PF rats. Ob mRNA abundance was similar in PF and ZD rats. To study leptin secretion from adipose tissue in a cell culture model, a method was developed to use excised epididymal adipose tissue from ZD, ZA, and PF rats. Tissue was incubated in Opti-modified Eagle's medium (MEM) cell culture medium in which concentrations of zinc and insulin were manipulated. It was observed that leptin secretion was higher (P < 0.05) in adipose tissue obtained from ZA than ZD and PF rats. Secretion of leptin was higher in adipose tissue of PF than ZD rats (P < 0.05). Surprisingly, media zinc content in this ex vivo model tended to suppress secretion of leptin. This suppression seems to be zinc specific and might be caused by the sequestration of insulin in the culture medium. Our results indicate that the reduction in serum leptin observed in ZD rats is likely caused by not only a reduction in body fat, but also by a decrease in leptin synthesis and secretion per gram of adipose tissue. Taking these results into account along with a prior study (1), it is possible that even a marginal zinc deficiency could affect leptin secretion and serum leptin concentrations. Impaired leptin secretion caused by zinc deficiency might be one factor contributing to hypogonadism observed in zinc deficiency.
A method is described for the microbiological assay of folic acid activity in serum with Lactobacillus casei as test organism and a modified medium in which the organism gives a greater growth response than in media previously detailed. The results of experiments carried out to validate the use of this medium are shown. In 94 control subjects levels of folic acid activity in the serum ranged from 2. to 28 mmug./ml. (mean 7.8). The values in nine out of 10 patients with megaloblastic anaemia due to deficiency of folic acid were 1.0 mmug./ml. or less and one result was 2.0 mmug./ml. In six patients with megaloblastic anaemia associated with pregnancy the results ranged from 0.7 to 4.0 mmug./ml., and in untreated pernicious anaemia 28 out of 31 results were within or above the control range and three values were just below the lower limit of normal.
Seventy-seven liver transplant candidates were enrolled in a multicenter study in which patients were treated with lamivudine (100 mg daily) without the adjunctive use of hepatitis B immune globulin. Treatment was begun while patients awaited liver transplantation and continued after transplantation. All were hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive, and 61% had detectable hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) and HBV DNA when treatment was begun. Forty-seven underwent liver transplantation and 30 did not. Median study participation was 38 months (range, 2.7-48.5) in the transplanted patients and 26 months (range, 0.1-37) in the nontransplanted group. Twenty-five of 42 (60%) transplanted patients with 12 or more weeks of posttransplantation follow-up were HBsAg negative at the last study visit. At treatment week 156, 13 of 22 (59%) remained HBsAg negative, and all 9 reinfected patients were HBV-DNA positive before treatment. In the nontransplanted patients, HBeAg was initially detectable in 20 of 27 (74%) but this decreased to 3 of 17 (18%) after 104 weeks of treatment, and significant improvement in biochemical parameters was observed. HBV-DNA polymerase mutants were detected in 15 (21%) and 6 (20%) of the transplanted and nontransplanted patients, respectively. When compared with historical cohorts, lamivudine-treated patients appeared to have improved survival, and transplanted patients had a decrease in the rate of recurrent HBV infection. Lamivudine therapy was partially effective in preventing recurrent HBV infection when given before and after transplantation. Thus, future trials using a combination of HBIg and lamivudine are needed to assess the optimal prophylactic therapy.
The antiarrhythmic drug amiodarone has fungicidal activity against a broad range of fungi. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, it elicits an immediate influx of Ca(2+) followed by mitochondrial fragmentation and eventual cell death. To dissect the mechanism of its toxicity, we assessed the transcriptional response of S. cerevisiae to amiodarone by DNA microarray. Consistent with the drug-induced calcium burst, more than half of the differentially transcribed genes were induced by high levels of CaCl(2). Amiodarone also caused rapid nuclear accumulation of the calcineurin-regulated Crz1. The majority of genes induced by amiodarone within 10 min were involved in utilization of alternative carbon and nitrogen sources and in mobilizing energy reserves. The similarity to nutrient starvation responses seen in stationary phase cells, rapamycin treatment, and late stages of shift to diauxic conditions and nitrogen depletion suggests that amiodarone may interfere with nutrient sensing and regulatory networks. Transcription of a set of nutrient-responsive genes was affected by amiodarone but not CaCl(2), indicating that activation of the starvation response was independent of Ca(2+). Genes down-regulated by amiodarone were involved in all stages of cell cycle control. A moderate dose of amiodarone temporarily delayed cell cycle progression at G(1), S, and G(2)/M phases, with the Swe1-mediated delay in G(2)/M phase being most prominent in a calcineurin-dependent manner. Overall, the transcriptional responses to amiodarone revealed by this study were found to be distinct from other classes of antifungals, including the azole drugs, pointing toward a novel target pathway in combating fungal pathogenesis.
2 cases of acute renal failure associated with diclofenac therapy are reported. In the 1st case no other risk factors but diclofenac administration were identified. Renal biopsy showed patchy interstitial infiltration of mononuclear cells and polymorphonuclear leukocytes. In the 2nd case preexisting nephropathy and heart failure were underlying illnesses. In both cases renal function returned to the basal values after stopping the drug.
Deliberate hypotension is widely used during cerebral-artery aneurysm surgery to facilitate clipping and to prevent rupture. A large number of drugs are commonly employed to achieve hypotension, but all have their specific drawbacks. We investigated the effects of magnesium-sulphate-induced hypotension on haemodynamics, as well as on plasma catecholamine and renin concentrations in 11 patients undergoing cerebral-aneurysm surgery. Magnesium sulphate lowered blood pressure by reducing systemic vascular resistance. There was no reflex tachycardia or rebound hypertension, and cardiac output was not decreased. Plasma renin activity increased during hypotension but the inhibitory effects of magnesium on angiotensin converting enzyme prevented angiotensin-II-associated hypertension. Plasma catecholamine concentrations increased moderately during hypotension. Renal perfusion was not impaired since diuresis remained constant or even improved during and after hypotension. Magnesium sulphate in high doses has major drawbacks, however, among which are enhanced neuromuscular blockade and delayed return of consciousness. Although the haemodynamic effects of magnesium sulphate during hypotension appear to be beneficial, these side-effects might limits its usefulness, particularly in neurosurgery. More research must be conducted before magnesium sulphate can be considered a routine method.
In this double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study we compared the analgesic effect of a single oral dose of 30-mg dextromethorphan and 30-mg morphine combination (MS/DM) to 30 mg morphine (MS) alone and either placebo or 30 mg dextromethorphan (DM) on cutaneous sensitization induced by heat/capsaicin (topical) sensitization on the forearm and the brief thermal sensitization model on the thigh in 22 healthy volunteers. Outcome measures were areas of secondary hyperalgesia to brush and von Frey hair stimulation in both sensitization models and the painfulness of acute thermal noxious stimulation on the upper arm. Compared with placebo, both MS/DM and morphine had some effect on the secondary hyperalgesia and reduced the painfulness of a noxious thermal stimulus. The analgesic effect of MS/DM was not superior to that of morphine on any outcome measure. These results differ from preclinical studies with animal experimental pain models in which DM markedly potentiated the analgesic effects of opioids, but they are in accordance with recent clinical trials for chronic pain.
Adding dextromethorphan to morphine (1:1 ratio) did not enhance analgesia on measures of experimental cutaneous sensitization and acute noxious thermal stimulation in healthy volunteers. The results differ from preclinical studies but agree with clinical trials. Human experimental models of pain and neuronal sensitization, which are responsive to oral opioids, allow efficient study of opioid combination analgesics and simplify the process for determining the optimal dose and/or dose ratio.
We studied how denervation affects the overdevelopment of autophagic vacuoles in muscles of chloroquine-treated rats. The number of autophagic vacuoles increased significantly in the chloroquine-treated soleus muscles after denervation as compared to similarly treated contralateral, innervated muscles. No vacuoles were present in the denervated and innervated muscles of saline-treated rats. After denervation, the autophagic vacuoles in chloroquine-treated muscle contained numerous glycogen particles and various heterogeneous materials. A biochemical study showed no significant difference in the activities of lysosomal proteases and hydrolases in the chloroquine- and saline-treated muscles after denervation, although these activities were markedly increased in comparison to the same activities in the contralateral, innervated muscles. Chloroquine treatment by itself did not, but denervation with or without chloroquine treatment did enhance the biochemical activities of lysosomal enzymes in the animals. We speculate that denervation induces the marked accumulation of autophagic vacuoles in chloroquine-induced myopathy.
A new intensive methotrexate regimen for the treatment of advanced squamous carcinoma of the head and neck is presented, employing twice-weekly parenteral low-moderate doses of methotrexate and a single parenteral dose of leucovorin 24 hours following methotrexate. Toxicity and therapeutic results in 20 patients treated with this regimen favorably with results of weekly high-dose methotrexate-leucovorin in 36 patients treated immediately before initiation of the new regimen. Moderate nephrotoxicity and mild gastrointestinal/mucosal toxicity were common to both, while myelotoxicity was rarely seen with the low dose regimen and was more frequent with the high-dose regimen. Partial response was observed in 60% of patients treated on the intensive low-moderate dose schedule, and 50% of patients previously untreated with methotrexate on the weekly high-dose schedule. None of 12 patients previously failing low-moderate doses of methotrexate responded to high doses administered in this trial. The characteristics of antitumor response with low-moderate and high-dose schedules were similar except for the median dose required to attain response (50 mg/m2 vs. 3 g/m2) and the lesser toxicity of intensive lower dose therapy with leucovorin.
In published reports of naphazoline ingestion, clinical effects are hypertension, bradycardia, pallor, diaphoresis, and respiratory distress. We report three cases of acute pulmonary edema after the intentional ingestion of naphazoline-containing antiseptic first aid liquid. These cases presented with altered mental status, hypertension, bradycardia, and diaphoresis. Chest x-ray on admission revealed acute pulmonary edema. Two cases required mechanical ventilation. All of these clinical effects resolved within 24 hours and the patients were discharged with no sequelae. Since naphazoline stimulates the peripheral alpha-2 adrenergic receptor, we speculate that intense vasoconstriction may have elevated cardiac afterload and left atrial-ventricular blood volume and caused acute pulmonary edema.
Upon hospital admission a patient was found to have severe anemia and a strongly positive direct antiglobulin test (DAT). The patient was taking probenecid periodically for gout. An antibody was detected in the patient's serum that only reacted with red blood cells (RBCs) when probenecid was added. Eluates from the patient's RBCs, with and without the presence of drug, were nonreactive. Upon the discontinuation of probenecid, the patient's hemoglobin level improved steadily. We believe this to be the first reported case of immune hemolytic anemia associated with probenecid.
The benefit of the nutritious elements in fish is insufficient for explaining the controversial finding regarding prenatal mercury (Hg) exposure and neurodevelopment; the varying frequency of susceptible genes among these populations may shed light on these observations. However, limited studies have been reported on the association between genetic susceptibility of prenatal Hg exposure and child development. Apolipoprotein E (APOE, protein; Apoe, gene) is a major protein transporter expressed in the brain. The Apoe epsilon 4 (ε4) allele is associated with poor neural repair function and is a risk factor associated with Alzheimer disease. We conducted a prospective cohort study in 2004 and 2005. In this study, 168 subjects were recruited at delivery and followed up at two years of age, and genetic polymorphisms of Apoe were included to assess genetic susceptibility and to determine the relationship between Hg concentrations in cord blood and neurodevelopment. The results showed that adverse effects on neurodevelopment were consistently associated with prenatal Hg exposure in all subtests of Comprehensive Developmental Inventory for Infants and Toddlers (CDIIT) among ε4 carriers as assessed by both simple linear and multiple linear regression models. After controlling for confounding factors, statistical significance was found in the subtests of cognition tests (β=-8.47, 95% confidence interval (CI)=-16.10 to -0.84), social tests (β=-11.02, 95% CI=-20.85 to -1.19) and the whole test of CDIIT (β=-10.45, 95% CI=-17.36 to -3.54) in a multiple linear regression model. Additionally, the interaction effect between gene polymorphisms of Apoe and Hg levels was significant in the whole test CDIIT and subtests of cognition, language and fine motor tests. In conclusion, Apoe modifies the adverse effects of cord blood Hg on neurodevelopment at the age of two years.
Each of two dogs presented for multiple skin biopsies were sedated with intravenous medetomidine and lignocaine was injected subcutaneously to provide local anaesthesia for skin biopsy. One dog had a seizure during skin biopsy and again immediately following reversal of medetomidine with atipamezole. The other dog developed seizures 2 h following skin biopsy at which time the medetomidine was reversed with atipamezole. Both dogs were neurologically normal with no history of seizures prior to the procedure and remained neurologically normal for 14 weeks and 9 months, respectively, following the procedure. A drug interaction between the alpha(2)-adrenergic agonist medetomidine and lignocaine is suspected and highlights the potential for seizures following the subcutaneous administration of relatively large doses of lignocaine under medetomidine sedation.
Increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is a key event leading to microvascular complications, including nephropathy, in diabetes mellitus (DM). Excessive ROS and oxidative stress in DM have been reported to be associated with subsequent impaired nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. The aim of this study is to examine the beneficial function of dietary nitrite supplementation as an interventional NO donor to attenuate early progression of diabetic nephropathy. To test this hypothesis, male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into four groups: non-diabetic rats given water with or without nitrite (nitrite-treated or untreated, respectively), and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats given water with or without nitrite (nitrite-treated or untreated, respectively). After a 4 week experimental period, untreated diabetic rats exhibited significantly higher malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in the kidney compared with untreated non-diabetic rats, accompanied by a reduction in levels of endogenous NO synthase-derived nitrite. However, dietary nitrite supplementation to diabetic rats not only decreased MDA levels but also increased nitrite levels in the kidney to the same levels as in the non-diabetic kidney. These improvements accompanied an improvement in the parameters of glomerular injury, including urinary protein and albumin excretion, histopathological glomerular hypertrophy, and mesangial matrix accumulation. These results indicate that dietary nitrite is effective in the prevention of early diabetic glomerular injury in which NO bioavailability is impaired.
Ciprofloxacin, a fluorinated quinolone, is a powerful antibiotic widely used for its broad spectrum of activity in ambulatory and long-term care setting. Until now, ciprofloxacin administration has been associated with a few cases of acute, sometimes cholestatic jaundice or fulminant hepatic failure believed mainly related to idiosyncratic hypersensitivity. We report a case of delayed and prolonged cholestatic hepatitis with ductopenia occurring after 6 months of treatment in a patient with Crohn's disease. This observation suggests the potential for the drug to induce long-term likely dose-related severe hepatotoxicity.
Hepatic fibrosis is associated with activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSC), the major source of the extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. The predominant ECM protein synthesized by the HSC is collagen type I. We evaluated the effect of halofuginone-an inhibitor of collagen synthesis-on thioacetamide (TAA)-induced liver fibrosis in rats. In the control rats the HSC did not express smooth muscle actin, collagen type I gene, or tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-2 (TIMP-2), suggesting that they were in their quiescent state. When treated with TAA, the livers displayed large fibrous septa, which were populated by smooth muscle actin-positive cells expressing high levels of the collagen alpha1(I) gene and containing high levels of TIMP-2, all of which are characteristic of advanced fibrosis. Halofuginone given orally before fibrosis induction prevented the activation of most of the stellate cells and the remaining cells expressed low levels of collagen alpha1(I) gene, resulting in low levels of collagen. The level of TIMP-2 was almost the same as in the control livers. When given to rats with established fibrosis, halofuginone caused almost complete resolution of the fibrotic condition. The levels of collagen, collagen alpha1(I) gene expression, TIMP-2 content, and smooth muscle actin-positive cells were as in the control rats. Halofuginone inhibited the proliferation of other cell types of the fibrotic liver in vivo and inhibited collagen production and collagen alpha1(I) gene expression in the SV40-immortalized rat HSC-T6 cells in vitro. These results suggest that halofuginone may become an effective and novel mode of therapy in the treatment of liver fibrosis.
Neutrophil-derived proteinases cause glomerular injury by proteolysis of the glomerular basement membrane and alterations in glomerular metabolism. Recently, a marked elevation of the plasma elastase complex with alpha1-proteinase inhibitor (alpha 1-PI) both in the acute phase and during remission of nephrotic syndrome (NS) compared with age-matched controls was reported. In experimental immune-mediated glomerulonephritis epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) significantly reduced albuminuria, and it was suggested that this may be linked with the antiproteolytic activity of the drug. We studied plasma antithrombin III (AT-III), alpha 1-PI, alpha 2-antiplasmin (alpha 2-A), alpha 2-macroglobulin (alpha 2-M) activity, and some blood coagulation and fibrinolysis tests in children with frequently relapsing prednisone-responsive NS. Also, the effect of prednisone alone (Group I, n = 9) and prednisone plus EACA (Group II, n = 10) treatment regimens on the studied parameters was estimated. All investigations were performed on admission to the hospital and after approximately 13 days of prednisone alone therapy (Group I), as well as before the administration of prednisone plus EACA and 24 hours after the last dose of EACA, ie, after approximately 5 days of treatment (Group II). Prednisone was administered at the usual dose of approximately 2 mg/kg/d and EACA was given orally at the doses of 72 to 230 mg/kg of body weight per day for 3 to 10 days. In the acute phase of disease, NS patients (n = 19) were shown to have a statistically significant decrease of plasma AT-III (16.4 +/- 4.7 vs. 21.9 +/- 2.5 IU/mL) and alpha 1-PI (1.28 +/- 0.6 vs. 1.97 +/- 0.34 IU/mL) activity, as well as a marked increase in plasma alpha 2-M activity (14.96 +/- 5.81 vs. 9.6 +/- 1.6 IU/mL), and fibrinogen concentration (5.51 +/- 1.78 vs. 2.96 +/- 0.34 g/L) compared to the age-matched controls; no significant changes in plasma alpha 2-A activity, plasminogen concentration, euglobulin clot lysis time, activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), or thromboplastin time were noted. In children treated with prednisone alone, a marked increase in plasma AT-III (by 76%, P < 0.001) and alpha 2-A (36%, P < 0.019) activity, and a significant decrease of the plasma fibrinogen concentration (6.07 +/- 1.66 vs. 3.17 +/- 1.64 g/L, P < 0.001), and APTT (45.1 +/- 7.6 vs. 33.8 +/- 4.4 s, P < 0.001) were found. Prednisone plus EACA therapy resulted in a significant increase in plasma AT-III activity (by 53%, P < 0.003), whereas plasma fibrinogen concentration and APTT remained unchanged. However, statistically significant differences between the pre- and posttreatment plasma AT-III, alpha 1-PI, and alpha 2-A activities in these patients were observed. There was also a relationship between EACA dose and the percentage change in plasma alpha 2-A activity. In a few patients receiving prednisone plus EACA regimen, side effects that included purulent rhinitis, pharyngitis, increases in body temperature, loose stools, and an approximately 20% to 30% decrease in systolic and diastolic arterial blood pressure were observed. Thus, although the prednisone plus EACA treatment regimen seems to offer new therapeutic possibilities in some patients with NS, it should not be used in acute phase of the disease.
Lamivudine-induced hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion in patients with chronic hepatitis B was reported to be durable by several studies but controversy still exists. The aim of this study was to evaluate the durability of the responses of lamivudine treatment.
Among 53 chronic hepatitis B patients who had acute exacerbation and had finished lamivudine therapy after at least 6 months of treatment, 31 patients achieved full HBeAg seroconversion twice at least 1 month apart, and subsequently stopped lamivudine therapy. Post-treatment monitoring was continued for up to 87 weeks. Alanine transaminase (ALT), HBeAg and hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA were used as indicators for relapse.
The cumulative relapse rates at 48 and 72 weeks post-treatment were 45.4% and 56.3%, respectively. During follow up, normal ALT levels precluded relapse while ALT levels over two times the upper limit of normal indicated relapse, which correlated well with HBeAg or HBV DNA reappearance. Patients older than 25 years were more likely to experience post-treatment relapse.
Lamivudine-induced full HBeAg seroconversion was not durable in the Taiwanese population. ALT levels were useful for relapse detection. Age was the only independent predictive factor for relapse.
In patients with peripheral artery disease (PAD), statins may improve the symptoms of claudication. The Intermittent Claudication Proof of Principle (ICPOP) study tested the hypothesis that the combination of extended release niacin plus lovastatin would improve exercise performance in patients with PAD and claudication compared with a diet intervention. A phase 3 double-blind, parallel-group, multi-center, 28-week multi-national study evaluated subjects with a history of claudication who had an ankle-brachial index (ABI) < or = 0.90, a reproducible peak treadmill walking time (PWT) of 1-20 minutes, and a low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol level < 160 mg/dl (< 4.1 mmol/l). Subjects were randomly assigned to low-dose niacin 1000 mg plus lovastatin 40 mg (low niacin-statin), high-dose niacin 2000 mg plus lovastatin 40 mg (high niacin-statin), or diet intervention (diet). The co-primary efficacy endpoint of percent change in PWT and claudication onset time (COT) at 28 weeks was assessed using a graded treadmill protocol. At completion, 385 subjects were analyzed for safety and 370 subjects were analyzed for efficacy. The primary efficacy analysis showed no statistical significance for overall treatment effect at week 28 for the co-primary endpoint of PWT and COT. The PWT component of the primary endpoint increased 26.5% on diet, 37.8% on high niacin-statin (p = 0.137) and 38.6% on low niacin-statin (p = 0.096). Flushing as the most common event leading to discontinuation and treatment was associated with increases in liver enzymes, fasting blood glucose concentration and a decrease in platelet count.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a sensor and regulator of cellular energy metabolism potentially implicated in a broad range of conditions, including obesity and Alzheimer's disease. Its role in the control of key metabolic enzymes makes this kinase a central player in glucose and lipid homeostasis. Recently, by screening a library of synthetic small molecules selected for their structural similarity with the natural polyphenol resveratrol, we identified RSVA314 and RSVA405 as potent indirect activators of AMPK (half-maximal effective concentration [EC₅₀] = 1 μmol/L in cell-based assays). Here we show that RSVA314 and RSVA405 can significantly activate AMPK and inhibit acetyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), one target of AMPK and a key regulator of fatty acid biogenesis, in nondifferentiated and proliferating 3T3-L1 adipocytes. We found that RSVA314 and RSVA405 treatments inhibited 3T3-L1 adipocyte differentiation by interfering with mitotic clonal expansion during preadipocyte proliferation (half-maximal inhibitory concentration [IC₅₀] = 0.5 μmol/L). RSVA314 and RSVA405 prevented the adipogenesis-dependent transcriptional changes of multiple gene products involved in the adipogenic process, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-γ, CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α (C/EBPα), fatty acid synthase, fatty acid binding protein 4 (aP2), RANTES or resistin. Furthermore, orally administered RSVA405 at 20 and 100 mg/kg/d significantly reduced the body weight gain of mice fed a high-fat diet. This work shows that the novel small-molecule activators of AMPK (RSVA314 and RSVA405) are potent inhibitors of adipogenesis and thus may have therapeutic potential against obesity.
To estimate the efficacy of sumatriptan 50-mg and 100-mg tablets in menstrually associated migraine when treatment is administered during the mild pain phase.
A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single-attack study was conducted. Menstrually associated migraine was defined as any migraine beginning on or between day -2 and day 4, with day 1 = first day of flow. Patients had at least a 1-year history of migraine as defined by International Headache Society criteria and reported regularly occurring menstrually associated migraines typically having a mild pain phase. Patients treated attacks within 1 hour of the onset of pain but only if the pain was mild at onset and while the pain was still mild.
In the 349 women with menstrually associated migraine, sumatriptan was significantly more effective than placebo: 61% and 51% of patients who used sumatriptan 100 mg and 50 mg, respectively, were pain-free 2 hours after treatment compared with 29% of patients who used placebo (P <.001 for both comparisons). At 2 hours, 51% and 45% of patients who used sumatriptan 100 mg and 50 mg were free of pain and associated symptoms (photophobia, phonophobia, nausea, vomiting) compared with 25% of placebo patients (P <.001 for both comparisons). Adverse events were low for sumatriptan 100 and 50 mg, and both doses were generally well tolerated.
Sumatriptan 50-mg and 100-mg tablets are generally well tolerated and effective in providing pain-free relief and relief of the associated symptoms of menstrually associated migraine when administered in the mild pain phase.
Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is the fifth most common cause of cancer-related mortality in the world. The nucleoside analogue gemcitabine is the established standard therapy for advanced disease. Rare cases of gemcitabine-associated systemic capillary leak syndrome have been reported. Here, we present two cases of capillary-leak syndrome in patients with pancreatic cancer treated with gemcitabine.
H2-receptor antagonists may cause various types of central nervous system reactions, particularly in patients with advanced age and/or impaired renal or liver function. These reactions have rarely been reported in association with famotidine. In five elderly patients, four of them with renal failure, central nervous system reactions developed shortly after initiation with famotidine therapy. These adverse reactions completely resolved after famotidine withdrawal. The authors' five cases and the other seven previously reported emphasize the need for dosage adjustment of famotidine in elderly patients and in those with renal failure, and that these patients should be carefully monitored for development of central nervous system reactions, which sometimes could be very serious.
We describe a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) who developed pulmonary embolism (PE) and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) during remission induction all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) therapy. A 44-year-old man was diagnosed with APL and was treated with ATRA. On day 14, he developed PE, and on day 24, he developed TTP. Both PE and TTP occurred in association with leukocytosis due to ATRA administration. The PE responded to dexamethasone and TTP responded to plasma infusion. The PE and TTP remitted, and he achieved complete remission of APL. To our knowledge, there have been no reports of TTP occurring as a complication of ATRA therapy.
