Air pollution is a growing health problem for urban populations in emerging economies. The present study examines the (cross-sectional) relation between blood pressure and particulate air pollution in schoolchildren of Lahore (Pakistan).
We recruited a sample of 8-12 year-old children (mean age 9.9 years; 45% girls) from two schools in Lahore situated in areas with low (n = 79) and high (n = 100) air pollution, respectively. During the study period (January-April 2009) particulate pollution [PM(10) and PM(2.5) i.e. particles with aerodynamic diameters below 10 μm or 2.5 μm, respectively] was measured at the school sites with a laser operated device (Metone Aerocet 531). Blood pressure was measured, after 5 minutes of sitting rest, using an automated device (average of 5 consecutive measurements). Spot urine samples were also collected and concentrations of Na and K were measured.
Mean daily values of PM2.5 were 28.5 μg/m(3) (SD: 10.3) and 183 μg/m(3) (SD: 30.2), in the low and high pollution areas, respectively. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure were significantly higher in children living in the high pollution area (115.9/70.9 mm Hg) than in the low pollution area (108.3/66.4 mm Hg), independently of age, gender, height, weight, socio-economic status, passive smoking and the urinary concentrations of Na, K, and creatinine.
In 8-12 year-old children, exposure to (traffic-related) air pollution was associated with higher systolic and diastolic blood pressure. These findings, if they persist, might have clinical relevance at older age.
Endocannabinoids are involved in neuroprotection through numerous biochemical pathways. We have shown that the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG) is released in mouse brain after closed head injury (CHI), and treatment with exogenous 2-AG exerts neuroprotection via the central cannabinoid receptor CB1. This process involves inhibition of inflammatory signals that are mediated by activation of the transcription factor NF-kB. The present study was designed to examine the effect of 2-AG on the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and the possible inhibition of the early expression of proinflammatory cytokines, which are implicated in BBB disruption. We found that 2-AG decreased BBB permeability and inhibited the acute expression of the main proinflammatory cytokines: TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6. It also augmented the levels of endogenous antioxidants. We suggest that 2-AG exerts neuroprotection in part by inhibition of the early (1-4 h) inflammatory response and augmentation of the brain reducing power.
Benzene is a human carcinogen; exposure to benzene can result in aplastic anemia and leukemia. Data from animal models are frequently used in the risk assessment for benzene. In rodent studies, mice have been shown to be more sensitive to benzene-induced hematotoxicity than rats. In this regard, we have observed that bone marrow stromal cells from mice were significantly more susceptible to the cytotoxicity induced by the benzene metabolites hydroquinone (HQ) and benzoquinone (BQ) than cells from rats. Since cellular glutathione (GSH) and quinone reductase (QR) are known to play critical roles in modulating HQ-induced cytotoxicity, we have measured the GSH content and the QR and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity in stromal cells from both species. In rat cells, the GSH content and the QR specific activity were 2 and 28 times as much as those from mice, respectively. GSH and QR in both mouse and rat stromal cells were inducible by 1,2-dithiole-3-thione (D3T). D3T pretreatment of both mouse and rat stromal cells resulted in a marked protection against HQ-induced toxicity. Pretreatment of both mouse and rat stromal cells with GSH ethyl ester also provided a dramatic protection against HQ-induced toxicity. Conversely, dicoumarol, an inhibitor of QR, enhanced the HQ-induced toxicity in stromal cells from both mice and rats, indicating an important role for QR in modulating HQ-induced stromal toxicity in both species. Buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), which depleted GSH significantly in both species, potentiated the HQ-induced toxicity in mouse but not in rat stromal cells. Surprisingly, incubation of stromal cells with BSO resulted in a significant induction of QR, especially in rats. The failure of BSO to potentiate HQ-induced toxicity in rat stromal cells may be due to the concomitant induction of QR by BSO. Overall, this study demonstrates that the differences in stromal cellular GSH content and QR activity between mice and rats contribute to their respective susceptibility to HQ-induced cytotoxicity in vitro, and may be involved in the greater in vivo sensitivity of mice to benzene-induced hematotoxicity.
In rats, pretreatment with certain ketones results in enhanced taurolithocholic acid (TLCA)-induced reduction in bile flow, whereas pretreatment with inhibitors of protein synthesis diminishes the effect on bile flow of cholestatic regimens. In the present study, the possible role of cytochrome P-450 in the ketone potentiation phenomenon was investigated. Male rats were pretreated with inducers or inhibitors of hepatic cytochrome P-450 and the impact of these pretreatments on TLCA-induced cholestasis assessed. Phenobarbital, 3-methylcholanthrene, chlordecone or mirex were used as inducers, and SKF 525-A, piperonyl butoxide, or cobaltous chloride as inhibitors of monooxygenase activity. Phenobarbital and 3-methylcholanthrene pretreatment enhanced TLCA-induced reduction of bile flow, while mirex and chlordecone were without effect. The three inhibitors of monooxygenase activity did not diminish TLCA-induced cholestasis. Instead, piperonyl butoxide and cobaltous chloride appeared to enhance the action of TLCA. Consequently, an increase in cytochrome P-450 (or specific isozymes) as a common denominator in the potentiation phenomenon appears unlikely. While hepatic proteins may play an important role in the potentiation of TLCA-induced cholestasis following pretreatment with ketones, the pattern of potentiation after pretreatment of rats with different inducers or inhibitors of cytochrome P-450 does not appear to implicate this family of proteins.
It is a prospective study based on the pre introduction evaluation of Norplant implants conducted from September 92 to September 93 in the city of Ouagadougou. 197 women were selected for the study. Based on unemployed women with an average age of 31 years old. The average parity was of 5.47% of patients were multiparas. A gain of weight of an average of 2.43 kg was observed. The main side effects observed was cycle disorders and headache. The continuing rate after 12 months was 96.5%. Conclusion from this study is that Norplant Implants are well tolerated and accepted by women.
According to the 1989 census, Burkina Faso has a fertility rate of 7.1%. In 1992, the rate of contraceptive use was 8.2%. In an effort to expand the selection of contraceptive methods available in the country, the government of Burkina Faso worked with the Population Council to introduce the Norplant subcutaneous implant method of contraception. Norplant is a long-term, reversible, hormonal contraceptive method employing levonorgestrel. A prospective study based upon the preintroduction evaluation of Norplant was conducted from September 1992 to September 1993 in Ouagadougou. 197 women aged 18-47 years were chosen for the study. They were of mean age 31.9 years with 67% aged 30-39 years. Their mean parity was 5 children with the extremes of 1-11 children. 47% were multiparous, and 69% had already ever used a contraceptive method. The women weighed 42-91 kg, of mean weight 60 kg upon Norplant insertion and 62.43 kg 12 months later. Main secondary effects were cycle disorders and cephaly. The continuation rate of Norplant use after 12 months was 96.5%. These data indicate that Norplant is well accepted and tolerated by women in this setting.
Malignant hyperthermia susceptibility (MHS) and central core disease (CCD) have been shown to result from missense mutations in the ryanodine receptor gene of the skeletal muscle (RYR1). A 15-year-old patient who had spondylocostal dysostosis (SCD) developed an MH crisis during general anesthesia. The patient was characterized phenotypically by block vertebrae, vertebral fusion, short neck and thorax, fused ribs, craniofacial abnormalities, spina bifida occulta, and a diaphragmatic defect closed surgically in early infancy. The diagnosis MH susceptible (MHS) was confirmed by the in vitro contracture test (IVCT) on a muscle biopsy. Surprisingly, the histopathological investigation revealed the presence of CCD too. Molecular genetic investigation of the RYR1 gene was performed to search for known MH-related mutations. Cluster regions of the RYR1 gene, in which mutations have already been found, were examined by direct automated sequencing. In addition to the diagnosis MHS and CCD we were able to identify a novel RYR1 mutation in exon 46: 7358ATC > ACC, resulting in an Ile2453Thr substitution. This mutation was also present in the mother, in whom MH disposition and CCD were determined by muscle investigations. We suggest that the newly identified RYR1 mutation is closely associated with MH and CCD. A probable causative role of the RYR1 gene in SCD patients should be assessed by further genetic investigations.
The mechanism(s) of liver damage initiated by ingestion of toxic components of thermally oxidized lipids was compared in a rat model with the documented mechanisms of hepatic failure and necrosis initiated by acetaminophen. Acetaminophen (50 mg/kg body weight) or oxidized lipids (0.15 ml oxidized trilinolein or 1.05 ml oxidized butter oil per rat) were intubated at 12-h intervals to rats. Treated rats were allowed free access to food and water containing 3% ethanol. Changes in relative concentration of acute-phase plasma proteins, determined by two-dimensional (2D) immunoelectrophoresis, were taken as a marker of liver damage. In contrast to simple inflammation, acute-phase plasma proteins in this study disproportionately increased or decreased as histological damage of the liver due to intubation oxidized lipids or acetaminophen. Histological examination of liver of rats intoxicated with oxidized lipids revealed severe liver cirrhosis at the end of the trial, where the remaining viable hepatocytes were separated in a matrix of collagen. [3H1]Thymidine incorporation in hepatic DNA of acetaminophen or oxidized lipid intoxication increased in the early stages of intoxication, indicative of regenerative activity of the liver. Further progression of the cirrhosis inhibited continued liver regeneration and [3H1]thymidine incorporation into hepatic DNA. The cirrhotic liver at this stage failed to regenerate to the original mass upon 75% partial hepatectomy. Therefore, it may be concluded that hepatic necrosis produced by oxidized lipids or by acetaminophen may have similar mechanisms.
The clinical usefulness of doxorubicin (adriamycin, ADR) is restricted by the risk of developing congestive heart failure. Probucol has been reported to completely prevent ADR cardiomyopathy without interfering with its antitumor effects. The current study investigated the effects of ADR and probucol on antioxidant enzyme gene expression during adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy in a rat model.
The mRNA abundance by Northern and immunoreactive protein levels by Western blotting of myocardial antioxidant enzymes, glutathione peroxidase (GSHPx), manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and catalase (CAT) were examined in relation to the enzyme activities in hemodynamically assessed control and treated animals.
At 3 weeks post-treatment duration, ADR caused heart failure which was prevented by probucol. MnSOD mRNA abundance as well as protein levels were depressed by ADR treatment by 45% and 20%, respectively, and this change was prevented by probucol. However, the mRNA and protein levels of GSHPx and CAT were not significantly changed by ADR or probucol. ADR had no effect on SOD activity but this enzyme activity was increased by probucol and probucol plus ADR. GSHPx enzyme activity was decreased and oxidative stress as indicated by TBARS was increased by ADR and these changes were also modulated by probucol.
An increase in oxidative stress, GSHPx inactivation and MnSOD downregulation during ADR cardiomyopathy were prevented by probucol treatment.
The present study was designed to investigate the effects of chronic administration of the arginine analogue L-Name (50 mg/kg body weight), the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, perindopril (2 mg/kg body weight), and perindopril (2 mg/kg) plus L-Name (50 mg/kg) on blood pressure, plasma renin activity, plasma angiotensinogen, and hepatic angiotensinogen mRNA levels in young and adult rats. The drugs were given daily from birth to day 21 to puppies and for 15 days to adults. Analytical procedures were performed on day 21 for the puppies and at 10 weeks for the adults. In puppies, blood pressure did not change with L-Name, it decreased to 45% of control values (P < 0.001) with perindopril, and decreased to 77% of control values (P < 0.05) with perindopril plus L-Name. In adults, blood pressure increased to 129% of control values (P < 0.02) with L-Name, decreased to 80% of control values (P < 0.05) with perindopril, and did not change with perindopril plus L-Name. Compared with controls, plasma renin activity was unchanged in puppies and adults with L-Name, undetectable in puppies and slightly increased in adults with perindopril, undetectable in puppies and slightly decreased in adults with perindopril plus L-Name. With L-Name, angiotensinogen mRNA levels were unchanged in puppies and slightly increased in adults, while plasma angiotensinogen levels were decreased (P < 0.05) in puppies and increased (P < 0.01) in adults; with perindopril, angiotensinogen mRNA levels were unchanged in puppies and slightly decreased in adults, while plasma angiotensinogen levels were undetectable in puppies and decreased (P < 0.05) in adults; with perindopril plus L-Name, angiotensinogen mRNA levels were unchanged in puppies while plasma angiotensinogen levels were undetectable in puppies and decreased (P < 0.01) in adults. This study suggests that during the early postnatal period (1) nitric oxide does not exert a basal vasodilator tone but contributes to the hypotensive state induced by perindopril, (2) angiotensin II is essential to maintain blood pressure, (3) and angiotensinogen mRNA levels are not influenced by nitric oxide or angiotensin II.
The effect of changing the rate of infusion of propofol for induction of anaesthesia was studied in 60 elderly patients. Propofol was administered at 300, 600 or 1200 ml h-1 until loss of consciousness (as judged by loss of verbal contact with the patient) had been achieved. The duration of induction was significantly longer (P less than 0.001) with the slower infusion rates (104, 68 and 51 s), but the total dose used was significantly less (P less than 0.001) in these patients (1.2, 1.6 and 2.5 mg kg-1, respectively). The decrease in systolic and diastolic arterial pressure was significantly less in the 300-ml h-1 group at the end of induction and immediately after induction (P less than 0.01). The incidence of apnoea was also significantly less in the slower infusion group.
Excess chromium (Cr) exposure is associated with various pathological conditions including reproductive dysfunction. Generation of oxidative stress is one of the plausible mechanisms behind Cr induced cellular deteriorations. The efficacy of vitamin E to combat Cr induced oxidative damage in adult rat testis has investigated in the current study. Adult male rats exposed to hexavalent Cr (intraperitoneal injection with 0.4 mg K(2)Cr(2)O(7)/ kg bw/day) for 26 days resulted in decreased accessory sex organs weight compared to controls. Development of oxidative stress in testis was evidenced by increased lipid peroxidation along with decreased superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activities than control animals. Marked reduction in the activities of testicular steroidogenic enzymes; Delta(5)3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD), 17beta-HSD, serum testosterone and Leutinizing Hormone (LH) levels were observed. However significant increase in serum Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) level was observed with Cr treated group. Histological evaluation of testis revealed degeneration of stage VII spermatogenic cycle along with decrease in epithelial cell height in epididymis and seminiferous tubules; number of different germ cells per seminiferous tubule and seminiferous tubular diameter reduced after Cr exposure. Simultaneous oral supplementation of vitamin E (50mg/kg bw/day) in Cr exposed rats showed less oxidative damage and restored the otherwise altered testicular activities. Epididymal sperm number was also restored in vitamin E-supplemented group than Cr induced rats. This study implicates vitamin E as a possible protective agent against Cr induced spermatogenic and steroidogenic alteration.
This case report describes the successful management of a patient with diabetic ketoacidosis, who developed torsades de pointes leading to nine cardiac arrests secondary to intravenous fluconazole administration on a background of hypokalaemia and hypocalcaemia.
The bisdioxopiperazine topoisomerase II catalytic inhibitor dexrazoxane has successfully been introduced into the clinic as an antidote to accidental anthracycline extravasation based on our preclinical mouse studies. The histology of this mouse extravasation model was investigated and found to be similar to findings in humans: massive necrosis in the subcutis, dermis and epidermis followed by sequestration and healing with granulation tissue, and a graft-versus-host-like reaction with hyperkeratotic and acanthotic keratinocytes, occasional apoptoses, epidermal invasion by lymphocytes and healing with dense dermal connective tissue. The extension of this fibrosis was quantified, and dexrazoxane intervention resulted in a statistically significant decrease in fibrosis extension, as also observed in the clinic. Several mechanisms have been proposed in anthracycline extravasation cytotoxicity, and we tested two major hypotheses: (1) interaction with topoisomerase II alpha and (2) the formation of tissue damaging reactive oxygen species following redox cycling of an anthracycline Fe(2+) complex. Dexrazoxane could minimise skin damage via both mechanisms, as it stops the catalytic activity of topoisomerase II alpha and thereby prevents access of anthracycline to the enzyme and thus cytotoxicity, and also acts as a strong iron chelator following opening of its two bisdioxopiperazine rings. Using the model of extravasation in a dexrazoxane-resistant transgenic mouse with a heterozygous mutation in the topoisomerase II alpha gene (Top2a(Y165S/+)), we found that dexrazoxane provided a protection against anthracycline-induced skin wounds that was indistinguishable from that found in wildtype mice. Thus, interaction with topoisomerase II alpha is not central in the pathogenesis of anthracycline-induced skin damage. In contrast to dexrazoxane, the iron-chelating bisdioxopiperazine ICRF-161 do not inhibit the catalytic cycle of topoisomerase II alpha. This compound was used to isolate and test the importance of iron in the wound pathogenesis. ICRF-161 was found ineffective in the treatment of anthracycline-induced skin damage, suggesting that iron does not play a dominant role in the genesis of wounds.
We evaluated a 1-year course of a newly developed immunosuppressant, mizoribine (at a dosage of 3 mg/kg body weight per day), in nine children with steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome. Steroid treatment could be discontinued in two patients and the maintenance dosage of steroid could be reduced to less than half of that given before mizoribine therapy in a third. There were no beneficial effects in the remaining six patients. No adverse effects of mizoribine were observed during the course of therapy.
Several factors affect the autoimmune response, including iron-dependent modulation of T cells. Hemopexin is the plasma protein with the highest binding affinity to heme. It mediates heme-iron recovery in the liver, thus controlling heme-iron availability in peripheral cells. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of hemopexin in the progress of an autoimmune response. To this end, we chose a mouse model of mercury-induced autoimmunity and evaluated the susceptibility of hemopexin-null mice to mercury treatment compared with wild-type controls. In this study we show that lack of hemopexin dampens mercury-induced autoimmune responses in mice. Hemopexin-null mice produced fewer antinuclear autoantibodies and had reduced deposits of immune complexes in the kidney after mercuric chloride treatment compared with wild-type mice. These features were associated with a reduction in activated T cells and lower absolute B cell number in spleen and impaired IgG1 and IgG2a production. In contrast, in hemopexin-null mice the response to OVA/CFA immunization was maintained. In addition, hemopexin-null mice had reduced transferrin receptor 1 expression in T cells, possibly due to the increase in heme-derived iron. Interestingly, CD4(+)T cells isolated from mercury-treated hemopexin-null mice show reduced IFN-gamma-dependent STAT1 phosphorylation compared with that of wild-type mice. Our data suggest that hemopexin, by controlling heme-iron availability in lymphocytes, modulates responsiveness to IFN-gamma and, hence, autoimmune responses.
Topical levarterenol was evaluated for the control of bladder hemorrhage. Its possible toxic effects were investigated in the intact dog bladder, and its use was compared with saline irrigations in experimental massive bladder hemorrhage. Eight mg.% levarterenol was found to be safe and effective in our model.
Each year, an estimated 20,000 infants are born to women in the United States who are positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). These infants are at high risk for perinatal hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and for chronic liver disease as adults. To identify newborns who require immunoprophylaxis to prevent perinatal HBV infection, all vaccine advisory groups have recommended routine HBsAg screening of all pregnant women during an early prenatal visit in each pregnancy. Federal funding to support perinatal hepatitis B-prevention programs became available in 1990, and by 1992, programs had been implemented in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Specific objectives of these programs are to ensure that 1) all pregnant women are tested for HBsAg, and 2) infants born to HBsAg-positive women receive hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and hepatitis B vaccine at birth, with follow-up doses of vaccine at ages 1 and 6 months. This report describes the case-management features of successful hepatitis B-prevention programs in Connecticut during 1994-95 and in the United States during 1994.
Pain is a well known complication of propofol injection. Premixing with lignocaine 0.1 mg.kg-1 and injection into a large forearm vein has been recommended. The amount of lignocaine to be added is often empirical when the vein on the dorsum of the hand is used. In this study we attempt to determine the optimal amount of lignocaine necessary to reduce pain when propofol is injected into a hand vein. Our study shows that a propofol emulsion containing 0.05% lignocaine is effective in reducing the incidence of propofol injection pain. The addition of lignocaine also reduces the incidence of excitatory effects. Increasing the dosage of lignocaine above 0.05% does not improve the results.
Ninety patients with progressive recurrent lymphoma were treated with a combination of cisplatin 100 mg/m2 intravenously (IV) by continuous infusion over 24 hours, followed by cytosine arabinoside in two pulses each at a dose of 2 g/m2 given 12 hours apart. Dexamethasone, 40 mg orally or IV, was given on days 1 through 4. Vigorous hydration was reinforced by routine use of mannitol. Treatments were repeated at 3- to 4-week intervals for six to ten courses. Most patients had not achieved complete remission (CR) with prior therapies, which included Adriamycin (all patients) and methotrexate and VP-16 (58 patients). Median patient age was 55 years. Intermediate-grade lymphoma was the most frequent pathologic diagnosis. Seven patients died within two weeks of therapy; of the remaining 83 patients, 28 (34%) or 31% if all patients are considered, achieved CR, and 22 (26.5%) achieved partial remission (PR). Response was evident after the first two cycles of chemotherapy and appeared to be independent of the histopathologic type of lymphoma. To date, only eight of the complete responders have relapsed at a median follow-up of 11 months. The overall 2-year survival in 25%. Further analysis showed that patients with low tumor burden and normal lactic acid dehydrogenase (LDH) had a high CR response rate (67%) and a survival rate of 61% at 2 years. In contrast, patients with both high tumor burden and elevated serum LDH levels had a negligible CR rate, and only 5% are surviving at 1 year. Patients with either high tumor burden with normal LDH or low tumor burden with elevated LDH had an intermediate survival. Myelosuppression-related infection was the most frequent serious complication of this regimen (31%) and the cause of death of ten patients. Acute lysis syndrome was also observed in five patients with high tumor burden and was the cause of death in three of these patients. DHAP has proven to be an effective non-crossresistant regimen for patients with relapsing or refractory lymphoma, particularly for patients who have favorable prognostic characteristics.
To compare the effects of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) with those of nitroglycerin (NTG) on whole body metabolism (oxygen uptake (VO2) and carbon dioxide elimination (VCO2) during induced hypotension, we have studied 16 patients undergoing elective surgery (radical mastectomy or tympanoplasty). The patients were allocated randomly in a non-blinded manner to two groups. Baseline characteristics were similar in the two groups. Arterial pressure was controlled at about 70% of the baseline value using PGE1 or NTG. VO2, VCO2, gas exchange ratio (RQ) and deadspace ventilation ratio (VD/VT) were measured continuously with mass spectrometry. The values for all variables were measured for 10 min at five times (1 = start of surgery (baseline value); 2 = start of drug infusion; 3 = 60 min after start of drug infusion; 4 = drug infusion stopped; 5 = surgery finished). VO2, VCO2, RQ and VD/VT values were relatively constant in both groups during surgery. The balance between oxygen supply and oxygen demand was maintained during induced hypotension with PGE1 or NTG.
The 21-gene OncotypeDX recurrence score (RS) assay quantifies the risk of distant recurrence in tamoxifen-treated patients with node-negative, estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer. We investigated the association between RS and risk for locoregional recurrence (LRR) in patients with node-negative, ER-positive breast cancer from two National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP) trials (NSABP B-14 and B-20).
RS was available for 895 tamoxifen-treated patients (from both trials), 355 placebo-treated patients (from B-14), and 424 chemotherapy plus tamoxifen-treated patients (from B-20). The primary end point was time to first LRR. Distant metastases, second primary cancers, and deaths before LRR were censored.
In tamoxifen-treated patients, LRR was significantly associated with RS risk groups (P < .001). The 10-year Kaplan-Meier estimate of LRR was 4.% (95% CI, 2.3% to 6.3%) for patients with a low RS (< 18), 7.2% (95% CI, 3.4% to 11.0%) for those with intermediate RS (18-30), and 15.8% (95% CI, 10.4% to 21.2%) for those with a high RS (> 30). There were also significant associations between RS and LRR in placebo-treated patients from B-14 (P = .022) and in chemotherapy plus tamoxifen-treated patients from B-20 (P = .028). In multivariate analysis, RS was an independent significant predictor of LRR along with age and type of initial treatment.
Similar to the association between RS and risk for distant recurrence, a significant association exists between RS and risk for LRR. This information has biologic consequences and potential clinical implications relative to locoregional therapy decisions for patients with node-negative and ER-positive breast cancer.
Round heart disease (RHD) is a spontaneous occurring cardiomyopathy in fowl affecting primarily inbred, small broad-breasted white strains of turkeys. Etiology of RHD is unknown but factors implicated include genetic, management, enzyme deficiencies, viral, immunologic, and metabolic. Investigations of proposed etiologic factors are reviewed. Furazolidone (FZ)-induced cardiomyopathy is indistinguishable from spontaneous RHD, but it remains to be shown that both are mediated by the same mechanism(s). Studies to date suggest that FZ-induced cardiomyopathy is an exaggeration of the spontaneous condition.
We describe three cases of thyroid storm who developed sudden cardiorespiratory arrest soon after the administration of propranolol orally. CASE 1: A 43 years old Chinese lady presented with complaints of fever and chills. She had a urinary tract infection and also had signs of overt thyrotoxicosis. She was diagnosed to have thyroid storm and was started on oral propranolol, carbimazole and intravenous hydrocortisone and ceftriaxone. Soon after propranolol was given orally she developed an asystolic cardiorespiratory arrest. CASE 2: A 72 years old Chinese gentleman presented with confusion, fever and rapid atrial fibrillation. He was diagnosed to have thyroid storm and was started on oral propranolol, carbimazole and intravenous hydrocortisone and ceftriaxone. He developed a cardiorespiratory arrest about 6 hours after commencement of therapy. CASE 3: A 48-year-old Chinese gentleman presented with complains of dyspnoea and palpitations. He was diagnosed to have thyroid storm and was started on oral propranolol, carbimazole, intravenous hydrocortisone and antibiotics. About 12 hours after admission, he developed a cardiorespiratory arrest. All three patients developed cardiorespiratory arrest soon after the administration of propranolol orally. We conclude that in selective patients who have low output cardiac failure in association with severe thyrotoxicosis, it maybe advisable to avoid use of a beta blocker. A safer alternative is the use of ultra short-acting beta-blockers, such as intravenous esmolol, with extreme caution.
Neuroleptic treatment of psychotic symptoms or agitated behavior in elderly patients diagnosed with dementia is associated with reduced efficacy and increased rates of neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism in comparison to younger patients with schizophrenia. We report the first study to examine the relationship between an in vivo measure of dopaminergic function, plasma homovanillic acid (pHVA), and ratings of psychosis, agitation, and parkinsonism before and after neuroleptic treatment in dementia patients. Pretreatment pHVA was significantly correlated with parkinsonian rigidity, with a trend observed with agitation and hostility. Though mean pHVA did not change during perphenazine treatment, intraindividual change in pHVA at day 15 was correlated with improvement in hostility, with a similar trend for improvement in agitation. These preliminary findings are consistent with reports associating dopaminergic function with agitated, but not psychotic, symptoms in patients diagnosed with dementia, and with a reduced responsivity of dopaminergic systems to neuroleptic treatment in these patients.
Long-term changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis as a result of early life stress could be related to the development of substance use disorders during adulthood. In this study, the neuroendocrine, physiologic (HR), and subjective responses to corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) and the Trier Social Stress Task (TSST) in individuals with cocaine dependence, with (n=21)/without early life stress (n=21), non-dependent individuals with early life stress (n=22), and a control group were examined (n=21). CRH increased cortisol and ACTH levels in all groups. However, a significant effect of early life stress on ACTH was observed indicating that the increase in ACTH was greatest in subjects with a history of childhood stress. Post hoc analysis indicated the early life stress/non-cocaine dependent individuals exhibited significantly higher levels of ACTH as compared to the early life stress/cocaine-dependent group. Despite the elevated ACTH response there was no difference between the groups in the cortisol response to CRH. The TSST produced a significant elevation in ACTH and cortisol all study groups. No significant group differences were observed. The subjective stress and peak heart rate responses to the TSST were greatest in cocaine-dependent subjects without early life stress. In response to CRH, subjective stress and craving were positively correlated in cocaine-dependent subjects regardless of early life stress history, while stress and craving following the TSST were correlated only in cocaine-dependent subjects without a history of early life stress. Findings support previous studies demonstrating that subjects with a history of childhood adversity exhibit elevated ACTH and blunted cortisol levels in response to stress. In contrast, HR and subjective stress in response to the TSST were greatest in cocaine-dependent subjects without a history of early life stress, suggesting that childhood adversity may desensitize autonomic and subjective responding to social stress in adults with cocaine dependence.
To enhance analgesia, combination of analgesics drugs of proven efficacy is a strategy which is accompanied by a reduction of adverse effects. The present study was undertaken to characterize the antinociceptive interaction of morphine with different non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) using isobolographic analysis and the writhing test of mice. One of the possible mechanisms of action of spinally administered morphine with non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs was investigated using the DOR antagonist naltrindole. The study demonstrated a synergistic antinociception of spinal administered combinations of morphine with the following NSAIDs agents: diclofenac, ketoprofen, meloxicam, metamizol, naproxen, nimesulide, parecoxib and piroxicam. The supraadditive effect seems to be independent of the selectivity of each NSAIDs to inhibit COX-1 or COX-2. The findings of the present work suggest that the combinations of opioids and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have a direct action on spinal processing of the nociceptive information, which may achieved by additional mechanisms independent of prostaglandin synthesis inhibition and/or activation of opioid receptors. The lack of effect of naltrindole to modify the analgesic activity of the combination of opioids and NSAIDs indicates that others pain regulatory systems are involved in this central action. Therefore, these combinations could be a viable alternative to clinical pain management, especially trough multimodal analgesia.
Ghrelin is a novel growth hormone (GH)-releasing and orexigenic peptide with anti-inflammatory activities. However, the role of ghrelin in the colonic inflammation is still controversial. The aim of the present study was: 1) to examine the expression of ghrelin and TNF-alpha mRNA in the inflamed colonic mucosa of patients with ulcerative colitis (UC), 2) to analyze the effect of treatment with exogenous ghrelin on the healing of trinitrobenze sulphonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in rats, and 3) to assess the effects of ghrelin treatment on mRNA expression for iNOS and protein expression for COX-2 and PPARalpha in intact colonic mucosa and in that with TNBS-induced colitis. Fifteen patients with UC and fifteen healthy controls were enrolled in this study. Expression of ghrelin and TNF-alpha was assessed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR in the colonic mucosal biopsies from UC patients and healthy controls. In addition, the effect of exogenous ghrelin on healing of TNBS colitis was tested in rats without or with capsaicin-induced functional ablation of sensory nerves. Patients with UC showed a significant upregulation of mRNA for ghrelin and TNF-alpha in colonic mucosa as compared to that observed in healthy controls. The expression of ghrelin correlated with the grade of inflammation and expression of TNF-alpha. In rats the exogenous ghrelin administered daily at a dose of 20 microg/kg i.p. significantly accelerated the healing of TNBS colitis and this effect was accompanied by an increase in mRNA expression for iNOS and protein expression for COX-2 in the colonic mucosa. The protein expression for PPARgamma, which was down-regulated in rat colonic mucosa after exposure to TNBS as compared to that in intact colonic mucosa, was not significantly influenced by ghrelin treatment. We conclude that 1) patients with UC show an increased mucosal expression of mRNA for ghrelin in the colonic mucosa which could trigger protective response in inflamed colon; and 2) exogenous ghrelin accelerates healing of colonic lesions in animal model of ulcerative colitis via increased release of NO and PGE(2) due to an increase in iNOS and COX-2 expression and stimulation of sensory neuropeptides such as CGRP released from sensory afferent endings.
