The mechanism of the tachycardia observed in conscious rats following systemic administration of alpha-methyldopa (alpha-MD) was investigated. Heart rate and mean arterial pressure were monitored following peripheral (i.p. and i.v.) and central (lateral and fourth ventricle and cisterna magna) administration of alpha-MD. As little as 25 mg/kg i.p. produced the maximum tachycardia observed: 136 +/- 30 beats/min within 30 min. However, after central administration of alpha-MD--producing similar reductions in blood pressure--only a gradually developing bradycardia occurred (maximum at 3-4 h), suggesting that the tachycardia was peripheral in origin. Tachycardia following administration of 25 mg/kg alpha-MD i.p. was prevented by pretreatment with propranolol, desmethylimipramine, and the dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor R04-4602, but not by pretreatment with pentolinium, guanethidine, the dopamine-beta-hydroxylase inhibitor FLA-63, or by adrenalectomy or depletion of endogenous catecholamines. In isolated spontaneously beating atria, alpha-MD produced a maximum increase in rate similar to that of isoprenaline. This effect of alpha-MD was blocked by propranolol and R04-4602 but not by FLA-63. These results suggest that the tachycardia observed in conscious rats following alpha-MD administration is caused by stimulation of cardiac beta-adrenoceptors following its conversion to alpha-methyldopamine in cardiac sympathetic neurons.
The unresponsiveness of metastatic melanoma to conventional chemotherapeutic and biological agents is largely due to the development of resistance to apoptosis. Pyrimethamine belongs to the group of antifolate drugs, and in addition to antiprotozoan effects, it exerts a strong proapoptotic activity, which we recently characterized in human T lymphocytes. However, no data regarding pyrimethamine anticancer activity are available thus far. To this end, we examined the in vitro effects of pyrimethamine on apoptosis, cell cycle distribution, and cell proliferation of human metastatic melanoma cell lines. The in vivo antitumor potential of pyrimethamine was evaluated in a severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) mouse xenotransplantation model. Our data indicate that pyrimethamine, when used at a clinically relevant concentration, induced apoptosis in metastatic melanoma cells via the activation of the cathepsin B and the caspase cascade (i.e., caspase-8 and caspase-9) and subsequent mitochondrial depolarization. This occurred independently from CD95/Fas engagement. Moreover, pyrimethamine induced a marked inhibition of cell growth and an S-phase cell cycle arrest. Results obtained in SCID mice, injected s.c. with metastatic melanoma cells and treated with pyrimethamine, indicated a significant inhibitory effect on tumor growth. In conclusion, our results suggest that pyrimethamine-induced apoptosis may be considered as a multifaceted process, in which different inducers or regulators of apoptosis are simultaneously implicated, thus permitting death defects of melanoma cells to be bypassed or overcome. On these bases, we hypothesize that pyrimethamine could represent an interesting candidate for the treatment of metastatic melanoma.
Selenium compounds have known chemopreventive effects on prostate cancer. However selenite, an inorganic form of selenium, has not been extensively studied as a treatment option for prostate cancer. Our previous studies have demonstrated the inhibition of androgen receptor expression and androgen stimulated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) expression by selenite in human prostate cancer cell lines. In this study, we investigated the in vivo effects of selenite as a therapy to treat mice with established LAPC-4 tumors.
Male mice harboring androgen-dependent LAPC-4 xenograft tumors were treated with selenite (2 mg/kg intraperitoneally three times per week) or vehicle for 42 days. In addition, androgen-independent LAPC-4 xenograft tumors were generated in female mice over 4 to 6 months. Once established, androgen-independent LAPC-4 tumor fragments were passaged into female mice and were treated with selenite or vehicle for 42 days. Changes in tumor volume and serum PSA levels were assessed.
Selenite significantly decreased androgen-dependent LAPC-4 tumor growth in male mice over 42 days (p < 0.001). Relative tumor volume was decreased by 41% in selenite-treated animals compared with vehicle-treated animals. The inhibition of LAPC-4 tumor growth corresponded to a marked decrease in serum PSA levels (p < 0.01). In the androgen-independent LAPC-4 tumors in female mice, selenite treatment decreased tumor volume by 58% after 42 days of treatment (p < 0.001).
These results suggest that selenite may have potential as a novel therapeutic agent to treat both androgen-dependent and androgen-independent prostate cancer.
Two renal transplant patients developed anemia during treatment of hypertension with enalapril medication. Hemoglobin levels normalized after administration of enalapril was stopped. In one patient, it was demonstrated that the discontinuation of enalapril was followed by a decrease in renal blood flow and a significant increase in the plasma erythropoietin levels that preceded the rise in hemoglobin. These observations are consistent with the hypothesis that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition may cause anemia by increasing renal blood flow and consequently decreasing erythropoietin levels.
Curcumin is the active component of tumeric, and this polyphenolic compound has been extensively investigated as an anticancer drug that modulates multiple pathways and genes. In this study, 10 to 25 micromol/L curcumin inhibited 253JB-V and KU7 bladder cancer cell growth, and this was accompanied by induction of apoptosis and decreased expression of the proapoptotic protein survivin and the angiogenic proteins vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and VEGF receptor 1 (VEGFR1). Because expression of survivin, VEGF, and VEGFR1 are dependent on specificity protein (Sp) transcription factors, we also investigated the effects of curcumin on Sp protein expression as an underlying mechanism for the apoptotic and antiangiogenic activity of this compound. The results show that curcumin induced proteasome-dependent down-regulation of Sp1, Sp3, and Sp4 in 253JB-V and KU7 cells. Moreover, using RNA interference with small inhibitory RNAs for Sp1, Sp3, and Sp4, we observed that curcumin-dependent inhibition of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB)-dependent genes, such as bcl-2, survivin, and cyclin D1, was also due, in part, to loss of Sp proteins. Curcumin also decreased bladder tumor growth in athymic nude mice bearing KU7 cells as xenografts and this was accompanied by decreased Sp1, Sp3, and Sp4 protein levels in tumors. These results show for the first time that one of the underlying mechanisms of action of curcumin as a cancer chemotherapeutic agent is due, in part, to decreased expression of Sp transcription factors in bladder cancer cells.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID) is an inevitable complication of the long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) with levodopa. In a rat model of LID, we observed that animals of almost identical genetic but slightly different environmental backgrounds displayed a very different profile in terms of their development and severity of LID.
We hypothesised that this heterogeneity can be attributed to different levels of anxiety in individual animals. We evaluated the basal anxiety level of rats in this study using the elevated plus maze (EPM), open field (OF) test, and plasma corticosterone level. These animals then received unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway after which they were primed to develop LID. Finally, we manipulated the anxiety level of these animals by citalopram treatment over a 9-week period before they were killed.
Although we could not establish an association between the anxiety level of rats with either the onset or severity of LID, our results showed that citalopram was able to mediate a partial alleviation in LID after chronic treatment, and the extent of recovery was negatively correlated to the anxiety measures of individual animals. Furthermore, this citalopram-mediated LID recovery appeared to be independent of any changes in striatal cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32) and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) system, in contrast to our previous studies with fetal ventral mesencephalon transplants. However, chronic citalopram treatment almost completely abolished the expression of serotonin receptor 1B (5HT1B) in the striatum in animals exhibiting LID recovery.
These results indicate a novel association of serotonin receptors in the development of LID and contributes to the evidence that the serotonergic system may play an important role in such movements.
A 24 year old woman presented with a sudden excruciating headache mimicking an acute vascular event. She had undergone a lung transplantation because of cystic fibrosis and was receiving maintenance treatment with tacrolimus and prednisone. Ancillary investigation excluded vascular causes. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated hyperintense lesions in the infratentorial and parieto-occipital regions consistent with posterior leucencephalopathy syndrome. Both her clinical condition improved and the lesions disappeared completely after withdrawal of tacrolimus, suggesting that her condition could be explained by a tacrolimus encephalopathy.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the most frequent brain tumor in adults, is not considered chemosensitive. Nevertheless, there is widespread use of first-line chemotherapy, often with temozolomide, as a therapeutic option in patients with progressive disease after surgery and radiotherapy. However, at the time of second recurrence and/or progression, active and noncross-resistant chemotherapy regimens are required. The aim of the present multicenter phase II trial, therefore, was to ascertain the efficacy of second-line carmustine (BCNU) and irinotecan chemotherapy.
Patients with histologically confirmed GBM, recurring or progressing after surgery, standard radiotherapy and a first-line temozolomide-based chemotherapy, were considered eligible. The primary end-point was progression-free survival at 6 months (PFS-6), and secondary end-points included response rate, toxicity, and survival. All patients were on enzyme-inducing antiepileptic prophylaxis. Chemotherapy consisted of BCNU (100 mg/m2 on day 1) plus irinotecan (175 mg/m2/weekly for 4 weeks), every 6 weeks, for a maximum of eight cycles. In the absence of grade 2 toxicity, the irinotecan dose was increased to 200 mg/m2.
A total of 42 patients (median age, 53.4 years; median Karnofsky performance status, 80; range, 60 to 90) were included in the study. PFS-6 was 30.3% (95% CI, 18.5% to 49.7%). Median time to progression was 17 weeks (95% CI, 11.9 to 23.9). Nine partial responses (21.4%; 95% CI, 9% to 34%) were obtained. Toxicity was manageable.
The BCNU plus irinotecan regimen seems active and non-cross-resistant in patients with GBM with recurrence after temozolomide-based chemotherapy.
Inbred Swiss mice were treated with technical BHC (1) orally with the diet or by intubation and (2) by skin painting. The total duration of the experiment was 80 weeks. There was no difference in body growth and mortality between the experimental and control groups. Symptoms of intoxication in the form of convulsions and tendency of circling in one direction with drooping ears were observed alongwith corneal opacity 40 weeks after the experiment. Oral BHC treatment resulted in a significant increase in the incidence of liver tumours and tumours of lymphoreticular tissue. Males and females were equally susceptible. Skin painting of mice did not significantly increase the incidence of tumour.
The medicinal preparation Proproten contains ultralow doses of antibodies to S100 protein that acts as an important regulator of integrative activity in the brain and synaptic processes. Intracerebroventricular administration of Proproten, diazepam, and mexidol in doses of 2.5 ml/kg, 2 mg/kg, and 100 mg/kg, respectively, produced a strong anxiolytic effect on male outbred rats in the conflict situation and markedly increased the incidence of punished drinking. Antagonists of GABAergic transmission bicuculline (GABAA receptor blocker) and picrotoxin (chlorine channel blocker) produced the pro-conflict anxiogenic effect, which was accompanied by a decrease in the number of punished drinking in control animals. The anti-conflict effect of Proproten was less pronounced during blockade of GABAA receptors or chlorine channels. Bicuculline and picrotoxin similarly modulated the anxiolytic effect of diazepam and mexidol. Our results suggest that the GABAergic system plays a role in the anxiolytic effect of diazepam, mexidol, and Proproten.
The current study was designed to examine the modulating effects of bisphenol A (BPA) on prostate cancer risk in male offspring exposed transplacentally and lactationally. BPA was administered to F344 female rats by gavage at 0, 0.05, 7.5, 30, 120 mg/kg/day during pregnancy and lactation periods. When F1 males reached 5 weeks old, they were given 10 subcutaneous injections of 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) or corn oil vehicle and rats were then sacrificed under ether anesthesia at week 60. There were no observable effects on the accessory sex organ weights of male offspring. Transplacental and lactational exposure to BPA did not affect the incidences of preneoplastic and neoplastic lesions in the accessory sex organs (prostate and seminal vesicle) of F1 rats and did not induce any proliferating lesions without DMAB. Our data suggest that maternal exposure to BPA during the period of pregnancy and lactation does not affect the risk of prostate carcinogenesis in male offspring.
Depression and anxiety were measured during the course of a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of the histamine H2-receptor antagonist, ranitidine (150 mg twice daily), in patients suffering from duodenal ulcer but free of systemic disease. There were 25 patients in the ranitidine group (mean age: 33.2 years) and 28 in the placebo group (mean age: 37.2 years). In both groups there was a highly significant and progressive decrease in depression and anxiety scores over the 4 weeks of treatment. There were no instances of mental confusion. In our group of otherwise physically healthy patients, ranitidine appeared to be free of neuropsychiatric complications.
Behavioral sensitization to psychostimulants manifests as an increased locomotor response with repeated administration. Dopamine systems are accepted to play a fundamental role in sensitization, but the role of specific dopamine receptor subtypes has not been completely defined. This study used the combination of dopamine D2 receptor-deficient mice and a D1-like antagonist to examine dopamine D1 and D2 receptor involvement in acute and sensitized locomotor responses to methamphetamine. Absence of the dopamine D2 receptor resulted in attenuation of the acute stimulant effects of methamphetamine. Mutant and wild-type mice exhibited sensitization that lasted longer within the time period of the challenge test in the mutant animals. Pretreatment with the D1-like receptor antagonist SCH 23390 produced more potent reductions in the acute and sensitized locomotor responses to methamphetamine in D2 receptor-deficient mice than in wild-type mice; however, the expression of locomotor sensitization when challenged with methamphetamine alone was equivalently attenuated by previous treatment with SCH 23390. These data suggest that dopamine D2 receptors play a key role in the acute stimulant and sensitizing effects of methamphetamine and act in concert with D1-like receptors to influence the acquisition of methamphetamine-induced behavioral sensitization, traits that may influence continued methamphetamine use.
The aim of this report is to offer an explanation for the high incidence of arterial hypertension in women taken hormone contraceptives. The real incidence of this association has been considered in women initially having a normal blood pressure and in others who had high blood pressure before using these contraceptives. The estrogen and progestogen components in hormone contraceptives were analyzed individually in various studies. The most recent investigations seem to indicate that progestogen is the main cause of high blood pressure. Different mechanism that could link hormone contraceptives to high blood pressure were investigated. The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone axis involving the action of estrogens and progestogens on the renin substrate, plasma renin, angiotensin II and aldosterone were analyzed. Another possible mechanism could involve glucocorticoids, altering the metabolism of glucose, pyruvate, cholesterol, and triglycerides, Kidney disease involving renal function, microangiopathic anemia, and renal thromboembolism; hyperactivity of the sympathetic nervous system (noraepinephrine and dopamine-beta-hidroxylase blood levels); prostaglandins; genetic mechanism; and individual mechanism were all taken into consideration. Lastly the priorities of the different systems linking high blood pressure to hormone contraceptives and the relationships between them are analyzed.
The association of methadone with Q-T interval prolongation and torsades de pointes (TdP) is reviewed, and recommendations for preventing Q-T interval prolongation in methadone users are provided.
Abnormalities in voltage-gated potassium channels have been shown to lead to prolonged action potentials that are expressed as long Q-T intervals, and methadone has been found to interact with the voltage-gated potassium channels of the myocardium. While cardiac arrhythmias in methadone users have been reported for several decades, specific reports of methadone-associated Q-T interval prolongation and TdP did not appear in the literature until the early part of the 21st century. Because not every patient experiences Q-T interval prolongation with methadone, recent research has elucidated risk factors that predispose patients to this adverse effect, including female sex, hypokalemia, high-dose methadone, drug interactions, underlying cardiac conditions, unrecognized congenital long Q-T interval syndrome, and predisposing DNA polymorphisms. Given the high mortality rates seen in untreated illicit opioid users and the clear efficacy of methadone in treating opioid addiction, the risk of using methadone, even in a patient with other risk factors for Q-T interval prolongation, may outweigh the alternative of no pharmacologic treatment. A baseline electrocardiogram (ECG), personal and family history of syncope, and a complete medication history should be obtained before a patient begins treatment with methadone. Given the apparent synergistic effects of parenteral methadone and chlorobutanol, oral methadone should be used whenever possible.
Q-T interval prolongation and TdP associated with the use of methadone are potentially fatal adverse effects. A thorough patient history and ECG monitoring are essential for patients treated with this agent, and alterations in treatment options may be necessary.
The effects of chronic mercury intoxication on urinary markers in workers from northeast Algeria were investigated. Workmen were chosen from highly and moderately mercury-exposed factories, while controls were selected from a nonexposed site. The number of proteinuria cases were higher in the highly exposed subjects, although the nature (glomerular or tubular) of proteinuria remains unclear. However, it appears difficult to assess the degree of renal disturbance among the different exposure levels, such as the amount of excreted proteins, which have not clearly reflected the kidney lesion severity. The results also reveal that urine acidity increased progressively with increased levels of exposure, while a remarkable inverse relationship between urinary pH and urinary Hg in the highly exposed workers has been recorded. Furthermore, the significant differences in blood and urinary mercury concentrations of the three sites reflect the dose-response relationships.
Data on extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) from both arms of the North American multicenter comparative study of risperidone, placebo, and haloperidol were analyzed. The subjects were 523 patients with chronic schizophrenia who, after a 1-week washout period, received placebo, risperidone (2, 6, 10, or 16 mg/day), or haloperidol (20 mg/day) for 8 weeks; the trial was completed by 253 patients. Severity of EPS was assessed by means of the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale (ESRS). Mean changes (increases) in ESRS scores from baseline to worst score were significantly lower in each risperidone group than the haloperidol group on the total ESRS (parkinsonism + dystonia + dyskinesia), total parkinsonism, hypokinetic symptoms, and on the questionnaire (p < 0.001). On several of the subscales (dyskinesia, buccolinguomasticatory, and Clinical Global Impression severity of dyskinesia), mean change scores were significantly lower in some of the risperidone groups than in the placebo group (p < 0.05). At the clinically most effective risperidone dose (6 mg/day), the mean ESRS change score was not significantly different from that of the placebo group. A significant linear relationship was noted between mean change scores and increasing risperidone dose on 4 of the 12 ESRS subscales; nevertheless, even at 16 mg/day of risperidone, mean change scores were lower than in the haloperidol group. A linear relationship between increasing risperidone dose and use of antiparkinsonian medications was also apparent. Acute dystonic reactions occurred both in patients receiving risperidone and haloperidol. Patients with severe baseline EPS were at higher risk of EPS during the study than patients with low or moderate baseline EPS. It is concluded that low doses of risperidone cause few or no EPS and recommendations for initiation of risperidone treatment are made.
This study was conducted to characterize blood and urinary biochemistry, and renal morphology, after single or 1-week repeated dosing of mice with the polyene macrolide antibiotic, amphotericin B (AMB). AMB was intravenously administered to mice at 2 or 4 mg/kg for the single-dose experiment or once daily at 1 or 2 mg/kg for 1 week for the repeated-dose experiment. The most prominent histopathological findings included necrosis of the tubular epithelial cells in the thick ascending limb of Henle's loop in the renal outer medulla at a single dose of 2 or 4 mg/kg, and the severity of the lesion was dose-dependent. Blood chemistry and urinalysis revealed several changes suggestive of renal dysfunction such as reduction of plasma filtration ability (increases in plasma creatinine and blood urea nitrogen, a decrease in creatinine clearance) and polyuria accompanied with dehydration (decrease in renal water reabsorption, increases in plasma total protein and albumin) at a dose of 4 mg/kg in the single-dose experiment. Among the parameters analyzed, urinary lactate dehydrogenase was the most sensitive and reliable parameter for the prediction of AMB-induced nephrotoxicity in mice. These data provided comprehensive information on the nephrotoxicity of AMB and indicate useful markers for the sensitive detection of AMB-induced renal injury in mice.
Previous studies have reported a high prevalence of polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) among women taking sodium valproate (VPA). We report the case of a 28 year-old epileptic female taking VPA, who developed PCOS and later hepatocellular adenoma. She had been taking VPA for intractable epilepsy since the age of 15 months. At the age of 22 years, she suffered spontaneous rupture of a liver tumor that was diagnosed as hepatocellular adenoma. At the age of 24 years, bilateral polycystic ovaries were found by transabdominal ultrasonography, and PCOS was diagnosed. VPA may directly influence steroidogenesis in the ovary and cause hyperandrogenemia with ensuing PCOS. It is known that abnormality in the sex hormones contributes to the onset of hepatocellular adenoma. Therefore, we speculate that hyperandrogenemia due to VPA contributed to the development of hepatocellular adenoma in this case.
Thiazolidinediones are synthetic agonists for the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) and are therapeutically used as insulin sensitizers. Besides therapeutical benefits, potential side effects such as the induction of cell death by thiazolidinediones deserve consideration. Although PPARgamma-dependent and -independent cell death in response to thiazolidinediones has been described, we provide evidence supporting a new mechanism to account for thiazolidinedione-initiated but PPARgamma-independent cell demise. In Jurkat T cells, ciglitazone and troglitazone provoked rapid and dose-dependent cell death, whereas rosiglitazone did not alter cell viability. We found induction of apoptosis by troglitazone, whereas ciglitazone caused necrosis. Because preincubation with the reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavengers manganese (III) tetrakis(4-benzoic acid) porphyrin and vitamin C significantly inhibited ciglitazone- and partially troglitazone-mediated cell death, we suggest that ROS contribute to cytotoxicity. Assuming that ROS originate from mitochondria, studies in submitochondrial particles demonstrated that all thiazolidinediones inhibited complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. However, only ciglitazone and troglitazone lowered complex II activity as well. Pharmacological inhibition of complexes I and II documented that complex II inhibition in Jurkat cells caused massive apoptotic cell death, whereas inhibition of complex I provoked only marginally apoptosis after 4-h treatment. Therefore, inhibition of complex II by ciglitazone and troglitazone is the main trigger of cell death. ATP depletion by ciglitazone, in contrast to troglitazone, is responsible for induction of necrosis. Our results demonstrate that despite their similar molecular structure, thiazolidinediones differently affect cell death, which might help to explain some adverse effects occurring during thiazolidinedione-based therapies.
Heme oxygenase (HO), the rate limiting enzyme in the breakdown of heme into carbon monoxide (CO), iron and bilirubin, has recently received overwhelming research attention. To date three mammalian HO isozymes have been identified, and the only inducible form is HO-1 while HO-2 and HO-3 are constitutively expressed. Advances in unveiling signal transduction network indicate that a battery of redox-sensitive transcription factors, such as activator protein-1 (AP-1), nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) and nuclear factor E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2), and their upstream kinases including mitogen-activated protein kinases play an important regulatory role in HO-1 gene induction. The products of the HO-catalyzed reaction, particularly CO and biliverdin/bilirubin have been shown to exert protective effects in several organs against oxidative and other noxious stimuli. In this context, it is interesting to note that induction of HO-1 expression contributes to protection against liver damage induced by several chemical compounds such as acetaminophen, carbon tetrachloride and heavy metals, suggesting HO-1 induction as an important cellular endeavor for hepatoprotection. The focus of this review is on the significance of targeted induction of HO-1 as a potential therapeutic strategy to protect against chemically-induced liver injury as well as hepatocarcinogenesis.
