Cancer chemopreventive agent sulforaphane (SFN) and dibenzoylmethane (DBM) showed antitumorigenesis effects in several rodent carcinogenesis models. In this study, we investigated the cancer chemopreventive effects and the underlying molecular mechanisms of dietary administration of SFN and DBM alone or in combination in the ApcMin/+ mice model. Male ApcMin/+ mice (12 per group) at age of 5 weeks were given control AIN-76A diet, diets containing 600 ppm SFN and 1.0% DBM, or a combination of 300 ppm SFN and 0.5% DBM for 10 weeks. Mice were then sacrificed, and tumor numbers and size were examined. Microarray analysis, Western blotting, ELISA, and immunohistochemical staining were done to investigate the underlying molecular mechanisms of cancer chemopreventive effects of SFN and DBM. Dietary administrations of SFN and DBM alone or in combination significantly inhibited the development of intestinal adenomas by 48% (P=0.002), 50% (P=0.001), and 57% (P<0.001), respectively. Dietary administration of 600 ppm SFN and 1.0% DBM also reduced colon tumor numbers by 80% (P=0.016) and 60% (P=0.103), respectively, whereas the combination of SFN and DBM treatment blocked the colon tumor development (P=0.002). Both SFN and DBM treatments resulted in decreased levels of prostaglandin E2 or leukotriene B4 in intestinal polyps or apparently normal mucosa. Treatments also led to the inhibition of cell survival and growth-related signaling pathways (such as Akt and extracellular signal-regulated kinase) or biomarkers (such as cyclooxygenase-2, proliferating cell nuclear antigen, cleaved caspases, cyclin D1, and p21). In conclusion, our results showed that both SFN and DBM alone as well as their combination are potent natural dietary compounds for chemoprevention of gastrointestinal cancers.
Arsenic exposure and environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) have been suspected to be associated with bladder cancer risk. We hypothesize that interaction between ETS and the ability to methylate arsenic, a detoxification pathway, modifies the risk of bladder cancer.
From January 1996 to December 1999, we identified 41 newly diagnosed bladder cancer patients and 202 fracture and cataract patients at the National Cheng-Kung University (NCKU) Medical Center. The levels of urinary arsenic species [As(III), As(V), MMA(V), and DMA(V)] were determined in all subjects.
We found significant interaction between ETS and secondary methylation index (SMI) on the risk of bladder cancer (p=0.02). Among non-smokers with a high primary methylation index (PMI), the risk of bladder cancer was lower in subjects exposed to ETS (OR, 0.37; 95% CI, 0.14-0.96) than in subjects without exposure to ETS. Among non-smokers without ETS, the risk of bladder cancer was 4.7 times higher in subjects with a low SMI (95% CI, 1.30-16.81) than in subjects with a high SMI.
Ability to methylate arsenic plays an important role in reducing the risk of bladder cancer attributable to the continuation of arsenic exposure from drinking water and from ETS exposure.
To study the effects of rosiglitazone on Kruppule-like factor 6 (KLF6) and its target gene TGFâ1 during the development of nonalcoholic fatty liver fibrosis.
Thirty-six Wistar rats were divided into three groups: a control group, a high fat model group and an intervention group. Their blood serum TG, FFA, AST, ALT, HA, LN and CIV were measured. Hepatic expressions of KLF6, TGFbeta1 and alpha-SMA were detected by RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. The pathological features and the degree of liver fibrosis before and after the rosiglitazone intervention were also studied.
The contents of TG, FFA, AST, ALT, HA, LN and CIV, the expression of KLF6, TGFbeta1 and alpha-SMA mRNA, and the degree (score) of liver fibrosis at the 24th week in the model group were significantly higher than those in the control group (P<0.01) but they were lower in the rosiglitazone intervention group (P<0.05). The protein expression of a-SMA was also lower in the intervention group compared with that of the model group.
Rosiglitazone, to a certain extent, can inhibit KLF6-TGFbeta1 signal transduction by inducing expression of PPAR-gamma, and then inhibit the activation of hepatic stellate cells and minimize hepatic fibrosis.
5-Hydroxytryptamine, via stimulation of 5-HT 2C receptors, exerts a tonic inhibitory influence on dopaminergic neurotransmission, whereas activation of 5-HT 2A receptors enhances stimulated DAergic neurotransmission. The antidepressant trazodone is a 5-HT 2A/2C receptor antagonist.
To evaluate the effect of trazodone treatment on behaviors dependent on the functional status of the nigrostriatal DAergic system.
The effect of pretreatment with trazodone on dexamphetamine- and apomorphine-induced oral stereotypies, on catalepsy induced by haloperidol and apomorphine (0.05 mg/kg, i.p.), on ergometrine-induced wet dog shake (WDS) behavior and fluoxetine-induced penile erections was studied in rats. We also investigated whether trazodone induces catalepsy in rats.
Trazodone at 2.5-20 mg/kg i.p. did not induce catalepsy, and did not antagonize apomorphine (1.5 and 3 mg/kg) stereotypy and apomorphine (0.05 mg/kg)-induced catalepsy. However, pretreatment with 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg i.p. trazodone enhanced dexamphetamine stereotypy, and antagonized haloperidol catalepsy, ergometrine-induced WDS behavior and fluoxetine-induced penile erections. Trazodone at 30, 40 and 50 mg/kg i.p. induced catalepsy and antagonized apomorphine and dexamphetamine stereotypies.
Our results indicate that trazodone at 2.5-20 mg/kg does not block pre- and postsynaptic striatal D2 DA receptors, while at 30, 40 and 50 mg/kg it blocks postsynaptic striatal D2 DA receptors. Furthermore, at 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, trazodone blocks 5-HT 2A and 5-HT 2C receptors. We suggest that trazodone (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg), by blocking the 5-HT 2C receptors, releases the nigrostriatal DAergic neurons from tonic inhibition caused by 5-HT, and thereby potentiates dexamphetamine stereotypy and antagonizes haloperidol catalepsy.
Endovascular injury induces switching of contractile phenotype of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) to synthetic phenotype, thereby causing proliferation of VSMCs leading to intimal thickening. The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of magnolol on the proliferation of VSMCs in vitro and neointima formation in vivo, as well as the related cell signaling mechanisms.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) induced proliferation ofVSMCs was assessed using colorimetric assay. Cell cycle progression and mRNA expression of cell cycle associated molecules were determined by flow cytometry and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) respectively. The signaling molecules such as ERK1/2,JNK, P38 and NF-kappaB were determined by Western blot analysis. In addition, rat carotid artery balloon injury model was performed to assess the effect of magnolol on neointima formation in vivo.
Oral administration of magnolol significantly inhibited intimal area and intimal/medial ratio (I/M). Our in vitro assays revealed magnolol dose dependently induced cell cycle arrest at G0/G1. Also, magnolol inhibited mRNA and protein expression of cyclin D1, cyclin E, CDK4 and CDK2 in vitro and in vivo. The cell cycle arrest was associated with inhibition of ERK1/2 phosphorylation and NF-kappaB translocation.
Magnolol suppressed proliferation of VSMCs in vitro and attenuated neointima formation in vivo by inducing cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 through modulation of cyclin D1, cyclin E, CDK4 and CDK2 expression.
Thus, the results suggest that magnolol could be a potential therapeutic candidate for the prevention of restenosis and atherosclerosis.
The double indicator method is sensitive to alterations in the distribution of pulmonary blood flow. This distribution is influenced by the type of lung injury. The aim of this study was to compare measurements of lung water by the double indicator method with measurements obtained by gravimetry in a direct lung injury model induced by tracheal instillation of hydrochloric acid and in an indirect lung injury model induced by the intravenous injection of oleic acid.
Prospective, randomized laboratory study.
Animal research laboratory.
Forty-two female pigs (28+/-3 kg).
Pigs were anesthetized and ventilated and were allocated into three groups: control (n = 6), hydrochloric acid (4 mL/kg intratracheally, n = 24), or oleic acid (0.1 mL/kg intravenously, n = 12).
Hydrochloric acid instillation or oleic acid injection resulted in a similar hypoxemia and induced a two- to three-fold increase in extravascular lung water (EVLW) by gravimetry (EVLWG) at 3 hrs compared with controls. In the oleic acid group, there was a significant correlation between EVLWG and EVLW by double indicator method (EVLWDI; r =.88, p <.0001). The bias for EVLWDI - EVLWG measurements was -5.2 mL/kg (95% confidence interval, -5.7 to -4.7 mL/kg) with 95% limits of agreement of -7 to -3.4 mL/kg. In the hydrochloric acid group, there was no significant correlation between EVLWDI and EVLWG values, and the double indicator method failed to detect pulmonary edema in 65% of the animals (EVLWDI <8 mL/kg). The bias was -7.9 mL/kg (95% confidence interval, -9.3 to -6.5 mL/kg) with 95% limits of agreement of -14.4 to -1.4 mL/kg.
The double indicator method is useful for evaluation of pulmonary edema in indirect lung injury, as induced by oleic acid, but produces misleading values in direct lung injury, as produced by hydrochloric instillation.
Since nephrotoxicity affects the development of drug candidates, it is important to detect their toxicity at an early stage of drug development. In this study, we measured twelve urinary nephrotoxic biomarkers [total protein, albumin, kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1), clusterin, beta2-microglobulin, cystatin-c, alpha-glutathione S-transferase, mu-glutathione S-transferase, N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), aspartate aminotransferase and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL)] and two conventional blood nephrotoxic biomarkers (creatinine and blood urea nitrogen) in rat models treated intravenously with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) or cisplatin (CDDP), which are known to induce glomerular injury or proximal tubular injury, respectively, and evaluated their usefulness by receiver operating characteristic analysis. In the PAN-treated rats, urinary albumin and (NGAL) were dramatically increased, which were thought to be caused by the dysfunction of proximal tubule in addition to glomerular injury. Conversely, based on its early and time-dependent increase, its large magnitude of alteration and its high accuracy and sensitivity of detection, (KIM-1) in urine appeared to be the best biomarker for detection of CDDP-induced proximal tubular injury. Moreover, (LDH) was considered useful for broad detection of damaged nephrons, because of its broad distribution along the nephron. Therefore, combinatorial measurement of these biomarkers may be a powerful tool for highly effective screening of nephrotoxicity.
Felbamate was compared with several antiepileptic drugs for protective effects in two rat models of status epilepticus. Felbamate was ten times more potent against pilocarpine-induced seizures in lithium-treated rats than in lithium-free animals. Diazepam, valproate and phenobarbital were effective in both the high dose pilocarpine and lithium-pilocarpine models. On the other hand, phenytoin was ineffective in both models, whereas carbamazepine displayed protective effects only in the lithium-pilocarpine model.
The anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects of epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) are considered important forces in attenuate liver injury and fibrosis. The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of EGCG on the expression of fibrogenic factors and whether EGCG attenuates the severity of oxidative stress and inflammatory response in chronic liver injury. Mice were administered with CCl(4) together with or without EGCG for 8 weeks (n=6-8 per group). Histopathological and biochemical analyses were carried out. The mRNA expression levels of TNF-alpha, COX-2, iNOS, alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), transforming growth factor (TGF-beta(1)), pro-collagen-I, matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-2, -9) and their inhibitors (TIMP-1, -2) were determined by RT-PCR. The collagen deposited in the liver was detected by Sirius Red staining. The formation of nitrotyrosine was measured as a marker of oxidative stress. The activity level of NF-kappaB and the expression level of C/EBP were also assessed. Chronic CCl(4) treatment caused liver injury, oxidative stress and nitrosative stress, and collagen accumulation in the liver. The expression levels of pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic mediators and the activity of NF-kappaB were increased. Treatment with EGCG significantly reduced liver injury, oxidative stress and the inflammatory response. EGCG also significantly reduced the formation of collagen in the liver, the expression of alpha-SMA and all of the assayed pro-fibrogenic markers except TIMP-2 and MMP-9. EGCG significantly attenuated the severity of CCl(4)-induced liver injury and the progression of liver fibrosis. The protective effect of EGCG may in part be a consequence of the reduction in oxidative stress and the pro-inflammatory response.
Systemic administration of beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonists (beta(2)-agonists) can improve skeletal muscle regeneration after injury. However, therapeutic application of beta(2)-agonists for muscle injury has been limited by detrimental cardiovascular side effects. Intramuscular administration may obviate some of these side effects. To test this hypothesis, the right extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle from rats was injected with bupivacaine hydrochloride to cause complete muscle fiber degeneration. Five days after injury, half of the injured muscles received an intramuscular injection of formoterol (100 mug). Muscle function was assessed at 7, 10, and 14 days after injury. A single intramuscular injection of formoterol increased muscle mass and force-producing capacity at day 7 by 17 and 91%, respectively, but this effect was transient because these values were not different from control levels at day 10. A second intramuscular injection of formoterol at day 7 prolonged the increase in muscle mass and force-producing capacity. Importantly, single or multiple intramuscular injections of formoterol did not elicit cardiac hypertrophy. To characterize any potential cardiovascular effects of intramuscular formoterol administration, we instrumented a separate group of rats with indwelling radio telemeters. Following an intramuscular injection of formoterol, heart rate increased by 18%, whereas systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased by 31 and 44%, respectively. These results indicate that intramuscular injection can enhance functional muscle recovery after injury without causing cardiac hypertrophy. Therefore, if the transient cardiovascular effects associated with intramuscular formoterol administration can be minimized, this form of treatment may have significant therapeutic potential for muscle-wasting conditions.
We report three new alpha-thalassemia (thal) point mutations detected during newborn screening for hemoglobinopathies. The first mutation is a single nucleotide deletion (-A) that abolishes the translation initiation codon of the alpha2-globin gene, detected in a newborn of Hmong ethnicity who carried the Southeast Asian alpha(0)-thal deletion (alpha(T)alpha/- -(SEA)). The second mutation, a frameshift caused by a single nucleotide deletion in exon 2 of the alpha1-globin gene [codon 78 (-C)], was detected in a Black/Chinese newborn who also carried the Southeast Asian alpha0-thal deletion (alphaalpha(T)/- -(SEA)). The third mutation was a frameshift in exon 3 of the alpha2-globin gene, codons 113/114 (-C). This mutation was detected in a newborn who carried the 3.7 kb alpha(+)-thal deletion (alpha(T)alpha/-alpha(3.7)).
Hypotension is an important side effect of spinal anesthesia. Intrathecal (IT) cholinergic agonists, including neostigmine (NEO), increase arterial blood pressure by stimulating spinal sympathetic neurons. Therefore, we tested the ability of IT cholinergic agonists to prevent the hypotensive effect of IT bupivacaine (BUP) (430 nmol) in rats instrumented with IT and arterial catheters. The mean arterial pressure (MAP) decreased 35 +/- 4 mm Hg (n = 10) after IT-BUP alone. In contrast, MAP did not significantly change after IT-BUP + IT-NEO (12.5 and 25 nmol; n = 5 for each dose). Intramuscular (IM) NEO was not effective, and MAP decreased 38 +/- 4 mm Hg after IT-BUP + IM-NEO (25 nmol; n = 5). Three additional cholinesterase inhibitors, physostigmine, edrophonium, and ambenonium, as well as the direct-acting cholinergic agonists carbachol, oxotremorine, and arecoline, each lessened the hypotension seen after IT-BUP. Furthermore, the nonselective muscarinic antagonist, atropine, as well as the M2 receptor selective antagonist, methoctramine, prevented the vasopressor effect of IT-NEO in our model. Finally, the nicotinic antagonist, mecamylamine, and the M1 selective antagonist, pirenzepine, did not affect the pressor effects of NEO in our model. In conclusion, IT cholinergic agonists lessen BUP spinal-block-induced hypotension in rats by a muscarinic dependent pathway.
Analysis of lineage relationships in the naphthalene-injured tracheal epithelium demonstrated that two multipotential keratin 14-expressing cells (K14ECs) function as progenitors for Clara and ciliated cells. These K14EC were distinguished by their self-renewal capacity and were hypothesized to reside at the stem and transit amplifying tiers of a tissue-specific stem cell hierarchy. In this study, we used gene expression and histomorphometric analysis of the steady-state and naphthalene-injured trachea to evaluate the predictions of this model. We found that the steady-state tracheal epithelium is maintained by two progenitor cell pools, secretory and basal cells, and the latter progenitor pool is further divided into two subsets, keratin 14-negative and -positive. After naphthalene-mediated depletion of the secretory and ciliated cell types, the two basal cell pools coordinate to restore the epithelium. Both basal cell types up-regulate keratin 14 and generate a broadly distributed, abundant, and highly mitotic cell pool. Furthermore, basal cell proliferation is associated with generation of differentiated Clara and ciliated cells. The uniform distribution of basal cell progenitors and of their differentiated progeny leads us to propose that the hierarchical organization of tracheal reparative cells be revised to include a facultative basal cell progenitor pool.
To determine the median response time to therapy with vancomycin alone or with vancomycin plus rifampin in patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) endocarditis.
Cohort analysis of a randomized study.
University medical center.
Forty-two consecutive patients with MRSA endocarditis were randomly assigned to receive either vancomycin (group I) or vancomycin plus rifampin (group II) for 28 days.
Clinical signs and symptoms were recorded, and blood cultures were obtained daily to determine the duration of bacteremia.
The median duration of bacteremia was 9 days (7 days for group I and 9 days for group II). The median duration of fever for all patients and for each treatment group was 7 days. Six patients failed therapy, including three patients who died 5, 6, and 9 days after therapy was started, respectively. The other three patients who failed therapy required valve surgery on days 2, 22, and 27, respectively. Although patients had sustained bacteremia, no unusual complications were seen in either treatment group, and most patients responded to continued antibiotic therapy.
Slow clinical response is common among patients with MRSA endocarditis who are treated with vancomycin or vancomycin plus rifampin. Nevertheless, few complications appear to be related solely to this sustained bacteremia.
To determine the possible causative agents of eosinophilic or hypersensitivity myocarditis in patients awaiting heart transplantation.
Consecutive patient series.
Large university-affiliated hospital.
A total of 190 consecutive patients who had heart transplantation at our center.
The myocardium of the explanted heart was examined for a mixed inflammatory cell infiltrate containing an identifiable component of eosinophils. The relative quantity of each cell type was evaluated by a semiquantitative grading system (scored 0 to 3). The clinical findings and medications were reviewed, and patients were followed after heart transplantation.
Eosinophilic myocarditis (EM) was found in the explanted heart in 14 patients (7.4%). Myocardial infiltration by eosinophils ranged from mild (n = 6), often focal involvement to marked (n = 8), usually multifocal or widespread involvement. Twelve patients (86%) had peripheral blood eosinophilia before transplant, and in ten (71%), the eosinophil count at least doubled. Loop or thiazide diuretics were used in all 14 patients, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors were used in 12. Preoperative characteristics were similar in patients with and without EM, except for a higher frequency of inotropic support and assist devices in EM patients. Dobutamine was used in 12 (86%) and dopamine in seven (50%; one with dopamine alone), and one patient (7%) received neither dopamine nor dobutamine. In two patients receiving dobutamine and one receiving dopamine, tapering or discontinuation of the inotropic infusion resulted in a significant diminution of the peripheral eosinophilia and the EM before transplantation. Postoperative survival in patients with and without EM was similar at 8 yrs (50% +/- 13% and 54% +/- 4%, p =.34). No patient in this study has had EM on biopsy after transplant.
EM is a complication of multiple drug therapy in patients awaiting heart transplantation, and should be suspected when peripheral blood eosinophilia is present or the eosinophil count increases by at least two-fold. EM may be related to intravenous inotropic therapy, and this is the first study to document improvement in myocardial pathology after inotropic drug withdrawal. Hypersensitivity to thiazide and loop diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, and antibiotics must also be considered. Survival after heart transplantation is not impaired, and postoperative steroid therapy may prevent EM.
The hypothalamic nonapeptide oxytocin plays a crucial role in many reproductive and behavioural functions. However, in recent years, an additional new role for oxytocin has been identified in neoplastic pathology. In tumours, oxytocin acts as a growth regulator, through the activation of a specific G-coupled transmembrane receptor, the oxytocin receptor. In vitro, oxytocin inhibits proliferation of neoplastic cells of either epithelial (mammary and endometrial), nervous or bone origin, all expressing oxytocin receptor. Furthermore, an oxytocin growth-inhibiting effect was also tested and confirmed in vivo in mouse and rat mammary carcinomas. In neoplastic cells derived from two additional oxytocin target tissues, trophoblast and endothelium, oxytocin was found to promote cell proliferation, an effect opposite to that previously described in all other neoplastic oxytocin-responsive cells. The signal transduction pathways coupled to the biological effects of oxytocin are different in oxytocin growth-inhibited or growth-stimulated cells, and may depend on the membrane localization of the oxytocin receptor itself. The inhibitory effect of oxytocin is apparently mediated by activation of the cAMP-protein kinase A pathway, a nonconventional oxytocin signalling pathway, whereas the mitogenic effect is coupled to the increase of intracellular [Ca(2+)] and tyrosine phosphorylation, 'classical' oxytocin transducers. Moreover, the oxytocin receptor localization in lipid rafts enriched in caveolin-1 turns the inhibition of cell growth into a proliferative response, eliciting different epidermal growth factor receptor/mitogen-activated protein kinase activation patterns. This unexpected role of oxytocin (and oxytocin analogues) in regulating cell proliferation, as well as the widespread expression of oxytocin receptors in neoplastic tissues of different origin, opens up new perspectives on the biological role of the oxytocin-oxytocin receptor system in cancer.
Treatment with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, quinapril, has been shown to normalize increased dihydropyridine sensitivity and impaired potassium relaxation, characteristic features of arterial smooth muscle in spontaneously hypertensive rats, and also reduce the concentration of plasma digoxin-like immunoreactivity in these animals. However, whether angiotensin II receptor blocker therapy can beneficially influence these variables is not known. Therefore, we compared the effects of 10-week losartan and enalapril treatments (15 and 4 mg/kg/day, respectively) on functional responses of mesenteric arterial rings in spontaneously hypertensive rats and Wistar-Kyoto rats. Both losartan and enalapril normalized blood pressure, cardiac mass, and media to lumen ratio without significantly changing the media cross-sectional area in the mesenteric artery of spontaneously hypertensive rats (i.e. induced outward remodelling). The inhibitory effect of the calcium entry blocker nifedipine on calcium-evoked contractions was similar and less marked in arterial preparations from Wistar-Kyoto rats and losartan- and enalapril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats than in those from untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats. Furthermore, the relaxations of arterial rings induced by the return of potassium to the organ bath (upon precontractions elicited by potassium-free solution) were used to evaluate the function of vascular Na+,K+-ATPase. The rate of potassium relaxation was faster in losartan- and enalapril-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats and all Wistar-Kyoto groups than in untreated spontaneously hypertensive rats, and the response was effectively inhibited by the sodium pump inhibitor ouabain. Both treatments especially augmented the ouabain-sensitive part of the potassium-relaxation in spontaneously hypertensive rats, indicating the involvement of the sodium pump in this response. However, no significant changes in plasma digoxin-like immunoreactivity were observed. In conclusion, the outward remodelling following long-term AT1-receptor blockade and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in spontaneously hypertensive rats was associated with normalization of the increased dihydropyridine sensitivity of arteries. Both losartan and enalapril treatments also augmented arterial potassium relaxation in spontaneously hypertensive rats, suggesting enhanced function of Na+,K+-ATPase, but this effect could not be attributed to changes in circulating sodium pump inhibitor concentration.
Cadmium, a ubiquitous environmental contaminant, damages several major organs in humans and other mammals. The molecular mechanisms for damage are not known. At high doses (5 mg/kg cadmium chloride or higher), testicular damage in mice, rats, and other rodents includes interstitial edema, hemorrhage, and changes in the seminiferous tubules affecting spermatogenesis. Necrosis is evident by 48 h. The goal of this study was to fine map and identify the cdm gene, a gene that when mutated prevents cadmium-induced testicular toxicity in mouse strains with a mutation in this gene. A serine-threonine phosphatase, calcineurin (CN), subunit A, alpha isoform (Ppp3ca), was one of the seven candidates in the cdm region that was narrowed from 5.6 to 2.0 Mb on mouse chromosome 3. An inhibitor of CN, the immunosuppressant, FK506, prevented cadmium-induced testicular damage in five pathological categories, including vascular endothelial and seminiferous epithelial endpoints. Inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry revealed that FK506 protected without lowering the amount of cadmium in the testes. Ppp3ca(-/-) mice were investigated but were found to exhibit endogenous testicular abnormalities, making them an inappropriate model for determining whether the inactivation of the Ppp3ca gene would afford protection from cadmium-induced testicular toxicity. The protection afforded by FK506, found by the current study, indicated that CN is likely to be important in the mechanism of cadmium toxicity in the testis and possibly other organs.
This study evaluated the effects of single doses of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril and the beta-adrenergic blocking agent propranolol, alone or in combination, on the blood pressure, heart rate and humoral responses to both isometric (handgrip) and dynamic (ergometric) exercise in normotensive and hypertensive men. Single oral doses of either placebo, captopril 50 mg, propranolol 80 mg, or the latter two in combination were administered to age-matched groups (n = 5) of normotensive and hypertensive men in a random, double-blind manner. Captopril alone was indistinguishable from placebo after both isometric and ergometric exercise. Propranolol suppressed heart rate after both types of exercise and tended to decrease systolic blood pressure only in the hypertensive group; combination with captopril did not alter these responses. These data suggest that in sodium-replete subjects undergoing short-term vigorous exercise, the renin-angiotensin system, as measured by captopril inhibition, is less important than the sympathoadrenal system, as measured by propranolol inhibition, in the reflex cardiovascular adjustments accompanying acute isometric and dynamic exercise in both normotensive and hypertensive men.
To study the effect of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) or all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) on coagulopathy in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), and the mechanism of hemorrhage in these patients.
Thrombomodulin (TM) or tissue factor (TF) transcription of mRNA of freshly isolated bone marrow blast from APL patients was detected by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. The parameters of coagulation and cell procoagulation activity (PCA) were assessed in plasmic levels. Bleeding symptom was observed during As2O3 or ATRA treatment.
TM expression in the APL cell surface was significantly upregulated from (14.31 +/- 1.60) ng/10(7) to (21.61 +/- 6.82) ng/10(7) cells. The levels of P-selectin, soluble fibrin monomer complex (SFMC) and D-dimer (D-D) decreased after ATRA or As2O3 treatment. Abnormal high expression of TF in APL cell was downregulated in patients treated with ATRA or As2O3. The expression level was (14.81 +/- 6.23) ng/L before treatment, but undetected after 20 days of treatment. In addition, the membrane PCA of fresh APL cells was predominantly FVII-dependent after ATRA or As2O3 treatment. Bleeding symptom was ameliorated during As2O3 or ATRA treatment.
Bleeding symptom was controlled in patients with APL after As2O3 or ATRA treatment.
The triazole fungicides tebuconazole and epoxiconazole were investigated for reproductive toxic effects after exposure during gestation and lactation. Rats were dosed with epoxiconazole (15 or 50 mg/kg bw/day) or tebuconazole (50 or 100 mg/kg bw/day) during pregnancy from gestational day (GD) 7 and continued during lactation until postnatal day (PND) 16. Some dams were randomly chosen for cesarean section at GD 21 to evaluate effects on sexual differentiation in the fetuses. Other dams delivered normally, and the pups were examined (e.g., anogenital distance [AGD] and hormone levels) at birth, at PND 13 or PND 16, and semen quality was assessed in adults. Both tebuconazole and epoxiconazole affected reproductive development in the offspring after exposure in utero. Both compounds virilized the female offspring as shown by an increased AGD PND 0. Furthermore, tebuconazole had a feminizing effect on male offspring as shown by increased nipple retention. This effect was likely caused by the reduced testosterone levels seen in male fetuses. Tebuconazole increased the testicular concentrations of progesterone and 17alpha-hydroxyprogesterone in male fetuses, indicating a direct impact on the steroid synthesis pathway in the Leydig cells. The high dose of epoxiconazole had marked fetotoxic effects, while the lower dose caused increased birth weights. The increased birth weights may be explained by a marked increase in testosterone levels in dams during gestation. Common features for azole fungicides are that they increase gestational length, virilize female pups, and affect steroid hormone levels in fetuses and/or dams. These effects strongly indicate that one major underlying mechanism for the endocrine-disrupting effects of azole fungicides is disturbance of key enzymes like CYP17 involved in the synthesis of steroid hormones.
Oxprenolol is a nonselective beta-adrenergic blocking agent that also possesses intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA) and membrane stabilizing effects. Oxprenolol undergoes first pass metabolism with only 30% of an oral dose reaching the systemic circulation. The drug is approximately 80% protein bound and is eliminated primarily by glucuronidation in the liver. Less than 4% of oxprenolol is excreted unchanged in the urine. Oxprenolol may reduce the heart rate and prolong the effective and functional atrioventricular nodal refractory period. Oxprenolol has less negative inotropic and chronotropic effects than propranolol. Plasma renin activity is reduced; however, changes in plasma aldosterone level are not significant. Long term metabolic effects require further study. Oxprenolol appears to be comparable to other beta blockers in the treatment of hypertension and angina pectoris with no additional adverse reactions. If its partial agonist effect proves useful, it may have an advantage over other agents in treating patients with borderline cardiac reserve. Because of limited data, the use of oxprenolol for the treatment of arrhythmias, migraine, thyrotoxicosis, anxiety, and glaucoma cannot be recommended at this time.
Infusion of a lipid emulsion has been advocated for treatment of severe bupivacaine cardiac toxicity. The mechanism of lipid rescue is unknown. These studies address the possibility that lipid infusion reduces cardiac bupivacaine content in the context of cardiac toxicity.
We compared the effects of a 1% lipid emulsion with standard Krebs buffer after inducing asystole in isolated rat heart with 500 micromol/L bupivacaine. We compared times to first heart beat and recovery of 90% of baseline rate pressure product (RPP = heart rate x [left ventricular systolic pressure - left ventricular diastolic pressure]) between controls and hearts receiving 1% lipid immediately after bupivacaine. We also used minibiopsies to compare control bupivacaine tissue content with hearts getting lipid immediately after an infusion of radiolabeled bupivacaine. We then compared bupivacaine efflux from hearts with and without lipid infusion started 75 seconds after radiolabeled bupivacaine was administered.
Infusion of lipid resulted in more rapid return of spontaneous contractions and full recovery of cardiac function. Average (+/- SEM) times to first beat and to 90% recovery of rate pressure product were 44.6 +/- 3.5 versus 63.8 +/- 4.3 seconds (P < .01) and 124.7 +/- 12.4 versus 219.8 +/- 25.6 seconds (P < .01) for lipid and controls, respectively. Lipid treatment resulted in more rapid loss of bupivacaine from heart tissue (P < .0016). Late lipid infusion, 75 seconds after bupivacaine infusion ended, increased the release of bupivacaine measured in effluent for the first 15-second interval compared with controls (183 vs. 121 nmol, n = 5 for both groups, P < .008).
Lipid emulsion speeds loss of bupivacaine from cardiac tissue while accelerating recovery from bupivacaine-induced asystole. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that bupivacaine partitions into the emulsion and supports the concept of a "lipid sink." However, the data do not exclude other possible mechanisms of action.
Pain at the site of intravenous injection of propofol is a common clinical finding. This double-blind, randomized cross-over study was designed to evaluate whether venous occlusion applied during injection of a low dose of propofol reduces the intensity of pain at the site of injection compared with no occlusion.
Bilateral 0.5-ml injections of an emulsion containing 10 mg/ml of propofol were given over 30 s in 75 adult surgical patients. Each patient was given one injection with and one without 60-s occlusion of the cannulated vein with a 10-min interval, and asked to score the maximal pain intensity on a visual analogue scale (VAS).
The maximal pain intensity [median (25th percentile; 75th percentile), range] at the site of injection was 0.5 (0; 3.5), 0-8.0 VAS units with venous occlusion and 0.5 (0; 1.4), 0-6.0 VAS units without occlusion (P= 0.042). Pain was first reported within 20 s regardless of the study regimen and was not prolonged by local venous occlusion.
Venous occlusion augments pain intensity at the site of propofol injection without prolonging pain, implying that propofol-induced pain is determined more by the blood concentration than by the duration of intravascular exposure. The low intensity of pain induced by low-dose propofol and the fading of pain despite sustained exposure suggest that initial low-dose administration of propofol should be evaluated for the attenuation of local pain induced by higher intravenous doses of propofol.
