Combination antiretroviral therapy including protease inhibitors such as ritonavir has added significant potency to therapy for human immunodeficiency viral (HIV) infection as well as substantial drug-drug interactions. Methadone metabolism is affected by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 inhibitors or inducers. Because ritonavir can induce CYP3A, it can decrease methadone plasma levels. An HIV-infected patient receiving methadone maintenance experienced withdrawal symptoms after ritonavir, saquinavir, and stavudine were added to his regimen; the most likely cause was ritonavir.
Serious complications of treatment in hypertensive crises have been reported for nearly all drugs, so that testing of further antihypertensive drugs in the management of hypertensive emergencies is desirable. In the present study, the clinical efficacy and effects on cardiac function of intravenously infused clonidine were tested in 20 hypertensives with severely elevated blood pressure (diastolic blood pressure over 130 mm Hg). In all patients, the normalization of blood pressure was achieved together with a reduction in total and peripheral vascular resistance. Heart rate showed a slight and brief decrease. Cardiac performance (determined by radionuclide angiocardiography) was improved as indicated by the significant increase in ejection fraction and decrease in both end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes. The dosage of clonidine was progressively increased until a normal blood pressure (mean blood pressure less than or equal to 105 mm Hg) was obtained. The total mean dose required for control of blood pressure was 403 +/- 97.8 micrograms, administered over a mean period of 32 +/- 5.9 min. Side effects, represented by dry mouth and drowsiness, were well tolerated and of short duration. It is concluded that clonidine is an effective and safe alternative in the treatment of hypertensive emergencies.
A coronary stenosis can be compensated by dilation of the poststenotic vascular bed. Activation of cardiac sympathetic nerves can disturb this balance. Experiments in anesthetized, vagotomized dogs revealed that electrical stimulation of cardiac sympathetic nerves as well as reflex sympathetic activation by bilateral carotid occlusion induce vasoconstriction distal to severe coronary stenoses, which were defined by the lack of any postocclusive reactive hyperemia. The poststenotic vasoconstriction is mediated by alpha 2-adrenoceptors and, in concert with the beta-adrenoceptor mediated increase in myocardial oxygen demand, it induces an acute ischemia of the poststenotic myocardium. This ischemia was evidenced by contractile dysfunction, net lactate production, the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation in 10% of dogs, and the development of subendocardial necroses after repetitive sympathetic stimulation. The alpha-antagonist phentolamine, the selective alpha 2-antagonist rauwolscine, and the calcium antagonist nifedipine prevent both poststenotic vasoconstriction and ischemia, whereas the beta-antagonist propranolol enhances even poststenotic vasoconstriction, but still prevents ischemia. Poststenotic ischemia can thus result from sympathetic activation but, in turn, also activates cardiac sympathetic nerves by a spinal reflex. This positive feedback provides a basis for a progressive poststenotic vasoconstriction and aggravation of myocardial ischemia. This vicious cycle can be interrupted by rauwolscine and nifedipine, as well as by segmental epidural anesthesia with procaine at segments C6-T7. The poststenotic ischemia induced by sympathoexcitatory reflexes can also be prevented by blocking the sympathoexcitation at the central nervous level by clonidine. Our studies emphasize the role of cardiac sympathetic nerves and alpha 2-mediated poststenotic vasoconstriction in the genesis and aggravation of poststenotic myocardial ischemia.
The study of a sample of 189 inpatients with the diagnostic of Major Depressive Disorder (DSM III-R) treated with fluvoxamine showed: a good compromise efficacy/tolerance in 75% of cases; an interruption of treatment in 25% of cases, schematically divided in early gastric intolerance and in late resistance. 2.5% of manic switches have been observed and contribued, with this pattern of good results, to confirm the major antidepressant activity and good tolerance of fluvoxamine.
To clarify the clinical role of topical glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) in the management of anal fissures.
Fifty-six consecutive patients with fissure-in-ano attending a colorectal clinic from April 1997 to May 1998 included 16 acute and 40 chronic anal fissures. Patients were instructed to apply 0.2% 0.5 g of GTN to the painful area of the anus. Patients were followed-up in the clinic at 4, 8 and 12 weeks, and by telephone interviews at a median follow up of 10 months.
Ten of 16 acute fissures (63%) were healed by 4 weeks and 13 (81%) by 8 weeks. Thirteen of 40 chronic fissures (33%) were healed by 8 weeks and 20 (50%) by 12 weeks. Seventeen patients (30%) underwent lateral sphincterotomy and all healed. There were five recurrences within 3 months of treatment with GTN. Thirty-four (61%) suffered from headaches, eight being severe headaches. None of the patients developed incontinence with GTN or lateral sphincterotomy.
Treatment of fissure-in-ano using GTN ointment was effective in up to 50% of patients with chronic anal fissure, and has the benefit of being repeatable if the fissure recurs. Patients should be aware that treatment is likely to take some months to be effective and is associated with significant side effects in up to 15% of patients.
Using records of the Saskatchewan Prescription Drug Plan, we determined the incidence of antidepressant use (a marker for depressive symptoms) in patients who received beta-blockers or other treatments for chronic diseases (diuretics, antihypertensives, and hypoglycemics) during 1984, but not in the previous 6 months. Antidepressants initiated within 12 months after the study drug were counted. Of the 3218 new beta-blocker users, 6.4% received concurrent prescriptions (ie, within 34 days) for an antidepressant and beta-blocker. Only 2.8% of the reference group (no study drug use) received an antidepressant. A greater proportion of patients prescribed propranolol (9.5%) received an antidepressant than those prescribed other "lipophilic" (3.9%) or "hydrophilic" (2.5%) beta-blockers. Incidence ratios for propranolol revealed the overall risk antidepressant use was 4.8 (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to 5.5) times that of the reference group and 2.1 (95% CI, 1.7 to 2.5) times that of all other study drug users. For propranolol, relative risk of antidepressant use (drug/reference group) varied with age and was greatest in the 20- to 39-year-old group (17.2; 95% CI, 13.7 to 21.5).
Although atropine and oximes are traditionally used in the management of organophosphate poisoning, investigations have been directed to finding additional therapeutic approaches. Thus, the aim of this study was to evaluate the cardiac effects of magnesium sulfate pretreatment on dichlorvos intoxication in rats. Rats were randomly divided into three groups as control, dichlorvos, and magnesium sulfate groups. After 6 h of dichlorvos or corn oil (as a vehicle) injection, venous blood samples were collected, and cardiac tissue samples were obtained. Biochemical analyses were performed to measure some parameters on serum and cardiac tissue. Immunohistochemical analyses of apoptosis and inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase showed no change in cardiac tissue. Serum cholinesterase levels were markedly depressed with dichlorvos, and further suppressed markedly with magnesium sulfate pretreatment. Although we have demonstrated that serum NO levels in dichlorvos and magnesium sulfate groups were lower than the control group, cardiac tissue NO levels in magnesium sulfate group were higher than the other two groups. Mortality was not significantly affected with magnesium sulfate pretreatment. Uncertainty still persists on the right strategies for the treatment of organophosphate acute poisoning; however, it was concluded that our results do not suggest that magnesium sulfate therapy is beneficial in the management of acute dichlorvos-induced organophosphate poisoning, and also further studies are required.
Liver function and histological changes in liver biopsies were studied in 37 patients who had been treated for psoriasis with methotrexate. Cirrhosis was found in seven (19%) and hepatic fibrosis of varying severity in 10 (27%). Minor abnormalities in another 17 (46%) consisted of fatty change, round cell infiltration, and extensive vacuolation of liver cell nuclei. In only three (8%) was hepatic histology entirely normal. The severity of liver damage was related to the duration of methotrexate treatment. Minor abnormalities of liver function tests and liver histology were also found in eight control psoriatic patients. Standard liver function tests were of little value in predicting the degree of liver damage. It appears that methotrexate, in the doses normally used to control psoriasis, may cause cirrhosis if treatment is prolonged and that liver biopsy is necessary for evaluation of liver damage in these patients.
Profound hypokalemic conditions resulting from cisplatin therapy have been known to produce hypokalemic paralysis in rare cases. We describe such a case of cisplatin-induced hypokalemic paralysis.
A 15-year-old Persian girl with ovarian dysgerminoma presented with severe generalized weakness and paraplegia 1 week after the fourth course of cisplatin-based chemotherapy. On physical examination, there was symmetric flaccid paralysis and areflexia in all of the extremities and particularly in the lower limbs. Her serum potassium concentration was 1.7 mmol/L. Metastatic disease was excluded by a comprehensive systemic evaluation. Complete clinical and paraclinical recovery was achieved after short-term administration of potassium supplement.
Adverse drug reactions are common with cisplatin, but the drug is only rarely associated with hypokalemic paralysis. Based on the Naranjo causality algorithm, an objective assessment revealed cisplatin to be a probable cause of hypokalemic paralysis in this case. This adverse drug event--whether isolated or secondary to hypomagnesemia--may be deceptive, leading to a fatal mistake in the oncology setting, and should therefore be precisely differentiated from cancer-related complications.
This case suggests that cisplatin should be added to the list of agents causing hypokalemic paralysis. Regular serum electrolyte measurement, the early detection of cation deficiency, and appropriate replacement of cations are all recommended.
TGF-beta and oxidative stress are known mediators of renal injury. However, the precise mechanisms by which TGF-beta and oxidative stress may be involved in the development of nephrotoxicity are not known. We examined whether anti-TGF-beta antibody limits nephrotoxicity produced by tacrolimus (TAC) and whether this altered genes that regulate oxidative stress.
Renal transplants were performed in Wistar-Furth and Lewis rat strains. Groups included: isograft controls; untreated allografts; allografts treated with 0.25 mg/kg TAC till 90 days with or without 1.0 mg/kg anti-TGF-beta antibody or control antibody. Serum creatinine and BUN levels and renal histology were determined. Real time PCR and western analysis were used to quantify mRNA and protein expression.
BUN and creatinine were elevated in TAC-treated rats. TAC increased expression of TGF-beta (37-fold) and NADPH oxidase subunits, NOX-1 (18-fold), p22(phox) (31-fold) and Rac-1 mRNA (20-fold), respectively. Contrariwise, expression of antioxidant genes, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and thioredoxin (TRX) was decreased. Anti-TGF-beta antibody but not control antibody reversed the TAC-induced changes in gene expression, renal histology and function.
Our findings suggest a potential for anti-TGF-beta antibody as a novel adjunct therapeutic tool to prevent TAC-induced nephrotoxicity in transplant recipients. The mechanism of protection involves suppression of TGF-beta and the expression of genes that regulate oxidative stress. Moreover, the specific up-regulation of NOX-1, a non-phagocytic NADPH oxidase subunit and its reversal by anti-TGF-beta antibody strongly implicates for the first time the up-regulation of renal parenchymal cell NADPH oxidase in the aetiology of immunosuppression-induced nephrotoxicity.
Postoperative epidural analgesia may be associated with a range of complications. The aim of the study was to register and analyze drug-related complications that occurred in patients having epidural analgesia.
One thousand, three hundred patients received continuous epidural analgesia after major thoracic, vascular or urologic operations, and were cared for by the Acute Pain Service for 3.5 +/- 1.7 days. They were visited and assessed every 7 hours.
Drug-related side effects and complications were noted in 58% of patients. Moderate hypotension (SAP < 100 mmHg or decrease by 20% of the initial blood pressure) occurred in 46% of patients, and severe hypotension (SAP < 90 mmHg or decrease by 30% of the initial blood pressure) occurred in 7% of patients). Pruritus occurred in 3.0% of patients, nausea and vomiting in 1.1%, and extensive sedation (Ramsey score >4) in 0.2%. Two patients received an epidural infusion intravenously. Side effects were related to the dose of bupivacaine, the time of treatment, or the method of drug administration (bolus vs. continuous). Nausea and vomiting were strongly correlated to the hypotension.
A surprisingly high percentage of side effects and complications were observed during epidural analgesia, indicating the necessity for careful monitoring of anaesthetized patients. Since bolus administration of bupivacaine to the epidural space is associated with marked hypotension, continuous infusion should be considered as the method of choice.
We describe prolonged apnea following electrotherapy in a patient who was also being treated with a topical organophosphate anticholinesterase, ecothiophate iodide (phospholine iodide), for glaucoma. The increased duration of action of succinylcholine resulted from low levels of serum cholinesterase that had been caused by the organophosphate. Attention is called to other drugs that directly or indirectly (by lowering serum cholinesterase) interact with succinylcholine chloride resulting in prolonged apnea. Other potential hazards of succinylcholine administration, such as hyperkalemia and cardiac arrhythmias, are also discussed.
Four children with vincristine (VCR)-induced neuropathy are being reported. All cases were followed with the diagnosis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Two were boys aged between 2 and 13 year. Electromyographic examination consisted of sensoriomotor polyneuropathy with axonal involvement in three patients. In another patient, it consisted of motor axonal polyneuropathy. In all patients, pyridoxine and pyridostigmine were successfully used in the treatment of VCR-induced neuropathy. They recovered completely with this drug combination. Recovering period of symptoms was between 1-2 week.
A 28-year-old male patient was admitted to our outpatient clinic because of severe chest pain. Past history, ECG and laboratory findings revealed an anterior myocardial infarction and rhabdomyolysis after cocaine consumption. Coronary arteriography performed six days after the infarction showed no significant stenoses. In view of these findings a coronary vasospasm due to cocaine was postulated. Cocaine effects are discussed.
Arsenic is a strong stimulus of heme oxygenase (HO)-1 expression in experimental studies in response to oxidative stress caused by a stimulus. A functional GT-repeat polymorphism in the HO-1 gene promoter was inversely correlated to the development of coronary artery disease in diabetics and development of restenosis following angioplasty in patients. The role of this potential vascular protective factor in carotid atherosclerosis remains unclear. We previously reported a graded association of arsenic exposure in drinking water with an increased risk of carotid atherosclerosis. In this study, we investigated the relationship between HO-1 genetic polymorphism and the risk of atherosclerosis related to arsenic.
Three-hundred and sixty-seven participants with an indication of carotid atherosclerosis and an additional 420 participants without the indication, which served as the controls, from two arsenic exposure areas in Taiwan, a low arsenic-exposed Lanyang cohort and a high arsenic-exposed LMN cohort, were studied. Carotid atherosclerosis was evaluated using a duplex ultrasonographic assessment of the extracranial carotid arteries. Allelic variants of (GT)n repeats in the 5'-flanking region of the HO-1 gene were identified and grouped into a short (S) allele (< 27 repeats) and long (L) allele (≥ 27 repeats). The association of atherosclerosis and the HO-1 genetic variants was assessed by a logistic regression analysis, adjusted for cardiovascular risk factors.
Analysis results showed that arsenic's effect on carotid atherosclerosis differed between carriers of the class S allele (OR 1.39; 95% CI 0.86-2.25; p = 0.181) and non-carriers (OR 2.65; 95% CI 1.03-6.82; p = 0.044) in the high-exposure LMN cohort. At arsenic exposure levels exceeding 750 μg/L, difference in OR estimates between class S allele carriers and non-carriers was borderline significant (p = 0.051). In contrast, no such results were found in the low-exposure Lanyang cohort.
This exploratory study suggests that at a relatively high level of arsenic exposure, carriers of the short (GT)n allele (< 27 repeats) in the HO-1 gene promoter had a lower probability of developing carotid atherosclerosis than non-carriers of the allele after long-term arsenic exposure via ground water. The short (GT)n repeat in the HO-1 gene promoter may provide protective effects against carotid atherosclerosis in individuals with a high level of arsenic exposure.
d-Propranolol lacks clinically significant beta-adrenergic receptor blocking properties, but has the same membrane stabilizing effects as racemic (d,l) propranolol. To assess the role of beta-blockade versus membrane stabilization or other shared nonspecific effects in the therapeutic action of propranolol in neuroleptic-induced akathisia (NIA) we treated 11 patients with NIA in a crossover, double-blind study of d-propranolol versus placebo. Akathisia scores were unchanged after both d-propranolol and placebo. Eight patients were subsequently treated in a nonblind manner with racemic propranolol, with a significant reduction in akathisia scores. These findings suggest that beta-blockade, not membrane stabilization or other shared nonspecific effects, contributes to the efficacy of propranolol in NIA.
In lamivudine-resistant patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB), we compared efficacy, predictive response factors and changes in viral mutants in two antiviral approaches with adefovir.
A prospective cohort study on therapy with adefovir alone (29 patients) or combined with ongoing lamivudine (23 patients) was performed.
A virological response was achieved in 55% of patients treated with adefovir and in 83% of those treated with the combination (p>0.05). This response was directly related to the basal viral load (p<0.0001) and obtained in 10 patients with basal HBV-DNA<17,200 IU/ml using both strategies. In patients with a higher basal viral load, the virological response was more frequent when treated with the combination (p<0.05). Mutation at locus rt181 predicted HBV-DNA persistence during therapy. A virological rebound was observed in 18% of non-responders while on adefovir monotherapy.
To achieve a complete virological response and reduce the risk of adefovir-resistant mutants in lamivudine-resistant patients, rescue therapy is preferable at early evidence of genotypic resistance. However, in subjects with a significant viral load, combination therapy is more effective. The presence of the rt181 mutation is associated with incomplete response.
To assess the efficacy and tolerability of oral almotriptan, a selective serotonin receptor (5-HT1B/1D) agonist, when used at different doses in the treatment of acute migraine.
This was a placebo controlled, double-blind, parallel-group, dose-finding study. Patients satisfying International Headache Society criteria for acute migraine were randomized to a single dose of placebo or oral almotriptan 2, 6.25, 12.5, or 25 mg at the onset of moderate or severe pain. Patients graded pain intensity on a 4-point verbal scale from 0 (no pain) to 3 (severe pain) and recorded adverse events. The primary efficacy variable was headache response at 2 hours. Data were analyzed on an intent-to-treat basis.
Nine hundred and three patients were randomized, and 742 were included in the evaluation of the efficacy and tolerability. Headache response at 2 hours was 32.5% with placebo, and 30%, 56.3%, 58.5%, and 66.5% with almotriptan 2, 6.25, 12.5, and 25 mg doses (p < 0.05 for 6.25, 12.5, and 25 mg vs placebo). A dose-dependent decrease in the incidence of migraine-associated symptoms and the need for escape medication was observed. The incidence of adverse events with the almotriptan 2-mg, 6.25-mg, and 12.5-mg groups was comparable to that with the placebo group.
Almotriptan 12.5 mg demonstrated the most favorable ratio between efficacy and tolerability, offering equivalent efficacy and better tolerability compared with the 25 mg dose. The minimum effective dose of almotriptan was 6.25 mg.
We describe two unrelated patients with pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) deficiency attributable to mutations in the gene encoding the E1beta subunit of the complex. This is a previously unrecognised form of PDH deficiency, which most commonly results from mutations in the X-linked gene for the E1alpha subunit. Both patients had reduced immunoreactive E1beta protein and both had missense mutations in the E1beta gene. Activity of the PDH complex was restored in cultured fibroblasts from both patients by transfection and expression of the normal E1beta coding sequence.
Ghrelin, identified in the gastric mucosa, has been involved in the control of food intake and growth hormone (GH) release, but whether this hormone influences the gastric secretion and gastric mucosal integrity has been little elucidated. We compared the effects of intraperitoneal (i.p.) and intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of ghrelin on gastric secretion and gastric lesions induced in rats by 75% ethanol or 3.5 h of water immersion and restraint stress (WRS) with or without suppression of nitric oxide (NO)-synthase or functional ablation of afferent sensory nerves by capsaicin. The number and the area of gastric lesions was measured by planimetry, the GBF was assessed by the H2-gas clearance method and blood was withdrawn for the determination of the plasma ghrelin and gastrin levels. In addition, the gastric mucosal expression of mRNA for CGRP, the most potent neuropeptide released from the sensory afferent nerves, was analyzed in rats exposed to WRS with or without ghrelin pre-treatment. Ghrelin (5-80 microg/kg i.p. or 0.6-5 microg/kg i.c.v.) increased gastric acid secretion and attenuated gastric lesions induced by ethanol and WRS. This protective effect was accompanied by a significant rise in the gastric mucosal blood flow (GBF), luminal NO concentration and plasma ghrelin and gastrin levels. Ghrelin-induced protection was abolished by vagotomy and significantly attenuated by L-NNA and deactivation of afferent nerves with neurotoxic dose of capsaicin. The signal for CGRP mRNA was significantly increased in gastric mucosa exposed to WRS as compared to that in the intact gastric mucosa and this was further enhanced in animals treated with ghrelin. We conclude that central and peripheral ghrelin exerts a potent protective action on the stomach of rats exposed to ethanol or WRS, and these effects depend upon vagal activity and hyperemia mediated by the NOS-NO system and CGRP released from sensory afferent nerves.
The effects of an opiate agonist (morphine) and antagonist (naloxone) on neurologic function in conditions of acute and subacute focal cerebral ischemia were tested in a baboon model. Fourteen baboons (Papio papio) underwent unilateral transorbital microsurgical occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA). Blood pressure, heart rate and core temperature were monitored continuously; frequent arterial blood gas measurements were made. Cardiac output, cardiac filling pressures, and regional cerebral blood cross-flow were measured in selected baboons. Naloxone administered intravenously consistently reversed hemiparesis and hemiplegia in all baboons for as long as they lived (4 h to 8 days postocclusion). Morphine administered intravenously converted hemiparesis to hemiplegia; this effect was naloxone-reversible. There were no significant changes in any parameter measured after the administration of either drug. Phenylephrine (used to elevate mean arterial pressure to 20 mm higher than the highest pressure measured after naloxone administration) and isoproterenol (used to elevate cardiac output to 1 l/min higher than the highest value measured after naloxone administration) produced no change in neurologic function. It appears that naloxone can reverse, and morphine exacerbate, focal ischemic neurologic deficits produced in baboons by MCA occlusion. The observed changes in neurologic function are not associated with or mediated by alterations in core temperature or cardiopulmonary functions.
It was the aim of this study to compare total intravenous anaesthesia (TIVA) with balanced anaesthesia using modern short-acting anaesthetics for ENT-surgery in children regarding the influence on haemodynamics, recovery, side-effects and costs. After approval of the Ethics Committee of the Medical Faculty of the University of Rostock, 80 children in the age of 3 to 12 years, rectally premedicated with midazolam (0.3 mg/kg) and atropine (0.01 mg/kg), were randomly assigned to TIVA (group 1, n = 41) and balanced anaesthesia (group 2, n = 39), respectively. TIVA was induced with propofol (2 mg/kg) and remifentanil (1 microgram/kg) and maintained with propofol (6 mg/kg/h) and remifentanil (0.2 microgram/kg/min). Controlled ventilation was performed with an air/oxygen mixture (1:1). Balanced anaesthesia was induced with the method of "single breath induction" using sevoflurane (8 Vol.%) in a mixture of nitrous oxide/oxygen (2:1). For maintaining balanced anaesthesia under low flow conditions, sevoflurane concentration was reduced to 1 Vol.% while the nitrous oxide/oxygen mixture was kept constant. Additionally 0.1 microgram/kg/min of remifentanil was given. For controlled ventilation, the patients of both groups were primarily relaxed for intubation with mivacurium (0.2 mg/kg) under continuous monitoring using TOF-stimulation (TOF-Guard). Further relaxation was performed with doses of 0.05 mg/kg of mivacurium after relaxometric control reached T1-level > 20% and T2-level > 0. Haemodynamic parameters (heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure), awakening time (time until the first spontaneous movements occurred), recovery time (according to Aldrete-Score > 8), side-effects (sevoflurane-induced excitation and propofol-induced pain due to the injection during induction of anaesthesia, postoperative vomiting) and costs for anaesthetic agents and relaxants were registered. The investigation showed significantly higher heart rate (p < 0.05) and significantly lower mean arterial pressure (p < 0.05) during balanced anaesthesia than during TIVA. Between the two groups there were no statistically significant differences regarding awakening time, recovery time and incidence of postoperative vomiting. In the TIVA-group, pain due to injection of propofol occurred in 10 patients (24.4%) and in group 2 sevoflurane-induced excitation during induction was registered in 22 patients (56.4%). Based on our presently existing purchase prices for the drugs used, there were no significant differences between the costs for TIVA and balanced anaesthesia. We conclude that both TIVA and balanced anaesthesia performed with short-acting anaesthetics, are suitable anaesthetic methods for ENT operations in children. Because balanced anaesthesia with sevoflurane led to higher heart rates, this kind of anaesthesia should be used with caution in children with heart diseases. The main advantage of both methods is their short recovery time.
The arcuate nucleus is the bed nucleus for the pro-opiomelancortin system of the brain with important connections with other nuclei involved in cardiovascular function. Clonidine has been reported to produce its cardiovascular effects through an interaction with opioid and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. The present study examined the arcuate nucleus as a site of action of clonidine. Male spontaneously hypertensive rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital and were instrumented for the measurement of blood pressure and heart rate. Cannulae were placed either through the cisterna magna (IC) or in the arcuate nucleus. Administration of clonidine (0.03-3.75 micrograms, IC) produced a dose-dependent hypotension and bradycardia. Pretreatment with naloxone (30 micrograms, IC) prior to clonidine administration resulted in a significant attenuation of both the clonidine-induced hypotension and bradycardia. In contrast, administration of naloxone (100 ng) into the arcuate nucleus prior to the central administration of clonidine did not alter the cardiovascular effects of clonidine. These results support the role of central opioidergic receptors in the cardiovascular effects of clonidine but do not support the arcuate nucleus as the site of action.
An unusual neurological syndrome occurred in 4 of 158 patients treated for osteogenic sarcoma with combination chemotherapy. There was an abrupt onset of focal cerebral deficits approximately ten days after chemotherapy with vincristine and high-dose methotrexate plus citrovorum factor rescue. The syndrome was short lived and always occurred early in the course of treatment. Prolonged neurological deficits remained in 2 patients. When similar chemotherapy was reinstituted in the 4 patients, no further neurological complications ensued. Possible causes include a leukoencephalopathy related to methotrexate or an embolic cerebral vasculopathy related to necrotic tumor microemboli emanating from the lungs.
The influence of striatal lesions (head of the caudate nucleus) with kainic acid on "catatonia" and on the increase of the dopamine metabolite DOPAC in the striatum after systemic morphine administration was measured in rats. These lesions strongly prevented the morphine-induced muscular rigidity, measured as activity in the electromyogram EMG) of the gastrocnemius-soleus muscle of non-anesthesized animals. On the other hand, the decrease of locomotion (akinesia) measured using an Animex Activity Meter and an activity wheel, was not prevented or reduced. The lesions did not influence the inhibitory effect of morphine on the activation of flexor alpha-motoneurones, either. These results suggest that the head of the caudate nucleus plays an important role in mediating morphine rigidity, but not akinesia or inhibition of the activation of flexor alpha-motoneurones. Opioid-induced "catatonia" ought to be regarded as a mixture both of rigidity and of akinesia. Morphine led to a rapid decrease, followed by a slow increase of striatal DOPAC concentration. Lesions induced by kainic acid slightly inhibited the decrease and markedly enhanced the increase of DOPAC. Accordingly, an intact nigro-striato-nigral loop is not necessary for the increase of striatal dopamine turnover, observed after morphine administration. The different sites of action, which are likely to mediate all these effects of morphine, are discussed.
The novel antipsychotic aripiprazole in use for treatment of schizophrenia is a partial agonist at dopamine D2 receptors with actions at a variety of other receptors as well. Cocaine is believed to exert an important part of its rewarding effect by increasing extracellular levels of dopamine that subsequently act at dopamine D2 receptors.
As a partial agonist, aripiprazole may antagonize effects at D2 receptors and we accordingly tested whether aripiprazole could antagonize self-administration of cocaine. Because D2-like receptor agonists are self-administered, a D2 receptor partial agonist like aripiprazole might itself be reinforcing. Thus, we also assessed whether mice would acquire self-administration of aripiprazole.
A single session, mouse self-administration procedure was used.
Oral pretreatment with aripiprazole dose-dependently decreased cocaine self-administration under a fixed ratio 1 schedule at the peak cocaine dose (0.03 mg/kg/infusion), reaching significance at 0.2 and 0.4 mg/kg of aripiprazole. Using 0.4 mg/kg, aripiprazole decreased rates of cocaine self-administration without shifting the peak of the dose-response function. There was no effect of aripiprazole per se, suggesting that its inhibitory action was due to effects on cocaine self-administration rather than non-specific motor effects. Aripiprazole was not found to be self-administered in the tested dose range (0.0003-0.3 mg/kg/infusion). The three highest doses (0.03, 0.1, and 0.3 mg/kg/infusion) even caused significant decreases in nose-poking activity, possibly due to extrapyramidal side effects.
These data are consistent with a potential role for aripiprazole in treatment of cocaine addiction without abuse potential per se.
