Cocaine has been used for centuries for its stimulating and euphoric effects, but it also possesses vasoconstrictive and thrombotic properties. The cocaine-induced lesions depend mainly on the method of administration. In the present case, in which cocaine was nasally inhaled, the perforation of the cartilaginous nasal septum propably result from a combination of factors, including the topical effects and the complications linked to the use of the drug. This clinical observation corresponds to a high level of the progressive nasal pathology associated with cocaine abuse.
The influence of blueberry anthocyanins-enriched extracts (BAE) on cyclophosphamide (CTX)-induced lung damage was investigated. BAE (20 and 80mg/kg/d) were orally dosed to rats 7d both before and after CTX administration (100mg/kg, intraperitoneal injection, single dose). The results showed CTX treatment induced obvious pathological pulmonary injury with raised injury score and lung/body weight ratio. In CTX group, the activity of lysosomal proteases, lung permeability and the number of neutrophil infiltrates all elevated. On the other hand, claudin-4 and zonula occluden-1 protein levels decreased. And also changes of oxidative stress and inflammatory cytokines parameters together with nuclear factor-κB activation were shown. Improvement of all above-mentioned physiological and biochemical parameters was exhibited in BAE groups, with a dose-dependent manner. In conclusion, BAE attenuate the CTX-induced lung toxicity, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory characteristics are involved in the protective mechanism of BAE.
The molecular basis for male pseudohermaphroditism produced by the 5 alpha-reductase deficiency is becoming increasingly understood.
We have performed biochemical and molecular analyses of the 5 alpha-reductase type 2 gene in a Turkish family with a 5 alpha-reductase deficiency.
A 46,XY prepubertal Turkish patient with female phenotype showing clitoral hypertrophy, high plasma testosterone and dihydrotestosterone, and normally differentiated and developed testosterone-dependent internal genitalia.
5 alpha-Reductase activity, measured by the conversion of 3H-T into 5 alpha-reduced compounds, was determined from cultured genital skin fibroblasts by both intact monolayer assay and cell-free extracts at various pH values. The five exons of the 5 alpha-reductase type 2 gene were sequenced after enzymatic amplification (PCR) of the patient's genomic DNA. Labelled PCR of the consanguineous parents' DNA was submitted to electrophoresis on a sequencing gel.
A marked decrease in the transformation of T into 5 alpha-reduced compounds by intact cells and a diminished 5 alpha-reductase activity at acidic pH by sonicated cell extracts strongly suggested a 5 alpha-reductase type 2 deficiency. Molecular analysis of the 5 alpha-reductase type-2 gene showed a trinucleotide deletion straddling codons 156 and 157, responsible for a methionine residue deletion at position 157 of the protein. The parents' DNA contained both normal and deleted alleles.
This is the third deletion described in the 5 alpha-reductase type 2 gene. The deleted methionine 157 is conserved in both types 1 and 2 of human and rat 5 alpha-reductase, which suggests its crucial role in the functioning of the enzyme. This gene rearrangement was thus clearly responsible for the reduced 5 alpha-reductase activity and abnormal genital development in this patient.
The aim of this study was to compare the nephrotoxic potential of amikacin (AK) and gentamicin (GM) in patients with normal baseline renal function. This study was a 1-year, non-interventional prospective study of patients administered either GM or AK. The study was carried out at the internal medicine department of Al-Watani governmental study. Nephrotoxicity was defined as a serum creatinine (SCr) increase of >or=0.5 mg/dL from the basal (normal) SCr level. The two groups (GM, n = 45 and AK, n = 49) were similar in population composition, and underlying pathological and infectious processes requiring antimicrobials. No significant difference in age was found between patients in the GM and AK groups, P = 0.83. Patients in the GM group received comparatively lower doses than those in the AK group (mean = 2.5 mg/kg/day and 14.4 mg/kg/day, respectively) but the duration of treatment was similar. Sixteen of 45 patients receiving GM (35.6%) and eight of 49 patients receiving AK (16.3%) developed nephrotoxicity, P = 0.033. Single daily dosing with GM, regardless of the total daily dose, produced less nephrotoxicity than multiple dosing. In contrast, AK given at a total dose of 1 g daily, showed no benefit of single dosing compared with multiple dosing. In patients with initial normal renal function, GM was significantly more nephrotoxic than AK. Multiple dosing of GM was more nephrotoxic than single dosing. AK-induced nephrotoxicity was not significantly dependent on dosing frequency.
Dipyridamole increases adenosine levels and augments coronary collateralization in patients with coronary ischemia. This pilot study tested whether a 6-month course of sustained-release dipyridamole/aspirin improves coronary flow reserve and left ventricular systolic function in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy. Six outpatients with coronary artery disease and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) <40% were treated with sustained-release dipyridamole 200 mg/aspirin 25 mg twice daily for 6 months. Myocardial function and perfusion, including coronary sinus flow at rest and during intravenous dipyridamole-induced hyperemia, were measured using velocity-encoded cine magnetic resonance stress perfusion studies at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months. There was no change in heart failure or angina class at 6 months. LVEF increased by 39%+/-64% (31.0%+/-13.3% at baseline vs 38.3%+/-10.7% at 6 months; P=.01), hyperemic coronary sinus flow increased more than 2-fold (219.6+/-121.3 mL/min vs 509.4+/-349.3 mL/min; P=.01), and stress-induced relative myocardial perfusion increased by 35%+/-13% (9.4%+/-3.4% vs 13.9%+/-8.5%; P=.004). Sustained-release dipyridamole improved hyperemic myocardial blood flow and left ventricular systolic function in patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy.
Nitroglycerin was given intravenously to five anesthetized, hyperventilated (PaCO2 25 to 30 torr) patients during craniotomy, to facilitate surgery by creating a relatively bloodless field, and to decrease the potential need to blood transfusion. A subarachnoid screw and an indwelling radial artery catheter were inserted to monitor intracranial pressure (ICP) and mean arterial pressure (MAP). As MAP decreased from 10.4 +/- 4.0 (SE) to 69.0 +/- 1.8 torr, ICP increased from 14.2 +/- 0.7 (SEM) to 30.8 +/- 1.1 torr. Cerebral perfusion pressure decreased from 90.2 +/- 3.6 (SEM) to 38.2 +/- 2.3 torr (p < 0.0005). We attribute this nitroglycerin-induced ICP increase to capacitance vessel dilation within the relatively noncompliant cranial cavity, with subsequent cerebral blood volume increase.
The hypoplastic lung in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) has both a quantitative and qualitative reduction in surfactant. Recently, the role of oxygen (O2) as a regulator of pulmonary surfactant-associated protein (SP) gene expression has been reported. The mRNA level of SP has been demonstrated to be increased in the lungs of animals exposed to hyperoxia. The aim of this study was to investigate SP mRNA expression in hypoplastic CDH lung in rats during mechanical ventilation in order to determine the effect of O2 on SP synthesis in CDH. A CDH model was induced in pregnant rats following administration of nitrofen. The newborn rats with CDH and controls were intubated and ventilated. Ventilation was continued for 6 h under 100% oxygen. Reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed to evaluate the relative amounts of mRNA expression of SP-A, SP-B, SP-C, and SP-D. Relative amounts of SP-A, SP-B, and SP-D mRNA expression in CDH lung were significantly decreased compared to controls at birth and 6 h after ventilation. There was no significant difference in SP-C mRNA expression between CDH animals and controls. Upregulated mRNA expression of SP-A, SP-B, and SP-D in lungs of control animals at 6 h after ventilation suggests that oxygenation accelerates postnatal SP synthesis in normal lungs. The inability of O2 to increase SP mRNA expression in hypoplastic CDH lung suggests that the hypoplastic lung is not responsive to increased oxygenation for the synthesis of SP.
Exposure to particulate matter (PM) has been associated with increased morbidity and mortality among individuals with cardiovascular disease. It is hypothesized that systemic alterations occur concurrent to pulmonary injury/inflammation, and contribute to cardiac events in compromised hosts. We explored this hypothesis using a rat model for human hypertension and cardiovascular disease (spontaneously hypertensive, SH), and normotensive Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats. SH and WKY rats (12-13 wk old) were exposed either intratracheally (IT; 0.0, 1.0, or 5.0 mg/kg in saline) or nose-only (15 mg/m(3) x 6 h/d x 3 d/wk x 1, 2 or 4 wk) to combustion source residual oil fly ash (ROFA) with low metal content, and examined 1, 2 or 4 d later. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) albumin and neutrophils increased (SH approximately equal WKY) at d 1 following ROFA IT. With inhalation exposure, both strains experienced progressive histological lung damage and increases in BALF albumin and neutrophils during 1 to 4 wk (SH > WKY). Acute lung injury from ROFA IT was temporally associated with increases in plasma fibrinogen in both strains, but only the SH rats responded to the acute 1-wk ROFA inhalation. Longer term (2 or 4 wk) ROFA caused progressive lung injury (SH > WKY), but did not sustain the increase in fibrinogen. BALF glutathione increased in a temporal fashion similar to fibrinogen; however, only WKY rats demonstrated this response. There was a small but consistent decrease in blood lymphocytes and an increase in blood neutrophils in SH rats exposed to ROFA acutely. In conclusion, acute PM exposure can provoke an acute systemic thrombogenic response associated with pulmonary injury/inflammation and oxidative stress in cardiovascular compromised rats. This evidence is consistent with greater cardiovascular events during acute PM episodes in compromised humans.
Atypical presentations of cryptococcal infection have been described as clinical manifestations of immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) in HIV-infected patients following commence of antiretroviral therapy (ART). The authors describe a patient presenting with cryptococcal meningoradiculitis two weeks after initiation of ART. In patients with advanced HIV disease, immune reconstitution induced by ART can precipitate onset of atypical clinical manifestations in those patients with latent cryptococcal infection of the central nervous system.
The efficacy and acceptability of low dose weekly methotrexate therapy in rheumatoid arthritis was reviewed in 587 patients in open and randomized trials. Gastrointestinal toxicity was reported most frequently. Bone marrow suppression, stomatitis, alopecia, headaches, and fever also occurred. A review of these adverse reactions, as well as of the effects of this drug on the reproductive, renal, and pulmonary systems, is discussed.
Sub-acute hepatotoxicity was induced in mice by exposure to pesticides. The effect of pretreatment with aqueous black tea extract on lipid peroxidation and antioxidants in the liver was investigated. Administering a combination dose of chlorpyriphos and cypermethrin (20 mg kg(-1) each) on alternate days over a 15-day period to male mice resulted in induction of sub-acute toxicity as reflected by elevated levels of liver damage marker enzymes alkaline phosphatase(ALP), aspartate transaminase(AST) and alanine transaminase(ALT). Significantly elevated levels of lipid peroxidation were observed in the experimental group (group III) as compared with control mice. Decreased activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), reduced glutathione (GSH), total thiol, glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase(GR) and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) were also observed in pesticide-treated as compared to control mice. Aqueous black tea extract was given as a pretreatment to group IV mice at a dose of 200 mg ml(-1) polyphenols before the pesticide dose, which significantly decreased the levels of lipid peroxidation and significantly elevated the activities of SOD, CAT, GSH, total thiol, GPx, GR and GST in liver to levels similar to the controls. Thus, the data offer support for the claim that the central mechanism of pesticide action occurs via changes in cellular oxidative status and shows conclusively that supplementation with black tea extract protects against the free radical-mediated oxidative stress in hepatocytes of animals with pesticide-induced liver injury.
Colourless solutions of mitomycin C (MMC) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) are widely used during trabeculectomy to inhibit postoperative scarring. The poor visibility of these agents on the eye has several drawbacks including the inability to accurately assess the area of treatment. This study examined the utility of using trypan blue dye to colour antimetabolites used during trabeculectomy and the effect of trypan blue on antimetabolite cytotoxicity in vitro.
For in vitro experiments, MMC (0.4 mg/ml) and 5-FU (25 mg/ml) were reconstituted with or without trypan blue. A lactate dehydrogenase release assay was used to measure drug induced cell death and viable cell number 7 days after treatment. For clinical assessment, trypan blue 0.1% was added to MMC and 5-FU to final concentrations of between 0.01% and 0.05%. The mixture was applied to Tenon's capsule and sclera via pre-wet or into dry 5x8 mm sponges (MMC and 5-FU) for 3 minutes or by direct subconjunctival injection after completion of surgery (5-FU). Twenty two consecutive patients undergoing trabeculectomy either with or without trypan blue were followed for 2 years postoperatively.
The addition of 0.05% trypan blue to MMC or 5-FU did not alter MMC induced cell death or the number of viable fibroblast in vitro. In vivo, trypan blue clearly delineated the antimetabolite treatment area and facilitated control of excess antimetabolite at the wound margins as well as sponge removal. With direct subconjunctival injection, total staining area varied for a given volume with location of the needle tip. Any leakage from the injection site could be easily seen. No adverse effects attributable to trypan blue were found in 2 years of follow up.
Trypan blue permits delineation of antimetabolite/tissue interactions without affecting cytoxicity for the assays investigated. Trypan blue can be used to visualise antimetabolite soaked sponges, estimate treatment area, and show areas of unintended tissue contact during trabeculectomy. The addition of trypan blue to antimetabolites has potential benefits in clinical, research, and teaching aspects of ocular surgery and therapy.
The role of different isoforms of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the gastric mucosal hyperemia, induced by 155 mM luminal hydrochloric acid (pH approximately 0.8) without a barrier breaker, was investigated. Rats were anesthetized with Inactin (120 mg/kg ip), and mice were anesthetized with Forene (2.2% in 40% oxygen gas at 150 ml/min); the gastric mucosa was exteriorized. Gastric mucosal blood flow was measured with laser-Doppler flowmetry (LDF) in rats treated with Nomega-nitro-l-arginine (l-NNA; unspecific NOS inhibitor), l-N6-(1-iminoethyl)lysine [l-NIL; inducible (i) NOS inhibitor], or S-methyl-l-thiocitrulline [SMTC; neuronal (n) NOS inhibitor], 10 mg/kg, followed by 3 mg. kg-1. h-1 iv, in iNOS-deficient (-/-) and nNOS(-/-) mice. mRNA was isolated from the gastric mucosa in iNOS(-/-) and wild-type (wt) mice, and real-time RT-PCR was performed. The effect of 155 mM acid on gastric mucosal permeability was determined by measuring the clearance of 51Cr-EDTA from blood to lumen. LDF increased by 48 +/- 13% during 155 mM HCl luminally, an increase that was abolished by l-NNA, SMTC, or l-NIL. In iNOS wt mice, LDF increased by 33 +/- 8% during luminal acid. The blood flow increase was attenuated substantially in iNOS(-/-) mice. RT-PCR revealed iNOS mRNA expression in the gastric mucosa in the iNOS wt groups. The blood flow increase in response to acid was not abolished in nNOS(-/-) mice (nNOS-sufficient mice, 39 +/- 18%; heterozygous mice, 25 +/- 19%; -/- mice, 19 +/- 7%). Mucosal permeability was transiently increased during 155 mM HCl. The results suggest that iNOS is constitutively expressed in the gastric mucosa and is involved in acid-induced hyperemia, suggesting a novel role for iNOS in gastric mucosal protection.
Quantitative EEGs (QEEGs) were evaluated in a group of 6 school age children with in utero cocaine exposure. Their QEEGs showed significant deviations from age expected normal values. Further, the QEEG profile of brain dysfunction seen in these children was extremely similar to that previously reported in a large population of crack cocaine dependent adults. These abnormalities were characterized by significant excess of relative power in the alpha frequency band, and deficits of absolute and relative power in the delta and theta bands. Characteristic disturbances in interhemispheric relationships were also present. The similarities between the QEEG profiles of those adults with chronic exposure and children with prenatal exposure suggests that the brain dysfunction reflected in the QEEG is not a result of a transient change in neurotransmission, but a more profound alteration which persists in these children at school age. Further study is required to extend these findings to a larger group of children, and to investigate the potential relationship between these neurophysiological abnormalities and the developmental, behavioral and co-morbid features observed in such children.
Five patients with winter depression received low doses of melatonin in the afternoon, and five patients received placebo capsules. Melatonin treatment significantly decreased depression ratings compared to placebo. If these findings are replicated in a larger sample with documentation of expected phase shifts, the phase shift hypothesis will be substantially supported.
Moderately immunogenic HPV 16-associated murine tumour cell line mimicking human HPV 16-associated neoplasms TC-1 (MHC class I(+)) and its variants, TC-1/P3C10 and TC-1/A9, with a marked down-regulation of MHC I molecules, were used to examine the effect of local interleukin 12 (IL-12) gene therapy for the treatment of early tumour transplants and minimal residual tumour disease obtained after cytoreductive chemotherapy (CMRTD). Experiments were designed to examine whether down-regulation of MHC class I molecules plays a role during chemotherapy and gene therapy of early tumour transplants. It was found that peritumoral administration of IL-12-producing tumour cell vaccines (single dose, day 8 after tumour cell administration) inhibited the growth of both TC-1 (MHC class I positive) tumours and their MHC class I-deficient variants. To investigate the antitumour effects in a clinically relevant setting, IL-12 gene therapy was utilised for the treatment of minimal residual tumour disease after cytoreductive chemotherapy. Intra-peritoneal treatment of tumour-bearing mice with ifosfamide derivative, CBM-4A, produced a significant tumour-inhibitory effect. This treatment was followed by peritumoral s.c. administration of genetically modified TC-1 (MHC class I positive) or MK16/I/IIIABC (MHC class I negative) vaccines producing IL-12 (single dose, day 7 after chemotherapy) or with recombinant interleukin 12 (rIL-12) in two cycles of 5 daily doses (days 8-19) after chemotherapy. This combined therapy significantly inhibited the growth of TC-1 and TC-1/A9 (MHC class I-) tumours. When the combined therapy of TC-1 (MHC class I positive) tumours was followed by peritumoral administration of bone marrow dendritic cell (BMDC) vaccines, the IL-12-mediated inhibitory effect was significantly boosted. In the next set of experiments, the impacts of chemotherapy and IL-12 adjuvant therapy on MHC class I surface expression were assessed. Chemotherapy and gene therapy of tumours led to the up-regulation of MHC I expression on MHC class I-deficient tumours (TC-1/A9 and TC-1/P3C10) and to down-regulation on MHC I-proficient tumours (TC-1). These findings indicate that the MHC I phenotype is not stable during tumour progression and treatment. Collectively, these results illustrate the efficacy of IL-12 gene therapy in combination with chemotherapy on HPV-associated tumours regardless of the level of MHC class I expression on the tumour cells.
Our previous studies indicated that the endogenous opioid system, particularly the mu-opioid receptor, may be involved in the modulation of methamphetamine (METH)-induced increases in locomotor behavior in mice. This study investigates the effects of naloxonazine, a specific mu-opioid receptor antagonist, on the locomotor behavioral response and phosphorylation pattern of dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr32 (DARPP-32) in striatal dopaminergic transmissions induced by acute administration of METH to mice. Mice were injected with a single dose of naloxonazine (20 mg/kg, i.p.) 60 min before injecting (i.p.) either saline or 1 mg/kg of METH. After a 2-h behavioral test, striatal tissues were collected to determine the protein levels of DARPP-32 and the phosphorylated form of DARPP-32 at the Thr34 and Thr75 sites. Results show that pretreatment with naloxonazine significantly attenuated the acute METH-induced increase in locomotor activity and phosphor-Thr75 DARPP-32 levels. Our data indicate that the mu-opioid receptor blockade reduces the acute METH-induced increase in locomotor activity. This effect may be related to the inhibition of DARPP-32 phosphorylation at the Thr75 site in the striatum of the mice.
Group II metabotropic (mGlu II) receptor subtypes mGlu2 and mGlu3 are important modulators of synaptic plasticity and glutamate release in the brain. Accordingly, several pharmacological ligands have been designed to target these receptors for the treatment of neurological disorders characterized by anomalous glutamate regulation including epilepsy. In this study, we examine whether the expression level and function of mGlu2 and mGlu3 are altered in experimental epilepsy by using immunohistochemistry, Western blot analysis, RT-PCR and extracellular recordings. A down-regulation of mGlu2/3 protein expression at the mossy fiber pathway was associated with a significant reduction in mGlu2/3 protein expression in the hippocampus and cortex of chronically epileptic rats. Moreover, a reduction in mGlu2 and mGlu3 transcripts levels was noticed as early as 24 h after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) and persisted during subsequent "latent" and chronic periods. In addition, a significant impairment of mGlu II-mediated depression of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials at mossy fiber-CA3 synapses was detected in chronically epileptic rats. Application of mGlu II agonists (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (DCG-IV) induced a significant reduction of the fEPSP amplitude in control rats, but not in chronic epileptic rats. These data indicate a long-lasting impairment of mGlu2/3 expression that may contribute to abnormal presynaptic plasticity, exaggerate glutamate release and hyperexcitability in temporal lobe epilepsy.
In contrast to most stressors that appear to be proconvulsant in nature, forced swimming (or swim stress) produces substantial anticonvulsant effects. Here we describe a series of experiments designed to identify the specific factors of swim stress (e.g., duration, swimming behavior, water temperature, and frequency of exposure) that are essential for the emergence of anticonvulsant effects in the rat. Our results revealed that the anticonvulsant effect of swim stress against lithium-pilocarpine convulsions occurred only when swim durations were at least 5 min in length and in water temperatures of 20 degrees C or less. Moreover, this anticonvulsant effect was not associated with habituation even after 10 days of repeated swimming. Treatment with lithium-pilocarpine coupled with 10 degrees C or 20 degrees C swim stress for 10 min caused pronounced hypothermia (10 to 15 degrees C reduction in body temperature) that required at least 12 h to return to baseline. One day after seizures were induced, swim stressed rats showed significantly fewer degenerating neurons in the hippocampus as revealed by Fluoro-Jade B staining. These results suggest that dramatically lowered body temperature could be the critical factor that produces the anticonvulsive and neuroprotective effects of swim stress.
Chemotherapy drugs have been reported to cause cardiac side effects including cardiomyopathy, ischemia, arrhythmias, and myocardial necrosis. Most important in terms of daily practice is anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy. The bisdioxopiperazine compound, dexrazoxane (ICRF-187, ADR-529), has been shown to prevent this cumulative side effect of the anthracyclines. Recent randomized trials performed in breast cancer and in pediatric sarcoma patients have demonstrated the efficacy of this approach, which permits the administration of anthracyclines to greater cumulative doses and thus leads to a substantial reduction in the incidence of decreased left-ventricular ejection fraction or congestive heart failure. Response rates were not significantly different with the use of dexrazoxane in these trials. The risk ratio for a cardiac event was decreased by two to threefold in randomized breast studies involving more than 700 women. Paclitaxel also has been reported to cause arrhythmias and possibly ischemia. In a large data base, National Cancer Institute investigators found a 0.29% incidence of grade 4 or 5 cardiac toxicities, including heart block, ventricular tachycardia, and ischemic events. Other important chemotherapy-related cardiac toxicities discussed include fluorouracil-induced angina and arrhythmias, interleukin-4 induced-cardiomyopathy, and cardiotoxicity associated with autologous bone marrow transplantation procedures.
Mitochondrial dysfunction subsequent to increased oxidative stress and alterations in energy metabolism is considered to play a role in the development of cardiac hypertrophy and its progression to failure, although the sequence of events remains to be elucidated. This study aimed at characterizing the impact of hypertrophy development on the activity and expression of mitochondrial NADP+-isocitrate dehydrogenase (mNADP+-ICDH), a metabolic enzyme that controls redox and energy status. We expanded on our previous finding of its inactivation through posttranslational modification by the lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE) in 7-wk-old spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) hearts before hypertrophy development (Benderdour et al. J Biol Chem 278: 45154-45159, 2003). In this study, we used 7-, 15-, and 30-wk-old SHR and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats with abdominal aortic coarctation. Compared with age-matched control Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats, SHR hearts showed a significant 25% decrease of mNADP+-ICDH activity, which preceded in time 1) the decline in its protein and mRNA expression levels (between 10% and 35%) and 2) the increase in hypertrophy markers. The chronic and persistent loss of mNADP+-ICDH activity in SHR was associated with enhanced tissue accumulation of HNE-mNADP+-ICDH and total HNE-protein adducts at all ages and contrasted with the profile of changes in the activity of other mitochondrial enzymes involved in antioxidant or energy metabolism. Two-way ANOVA of the data also revealed a significant effect of age on most parameters measured in SHR and WKY hearts. The mNADP+-ICDH activity, protein, and mRNA expression were reduced between 25% and 35% in coarctated SD rats and were normalized by treatment of SHR or coarctated SD rats with renin-angiotensin system inhibitors, which prevented or attenuated hypertrophy. Altogether, our data show that cardiac mNADP+-ICDH activity and expression are differentially and sequentially affected in hypertrophy development and, to a lesser extent, with aging. Decreased cardiac mNADP+-ICDH activity, which is attributed at least in part to HNE adduct formation, appears to be a relevant early and persistent marker of mitochondrial oxidative stress-related alterations in hypertrophy development. Potentially, this could also contribute to the aetiology of cardiomyopathy.
RNA interference is a powerful method for the knockdown of pathologically relevant genes. The in vivo delivery of siRNAs, preferably through systemic, nonviral administration, poses the major challenge in the therapeutic application of RNAi. Small interfering RNA (siRNA) complexation with polyethylenimines (PEI) may represent a promising strategy for siRNA-based therapies and, recently, the novel branched PEI F25-LMW has been introduced in vitro. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is frequently overexpressed in tumors and promotes tumor growth, angiogenesis and metastasis and thus represents an attractive target gene in tumor therapy.
In subcutaneous tumor xenograft mouse models, we established the therapeutic efficacy and safety of PEI F25-LMW/siRNA-mediated knockdown of VEGF. In biodistribution and siRNA quantification studies, we optimized administration strategies and, employing chemically modified siRNAs, compared the anti-tumorigenic efficacies of: (i) PEI/siRNA-mediated VEGF targeting; (ii) treatment with the monoclonal anti-VEGF antibody Bevacizumab (Avastin); and (iii) a combination of both.
Efficient siRNA delivery is observed upon systemic administration, with the biodistribution being dependent on the mode of injection. Toxicity studies reveal no hepatotoxicity, proinflammatory cytokine induction or other side-effects of PEI F25-LMW/siRNA complexes or polyethylenimine, and tumor analyses show efficient VEGF knockdown upon siRNA delivery, leading to reduced tumor cell proliferation and angiogenesis. The determination of anti-tumor effects reveals that, in pancreas carcinoma xenografts, single treatment with PEI/siRNA complexes or Bevacizumab is already highly efficacious, whereas, in prostate carcinoma, synergistic effects of both treatments are observed.
PEI F25-LMW/siRNA complexes, which can be stored frozen as opposed to many other carriers, represent an efficient, safe and promising avenue in anti-tumor therapy, and PEI/siRNA-mediated, therapeutic VEGF knockdown exerts anti-tumor effects.
Continuous non-invasive cardiovascular monitoring in eight healthy cocaine addicts receiving intravenous cocaine (0.325 mg/kg or 0.650 mg/kg) or placebo in double-blind, randomized, cross-over fashion demonstrated significant dose-dependent increases in pulse and mean arterial pressure following cocaine. Pulse and mean arterial pressure peaked 5 min post-cocaine injection and maximal response was sustained for a further 15 min and 35 min afterwards, respectively. Cocaine administration had no significant effect on peripheral oxygen saturation, and no clinically significant abnormalities of rhythm or conduction were seen on the electrocardiogram. These doses and method of single-dose intravenous cocaine administration, and our procedures for cardiovascular monitoring, appear relatively safe for laboratory studies of healthy cocaine addicts with no pre-existing cardiovascular disease. In addition, cocaine-taking (0.325 mg/kg i.v. and 0.650 mg/kg i.v.) was associated with enhanced attention (i.e. increased numbers of correct responses on the Rapid Visual Information Processing Task), but the trend towards reduced reaction time did not achieve statistical significance. Cocaine-taking resulted in a small but statistically insignificant improvement in learning on the Digit Symbol Substitution Task. These results suggest that cocaine-taking in rested subjects is associated with some cognitive enhancement.
The efficacy of topical tretinoin (all-trans-retinoic acid) in treating photoaging is well established. Questions that remain are (1) whether irritation causes all or part of the improvement; (2) the concentration of tretinoin that maximizes clinical response with minimal side effects; and (3) the effects of long-term treatment on components of the cutaneous immune system. To address these issues, 99 photoaged patients completed a 48-week study using 0.1% tretinoin cream (n = 32), 0.025% tretinoin (n = 35), or vehicle (n = 32) once daily in a double-blind manner. Before and after treatment, we assessed histologic features, keratinocyte expression of HLA-DR and intercellular adhesion molecule-1, numbers of epidermal Langerhans' cells and epidermal and dermal T lymphocytes, and vascularity as measured by dermal endothelial cell area.
Both 0.1% and 0.025% tretinoin produced statistically significant overall improvement in photoaging of the face compared with vehicle; there were no clinically or statistically significant differences in efficacy between the two concentrations of tretinoin. After 48 weeks, 0.1% and 0.025% tretinoin produced similar statistically significant epidermal thickening (by 30% and 28%, respectively) compared with vehicle (11% decrease) and increased vascularity (by 100% and 89%, respectively) compared with vehicle (9% decrease). By various analyses, irritant side effects (erythema and scaling) were statistically significantly greater with 0.1% tretinoin than with 0.025% tretinoin. No significant changes occurred in any immunologic markers when tretinoin and vehicle treatments were compared.
Tretinoin 0.1% and 0.025% produce similar clinical and histologic changes in patients with photoaging, despite significantly greater incidence of irritation with the higher concentration. The separation between clinical improvement and irritation suggests that mechanisms other than irritation dominate tretinoin-induced repair of photoaging in humans.
