Tumor microenvironments feature immune inhibitory mechanisms that prevent T cells from generating effective antitumor immune responses. Therapeutic interventions aimed at disrupting these inhibitory mechanisms have been shown to enhance antitumor immunity, but they lack direct cytotoxic effects. Here, we investigated the effect of cytotoxic cancer chemotherapeutics on immune inhibitory pathways. We observed that exposure to platinum-based chemotherapeutics markedly reduced expression of the T cell inhibitory molecule programmed death receptor-ligand 2 (PD-L2) on both human DCs and human tumor cells. Downregulation of PD-L2 resulted in enhanced antigen-specific proliferation and Th1 cytokine secretion as well as enhanced recognition of tumor cells by T cells. Further analysis revealed that STAT6 controlled downregulation of PD-L2. Consistent with these data, patients with STAT6-expressing head and neck cancer displayed enhanced recurrence-free survival upon treatment with cisplatin-based chemoradiation compared with patients with STAT6-negative tumors, demonstrating the clinical relevance of platinum-induced STAT6 modulation. We therefore conclude that platinum-based anticancer drugs can enhance the immunostimulatory potential of DCs and decrease the immunosuppressive capability of tumor cells. This dual action of platinum compounds may extend their therapeutic application in cancer patients and provides a rationale for their use in combination with immunostimulatory compounds.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a chemotherapeutic agent, and is widely used in cancer treatment. The most common side effect of DOX was indicated on cardiovascular system by experimental studies. There are some studies suggesting oxidative stress-induced toxic changes on liver related to DOX administration. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether antioxidant N-acetylcysteine (NAC) relieves oxidative stress in DOX- induced liver injury in rat. Twenty-four male rats were equally divided into three groups. First group was used as a control. Second group received single dose of DOX. NAC for 10 days was given to constituting the third group after giving one dose of DOX. After 10 days of the experiment, liver tissues were taken from all animals. Lipid peroxidation (LP) levels were higher in the DOX group than in control whereas LP levels were lower in the DOX+NAC group than in control. Vitamin C and vitamin E levels were lower in the DOX group than in control whereas vitamin C and vitamin E levels were higher in the DOX+NAC group than in the DOX group. Reduced glutathione levels were higher in the DOX+NAC group than in control and DOX group. Glutathione peroxidase, vitamin A and β-carotene values were not changed in the three groups by DOX and NAC administrations. In histopathological evaluation of DOX group, there were mononuclear cell infiltrations, vacuolar degeneration, hepatocytes with basophilic nucleus and sinusoidal dilatations. The findings were totally recovered by NAC administration. In conclusion, N-acetylcysteine induced modulator effects on the doxorubicin-induced hepatoxicity by inhibiting free radical production and supporting the antioxidant vitamin levels.
Gabexate mesilate, a synthetic protease inhibitor, is used to treat acute pancreatitis and disseminated intravascular coagulation because it inhibits various serine proteases; however, whether gabexate mesilate prevents acute liver failure has not yet been studied. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of gabexate mesilate in carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced liver injury in rats.
Acute hepatic failure was induced by administration of CCl4 intragastrically to male Sprague-Dawley rats. The effects of gabexate mesilate were examined in terms of serum transaminase levels, liver histology, and the prognosis of rats.
Gabexate mesilate treatment significantly decreased the elevation of serum transaminase levels and improved liver histology 24 h after the administration of CCl4 (0.2 ml/100 g rat weight). Plasma tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) decreased significantly in the gabexate mesilate-treated rats compared with saline-treated rats. Gabexate mesilate treatment also significantly improved survival rate after a lethal dose of CCl4 (0.5 ml/100 g rat weight) from 0% to 20%.
Gabexate mesilate treatment attenuated CCl4-induced liver injury via a suppression of proinflammatory cytokine production. In addition, these investigations suggest that gabexate mesilate treatment may provide therapeutic strategies for human acute liver failure.
The cardiovascular effects of nicergoline, a preferential alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocking drug, were studied in anaesthetized normotensive or spontaneously hypertensive (SH) rats. Nicergoline (300 micrograms/kg, i.v.) significantly reduced blood pressure and heart rate in control, bivagotomized or beta-blocked normotensive or SH rats. In bilaterally vagotomized and beta-blocked rats, nicergoline reduced mean blood pressure but did no longer modify heart rate. Thus, it is postulated that nicergoline could reduce the sympathetic tone and increase the vagal nerve activity, possibly by inhibiting central alpha 1-adrenoceptors. The nicergoline--induced bradycardia was greater in bivagotomized SHR than in normotensive ones. Intracerebroventricular injections of nicergoline (30 micrograms/kg) did not modify heart rate in normotensive control, bivagotomized or beta-blocked rats. On the contrary, nicergoline (30 micrograms/kg) injected into the cisterna magna induced a significant bradycardia in the three groups of normotensive rats. Blood pressure was reduced in the same way in all groups centrally treated by nicergoline. In conclusion, it seems that nicergoline reduces blood pressure by peripheral alpha-adrenoceptor blockade and modulates the autonomic nervous activity by inhibiting alpha 1-adrenoceptors mainly localized in the brainstem.
Tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl)phosphate (Tris-CP) was metabolized to products which were mutagenic for Salmonella typhimurium TA100 in the presence of liver microsomes from phenobarbital (PB)-pretreated rats and NADPH. Effects of various inhibitors and inducers of cytochrome P-450 on Tris-CP mutagenicity were in accordance with PB-inducible forms of this enzyme system being responsible for the formation of mutagenic product(s). A comparison was made between the toxic potential of the two halogenated flame retardants Tris-CP and tris(2,3-dibromopropyl)phosphate (Tris-BP) in 5 in vitro tests. Tris-CP was much less potent than Tris-BP with respect to bacterial (Salmonella/microsome or Salmonella/hepatocyte assay) and mammalian (V79 cells) mutagenicity, as well as DNA repair synthesis in hepatocytes. On the other hand, Tris-CP and Tris-BP were both equally effective in transforming Syrian hamster embryo cells in vitro. Tris-CP was not nephrotoxic to rats after a single dose of 500 mg/kg intraperitoneally, whereas Tris-BP caused extensive tubular necrosis accompanied by elevated levels of plasma urea and creatinine.
Firemaster 550 (FM550) is an additive flame retardant formulation of brominated and aryl phosphate ester (APE) components introduced as a major replacement product for the commercial polybrominated diphenyl ether mixture (known as PentaBDE) used primarily in polyurethane foam. However, little is known about the potential effects of FM550-based ingredients during early vertebrate development. Therefore, we first screened the developmental toxicity of each FM550 component using zebrafish as an animal model. Based on these initial screening assays, we found that exposure to the brominated components as high as 10µM resulted in no significant effects on embryonic survival or development, whereas exposure to triphenyl phosphate (TPP) or mono-substituted isopropylated triaryl phosphate (mono-ITP)-two APEs comprising almost 50% of FM550-resulted in targeted effects on cardiac looping and function during embryogenesis. As these cardiac abnormalities resembled aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) agonist-induced phenotypes, we then exposed developing embryos to TPP or mono-ITP in the presence or absence of an AHR antagonist (CH223191) or AHR2-specific morpholino. Based on these studies, we found that CH223191 blocked heart malformations following exposure to mono-ITP but not TPP, whereas AHR2 knockdown failed to block the cardiotoxic effects of both components. Finally, using a cell-based human AHR reporter assay, we found that mono-ITP (but not TPP) exposure resulted in a significant increase in human AHR-driven luciferase activity at similar nominal concentrations as a potent reference AHR agonist (β-naphthoflavone). Overall, our findings suggest that two major APE components of FM550 induce severe cardiac abnormalities during early vertebrate development.
The purpose of this report is to describe a new complication of propofol administration. A previously fit patient underwent intravenous anaesthesia with propofol for removal of dental wires. Postoperatively he developed myoclonic jerking of his limbs. On regaining consciousness he complained of an occipital headache, neck stiffness and photophobia, and was found to have nuchal rigidity on examination. These clinical features resolved over the following week. Subsequent investigations failed to explain the aetiology of the symptoms of meningeal irritation, which suggests that propofol was the causative agent. While prolonged myoclonus has been previously described with propofol administration, this is the first report of meningism occurring with its use.
Cholestasis has been associated with the endocytic retrieval of multidrug resistance protein 2 (Mrp2), but its mechanism is still unclear. Recent studies have indicated that radixin, a cross-linker between the actin filaments and membrane proteins, may be activated by phosphorylation and may be required for the canalicular localization of Mrp2.
We investigated the role of radixin in the altered localization of Mrp2 in rat models of intrahepatic (ethinyl estradiol treatment) and extrahepatic (bile duct ligation) cholestasis using immunofluorescence microscopy. The changes in localization and expression were analyzed using Scion Image for Windows.
In both models, Mrp2 was localized outside as well as inside the ZO-1 staining, indicating partial dislocation from the canalicular membrane. In contrast to the steep elevation of the immunostaining intensity curves for Mrp2 in the controls, the corresponding curves in both models were broadened and flattened, confirming endocytic retrieval into the hepatocytes. Mrp2 and radixin were colocalized at the canalicular domain in the controls, whereas in both cholestatic rats they were dissociated at some canaliculi, indicating the disturbed colocalization of Mrp2 and radixin in cholestasis. The fluorescence of phosphorylated radixin, an active form of radixin, markedly decreased in both cholestatic models, which was supported by the reduced peak fluorescence intensities.
The disturbed colocalization of Mrp2 and radixin may contribute to the endocytic retrieval of Mrp2 in cholestasis due to the failure to anchor Mrp2 in the canalicular membrane, in which the phosphorylated radixin may play a major role.
The zebrafish embryotoxicity test is a promising alternative assay for developmental toxicity. Classically, morphological assessment of the embryos is applied to evaluate the effects of compound exposure. However, by applying differential gene expression analysis the sensitivity and predictability of the test may be increased. For defining gene expression signatures of developmental toxicity, we explored the possibility of using gene expression signatures of compound exposures based on commonly expressed individual genes as well as based on regulated gene pathways. Four developmental toxic compounds were tested in concentration-response design, caffeine, carbamazepine, retinoic acid and valproic acid, and two non-embryotoxic compounds, d-mannitol and saccharin, were included. With transcriptomic analyses we were able to identify commonly expressed genes, which were mostly development related, after exposure to the embryotoxicants. We also identified gene pathways regulated by the embryotoxicants, suggestive of their modes of action. Furthermore, whereas pathways may be regulated by all compounds, individual gene expression within these pathways can differ for each compound. Overall, the present study suggests that the use of individual gene expression signatures as well as pathway regulation may be useful starting points for defining gene biomarkers for predicting embryotoxicity.
M. bovis, the agent of bovine tuberculosis, was in other times, the main ethiological agent of tuberculosis (TBC) in industrialized countries. At the moment, the human cases have become not very frequent, except in those countries where the illness is even endemic. In patients with immunodeficiency syndrome, it usually presents as a systemic illness. We present the case of a woman with AIDS and disseminated TBC caused by M. bovis. The isolated micobacteria turned out to be resistant to rifampin and pyrazinamide. She was treated with isoniazid, ethambutol and ofloxacin with good clinical evolution. This case turned out to be the first isolation of M. bovis in a patient with AIDS, in Muñiz hospital.
Acute exposures to sodium arsenite (50 microM) were embryotoxic in day 10 rat embryos exposed in vitro. Sodium arsenite-induced embryotoxicity was characterized by decreased growth (crown-rump length, somite number, and embryo protein content) and abnormal development (hypoplastic prosencephalon, abnormal somites, and abnormal flexion of the tail). At embryotoxic exposures, sodium arsenite also induced the synthesis of three heat shock proteins (hsps), one of which is recognized by a monoclonal antibody specific for the heat-inducible hsp 72. In addition, sodium arsenite induced the accumulation of heat-inducible hsp 70 mRNA. Although the abnormal morphologies induced by sodium arsenite and hyperthermia appear to be different, the stress response as measured by the synthesis of hsps, the accumulation of hsp 72 protein, and the accumulation of hsp 70 mRNA is similar in embryos exposed to these two embryotoxic agents. Thus, sodium arsenite and hyperthermia both induce a stress response; however, the relationship between the induction of a stress response and the subsequent abnormal development that ensues is unclear.
The authors estimate tamoxifen's impact on life expectancy among healthy women. A Markov model compared the effects of 5 years of tamoxifen on survival among 50-year-old postmenopausal women. Scenarios were explored using alternative assumptions with regard to tamoxifen's long-term effects on breast and endometrial cancer. Postmenopausal women without a uterus had substantial life expectancy gains from tamoxifen (1 to 4 months), whereas women with a uterus had such gains only if they were at a very high breast cancer risk. If tamoxifen's impact on endometrial cancer persists after treatment is discontinued, women at high risk for endometrial cancer have life expectancy losses from tamoxifen unless they are at a very high risk for breast cancer. The authors conclude that tamoxifen use among postmenopausal women is associated with substantial life expectancy gains. However, this benefit is modulated in women at increased endometrial cancer risk and depends on assumptions concerning tamoxifen's lingering effects on breast and endometrial cancer.
Oral flecainide acetate was administered to 34 patients with documented symptomatic paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) with a double-blind, placebo-controlled, 8-week crossover trial design. PSVT was defined as a regular tachycardia of at least 120 beats/min without evidence of atrioventricular dissociation. The study required considerable patient cooperation. Patients first entered a 4-week qualifying phase followed by a 3-week, open label, flecainide dose-ranging phase. They were then randomized in a blind fashion to receive either placebo or tolerated flecainide dose for an 8-week treatment period and then crossed over after four symptomatic documented episodes of PSVT or at the end of the treatment period. By all efficacy parameters analyzed, flecainide was superior to placebo. Flecainide was associated with an actuarial 79% freedom from symptomatic PSVT events compared with only 15% on placebo at 60 days (p less than 0.001). Of the 34 patients, 29 had recurrence of symptomatic PSVT at least once during the placebo phase; only eight patients had a recurrence during the flecainide phase (p less than 0.001). The median time to the first symptomatic PSVT event was 11 days in the placebo group and greater than 55 days in the flecainide group (p less than 0.001). Likewise, the interval between attacks was a median of 12 days on placebo compared with more than 55 days on flecainide (p less than 0.001). Finally, the flecainide slowed symptomatic PSVT heart rates to 143 +/- 12 beats/min from 178 +/- 12 on placebo (p less than 0.02) in the seven patients who had events in the placebo and flecainide treatment phases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acyclovir-induced nephrotoxicity is well known, but published literature lacks information on the safety of substitution with other antiviral agents. We describe four patients with acyclovir-induced renal toxicity that were subsequently managed with hydration and famciclovir. All four patients subsequently had improvements in their symptoms with full recovery of their baseline renal function.
The relation between pretreatment serum sodium concentration and the early and late effects of captopril was examined in 77 consecutive patients with severe chronic heart failure, in whom cardiac catheterization was performed during initiation of treatment and after 2 to 8 weeks. Two groups of patients were defined: 37 patients had hyponatremia (serum sodium less than 135 mEq/liter, group A) and 40 patients had a normal serum sodium concentration (greater than or equal to 135 mEq/liter, group B). With first doses of captopril, patients in group A showed more marked hemodynamic responses than did patients in group B (p less than 0.02). The changes in mean arterial pressure and left ventricular filling pressure seen with first doses of the drug varied linearly and inversely with the pretreatment serum sodium concentration (r = -0.58 and r = -0.53, respectively); this was likely related to the finding that, before administration of captopril, the serum sodium concentration varied linearly and inversely with the logarithm of the plasma renin activity (r = -0.78). However, the pretreatment serum sodium concentration did not predict the long-term hemodynamic or clinical responses to converting enzyme inhibition. Symptomatic hypotension occurred early in the course of therapy (within 24 hours of initiating captopril therapy) in 9 (12%) of the 77 patients; 8 of these 9 had severe hyponatremia (serum sodium less than 130 mEq/liter) and comprised 53% of the 15 patients in our study with such low serum sodium concentrations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Several recent studies have attributed the occurrence of acute myopathy in intensive care unit patients to the combination of corticosteroids and neuromuscular junction blocking agents (NMBAs) used for mechanical ventilation. We present 4 patients who developed acute myopathy after administration of high doses of glucocorticoids during sedation with propofol without any NMBAs. All patients had elevated creatine kinase levels. Electrophysiological studies indicated normal motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities but reduced motor nerve response amplitudes. Needle electromyography identified abnormal spontaneous activity; motor unit potentials were polyphasic of low amplitude and short duration, characteristic of a myopathic process. Muscle biopsy demonstrated a prominent acute necrotizing myopathy in all 4 patients with a loss of thick filaments. Our observations support glucocorticoids rather than NMBAs as the main offending drug in acute corticosteroid myopathy. The predisposing factor should be the hypersensitivity of paralyzed muscles to corticosteroids regardless of the drug inducing paralysis: NMBAs or propofol.
In assays of Areca-specific N-nitrosamines, 3-(methylnitrosamino)propionaldehyde (MNPA) exhibits higher cytotoxicity than nitrosoguvacine (NGC), nitrosoguvacoline (NG) and 3-(methylnitrosamino)propionitrile (MNPN). NGC is not mutagenic. However, NG is a weak carcinogen in F344 rats while MNPN is a potent carcinogen; MNPA had thus far not been tested. In this study MNPA was injected s.c. at a dose of 6.57 mg three times weekly for 15 weeks (total dose 2.6 mmol/rat). During the 100 weeks of the bioassay, the treated F344 rats, and especially the females, showed significantly less weight gain than the control animals, indicating high toxicity for MNPA at the tested dose. Upon termination of the bioassay, the MNPA-treated animals were found to have tumors of the lung, liver, nasal cavity, forestomach and kidneys. The control animals showed no tumors in these organs. The incidence of lung tumors in the MNPA group was statistically significant (P less than 0.025). The results of this study show that MNPA is a carcinogen in F344 rats.
We report two siblings with Roberts syndrome (RBS), and an attempt to delineate the underlying molecular mechanism leading to familial recurrence.
Cytogenetic studies and direct sequencing of the ESCO2 gene were carried out in the second affected fetus and the parents. Fetal DNA was obtained from amniocytes after amniocentesis. Parental DNA was obtained from peripheral blood samples.
Cytogenetic analysis of amniocytes revealed a normal male karyotype in 20 analyzed metaphases and chromosomal aneuploidies in 10 metaphases. All metaphases displayed premature separation of centromeres and puffing of heterochromatic regions near the centromere. A homozygous mutation leading to a frameshift in ESCO2 was identified in the fetal DNA sample. Both parents are heterozygous carriers of the same mutation.
The present case demonstrates the prenatal diagnosis of RBS associated with a frameshift mutation in ESCO2.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with phenacetin, phenazone or caffeine in the diet or with combinations of these chemicals for up to 117 weeks. Twenty of twenty-eight rats receiving caffeine only developed moderate to severe myocardial fibrosis compared with five control rats, in spite of the fact that the control rats had a sixteen weeks longer average life-span. Four caffeine-treated rats had histologic evidence of acute myocardial infarction which was not found in any of the other rats. Forty percent of the rats treated with caffeine only or with caffeine and phenacetin in combination were found to have periarteritis nodosa-like lesions in the mesenteric vessels. Seventy-nine percent of the rats treated with caffeine only and 52 percent of those treated with caffeine and phenacetin died from cardiovascular disease, compared with 17 percent among the control rats. Thus, long-term administration of caffeine to Sprague-Dawley rats is associated with markedly reduced life-span due to cardiovascular disease.
Exposure to benzene, a human and animal carcinogen, results in the formation of structural chromosomal aberrations in the bone marrow and blood cells of animals and humans. The mechanisms underlying these clastogenic effects are unknown. Inhibition of enzymes involved in DNA replication and repair, such as topoisomerase enzymes, by the metabolites of benzene represents a potential mechanism for the formation of chromosomal aberrations. To test this hypothesis, the inhibitory effects of various phenolic and quinone metabolites of benzene on the activity of human topoisomerases I and II were studied in vitro. No inhibition of topoisomerase I was seen with any of the tested metabolites. Inhibitory effects on topoisomerase II were not observed for hydroquinone, phenol, 2,2'-biphenol, 4,4'-biphenol and catechol at concentrations as high as 500 microM. 1,4-Benzoquinone and 1,2,4-benzenetriol inhibited topoisomerase II at relatively high 500 and 250 microM concentrations, respectively. However following bioactivation using a peroxidase/H2O2 system, inhibitory effects were seen at concentrations as low as 50 microM for both phenol and 2,2'-biphenol and 10 microM for 4,4'-biphenol. The addition of reduced glutathione (GSH) to the 4,4'-biphenol and horseradish peroxidase reaction system protected topoisomerase II from inhibition suggesting that diphenoquinone or another oxidation product formed from 4,4'-biphenol might be the reactive species. These in vitro results indicate that inhibition of topoisomerase II may contribute to the clastogenic and carcinogenic effects of benzene. In addition, metabolites formed from these phenolic compounds appear to represent several new types of topoisomerase II-inhibiting compounds.
Patients with eating disorders often use diuretics to eliminate fluid to achieve lower body weight. Diuretic abuse can lead to severe hyponatremia. Central pontine myelinolysis, a disruption of the myelinated neurons of the pons, has been associated with rapid correction of severe hyponatremia. A case is presented of a 35-year-old woman who was brought to the emergency service by ambulance complaining of vomiting for 7 days and that she could not hear well because she was 'worn out'. Initial laboratory values included serum Na 91 mEq/l, K 1.6, Cl 46, bicarbonate 33, BUN 4 mg/dl, glucose 306 mg/dl. After 32 h of intravenous fluids, the serum Na was 126, K 4.0, Cl 89, bicarbonate 25, glucose 118 mg/dl. On the 3rd hospital day the serum Na was 139. On the 4th hospital day she was alert and appropriate. On the 5th hospital day, however, she was confabulating and chatty. The serum Na was 139. She progressed to develop a spastic quadriparesis, speech and swallowing difficulties. A magnetic resonance imaging scan showed central pontine myelinolysis. She acknowledged taking 400 mg daily of furosemide and drinking much water. She had a past history of anorexia nervosa. She had a residual weight phobia and strove to keep her weight below 106 lb. Her height was 5 feet, 6 inches. As illustrated by this case, diuretic abuse can cause severe hyponatremia and the subsequent risk of central pontine myelinolysis. In patients with severe chronic or subacute hyponatremia, a safe restoration rate for serum Na has been less than 0.55 mEq/l/h. Serum Na should be below 135 within the first 48 h and hypernatremia should be avoided.
Coumarin skin necrosis is a rare and usually unpredictable complication of coumarin therapy, occasionally leading to death. Onset is usually between the third and sixth day of coumarin therapy. The patient most commonly complains of pain in a region of abundant subcutaneous fat, with progression to erythema, petechiae, and gangrenous necrosis. Thrombosis of the dermal and the subcutaneous veins is demonstrated pathologically. We describe a case and review the pathogenesis, treatment, and prevention of this lesion.
The homozygous knockout mouse for the beta3 subunit of the GABAA receptor has been proposed as a model for the neurodevelopmental disorder, Angelman syndrome, based on phenotypic similarities of craniofacial abnormalities, cognitive defects, hyperactivity, motor incoordination, disturbed rest-activity cycles, and epilepsy. Since most children with Angelman syndrome are autosomal heterozygotes of maternal origin, apparently through genomic imprinting, we used gabrb3-deficient heterozygote mice of defined parental origin to investigate whether this phenotype is also maternally imprinted in mouse. Whole brain extracts showed greatly reduced beta3 subunit levels in male mice of maternal origin but not in male mice of paternal origin. Females of both parental origin showed greatly reduced beta3 subunit levels. Heterozygotes did not exhibit hyperactive circling behavior, convulsions, or electrographically recorded seizures. EEGs showed qualitative differences among heterozygotes, with male mice of maternal origin demonstrating more abnormalities including increased theta activity. Ethosuximide inhibited theta bursts, suggesting an alteration in the thalamocortical relay. Carbamazepine induced EEG slowing in males and EEG acceleration in females, with a larger effect in paternal-origin heterozygotes. Evidence thus suggests both parent-of-origin and gender-related components in developmental regulation of beta3 expression, in particular, that the maternally-derived male heterozygote may carry a developmental modification resulting in less beta3 protein, which may reflect partial genomic imprinting of the gabrb3 gene in mice.
In a female with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, inadvertent doxorubicin administration intrathecally caused severe, life-threatening, acute encephalopathy with high-pressure hydrocephalus. Ventriculo-peritoneal shunting led to complete reversal of hydrocephalus with progressive disappearance of the acute encephalopathy.
RP-HPLC-ESI-MS profile of naturally occurring salivary peptides of subjects with autistic spectrum disorder [ASD; N = 27:12 with diagnosis of autism, 1 with diagnosis of Asperger, 14 with diagnosis of pervasive developmental disorders not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS)] was compared to that of age-matched controls with the goal of identifying differences that could turn out to become hallmarks of at least a subgroup of ASD individuals. Phosphorylation level of four specific salivary phospho-peptides, namely statherin, histatin 1 (both, p < 0.0001) and acidic proline-rich proteins (both entire and truncated isoforms) (p < 0.005) was found significantly lower in autistic patients, with hypo-phosphorylation of at least one peptide observed in 18 ASD subjects (66%). Developmental scale assessment (Griffith or WISC-R) carried out on 14 ASD subjects highlighted a normal to borderline cognitive development in 10 of them, all included in the hypo-phosphorylated group. Phosphorylation of salivary peptides involves a Golgi casein kinase common to many organs and tissues, CNS included, whose expression seems to be synchronized during fetal development. Hypo-phosphorylation of salivary peptides suggests potential asynchronies in the phosphorylation of other secretory proteins, which could be relevant in CNS development either during embryonic development or in early infancy. These results suggest that analysis of salivary phospho-peptides might help to discriminate a considerable subgroup of ASD patients.
Adverse reactions to aspirin, a potentially hepatotoxic drug, are believed to be dose related. This article reviews the medical literature and described two children with aspirin hepatitis. Hepatic dysfunction recurred in one of these patients at salicylate concentrations in serum previously considered nontoxic.
The mRNA levels of four immediate early genes (IEG) were measured in rat brain regions 60 min after administration of pilocarpine (30 mg/kg) to lithium-treated (3 mmol/kg) rats, during generalized convulsive status epilepticus. Northern blots demonstrated induction of the genes in the order of c-fos = jun-B > c-jun > jun-D with large increases in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and striatum, a smaller increase in the cerebellum, and less in the brainstem. The mRNA levels of these four IEG were measured in rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus at several times after administration of the cholinergic agonist pilocarpine (5 or 30 mg/kg) with or without lithium pretreatment (3 mmol/kg, 16 h prior, or chronic 4 week dietary administration). Treatment with pilocarpine (30 mg/kg) alone increased mRNA levels in the order of c-fos > jun-B > c-jun but did not change the jun-D mRNA level, and maximal c-fos and jun-B mRNA levels occurred earlier (30 min) in the cortex than in the hippocampus. Treatment with the lower dose of pilocarpine (5 mg/kg) alone caused only small increases in c-fos and jun-B mRNA levels and these responses were unaffected by lithium pretreatment. Lithium pretreatment potentiated IEG expression induced by 30 mg/kg pilocarpine, likely as a result of the seizures caused by this combination of drugs because pretreatment with anticonvulsants (diazepam or MK-801) blocked seizures and the enhanced IEG mRNA levels. The mRNA levels were increased during seizures in the order of c-fos > jun-B > c-jun > jun-D in the hippocampus and jun-B > c-fos > c-jun > jun-D in the cortex, and were increased for a longer duration as well as to a greater extent than after administration of pilocarpine alone. Administration of pilocarpine (30 mg/kg) to rats treated chronically with lithium caused increases similar to those measured with acute lithium pretreatment. Thus the induction of IEG by cholinergic stimulation varied with dose, time, and brain region, and unique responses were observed for each of the IEG. Lithium pretreatment did not impair IEG expression induced by the lower dose of pilocarpine and greatly enhanced expression of IEG after administration of the higher dose of pilocarpine concomitant with seizure activity.
The results of recent research indicate that agonist replacement may be a viable option in the treatment of cocaine dependence. For example, d-amphetamine and modafinil have shown promise in managing cocaine dependence in preliminary clinical trials. The aim of this study was to determine the physiological and subject-rated effects of acute intranasal cocaine doses during chronic atomoxetine treatment. Atomoxetine was chosen because it produces pharmacological and subject-rated effects similar to those of prototypical stimulants and thus may also be a viable agonist replacement therapy. To this end, seven cocaine-dependent subjects were maintained on doses of atomoxetine (0mg [lead in], 5, 10, 20 and 0mg [washout], four times daily) for 3-5 days prior to completing experimental sessions in which ascending doses of intranasal cocaine (4, 20, 40 and 60 mg) were administered. Cocaine produced prototypical cardiovascular and subject-rated effects. Atomoxetine attenuated the systolic pressure increasing effects and enhanced the heart rate increasing effects of cocaine, but was otherwise devoid of effects. These results indicate that cocaine is well tolerated during atomoxetine maintenance. Further research is needed to better determine the effects of atomoxetine and cocaine combinations.
