17 alpha-Ethynyl estradiol-induced cholestasis was used to study the relationship of protein to bile salt transport in liver. The biliary secretion of horseradish peroxidase was unaltered in treated animals despite a 56% reduction in bile flow. Cytochemistry confirmed that estradiol caused no alteration in the handling of tracer. In a second study, the peak biliary secretion of [14C]taurocholate was reduced by approximately 46% in treated animals. The kinetics of 125I-cholyglycylhistamine, a bile salt derivative, were identical to those of taurocholate in control and cholestatic animals. Taurocholate and cholylglycylhistamine secretion were markedly reduced in control animals during competition with unlabeled taurocholate. Quantitative electron microscopic autoradiography with 125I-cholylglycylhistamine revealed a high concentration of grains over the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi complex including associated lysosomes and vesicles. These data demonstrate that estradiol markedly inhibits bile salt transport, but not vesicular transport of horseradish peroxidase. Furthermore, estradiol may alter the movement of bile salts through these organelles.
Cyclophosphamide is used both in the treatment of malignant and non-malignant diseases. Urinary neoplasms secondary to its use have been described. We discuss the case of a patient with panarteritis nodosa treated with cyclophosphamide during 63 months, with a total dose of 210 grams, and that showed a bladder neoplasm 8 years after beginning of the treatment. In patients receiving a total dose of cyclophosphamide over 85 grams, a follow-up of ten years minimum should be performed aimed to the early detection of secondary neoplasms.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNA molecules that function to modulate the expression of target genes, playing important roles in a wide range of physiological and pathological processes. The miRNAs in body fluids have received considerable attention as potential biomarkers of various diseases. In this study, we compared the changes of the plasma miRNA expressions by acute liver injury (hepatocellular injury or cholestasis) and chronic liver injury (steatosis, steatohepatitis and fibrosis) using rat models made by the administration of chemicals or special diets. Using miRNA array analysis, we found that the levels of a large number of miRNAs (121-317 miRNAs) were increased over 2-fold and the levels of a small number of miRNAs (6-35 miRNAs) were decreased below 0.5-fold in all models except in a model of cholestasis caused by bile duct ligation. Interestingly, the expression profiles were different between the models, and the hierarchical clustering analysis discriminated between the acute and chronic liver injuries. In addition, miRNAs whose expressions were typically changed in each type of liver injury could be specified. It is notable that, in acute liver injury models, the plasma level of miR-122, the most abundant miRNA in the liver, was more quickly and dramatically increased than the plasma aminotransferase level, reflecting the extent of hepatocellular injury. This study demonstrated that the plasma miRNA profiles could reflect the types of liver injury (e.g. acute/chronic liver injury or hepatocellular injury/cholestasis/steatosis/steatohepatitis/fibrosis) and identified the miRNAs that could be specific and sensitive biomarkers of liver injury.
Platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa receptors play an inevitable role in platelet aggregation. The GP IIIa gene is polymorphic (PlA1/PlA2) and the presence of a PlA2 allele might be associated with an increased risk for acute coronary syndrome (ACS).
To examine the prevalence of the PlA2 allele in patients with ACS and in subjects with or without aspirin resistance.
The prevalence of the PlA2 allele was assessed in 158 patients with ACS and PlA2 compared with its prevalence in 199 healthy volunteers. The antiplatelet efficacy of aspirin was examined in all patients with ACS, as well as in 69 individuals who had suffered ischemic stroke and in 58 high-risk subjects without any known ischemic vascular events.
PlA2 prevalence was significantly higher in patients with ACS (59/158) than in the control group (51/199; p < 0.05). Carriers of the PlA2 allele had a significantly higher risk of developing ACS, even after an adjustment to the risk factors (OR 5.74; 95% CI 1.75 to 18.8; p = 0.004). The occurrence of the PlA2 allele was significantly higher among patients with aspirin resistance than in subjects who demonstrated an appropriate response to the drug (allele frequencies, 0.21 vs 0.14; p < 0.05). All patients homozygous for the PlA2 allele had an inadequate platelet response to aspirin.
Our results support the hypothesis that carriers of the PlA2 allele might have an increased risk for ACS. PlA2 homozygosity was associated with an inadequate response to aspirin therapy. Our data further suggest that patients with PlA2 allele homozygosity might benefit from antiplatelet therapy based on adenosine diphosphate antagonists throughout secondary treatment for prevention of ACS.
This study measured the objective and subjective neurocognitive effects of a single 10-mg dose of immediate-release oxycodone in healthy, older (> 65 years), and middle-aged (35 to 55 years) adults who were not suffering from chronic or significant daily pain. Seventy-one participants completed 2 separate study days and were blind to medication condition (placebo, 10-mg oxycodone). Plasma oxycodone concentration peaked between 60 and 90 minutes postdose (P < .01) and pupil size, an indication of physiological effects of the medication, peaked at approximately 90 to 120 minutes postdose (P < .01). Significant declines in simple and sustained attention, working memory, and verbal memory were observed at 1 hour postdose compared to baseline for both age groups with a trend toward return to baseline by 5 hours postdose. For almost all cognitive measures, there were no medication by age-interaction effects, which indicates that the 2 age groups exhibited similar responses to the medication challenge. This study suggests that for healthy older adults who are not suffering from chronic pain, neurocognitive and pharmacodynamic changes in response to a 10-mg dose of immediate-release oxycodone are similar to those observed for middle-aged adults.
Study findings indicate that the metabolism, neurocognitive effects, and physical side effects of oral oxycodone are similar for healthy middle-aged and older adults. Therefore, clinicians should not avoid prescribing oral opioids to older adults based on the belief that older adults are at higher risk for side effects than younger adults.
Isoproterenol has been used experimentally and clinically to elicit ischemia. The usefulness of this approach, however, in eliciting regional dysfunction in the presence of mild to moderate single-vessel coronary disease quantitated on the basis of coronary flow reserve measurements has not been previously defined. Open-chest, anesthetized dogs were instrumented with an electromagnetic flow probe, high-fidelity micromanometers, and subendocardial ultrasonic crystals. A rigid, screw occluder was used to produce five subcritical coronary stenoses in each dog associated with varying impairment of postocclusion reactive hyperemia at rest but no impairment of resting coronary blood flow. Regional function at rest and in response to the isoproterenol challenge (0.25 micrograms/kg/min) in nonstenotic and stenotic conditions was assessed. Relative regional function was maintained during the infusion until nearly total loss of coronary flow reserve. With this near-critical stenosis, function was lower than in the nonstenotic state but remained greater than resting control values. Moderate impairments of coronary flow reserve were not associated with isoproterenol-induced deterioration of regional function. In conclusion, detection of impaired coronary flow reserve at rest is a more sensitive index of the severity of a coronary stenosis than is detection of regional dysfunction during isoproterenol challenge. Failure to maintain the expected isoproterenol-induced increase in regional function is manifested only when stenoses are associated with nearly total loss of resting coronary flow reserve. This suggests that the clinical use of isoproterenol challenge is not effective in eliciting regional dysfunction when mild coronary disease is present.
To evaluate the use and problems of alpha-receptor blockade with prazosin among patients in Nigeria with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) who face a prolonged wait for a prostatectomy.
The study comprised 31 patients (mean age 64.4 years, range 55-89) facing a prolonged wait for prostatectomy: in group 1, 14 patients presented in acute urinary retention and had an indwelling urethral catheter; in group 2, six patients had indwelling catheters but removal was deemed necessary to control urinary tract infection: in group 3, 11 patients had troublesome symptoms from BPH but no retention. Some of the patients were also hypertensive. After receiving I mg of prazosin twice daily, the catheters were removed at various intervals and the effect on symptom scores and residual urine volume determined after one week and 2 months.
Prazosin allowed the catheters to be removed, improved the symptoms of prostatism and/or controlled high blood pressure in seven, five and nine patients in each group, respectively.
The use of this alpha blocker for BPH in the absence of facilities to measure urinary flow rate, intravesical pressure and serum prostate specific antigen can be justified for short periods. However, a large default rate among these patients raises additional questions about long-term safety and underlines the importance of selecting patients carefully.
Prostate cancer, the most commonly diagnosed cancer among American men, develops slowly over many years. The long latent period of 20 to 30 years, involved in the multistep process of carcinogenesis, provides an important opportunity to block or reverse progression to a malignant state. Vitamin A (retinoids) and vitamin D not only have the ability to block steps in the process of carcinogenesis but they can also modulate or reverse some malignant characteristics of cancer cells. However, at high levels, vitamins A and D have undesirable side effects, thus, limiting effective dose levels and efficacy. Therefore, combination treatment at low doses, to increase efficacy and avoid toxicity, is of special interest. This study examines the effects of the synthetic retinoid N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)retinamide (4-HPR) in combination with cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) on growth, and on the expression of vimentin, matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), and retinoid and vitamin D receptor expression, using the non-tumorigenic, human prostate epithelial cell line RWPE-1. Treatment with 4-HPR and cholecalciferol resulted in synergistic growth inhibition when compared to that caused by each agent alone. A decrease in vimentin expression and MMP-2 activity, and up-regulation of vitamin D receptor (VDR) and some of the retinoid-X (RXRs) and retinoic acid receptor (RARs) subtypes, was observed. These results suggest that combined treatment with 4-HPR and cholecalciferol, at doses lower than what might be effective with single agents, increases their efficacy and suggest that this may serve as an effective strategy for chemoprevention and treatment of prostate cancer.
To find hepatic markers of perinatal asphyxia.
Variations in blood ammonia during the first week of life and in transaminase in serum during the first 48 hours were analysed in four groups of newly born infants (NBI): Group I or control, in which 65 NBI were included, with suspected unconfirmed infection and no other pathologies; Group II, made up of 15 NBI with loss of foetal well being (LFW) with no posterior neurological clinical features; Group III, consisting of 27 NBI with LFW criteria and mild hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE); and Group IV, with 25 NBI with LFW criteria and mild HIE according to Amiel s criteria.
The average blood ammonia values in full term infants remain steady during the first week of life (87.66 21.69 mg/dL), as occurs in infants with LFW but without HIE (89.08 24.69 mg/dL) and in those with mild HIE (89.08 20.75 mg/dL). In moderate HIE, the blood ammonia level rises until the third day (108.55 7.04 mg/dL) and then drops back to the initial values (p= 0.0045). When grouped by days, these values show significant differences (p= 0.04), with higher values in Group IV. The NBI with HIE presented higher levels of transaminases, especially of AST (GOT) (p= 0.000001), and this increase is proportional to its gravity. No relation was found between values of blood ammonia and transaminases.
Both blood ammonia and transaminases can be considered to be perinatal asphyxia markers.
Administration of morphine or its derivatives is the traditional way to treat biliary pain. Despite the common use of morphine and its analogues in patients with cholecystitis and biliary pain, their effects on the function of the inflamed gallbladder are not known. In the present study it is demonstrated that morphine usually contracts the normal gallbladder but does not influence the fluid transport across the mucosa. In experimental cholecystitis morphine and enkephaline do not further contract the gallbladder but, by specific opioid receptors, reduce the inflammatory fluid secretion by the mucosa. In case of obstruction of the gallbladder, fluid secretion by the mucosa will distend its wall and induce biliary pain. It is suggested that the pain-relieving effect of morphine in cholecystitis and attacks of biliary pain is mediated not only by a central analgesic effect but also by an influence on the function of the inflamed gallbladder.
5 cases of allergic contact dermatitis due to budesonide are described. We studied the antigen determinant structures in these cases by applying patch tests with several substances related to budesonide. 2 cases showed cross-reactions to both amcinonide and prednisolone acetate. The antigen determinant structure is also discussed.
Prostaglandin E1 has hepatoprotective properties in several clinical and experimental models of liver dysfunction. Hepatotoxicity induced by D-galactosamine (D-GalN) is a suitable animal model of human acute hepatic failure. The aim of the study was to investigate if prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) protection against hepatic D-GalN-induced apoptosis was related to tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) content in serum. This cytokine is associated with in vitro apoptosis and general inflammatory disorders. In this study, PGE1 was administered 30 min before D-GalN to rats. In other experiments, several doses of TNF-alpha were administered 15min after PGE1 to D-Ga1N-treated rats. Several parameters related to apoptosis and necrosis were measured by flow cytometry, gel electrophoresis, biochemical analysis, and optical and electron microscopy. Tumour necrosis factor-alpha was quantified by competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). PGE1 by itself did not modify the cell cycle of hepatocytes and liver toxicity, but increased TNF-alpha in serum in comparison with the control group. D-Galactosamine increased the percentage of hepatocytes in apoptosis and in the S phase of the cell cycle, and decreased those in G0/G1. Such an increase of hepatocytes in apoptosis was correlated with a higher number of apoptotic bodies and DNA fragmentation in liver than control samples. Also, D-GalN increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase and TNF-alpha in serum compared with the control group. Pre-administration of PGE1 to D-GalN-treated rats reduced all the parameters of apoptosis and necrosis in liver, and increased additionallyTNF-alpha content in serum. In those experiments where low doses of TNF-alpha were administered to PGE1 and D-GalN-treated rats an inverse relationship appeared between TNF-alpha and ALT content in serum. In conclusion, the protective effects of PGE1 on D-GalN-induced apoptosis may be linked to its capacity to modulate cell division and/or its immunomodulatory activity. In this sense, our experimental results suggest that TNF-alpha could be involved in protection or exacerbation of liver damage in relation to the pathophysiological status of the liver.
Several excretory pathways for cholephilic compounds have been known. To examine the changes in excretory pathways in cholestasis induced by ethinyloestradiol, various bile acids, organic anions and organic cations were intravenously administered to ethinyloestradiol-treated rats and their biliary excretion was studied. Biliary excretion of taurocholate was slightly delayed, but its excretory maximum was markedly decreased. Biliary excretion of lithocholate-3-O-glucuronide, leukotriene C4, sulphobromophthalein and pravastatin was markedly impaired to a similar extent. Biliary excretion of vinblastine, a P-glycoprotein substrate, was increased, suggesting increased expression of P-glycoprotein. In contrast, biliary excretion of erythromycin, a cationic antibiotic, was markedly impaired. In conclusion, ethinyloestradiol treatment altered the biliary excretion of organic compounds, which may partly be related to changes of the canalicular transporters.
Two studies of systolic time intervals (STIs) in patients with mild to moderate hypertension (HBP) revealed that no mean change in systolic intervals occurred with pindolol therapy, although some patients had significant alterations in their STIs. Pindolol responders with normal pretreatment preejection period to left ventricular ejection time (PEP/LVET) ratios had a significant increase in this ratio following pindolol therapy, whereas those with abnormal pretreatment PEP/LVET ratios had improvement in this ratio on administration of the drug. Patients on propranolol showed no change in PEP/LVET ratio. Propranolol administration slowed heart rate and lengthened Q-S2, S1-S2, and LVET, however, without altering the Q-S2 and LVET index, indicating that the changes were caused by the effect of propranolol on the heart rate alone. Chlorthalidone in high doses significantly reduced the Q-S2 index and the S1-S2 index, indicating that these changes were not caused by alteration of the heart rate. The second study suggests that STIs may provide a predictive clue for clinical response to pindolol. Patients with normal cardiac function (group I) are more likely to respond to pindolol than are those with abnormal cardiac function (group II). Directionally opposite changes in STIs in the two subgroups suggest different mechanisms for changing cardiac function. Pindolol's dual role as a beta-blocking agent with intrinsic sympathomimetic activity is proposed as a possible explanation, beta-blocking effects predominating in group I and sympathomimetic activity balancing the beta effect in group II.
In this paper, we study the effect of cocaine use by a pregnant woman on the growth of her infant after birth. Using a data set from a retrospective study, we found that cocaine use was a marginally significant contributor to the infant growth as measured by bodyweight. From a statistical point of view, the data represent a common, though complex, structure that has received little attention in the statistical literature. To analyze these data, we adopt and further enhance an approach developed recently called MASAL (multivariate adaptive splines for the analysis of longitudinal data). In addition to the fitting of growth curves, we demonstrate particularly how to explore and estimate the underlying covariance structures for the longitudinal data that were collected from a rather irregular schedule.
Although many studies of lindane toxicity have been carried out, we still know little about the underlying molecular mechanisms. We used a microarray specifically designed for studies of the hepatotoxic effects of xenobiotics to evaluate the effects of lindane on specific gene expression in primary cultured rat hepatocytes. These genes were assigned to detoxication processes (CYP3A4, Gsta2, CYP4A1), cell signalling pathways and apoptosis (Eif2b3, Eif2b4, PKC). In this study, we demonstrate that lindane up-regulates PKC by increasing oxidative stress. TEMPO (a well known free radical scavenger) and Ro 31-8220 (an inhibitor of classical PKCs) prevented the inhibition of spontaneous and intrinsic apoptosis pathway (characterised by Bcl-xL induction, Bax down-regulation, caspases inhibition) and the induction of necrosis by lindane in rat hepatocytes. Thus, these findings indicate that several dependent key signalling pathways, including detoxification, apoptosis, PKC activity and redox status maintenance, contribute to lindane-induced toxicity in primary cultured rat hepatocytes. This may account more clearly for the acute and chronic effects of lindane in vivo, with the induction of cell death and tumour promotion, respectively.
Although all beta blockers have been found to be effective in the symptomatic relief of angina pectoris, the importance of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA) has not been studied extensively. In a randomized, double-blind study, we administered equipotent doses of propranolol (10, 20, and 40 mg four times a day) and pindolol (2.5, 5, and 10 mg four times a day), a beta blocker with significant ISA, to 52 patients with angina. Both agents were found to be effective in the treatment of angina. At peak dose, propranolol reduced the number of angina attacks per 2 weeks from 29.29 +/- 4.79 to 18.0 +/- 4.4 (p = 0.021) (a 39% reduction) and increased the exercise tolerance on the treadmill from 7.55 +/- 0.67 METS to 9.36 +/- 0.58 (p = 0.002). Pindolol decreased the number of anginal attacks per 2 weeks from 16.48 +/- 2.63 to 8.65 +/- 2.46 (p = 0.0027) (a 48% reduction) and increased exercise tolerance from 7.95 +/- 0.56 METS to 9.40 +/- 0.57 (p = 0.0245). At the end of the maximum tolerated exercise, propranolol decreased the heart rate from 110.00 +/- 3.41 to 99.71 +/- 3.74 (p = 0.0015). Pindolol also decreased the heart rate at the maximum tolerated exercise from 113.59 +/- 3.24 to 108.12 +/- 3.16 (p = 0.0102). At rest, however, propranolol induced a more pronounced (p = 0.0066) decrease in heart rate (from 69.00 +/- 1.85 to 61.50 +/- 1.99; p = 0.0018), whereas pindolol did not significantly affect the resting heart rate (65.37 +/- 1.47 to 65.5 +/- 1.44; p = 0.9392). In addition propranolol decreased echocardiographically determined ejection fraction from 0.57 +/- 0.02 to 0.15 +/- 0.01 (p = 0.04) and increased the left ventricular end-diastolic volume from 71.8 +/- 3.2 to 92.2 +/- 1.9 ml (p = 0.003), whereas pindolol did not affect the ejection fraction and caused a less pronounced (p = 0.03) increase in end-diastolic volume (from 70.8 +/- 1.8 to 80.2 +/- 2.8; p = 0.02). The data indicate that both propranolol and pindolol are effective in the treatment of angina pectoris and that pindolol decreases the resting heart rate and ejection fraction and increases the left ventricular end-diastolic volume to a lesser extent than propranolol.
To investigate the possible mechanism of the electroacupuncture for improvement of learning and memory in rats of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Sixty Wistar rats were randomly divided into a normal group, a normal saline group, a model group, a western medication group and an electroacupuncture group, 12 rats in each group. The AD rat model was established by injecting Streptozocin (STZ) into lateral cerebral ventricle, except the rats in the normal saline group injecting Normal Saline with the same dose and in normal group with no injection. The western medication group was treated with intragastric administration of Memantine, and in the electroacupuncture group, the electroacupuncture was given at "Baihui" (GV 20), "Dazhui" (CV 14), "Taixi" (KI 3), "Shenshu" (BL 23), "Zusanli" (ST 36), once each day, 7 days for a course, and lasted for 4 courses. The other three groups were fed in routine way and without any treatment. The learning and memory ability was assessed by Morris water maze and the expression of Abeta positive cells of the hippocampus and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were determined by immunohistochemistry and visible spectrophotometer colorimetry.
Compared with the normal group and the normal saline group, the Abeta protein expression was significantly increased in the model group (both P < 0.01), and the SOD activity was obviously decreased (both P < 0.01). After treatment, as compared with the model group, the Abeta protein expression was significantly decreased (both P < 0.01), and the SOD activity was obviously increased (both P < 0.01) in the electroacupuncture group and western medication group.
Electroacupuncture treatment can reduce the Abeta protein expression and increase the SOD activity of the hippocampus so as to improve learning and memory ability in the AD rats.
We evaluated the relationship between nitric oxide and hyperbaric oxygenation in the pathogenesis and treatment of cyclophosphamide induced hemorrhagic cystitis in rats.
Cyclophosphamide (100 mg/kg) was injected in male Sprague-Dawley rats for cystitis induction. Animals were treated before and the day after cyclophosphamide injection with 100 mg/kg of the nitric oxide substrate L-arginine, 20 mg/kg of the nonselective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester and 20 mg/kg of the selective inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitor S-methylisothiourea. Animals were exposed to hyperbaric oxygen (2.8 atmospheres absolute for 90 minutes twice daily) with or without the administration of L-arginine and nitric oxide synthase inhibitors.
Cyclophosphamide injection resulted in severe cystitis. S-methylisothiourea produced marked inhibition of cyclophosphamide induced bladder tissue damage. L-arginine and L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester failed to a show meaningful protective effect. Hyperbaric oxygen protected the bladder only against ulceration. Moreover, hyperbaric oxygen did not contribute to the protective effects of L-arginine, L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester or S-methylisothiourea.
Nitric oxide produced by inducible nitric oxide synthase is an important mediator in the pathogenesis of cyclophosphamide induced cystitis. Hyperbaric oxygen has a beneficial effect on repairing bladder damage rather than on bladder protection.
Puerarin (PU), a natural flavonoid, has been reported to have many benefits and medicinal properties. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of puerarin on hepatic oxidative stress and hyperlipidemia in rats exposed to lead. Our data showed that puerarin significantly prevented lead-induced hepatotoxicity, indicated by both diagnostic indicators of liver damage (serum aminotransferase levels) and histopathological analysis. Moreover, lead-induced profound elevation of ROS production and oxidative stress, as evidenced by increasing of lipid peroxidation level, reducing of GPx, GST, GR and GCL activities and depleting of intracellular reduced GSH level in liver, were suppressed by treatment with puerarin. Furthermore, the increase of serum cholesterol, triglycerides and LDL induced by lead was effectively suppressed by puerarin. The HDL level in the lead treatment rats was also increased by puerarin. Western blot analysis showed that puerarin remarkably inhibited hyperlipidemia by regulating the expression of cholesterol 7a-hydroxylase (CYP7A1), 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGR) and low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDL-R) in liver of lead treated rats. Altogether, these results suggest that puerarin could protect the lead-induced liver injury and hyperlipidemia by reducing ROS production, renewing the activities of antioxidant enzymes and influencing expression of hepatic lipid biosynthesis and metabolism genes.
Exposure to chlorine (Cl2) gas during industrial accidents or chemical warfare leads to significant airway and distal lung epithelial injury that continues post exposure. While lung epithelial injury is prevalent, relatively little is known about whether Cl2 gas also promotes injury to the pulmonary vasculature. To determine this, rats were subjected to a sub-lethal Cl2 gas exposure (400 ppm, 30 min) and then brought back to room air. Pulmonary arteries (PA) were isolated from rats at various times post-exposure and contractile (phenylephrine) and nitric oxide (NO)-dependent vasodilation (acetylcholine and mahmanonoate) responses measured ex vivo. PA contractility did not change, however significant inhibition of NO-dependent vasodilation was observed that was maximal at 24-48 h post exposure. Superoxide dismutase restored NO-dependent vasodilation suggesting a role for increased superoxide formation. This was supported by ∼2-fold increase in superoxide formation (measured using 2-hydroethidine oxidation to 2-OH-E+) from PA isolated from Cl2 exposed rats. We next measured PA pressures in anesthetized rats. Surprisingly, PA pressures were significantly (∼4 mmHg) lower in rats that had been exposed to Cl2 gas 24 h earlier suggesting that deficit in NO-signaling observed in isolated PA experiments did not manifest as increased PA pressures in vivo. Administration of the iNOS selective inhibitor 1400W, restored PA pressures to normal in Cl2 exposed, but not control rats suggesting that any deficit in NO-signaling due to increased superoxide formation in the PA, is offset by increased NO-formation from iNOS. These data indicate that disruption of endogenous NO-signaling mechanisms that maintain PA tone is an important aspect of post-Cl2 gas exposure toxicity.
1,4-Bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]benzene (TCPOBOP), an agonist of constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), is a well-known strong primary chemical mitogen for the mouse liver. Despite extensive investigation of the role of CAR in the regulation of cell proliferation, our knowledge of the intricate mediating mechanism is incomplete. In this study, we demonstrated that long-term CAR activation by TCPOBOP increased liver-to-body weight ratio and decreased tumour suppressor Foxo1 expression and transcriptional activity, which were correlated with reduced expression of genes regulated by Foxo1, including the cell-cycle inhibitor Cdkn1a(p21), and upregulation of the cell-cycle regulator Cyclin D1. Moreover, we demonstrated the negative regulatory effect of TCPOBOP-activated CAR on the association of Foxo1 with the target Foxo1 itself and Cdkn1a(p21) promoters. Thus, we identified CAR-mediated repression of cell cycle inhibitor p21, as mediated by repression of FOXO1 expression and transcriptional activity. CAR-FOXO1 cross-talk may provide new opportunities for understanding liver diseases and developing more effective therapeutic approaches to better drug treatments.
To observe the ultrastructure of the strains of acanthamoeba isolated from acanthamoeba keratitis (AK), the morphologic changes of acanthamoeba after culture with 0.02% chlorhexidine, and ultrastructure characteristics of acanthamoeba in corneal tissue of AK.
It was a experimental study. The ultrastructure of acanthamoeba strains cultured with 0.02% chlorhexidine was observed with scanning electron microscope (SEM). The excited cornea tissues from AK were observed with transmission electron microscope (TEM).
Cultured acanthamoeba trophozoites were approximately 15 - 45 microm in diameter, appeared irregularly round or oval in shape, with rough surface and intrusion of cytoplasm. The trophozoite propagated by ways of binary division. The acanthamoeba cysts were approximately 10 - 25 microm in diameter, round in shape and with a plica-like surface. The acanthamoeba could change from trophozoite to cyst. The amoeba emerging through ostioles could turn into trophozoite and left an empty cyst. After cultured with 0.02% chlorhexidine for 24 hours, the trophozoite and cyst collapsed and distorted. However, after clinical treatment with 0.02% chlorhexidine, only the cysts could be seen in corneal tissue of AK. Ecto-and endo-cystic walls were preserved, but the cytoplasma was aggregated and the sub-cytoarchitecture were degenerated or disappeared. DISCUSSION Chlorhexidine at a concentration of 0.02% kills acanthamoeba trophozoites and cysts in vitro. Chlorhexidine (0.02%) also kills trophozoites and inhibits the activity of cysts in corneal tissues. However, it should be noticed that the inactive cysts can stay in the cornea for a long time and may cause an immuno-pathologic inflammation of the cornea.
The effect of prodigiozan and pyrimidine derivatives, such as methyluracyl, oxymetacyl and 2-methyl-4-amino-6-hydroxypyrimidine on the efficiency of antibiotic therapy of experimental infections caused by Staph. aures and E. Coli under conditions of immune depression due to levomycetin, prednisolone, 6-mercaptopurine and ionizing radiation was studied. The effect of prodigiozan on the efficiency of the antibiotic treatment of staphylococcal infection in the presence of the immune depression due to 6-mercatopurine, levomycetin and prednisolone was higher than that of pyrimidines. The combined use of prodigiozan and pyrimidines usually was not more effective than the use of every drug alone. The efficiency of the drugs in radiation disease was the same. After prednisolone administration prodigiozan increased the host resistance to the infection without the antibiotic use.
The effect of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 2 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) on behavioral and biochemical changes induced by single and repeated administration of cocaine (45 mg/kg/day, i.p., for 5 days) was investigated in mice. Repeated cocaine produced a progressive increase in the intensity of seizures (a ca. 300% increase in the seizure score on day 5, as compared to day 1), this effect being associated with the enhancement of the proenkephalin mRNA level (ca. 240%) in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. L-NAME had no influence, but when used jointly with cocaine, it markedly attenuated both behavioral and biochemical effects of repeated cocaine. These data suggest that the nitric oxide pathway is involved in the progressive increase in excitability of the central nervous system after repeated cocaine administration.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is still a severe side effect induced by old neuroleptic drugs as well as modern atypical ones. The treatment is inefficient and often experimental. Aim of this study was to examine the effect of pramipexole, a dopamine D3 receptor agonist, in a severe case of oro-facial TD.
The TD of a 21 year old male patient with severe oro-facial occurrence was assessed by the Simpson et al scale before starting pramipexole therapy. Reevaluation was made during therapy and when the maximum dose of 1.44 mg a day was reached. Standard therapy with clozapine, valproic acid, oxazepam, bornaprin hydrochlorid and tiapride was continued as before.
Oral dyskinesia decreased 20 % and no side effects were observed. Regarding psychopathology the patient was more interested in work and showed better concentration in therapies.
Pramipexole could be a new promising add-on therapy in severe TD. Additionally, the low plasma binding and mild side effect profile of pramipexole makes it safe in combination with antipsychotic therapy.
