Cytochrome P450 2A6 (CYP2A6) plays an important role in the oxidation of nicotine and in the activation of tobacco-related carcinogens, such as N-nitrosodimethylamine, N-nitrosodiethylamine and 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone. It has been suggested that individuals with defective CYP2A6 alleles are at a lower risk of becoming smokers and of developing lung and other tobacco-related cancers. We examined the relationship between the CYP2A6 gene deletion and susceptibility to lung and esophageal cancer in a Chinese population via a hospital-based case-control study. The CYP2A6 gene deletion was determined by a PCR-based approach in 326 healthy controls, 149 patients with esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma and 151 patients with lung cancer. The allele frequency of the CYP2A6*4 deletion was 8.6% among controls compared with 8.4% among cases with esophageal squamous-cell carcinoma (p = 0.29) or 13.2% among cases with lung cancer (p < 0.01). Individuals who harbored at least one CYP2A6*4 deletion allele were at a 2-fold increased risk of developing lung cancer (95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.2-3.2) compared with those without a defective CYP2A6 allele. This effect was mainly limited to squamous-cell carcinoma and to non-smokers, although a joint effect of CYP2A6 deletion and tobacco smoking on lung cancer risk was observed among heavy smokers. The overall risk of esophageal cancer did not appear to be associated with this CYP2A6 genetic polymorphism (odds ratio [OR] = 1.2, 95% CI = 0.7-2.1). However, stratified analysis suggested an excess risk with borderline significance (OR = 2.1; 95% CI = 1.0-4.5) related to the CYP2A6*4 allele among non-smokers. The distribution of CYP2A6 genotype frequency was not significantly different (p = 0.40) between smokers (n = 174) and non-smokers (n = 152) in this study population. Our results demonstrate that the CYP2A6 gene deletion is associated with an increased risk of lung and esophageal cancer but not with a reduced tendency to smoke.
Five randomized trials of warfarin stroke prophylaxis in atrial fibrillation have undergone meta-analyses by the Atrial Fibrillation Investigators (AFI) and by the British Columbia Office of Health Technology Assessment (BCOHTA), with differing conclusions. The AFI, using the original data, applied a consistent definition of 'major' bleeding (intracranial, hospitalization or transfusion of at least 2 U of blood) and found an excess of six major bleeding events. The BCOHTA used the definitions used in the studies, including "any medical intervention", and counted an excess of 21 'major' bleeding events. They then compared these with only the most severe one-third of the strokes. The BCOHTA were concerned that lack of blinding may have influenced the diagnosis of mild stroke, but the data do not suggest diagnostic bias. The risk reduction in the BCOHTA analysis of the most severe one-third of strokes was almost identical to that in the remaining strokes. The value of treatment is best assessed by comparing good with bad events of similar impact, and eliminating strokes from analysis does not eliminate them from patients. The BCOHTA analysis confirms the risk reduction demonstrated by the AFI.
To examine the effectiveness and safety of zonisamide in the treatment of acute bipolar depression.
An open-label, prospective, nonrandomized, 8-week study conducted in bipolar outpatients (type I, type II, or not otherwise specified) with depressive symptoms. No patient was manic or mixed at study entry. Previous treatments were continued unchanged, but no new treatments were allowed. Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale and the Mania Rating Scale from the Schedule of Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia-Change Version were used.
Twenty patients (10 men, 10 women) with bipolar disorder (17 type I, 2 type II, 1 NOS), aged 38.1 +/- 8.81 years, received zonisamide at mean dose of 222.5 +/- 85.1 mg/d. Mean Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale scores improved significantly from baseline to endpoint (mean difference = -8.4, 95% confidence interval [4.1, 12.6], P = 0.001). Ten patients (50%) terminated early due to adverse effects, mostly side effects including nausea/vomiting, cognitive impairment, and sedation. One patient experienced increased suicidal ideation, and one patient experienced hypomania.
This study suggests improvement of depressive symptoms in this sample with 8 weeks of open-label zonisamide treatment.
In 22 of 335 consecutive patients (6.6%) referred for evaluation and treatment of sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias, hemodynamic and angiographic findings revealed no structural heart disease. Entry arrhythmia was ventricular fibrillation in 10 patients and sustained ventricular tachycardia in 12 patients. A subgroup of four young patients presented with slow recurrent (during 51 +/- 43 months) sustained ventricular tachycardias that were reproducibly terminated by intravenous application of verapamil. Programmed ventricular stimulation replicated the clinical arrhythmia in nine patients (75%) with ventricular tachycardia. In five patients (50%) with ventricular fibrillation no sustained ventricular arrhythmia could be induced, and only with three extrastimuli in four of the remaining five patients. On hospital discharge, 14 patients received type III antiarrhythmic agents, five patients received type I agents, and one patient received verapamil. Two patients were discharged without medical therapy. During the following 24 +/- 9 months, four patients had recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia. No patient died suddenly during follow-up. We conclude that about 6% of all patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias have apparently normal hearts. These idiopathic tachyarrhythmias seem to have a benign course, at least when treated. Slow, verapamil-sensitive tachycardias of young people may represent a unique entity.
A moderate neuropathic response was obtained in hens 2 weeks after being given a single massive s.c. dose of dichlorvos (100 mg/kg of active ingredient in a commercial 50% formulation). 1 day after dosing inhibition of neurotoxic esterase in peripheral nerve was 79-90%, in spinal cord 70-81% and in brain 89-92%. It is unlikely that repeated exposure of man to dichlorvos could cause neuropathy except at doses causing severe cholinergic effects at every exposure.
A case is presented of a 36-yr-old parturient who developed a total spinal block after an epidural test dose. After placement of an epidural catheter and confirming negative aspiration for blood or CSF, 3 ml lidocaine 1.5% (45 mg), with 1:200,000 epinephrine (15 micrograms) was injected via the catheter over 30 sec. Within two minutes the patient developed hypotension and extensive sensory and motor block including respiratory paralysis and aphonia. She remained fully conscious and alert and spontaneous respiration recommenced in five minutes. A live healthy infant was delivered by emergency Caesarean section shortly afterwards under general anaesthesia and the mother recovered completely without any untoward sequelae.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) affects 3% to 7% of school-age children. Approximately 30% of the children with ADHD also have comorbid anxiety or oppositional defiant disorder. Methylphenidate is the drug of choice for the medical treatment of such cases. When compared with children with ADHD alone, children with comorbid anxiety or oppositional defiant disorder may show worsening of the global attention score in response to methylphenidate and not only a "reduced response," as reported in previous studies. This study included 1122 children diagnosed as ADHD, of which 174 were diagnosed with comorbid anxiety and 141 with comorbid oppositional defiant disorder. All patients performed the Test of Variables of Attention before and after methylphenidate administration. A normal distribution (Gaussian distribution) of reaction to methylphenidate, as measured by the global ADHD score in children diagnosed as pure ADHD, was found. These findings were in contrast to children with ADHD and comorbid anxiety or oppositional defiant disorder who showed a bimodal distribution and hence represent a distinct population. In both groups with comorbid disorders, there was a larger subgroup in which significant worsening of global ADHD score occurred after methylphenidate administration (P < .05). Children with ADHD and comorbid anxiety or oppositional defiant disorder might represent clinically distinct populations in which inattention is secondary to those disorders; therefore, methylphenidate may be an inappropriate treatment for such children.
The effects of prenatal morphine exposure (E11-18) on mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) modulation of synaptic plasticity were investigated in the lateral perforant path (LPP)-dentate gyrus granule cell synaptic system. Hippocampal slices were prepared from adult, prenatally saline- or morphine-exposed male rats. One hour prior to decapitation, some adult male rats were injected subcutaneously with saline or the MR antagonist, canrenoic acid (50 mg/kg). LPP was stimulated with high-frequency (2x100 Hz/0.5 s) and short-term plasticity (STP) and long-term potentiation (LTP) were evaluated at 5 and 30 min poststimulation, respectively. Prenatally saline-exposed male rats injected with saline 1 h prior to decapitation showed significantly higher levels of baseline, STP, and LTP than prenatally saline-exposed, canrenoic acid-treated males. In contrast, prenatally morphine-exposed male rats regardless of saline or canrenoic acid injection 1 h prior to decapitation were comparable in their baseline, STP, and LTP activities. Thus, the results demonstrate that canrenoic acid decreases the efficacy of the basal synaptic transmission in the LPP as well as suppresses synaptic plasticity in saline-exposed males. However, in adult morphine-exposed male rats, canrenoic acid has no other or further effects than a saline treatment suggesting that prenatal morphine exposure suppresses MR-dependent basal synaptic transmission as well as synaptic plasticity.
Pollutants such as benzene are of particular concern since recent research has indicated that exposure to benzene can result in chronic toxicity. However, there are limited data on the effects of benzene exposure on blood pressure. To continue with a previous study, the aim was to determine the degree of exposure to benzene using the classic biomarker, urine phenol, and its correlation with hypertension. From the results of this study, the rate of hypertension in the group with high exposure to benzene (100%) was significantly higher than that in the group with less exposure (49%). A possible mechanism of benzene-induced hypertension could be disturbance of the nitric oxide process, subsequently leading to hypertension. However, the actual mechanism causing hypertension in subjects exposed to benzene requires further study.
Rikkunshito (RKT), a Japanese traditional medicine, has been shown to stimulate food intake in rats with cisplatin-induced anorexia; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. In this study, we investigated whether RKT is involved in the degradation of peripheral ghrelin. RKT inhibited decreases in plasma ghrelin level and enhanced acyl- to desacyl-ghrelin (A/D) ratio in cisplatin-treated rats. Several components of RKT demonstrated inhibitory activity against ghrelin deacylating enzymes. In addition, 10-gingerol, a component of RKT, inhibited exogenous ghrelin deacylation. Therefore, RKT may enhance plasma acyl-ghrelin level, at least in part, by inhibiting the circulating ghrelin degrading enzyme.
The tolerance to two alternative large-dosage strengths of vitamin A preparation was determined in a double-blind study involving 2471 children in two municipalities in the Philippines. Each child, aged 1-6 y, not suffering from active xerophthalmia or from nausea and/or vomiting, headache, diarrhea, and fever, was randomly given 1 mL of a syrupy suspension later identified to contain 0, 60, or 30 mg vitamin A. Clinical evaluation of subjects was done by physicians 24 h and 1 wk after dosing. Nausea and/or vomiting and headache were twice as common among children given 60 mg than those given 30 mg. Severe vomiting (1.2%) was confined to those given 60 mg. Almost all experienced their symptoms within 24 h after dosing; symptoms lasted for no more than 12-24 h. The incidence of diarrhea and fever for vitamin A recipients was not significantly different from that of those receiving placebo.
The best treatment of follicular lymphoma remains to be determined because the long natural history of follicular lymphoma requires mature data for accurate analysis. Although the goal of primary treatment remains durable remission, the sequential application of effective treatments may also result in a prolongation of median survival time. The use of interferon (IFN) with doxorubicin-based chemotherapy has demonstrated an increase of event-free survival but not in overall survival; however, its acute and late cardiac toxicity limits its use. For this reason, we began a controlled clinical trial to assess the efficacy and toxicity of chemotherapy: COPP (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, and procarbazine) + IFN alternating every month for six cycles compared to six cycles of chemotherapy. In an intent-to treat analysis, 55 patients were enrolled (median age 61 years). Most cases (91%) with advanced disease were randomly assigned to chemotherapy + IFN (28 cases) or chemotherapy (27 cases). Complete remission was observed in 16 patients: 59% (95% CI, 53-70%) in the chemotherapy arm compared to 20 patients 71% (95% CI, 58-79%) in the chemotherapy + IFN arm; total responses were 74% and 86%, respectively. At a median follow-up of 60 months, event-free survival was 100% for patients treated with chemotherapy + IFN, which was statistically different from patients treated with chemotherapy 70%. At 7 years, median survival has not yet been reached; 72% of patients chemotherapy + IFN remain alive without disease (95% CI, 59-81%), which is not statistically different from 72% (95%CI, 50-73%) in the chemotherapy arm. Non-hematological toxicity was most frequent and severe in the chemotherapy arm; hematological toxicity was similar in both groups. Thus, it appears that chemotherapy + IFN, as described herein, improves event-free survival but the overall survival rates remain unchanged. The use of COPP appears to be better that anthracycline-based chemotherapy because it avoids the presence of acute and late cardiac toxicity.
Patient perception of overactive bladder (OAB) treatment outcomes can be a useful indicator of benefit and may help drive persistence on treatment, which is known to be poor in OAB. It remains unclear whether OAB patients dissatisfied with one antimuscarinic can achieve satisfaction with another and supporting data are limited. This study investigated patient-reported outcomes and clinical parameters during darifenacin treatment in OAB patients who expressed dissatisfaction with prior extended-release (ER) oxybutynin or tolterodine therapy (administered for >or= 1 week within the past year).
This open-label study was conducted in darifenacin-naïve OAB patients. Patients received 7.5 mg darifenacin once daily with the possibility of up-titrating to 15 mg after 2 weeks, for up to 12 weeks. Efficacy parameters included the Patient's Perception of Bladder Condition (PPBC), patient satisfaction with treatment, micturition frequency and number of urgency and urge urinary incontinence (UUI) episodes. Adverse events (AEs) were also recorded.
In total, 497 patients were treated (84.1% women). Darifenacin treatment resulted in statistically significant improvements in PPBC scores, micturition frequency, urgency and UUI episodes from baseline at 12 weeks. The improvements were similar for patients previously treated with oxybutynin ER or tolterodine ER. More than 85% of patients expressed satisfaction with darifenacin. As noted in other studies, the most common AEs were dry mouth and constipation, but these infrequently resulted in treatment discontinuation, which was low overall.
In this study, PPBC score and OAB symptoms were significantly improved, and satisfaction was high during treatment with darifenacin (7.5/15 mg) in patients who were dissatisfied with the previous antimuscarinic treatment.
Mandibuloacral dysplasia (MAD; OMIM 248370) is a rare, genetically and phenotypically heterogeneous, autosomal recessive disorder characterized by skeletal abnormalities including hypoplasia of the mandible and clavicles, acro-osteolysis, cutaneous atrophy and lipodystrophy. A homozygous missense mutation, Arg527His, in the LMNA gene which encodes nuclear lamina proteins lamins A and C has been reported in patients with MAD and partial lipodystrophy. We studied four patients with MAD who had no mutations in the LMNA gene. We now show compound heterozygous mutations, Phe361fsX379 and Trp340Arg, in the zinc metalloproteinase (ZMPSTE24) gene in one of the four patients who had severe MAD associated with progeroid appearance and generalized lipodystrophy. ZMPSTE24 is involved in post-translational proteolytic cleavage of carboxy terminal residues of farnesylated prelamin A in two steps to form mature lamin A. Deficiency of Zmpste24 in mice causes accumulation of prelamin A and phenotypic features similar to MAD. The yeast homolog, Ste24, has a parallel role in processing of prenylated mating pheromone a-factor. Since human ZMPSTE24 can also process a-factor when expressed in yeast, we assessed the functional significance of the two ZMPSTE24 mutations in the yeast to complement the mating defect of the haploid MATa yeast lacking STE24 and Ras-converting enzyme 1 (RCE1; another prenylprotein-specific endoprotease) genes. The ZMPSTE24 mutant construct, Phe361fsX379, was inactive in complementing the yeast a-factor but the mutant, Trp340Arg, was partially active compared to the wild type ZMPSTE24 construct. We conclude that mutations in ZMPSTE24 may cause MAD by affecting prelamin A processing.
The role of histamine H1 receptors in nasal allergic symptoms (sneezing and nasal rubbing) were studied using histamine H1 receptor-deficient mice. Intranasal instillation of histamine solution resulted in significant increases in sneezing and nasal rubbing in wild-type mice, whereas no increases were observed in histamine H1 receptor-deficient mice. The histamine H1 receptor agonist 2-pyridylethylamine induced sneezing and nasal rubbing in a dose-dependent-manner in wild-type mice, but no such increase was found in histamine H1 receptor-deficient mice. On the other hand, the histamine H2 receptor agonist dimaprit did not increase sneezing and nasal rubbing in wild-type mice. Histamine H1 receptor antagonists such as chlorpheniramine and epinastine significantly inhibited nasal allergic symptoms caused by histamine, but the histamine H2 receptor antagonists cimetidine and famotidine showed no effect. No additional effects were observed by combined use of chlorpheniramine and cimetidine or famotidine compared with cimetidine or famotidine alone. These results suggested that histamine H1 receptors play an important role in nasal allergy symptoms induced by histamine.
Molecular diagnostics and early assessment of treatment response that use methodologies capable of detecting submicroscopic disease can distinguish subgroups of patients with leukemia at differing relapse risk. Such information is being incorporated into risk-stratified protocols; however, there are few data concerning prospective use of sequential minimal residual disease (MRD) monitoring to identify more precisely those patients destined to experience relapse, which would allow more tailored therapies.
Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RQ-PCR) assays to detect leukemia-specific transcripts (ie, PML-RARA, RARA-PML) were used to prospectively analyze 6,727 serial blood and marrow samples from 406 patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) who were receiving all-trans-retinoic acid and anthracycline-based chemotherapy.
MRD monitoring according to the recommended schedule successfully identified the majority of patients subject to relapse and provided the most powerful predictor of relapse-free survival (RFS) in multivariable analysis (hazard ratio, 17.87; 95% CI, 6.88 to 46.41; P < .0001); MRD monitoring was far superior to presenting WBC (hazard ratio, 1.02; 95% CI, 1.00 to 1.03; P = .02), which is currently widely used to guide therapy. In patients who were predicted to experience relapse on the basis of MRD monitoring, early treatment intervention with arsenic trioxide prevented progression to overt relapse in the majority, and the RFS rate at 1 year from molecular relapse was 73%. By using this strategy, 3-year cumulative incidence of clinical relapse was only 5% in the Medical Research Council AML15 trial.
Rigorous sequential RQ-PCR monitoring provides the strongest predictor of RFS in APL and, when coupled with pre-emptive therapy, provides a valid strategy to reduce rates of clinical relapse. This provides a model for development of a more individualized approach to management of other molecularly defined subtypes of acute leukemia.
Neurohormones are considered markers of heart failure progression. We examined whether changes in brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and norepinephrine (NE) over time are associated with corresponding changes in mortality and morbidity in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial.
Plasma BNP and NE were measured before randomization and during follow-up in approximately 4300 patients in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial. The relation between baseline BNP and NE and all-cause mortality and first morbid event (M&M) was analyzed in subgroups, with values above and below the median, and by quartiles. The change and percent change from baseline to 4 and 12 months in BNP and NE were also analyzed by quartiles for subsequent M&M. Risk ratios for M&M were calculated using a Cox proportional hazard model. Risk ratio of M&M for patients with baseline BNP or NE above the median was significantly higher than that for patients with values below the median. Baseline BNP and NE in quartiles also showed a quartile-dependent increase in M&M. BNP had a stronger association with M&M than NE. Patients with the greatest percent decrease in BNP and NE from baseline to 4 and 12 months had the lowest whereas patients with greatest percent increase in BNP and NE had the highest M&M.
Not only are plasma BNP and NE important predictors of heart failure M&M, but changes in these neurohormones over time are associated with corresponding changes in M&M. These data further reinforce their role as significant surrogate markers in HF and underscore the importance of including their measurement in HF trials.
Chronic hypertension during aging is a serious threat to the cerebral vasculature. The larger brain arteries can react to hypertension with an abnormal wall thickening, a loss of elasticity and a narrowed lumen. However, little is known about the hypertension-induced alterations of cerebral capillaries. The present study describes ultrastructural alterations of the cerebrocortical capillary wall, such as thickening and collagen accumulation in the basement membrane of aging spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rats. The ratio of cortical capillaries with such vascular pathology occurred significantly more frequently in hypertensive animals. Nimodipine and nifedipine are potential drugs to decrease blood pressure in hypertension but their beneficial effects in experimental studies reach beyond the control of blood pressure. Nimodipine and nifedipine can alleviate ischemia-related symptoms and improve cognition. These drugs differ in that nifedipine, but not nimodipine reduces blood pressure at the here-used concentration while both drugs can penetrate the blood-brain barrier. Here we show that chronic treatment of aging hypertensive stroke-prone rats with nimodipine or nifedipine could preserve microvascular integrity in the cerebral cortex.
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia worldwide, yet the development of therapeutics has been hampered by the absence of suitable biomarkers to diagnose the disease in its early stages prior to the formation of amyloid plaques and the occurrence of irreversible neuronal damage. Since oligomeric Aβ species have been implicated in the pathophysiology of AD, we reasoned that they may correlate with the onset of disease. As such, we have developed a novel misfolded protein assay for the detection of soluble oligomers composed of Aβ x-40 and x-42 peptide (hereafter Aβ40 and Aβ42) from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Preliminary validation of this assay with 36 clinical samples demonstrated the presence of aggregated Aβ40 in the CSF of AD patients. Together with measurements of total Aβ42, diagnostic sensitivity and specificity greater than 95% and 90%, respectively, were achieved. Although larger sample populations will be needed to confirm this diagnostic sensitivity, our studies demonstrate a sensitive method of detecting circulating Aβ40 oligomers from AD CSF and suggest that these oligomers could be a powerful new biomarker for the early detection of AD.
We report a patient in whom intoxication with a commercial preparation of malathion led to a severe acute cholinergic crisis, protracted cardiac arrhythmias, an acute respiratory distress syndrome, and an acute sensorimotor axonal polyneuropathy. The occurrence of the polyneuropathy was associated with a novel malathion transformation product, S-(1-ethoxycarbonyl, 2-isopropoxycarbonyl) ethyl 0,0-dimethyl phosphorodithioate (isopropylmalathion), an impurity present in the pesticide residue. The role of isopropylmalathion in the pathophysiology of the polyneuropathy remains to be determined.
Clinicians switch from one dopamine agonist to another for various reasons. However, each change may inadvertently result in certain potential risks such as decreased medication efficacy or new side-effects.
We evaluated the tolerability of a switch of bromocriptine to piribedil using two conversion ratios as a primary outcome measure, with motor function as a secondary outcome measure, in patients with mild to moderate Parkinson's disease (PD).
Twenty consecutive patients with mild to moderate PD (Hoehn and Yahr, stage II-III) on treatment with stable doses of bromocriptine and levodopa were randomized to two groups of 10 patients each, to receive piribedil based on 1:5 or 1:10 conversion ratios. Blinded evaluations were performed: 1) United Parkinson's Diseased Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores both in 'on' and 'off', 2) Open-ended interviews for adverse events, 3) Epworth Sleepiness Scale, 4) Purdue Pegboard assessment during 'on' and 'off', 5) Hand-arm movement test during 'on' and 'off', and 6) Walking test during 'on' and 'off'.
Major adverse events included 'sleep attacks' in one patient and minor side-effects included giddiness, nausea, hallucinations, sleepiness and lethargy. However, these were mild and 19 (95%) of the 20 patients completed the study. There was a significant improvement in both the UPDRS 'off' total and motor scores at 1 month compared with baseline for the group on 1:10 ratio. The walking times during the 'off' state at 1 and 2 months were significantly better compared with baseline in the 1:5 group. There were otherwise no significant differences in the rating tests during both 'off' and 'on' states before and after the bromocriptine switch.
We demonstrated that patients with mild to moderate PD who were on relatively low doses of bromocriptine can be safely switched to piribedil based on a conversion ratio of either 1:5 or 1:10. However, the higher conversion ratio has to be carried out with caution in patients with daytime somnolence.
Bronchiolitis obliterans (BO) is a fibrotic lung disease that occurs in a variety of clinical settings, including toxin exposures, autoimmunity and lung or bone marrow transplant. Despite its increasing clinical importance, little is known regarding the underlying disease mechanisms due to a lack of adequate small animal BO models. Recent epidemiological studies have implicated exposure to diacetyl (DA), a volatile component of artificial butter flavoring, as a cause of BO in otherwise healthy factory workers. Our overall hypothesis is that DA induces severe epithelial injury and aberrant repair that leads to the development of BO. Therefore, the objectives of this study were 1) to determine if DA, delivered by intratracheal instillation (ITI), would lead to the development of BO in rats and 2) to characterize epithelial regeneration and matrix repair after ITI of DA.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with a single dose of DA (125 mg/kg) or sterile water (vehicle control) by ITI. Instilled DA resulted in airway specific injury, followed by rapid epithelial regeneration, and extensive intraluminal airway fibrosis characteristic of BO. Increased airway resistance and lung fluid neutrophilia occurred with the development of BO, similar to human disease. Despite rapid epithelial regeneration after DA treatment, expression of the normal phenotypic markers, Clara cell secretory protein and acetylated tubulin, were diminished. In contrast, expression of the matrix component Tenascin C was significantly increased, particularly evident within the BO lesions.
We have established that ITI of DA results in BO, creating a novel chemical-induced animal model that replicates histological, biological and physiological features of the human disease. Furthermore, we demonstrate that dysregulated epithelial repair and excessive matrix Tenacin C deposition occur in BO, providing new insights into potential disease mechanisms and therapeutic targets.
ICB-1 chromosome 1 open reading frame 38 (C1orf38) is a human gene initially described by our group to be involved in differentiation processes of cancer cells. Recently, we have reported ICB-1 as a novel estrogen target gene and identified an estrogen response element in its promoter. In this study, we examined the role of ICB-1 in regulation of proliferation of breast and ovarian cancer cells. We knocked down its expression in estrogen-dependent MCF-7 breast cancer cells and hormone-unresponsive SK-OV-3 ovarian cancer cells by stable transfection with a specific shRNA plasmid followed by G-418 selection. Knockdown of ICB-1 enabled a considerable estrogen response of SK-OV-3 cells in terms of proliferation. This transformation of SK-OV-3 cells into an estrogen-responsive phenotype was accompanied by upregulation of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) expression and a significant decrease of ERbeta expression on the mRNA level. Expression of ERalpha-dependent genes progesterone receptor, pS2, fibulin 1c, and c-fos was elevated in SK-OV-3 cells stably expressing ICB-1 shRNA. In MCF-7 cells, ICB-1 knockdown exerted similar effects on gene expression, supporting a general role of ICB-1 in estrogen responsiveness. Our data suggest that differentiation-associated gene ICB-1 might exert antagonistic actions on cellular estrogen response, which can result in inhibition of estradiol-triggered proliferation. The molecular mechanisms mediating this inhibitory effect of ICB-1 on estrogen signaling are suggested to be limitation of ERalpha transcript levels but sustaining high levels of ERbeta, reducing both activation of ERalpha target genes and cellular proliferation. The identification of ICB-1 as a new player in endocrine-related cancer encourages further studies on the significance of this gene in cancer development and therapy.
The effects of the CCKB-receptor agonist pentagastrin, a synthetic analogue of the cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (CCK-4), were studied in seven patients suffering from obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and seven healthy controls. All subjects were challenged with an IV dose of 0.6 micrograms/kg pentagastrin or placebo under double blind placebo controlled conditions, on two separate occasions, with a minimum interval of 1 week. Six (86%) out of seven OCD patients experienced a panic-like reaction after pentagastrin administration, against only two (29%) in the control group. These differences failed to reach statistical significance, probably due to the small sample size. No increases were observed in obsessions or compulsive behaviors as assessed with the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Challenge Scale, neither in the pentagastrin, nor in the placebo condition. These findings suggest that pentagastrin has panic-inducing properties in OCD patients, without affecting the core symptoms. The panic-inducing properties of pentagastrin are not specific for panic disorder patients, which might be indicative of a common neurobiological dysfunction in panic disorder and OCD at the level of CCK-B receptors.
