The aim of this study was to investigate the association between caffeine consumption and headache type and frequency in the general adult population. The results were based on cross-sectional data from 50,483 (55%) out of 92,566 invited inhabitants aged >or=20 years who participated in the Nord-Trøndelag Health Survey. In the multivariate analyses, adjusting for age, gender, smoking, and level of education as confounding factors, a weak but significant association (OR = 1.16, 95% CI 1.09-1.23) was found between high caffeine consumption and prevalence of infrequent headache. In contrast, headache >14 days/month was less likely among individuals with high caffeine consumption compared to those with low caffeine consumption. The results may indicate that high caffeine consumption changes chronic headache into infrequent headache due to the analgesic properties of caffeine. Alternatively, chronic headache sufferers tend to avoid intake of caffeine to not aggravate their headaches, whereas individuals with infrequent headache are less aware that high caffeine use can be a cause.
Many past cases of SMON have occurred in Japan but since 1975 no new cases have been reported. One type of SMON is associated with acrodermatitis enteropathica which has a very high frequency of occurrence in association with administration of clioquinol. Acrodermatitis enteropathica with SMON almost always has a high occurrence of visual impairment, but other sensory disturbances are slight or absent, while common adult SMON is just the opposite. We do not know why these differences occur.
The role of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production on DNA damage and potentiation of fludarabine lethality by the histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACI) LAQ-824 was investigated in human leukemia cells. Preexposure (24 h) of U937, HL-60, Jurkat, or K562 cells to LAQ-824 (40 nmol/L) followed by fludarabine (0.4 micromol/L) dramatically potentiated apoptosis (>or=75%). LAQ-824 triggered an early ROS peak (30 min-3 h), which declined by 6 h, following LAQ-824-induced manganese superoxide dismutase 2 (Mn-SOD2) upregulation. LAQ-824/fludarabine lethality was significantly diminished by either ROS scavengers N-acetylcysteine or manganese (III) tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin or ectopic Mn-SOD2 expression and conversely increased by Mn-SOD2 antisense knockdown. During this interval, LAQ-824 induced early (4-8 h) increases in gamma-H2AX, which persisted (48 h) secondary to LAQ-824-mediated inhibition of DNA repair (e.g., down-regulation of Ku86 and Rad50, increased Ku70 acetylation, diminished Ku70 and Ku86 DNA-binding activity, and down-regulated DNA repair genes BRCA1, CHEK1, and RAD51). Addition of fludarabine further potentiated DNA damage, which was incompatible with cell survival, and triggered multiple proapoptotic signals including activation of nuclear caspase-2 and release of histone H1.2 into the cytoplasm. The latter event induced activation of Bak and culminated in pronounced mitochondrial injury and apoptosis. These findings provide a mechanistic basis for understanding the role of early HDACI-induced ROS generation and modulation of DNA repair processes in potentiation of nucleoside analogue-mediated DNA damage and lethality in leukemia. Moreover, they show for the first time the link between HDACI-mediated ROS generation and the recently reported DNA damage observed in cells exposed to these agents.
Interactions between excitatory amino acids and opioids were examined by studying the ability of the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 to affect morphine catalepsy and lethality. MK-801 (0.3 mg/kg) reduced the ED50 for morphine-induced catalepsy from approximately 30 mg/kg to less than 10 mg/kg, and reduced the LD50 for morphine from approximately 100 mg/kg to approximately 10 mg/kg. Lower doses of MK-801 did not affect morphine catalepsy or lethality. MK-801, in the absence of morphine, produced no catalepsy or lethality at doses up to 3.0 mg/kg; at 0.3 mg/kg MK-801 caused weaving, body rolling and ataxis, as previously described, while at 3.0 mg/kg animals appeared to lose muscle tone, becoming limp. These results demonstrate that blockade of NMDA receptors can dramatically potentiate morphine catalepsy and lethality, and suggest a potential dangerous interaction with opioids in the clinical use of NMDA receptor antagonists.
Colorectal cancer is one of the most common malignancies worldwide. The treatment of advanced colorectal cancer with chemotherapy and radiation has two major problems: development of tumor resistance to therapy and nonspecific toxicity towards normal tissues. Different plant-derived polyphenols show anticancer properties and are pharmacologically safe. In vitro growth of human HT-29 colorectal cancer cells is inhibited ( approximately 56%) by bioavailable concentrations of trans-pterostilbene (trans-3,5-dimethoxy-4'-hydroxystilbene; t-PTER) and quercetin (3,3',4',5,6-pentahydroxyflavone; QUER), two structurally related and naturally occurring small polyphenols. I.v. administration of t-PTER and QUER (20 mg/kg x day) inhibits growth of HT-29 xenografts ( approximately 51%). Combined administration of t-PTER + QUER, FOLFOX6 (oxaliplatin, leucovorin, and 5-fluorouracil; a first-line chemotherapy regimen), and radiotherapy (X-rays) eliminates HT-29 cells growing in vivo leading to long-term survival (>120 days). Gene expression analysis of a Bcl-2 family of genes and antioxidant enzymes revealed that t-PTER + QUER treatment preferentially promotes, in HT-29 cells growing in vivo, (a) superoxide dismutase 2 overexpression ( approximately 5.7-fold, via specificity protein 1-dependent transcription regulation) and (b) down-regulation of bcl-2 expression ( approximately 3.3-fold, via inhibition of nuclear factor-kappaB activation). Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides to human superoxide dismutase 2 and/or ectopic bcl-2 overexpression avoided polyphenols and chemoradiotherapy-induced colorectal cancer elimination and showed that the mangano-type superoxide dismutase and Bcl-2 are key targets in the molecular mechanism activated by the combined application of t-PTER and QUER.
The effects of oxytocin (OXT) and of dipeptides derived from the C-terminal portion of oxytocin (Z-prolyl-leucine and Z-prolyl-D-leucine) on the development of acute and chronic tolerance to, and dependence on morphine were tested in the mouse. Oxytocin and the dipeptides attenuated the development of acute and chronic tolerance to the antinociceptive effect of morphine and delayed the onset of the naloxone-precipitated withdrawal syndrome. Both oxytocin and Z-prolyl-D-leucine affected drug-induced behavioural responses related to dopamine (DA) in the brain. Thus, oxytocin potentiated the hypermotility induced by a large dose of apomorphine and decreased the supersensitivity of the DA receptors. Small doses of Z-prolyl-D-leucine inhibited the hypomotility elicited by a small dose of apomorphine and potentiated the hyperactivity induced by amphetamine. The data indicate that both oxytocin and Z-prolyl-D-leucine affect tolerance to and dependence on morphine. While oxytocin interacts mainly with postsynaptic DA-ergic neuronal elements, the dipeptide primarily affects DA-ergic neurotransmission at the presynaptic level.
alpha-L-Iduronidase is a glycosyl hydrolase involved in the sequential degradation of the glycosaminoglycans heparan sulphate and dermatan sulphate. A deficiency in alpha-L-iduronidase results in the lysosomal accumulation and urinary secretion of partially degraded glycosaminoglycans and is the cause of the lysosomal storage disorder mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I; Hurler and Scheie syndromes; McKusick 25280). The premature stop codons Q70X and W402X are two of the most common alpha-l-iduronidase gene (IDUA) mutations accounting for up to 70% of MPS I disease alleles in some populations. Here, we have reported a new mutation, making a total of 15 different mutations that can cause premature IDUA stop codons and have investigated the biochemistry of these mutations. Natural stop codon read-through was dependent on the fidelity of the codon when evaluated at Q70X and W402X in CHO-K1 cells, but the three possible stop codons TAA, TAG and TGA, had different effects on mRNA stability and this effect was context dependent. In CHO-K1 cells expressing the Q70X and W402X mutations, the level of gentamicin-enhanced stop codon read-through was slightly less than the increment in activity caused by a lower fidelity stop codon. In this system, gentamicin had more effect on read-through for the TAA and TGA stop codons when compared to the TAG stop codon. In an MPS I patient study, premature TGA stop codons were associated with a slightly attenuated clinical phenotype, when compared to classical Hurler syndrome (e.g. W402X/W402X and Q70X/Q70X genotypes with TAG stop codons). Natural read-through of premature stop codons is a potential explanation for variable clinical phenotype in MPS I patients. Enhanced stop codon read-through is a potential treatment strategy for a large sub-group of MPS I patients.
In 227 smokers' clinic clients who managed at least one week of abstinence, ratings of withdrawal symptoms were used to predict subsequent return to smoking. Depression, time spent with urges to smoke, and difficulty not smoking during the first week of abstinence were significantly associated with lapse back to smoking during the second week. Depression and difficulty not smoking during the second week significantly predicted smoking status during the third week. No withdrawal symptoms during the third week were associated with a return to smoking during the fourth week. The predictive power of withdrawal symptoms was over and above that of smoke intake and dependence. The findings provide some support for the view that reduction of withdrawal symptoms may be a worthwhile target in programmes for helping smokers to quit.
Abrupt withdrawal from clonidine therapy is a well-known cause of hyperadrenergic symptoms, but reports of acute myocardial infarction are extremely rare. We present the case of an 86-year-old woman who developed severe hypertension and a myocardial infarction 36 h after terminating her therapy of clonidine, 0.4 mg/day. Symptoms quickly responded to the administration of labetolol and diazepam. Subsequent cardiac catheterization showed no evidence of coronary occlusion, suggesting that excessive myocardial oxygen demand was responsible for the infarction.
We report the first case of auxiliary partial orthotopic liver transplantation (APOLT) in a patient with isoniazid (INH)-related fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) with the aim to determine the ability of the native liver (NL) to recover after this particular toxic event. A 10-year-old boy with INH-related FHF underwent APOLT after left hepatectomy on the NL. Neurological status and liver function rapidly improved, but, on postoperative day 22, urgent re-transplantation was needed for graft-hepatic artery thrombosis (HAT) and the NL's incapacity to sustain adequate liver function. Histological examination of the NL showed signs evident of its regeneration, however. In conclusion, though we faced the clinical failure of the NL functionally to sustain the patient in the presence of the graft HAT 3, weeks after APOLT, such a failure may be interpreted as time related. In fact, the histological picture in this particular case may suggest the potential for NL recovery after INH-related FHF.
The possible relevance of alterations in intracellular Ca2+ and hepatic glutathione levels (GSH) in the pathogenesis of cholestasis induced by lithocholic acid (LCA) was examined by comparing effects of LCA and acetaminophen on these parameters and bile flow (BF) in rats. Intracellular Ca2+ activity was measured via glycogen phosphorylase a determination in rats given an intravenous bolus injection of either LCA (12 mumol/100 g body wt.), acetaminophen (60 mg/100 g body wt.), or a mixed solution of LCA and acetaminophen. BF was reduced immediately after LCA administration, with a maximum decrease occurring at 60 min followed by an increase to normal values at 210 min. On the other hand, glycogen phosphorylase a activity was elevated during all time periods after LCA treatment. Hepatic glutathione followed the BF curves being markedly depleted at the peak of cholestasis (60 min) and normal in the total recovery period (210 min). In contrast, acetaminophen had no effect on BF but significantly increased glycogen phosphorylase a activity and depleted hepatic glutathione levels. These results suggest that cholestatic effect of LCA is not due to changes in intracellular Ca2+ or hepatic glutathione levels.
Until now, the cytotoxicity of the bile acids was mostly seen as being inversely associated with their degree of lipophilicity. The present study aimed at comparing the hepatotoxicity of cholic acid (CA), deoxycholic acid (DCA) and lithocholic acid (LCA), which are respectively, tri-, di- and monohydroxylated bile acids. For in vivo studies, the bile acids have been given at the dose of 0.5% or 1% in the diet of male Wistar rats for 2 weeks. The histological analysis of the liver, and the measurement of serum parameters of cytotoxicity and cholestasis (aminotransferases activity, bilirubin and total bile acids concentration), indicate that, among the bile acids tested, DCA is the most hepatotoxic, at both doses, while CA is the least hepatotoxic and cholestatic compound. Moreover, DCA is the only bile acid which, when given at the dose of 0.5%, induces lipid peroxidation in the liver, as evidenced by the measurement of thiobarbituric reactive substances in liver homogenates. The analysis of bile acids in liver homogenates by gas liquid chromatography revealed that feeding the animals with DCA results in its hepatic accumulation. Feeding rats with LCA or CA only slightly modifies the proportion of tri-, di- and monohydroxylated bile acids in the liver, as compared to controls. An in vitro experiment aimed at studying the hepatocellular lysis induced in vitro by the three bile acids by measuring the release of lactate dehydrogenase in the incubation medium of surviving hepatocytes in suspension. At a concentration of 1 mM, only DCA induces a significant cellular lysis, while at this concentration the lytic effects of CA and LCA are progressive and time-dependent. From this study, we gather that the hepatotoxicity of bile acids does not necessarily depend on their degree of hydroxylation. Our results are in accordance with some studies in rat hepatocarcinogenesis, showing a predominant initiating and promoting effects of DCA, as compared to LCA.
It is generally accepted that early human prostate cancers reveal higher androgen dependency than do advanced ones. In the present study, we examined whether the animal model of prostate cancer has already lost androgen dependency at the early stages of carcinogenesis. At experimental week 46, androgen deprivation was induced in rats and the incidences of atypical hyperplasia and cancer were examined in the ventral, dorsolateral prostate, coagulating glands, and seminal vesicles. Androgen deprivation significantly lowered the incidence of atypical hyperplasia in all four organs. As for the incidence of cancer, no significant differences were observed in the coagulating glands and seminal vesicles. Regarding atypical hyperplasia, androgen deprivation significantly decreased the proliferative cell nuclear antigen labeling index in the coagulating gland and seminal vesicles. The presence of cancer was also decreased in the coagulating gland but not in the seminal vesicles. With control group specimens, more intense staining of androgen receptor was observed in atypical hyperplasias than in cancers. Compared with the atypical hyperplasias, the cancers revealed low androgen dependency at the early stages of carcinogenesis. The cancers in the seminal vesicles also revealed higher androgen independency than did those in the coagulating gland.
Reports about anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions to rocuronium have increased recently. We report two new cases of documented grade III anaphylaxis, leading to death in one patient. The first case occurred in an 81-year-old ASA II woman scheduled for emergency abdominal surgery. Severe hypotension and tachycardia were observed after rocuronium, without bronchospasm. Neosynephrine allowed rapid resuscitation, and the patient recovered fully. The second patient was a 64-year-old ASA II man scheduled for abdominal surgery. Severe haemodynamic instability and bronchospasm occurred after rocuronium. Despite immediate life support, the postoperative period was complicated by persistent low systolic pressure, acute respiratory distress syndrome, acute renal failure, disseminated intravascular coagulation and pancreatitis, leading to the death of the patient.
EphA receptors and their ephrin-A ligands were previously thought to play a role only in embryonic development of the brain. Recently, however, these proteins were shown to be expressed in the adult mouse brain, primarily in the hippocampus, and were implicated in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning. What aspects of learning EphA receptors mediate have not been studied? Using the fear conditioning paradigm we demonstrate that EphA receptors play roles in memory. We show that post-training surgical anesthesia leads to robust context specific retrograde amnesia in mice, and post-anesthesia activation of EphA receptors induces a significant amelioration of this amnesia. As acquisition was left unaffected and performance factors were found unaltered, we suggest that the amelioration was due to changes in cognition leading to improved memory. Our data represent the first pieces of evidence for the involvement of EphA receptor tyrosine kinase receptors in mammalian memory, a finding that opens a new avenue into the functional analysis of the largest receptor tyrosine kinase subfamily in the brain.
Previous clinical trials have demonstrated the important influence of ethnicity and dietary salt on the antihypertensive efficacy of drugs that block the renin angiotensin system. Angiotensin II receptor blockers are a new therapeutic entity that have not been widely studied in African American hypertensives, either alone, or in combination with other therapies such as diuretics or angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. We performed a pilot, prospective, open label, randomized design clinical trial to evaluate the effects of the angiotensin II receptor blocker valsartan (160 mg once a day) on systolic and diastolic blood pressure in hypertensive African Americans (n = 88) on a low salt (100 mEq Na+/day) for 2 weeks and the same diet supplemented by 100 mEq Na+ for 4 weeks. After this evaluation, while continuing the Na+ supplementation, patients were randomized to valsartan 320 mg/day (n = 28), or the addition of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 12.5 mg/day (n = 30), or benazepril 20 mg/day to the valsartan 160 mg/day for an additional 6 weeks. Valsartan (160 mg/day) lowered blood pressure significantly in African American patients on both low salt (-6.4/-4.8 mm Hg: P < .001) and a high salt diet (-4.9/-3.8 mm Hg: P = .01). The high salt diet attenuated the antihypertensive effect slightly (1.6/1.3 mm Hg, P = not significant). When comparing the efficacy of the three randomized therapeutic regimens while on the Na+ supplement, the valsartan 160 mg/HCTZ 12.5 mg was the most effective therapy with an incremental reduction in blood pressure of -10.5/-6.9 mm Hg (P < .01), compared to valsartan 160 mg/day alone. Doubling the dose of valsartan to 320 mg incrementally lowered blood pressure by -3.8/-3.3 mm Hg (P = not significant). The least effective approach was adding benazepril 20 mg/day to valsartan 160 mg/day with no incremental reduction in systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure reduction of only 1.7 mm Hg (P = not significant). We conclude that in our open label pilot study, the antihypertensive activity of valsartan is not significantly attenuated by supplemented salt diet in hypertensive African Americans. Moreover, adding a low dose of HCTZ appears to be the most effective strategy in enhancing the antihypertensive activity of this angiotensin II receptor blocker in contrast to either doubling the dose or adding an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor.
The 50% lethal dose (LD50) of vancomycin for rodents was higher than that of tobramycin but much lower than that of cefamandole nafate. The rodents died in clonic convulsions immediately after receiving vancomycin. The LD50 for dogs similar to that for rodents; however, deaths occurred several days after administration of vancomycin and resulted from renal failure. Rapid intravenous administration of vancomycin to dogs produced a significant decrease in blood pressure that was prevented by pretreatment with the antihistamine methapyrilene. Subchronic administration of vancomycin to laboratory animals in doses of 12.5-400 mg/kg caused no systemic toxicity. Concomitant administration of vancomycin and tobramycin to rats resulted in significantly increased nephrotoxicity compared to that caused by either agent alone. The nephrotoxic response of rats receiving vancomycin was only partially reversed by large volumes of water given orally before and after the drug.
Ftorafur, a possible sustained-release formulation of 5-fluorouracil, was administered to 27 patients with metastatic cancers. The majority of patients had adenocarcinoma, most of which (60%) arose from the gastrointestinal tract. Ftorafur was given i.v. at doses ranging from 1 to 3 g/sq m/day for 5 days, repeated every 2 to 3 weeks. Gastrointestinal (68%) and neurological (17%) toxicities were the most common side effects encountered in this study and became dose limiting at doses greater than 2 g/sq m/day for 5 days. Myelosuppression (7%) was infrequent. Other toxicities included weakness (20%), chills and fever (8%), and phlebitis (1%). Of 24 evaluable patients, 4 (17%) responded (1 complete and 3 partial remissions). Responses were seen in 1 of 8 carcinomas of the lung, 1 of 5 carcinomas of the stomach, 1 of 3 carcinomas of the colon, and 1 of 1 carcinoma of the jejunum. The duration of response ranged from 4 to 58 weeks. The results of this study resemble somewhat those obtained with the laborious 5-day continuous i.v. infusion of 5-fluorouracil. Daily doses of 2 g/sq m for 5 days, repeated every 3 weeks, produced significant antitumor effect and tolerable toxicity.
The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of i.v. administration of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) on serum levels of creatinine and cystatin C, two markers of renal function, in patients with renal insufficiency who undergo emergency contrast-enhanced CT.
Eighty-seven adult patients with renal insufficiency who underwent emergency CT were randomized to two groups. In the first group, in addition to hydration, patients received a 900-mg injection of NAC 1 hour before and another immediately after injection of iodine contrast medium. Patients in the second group received hydration only. Serum levels of creatinine and cystatin C were measured at admission and on days 2 and 4 after CT. Nephrotoxicity was defined as a 25% or greater increase in serum creatinine or cystatin C concentration from baseline value.
A 25% or greater increase in serum creatinine concentration was found in nine (21%) of 43 patients in the control group and in two (5%) of 44 patients in the NAC group (p = 0.026). A 25% or greater increase in serum cystatin C concentration was found in nine (22%) of 40 patients in the control group and in seven (17%) of 41 patients in the NAC group (p = 0.59).
On the basis of serum creatinine concentration only, i.v. administration of NAC appears protective against the nephrotoxicity of contrast medium. No effect is found when serum cystatin C concentration is used to assess renal function. The effect of NAC on serum creatinine level remains unclear and may not be related to a renoprotective action.
The purpose of the study was to determine whether along and in combination melatonin (MLT) and pentoxifylline (PTX) exerted beneficial effects on histopathological changes and changes in oxidant and antioxidant systems in liver caused by CCl4-induced liver toxicity in mice. Mice were randomly divided into six groups: control, olive oil, toxicity, MLT, PTX, PTX+MLT. MLT 10 mg/kg/day, PTX 50 mg/kg/day, and the same individual doses in MLT+PTX combination were given intraperitoneally to mice for 7 day. CCl4 0.8 mg/kg/day was administered on the 4th, 5th, and 6th days of therapy in all groups except the control and olive oil groups. In the toxicity group, increased concentrations of malondialdehyde (MDA) and lipid hydroperoxides (LOOH) and decreased glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and catalase (CAT) activities were found compared to the control and olive oil groups (p < 0.05). Compared to the toxicity group, both the PTX group and the PTX+MLT group had decreased MDA and LOOH levels, whereas MLT reduced only LOOH levels (p < 0.01). MLT, PTX and MLT+PTX increased the GSH-Px and CAT activities compared to the toxicity group (p < 0.05). MLT increased CAT activity compared to PTX and MLT+PTX (p < 0.05). Superoxide dismutase enzyme activity did not change in any group (p < 0.05). Histopathologically, ballooning, degeneration, apoptosis, and bridging necrosis were seen in the toxicity group. MLT, PTX and MLT+PTX decreased the apoptosis and bridging necrosis (p < 0.01), and PTX and MLT+PTX decreased balloon degeneration compared to the toxicity group (p < 0.01). These results indicate that administration of PTX and MLT alone and in combination before onset of liver toxicity might prevent the oxidative damage by reducing oxidative stress and increasing antioxidant enzyme levels.
Mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) blockade has come into focus as a promising approach for the treatment of cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and congestive heart failure. In order to identify a novel class of nonsteroidal MR antagonists that exhibit significant potency and good selectivity over other steroidal hormone receptors, we designed a novel series of benzoxazin-3-one derivatives and synthesized them from 6-(7H-[1,2,4]triazolo[3,4-b][1,3,4]thiadiazin-6-yl)-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one (1a), high-throughput screening (HTS) hit compound. Our design was based on a crystal structure of an MR/compound complex and a docking model. In the course of lead generation from 1a, a 1,2-diaryl framework was characterized as a key structure with high binding affinity. On the basis of scaffold hopping and optimization studies, benzoxazin-3-one derivatives possessing 1-phenyl-3-trifluoromethylpyrazol-5-yl moiety at the 6-position were identified as a novel series of potent and selective MR antagonists. Among these compounds, 6-[1-(4-fluoro-2-methylphenyl)-3-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-pyrazol-5-yl]-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one (14n) showed highly potent activity and good selectivity and also exhibited a significant antihypertensive effect in deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt hypertensive rats. On the basis of these results, compound 14n was progressed for further pharmacological evaluation.
Smoking potentiates the enhanced cardiovascular risk of hypertensive patients. Although nicotine replacement therapy is safe when used by healthy individuals to quit smoking, there is no evidence that nicotine replacement therapy is safe in hypertensive smokers. In this crossover, single-blinded, placebo-controlled study, we compared for 4 h the acute effects of transdermal nicotine on the mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) of mildly hypertensive smokers treated with hydrochlorothiazide with the responses in normotensive smokers and nonsmokers monitored with Finapres and ambulatory blood pressure systems. The plasma concentrations of thromboxane B2 (TXB2, the stable breakdown product of TXA2) were also measured by ELISA to assess whether transdermal nicotine acutely affects TXA2 production. The use of 21-mg nicotine patches increased the MAP and HR in nonsmokers (from 94+/-4 mm Hg and 69+/-3 beats/min to 117+/-7 mm Hg and 83+/-3 beats/min, respectively; P < .05) as well as the MAP in normotensive smokers (from 83+/-4 to 106+/-7 mm Hg; P < .05). However, MAP and HR remained unaltered in hypertensive smokers after transdermal nicotine. Higher basal TXB2 levels were observed in hypertensive smokers compared with normotensive smokers and nonsmokers (2019+/-402 v 670+/-167 and 556+/-68 pg/mL, respectively; P < .05). Transdermal nicotine increased the TXB2 levels only in nonsmokers (P < .05). These data indicate that the use of transdermal nicotine in mildly hypertensive smokers is probably safe. Further studies involving other classes of hypertensive patients are warranted.
Several epidemiological studies and animal experiments showed that 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT), a commonly used explosive, induced reproductive toxicity. To clarify whether the toxicity results from the interference of endocrine systems or direct damage to reproductive organs, we examined the effects of TNT on the male reproductive system in Fischer 344 rats. TNT administration induced germ cell degeneration, the disappearance of spermatozoa in seminiferous tubules, and a dramatic decrease in the sperm number in both the testis and epididymis. TNT increased the formation of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG) in sperm whereas plasma testosterone levels did not decrease. These results suggest that TNT-induced toxicity is derived from direct damage to spermatozoa rather than testosterone-dependent mechanisms. To determine the mechanism of 8-oxodG formation in vivo, we examined DNA damage induced by TNT and its metabolic products in vitro. 4-Hydroxylamino-2,6-dinitrotoluene, a TNT metabolite, induced Cu(II)-mediated damage to 32P-labeled DNA fragments and increased 8-oxodG formation in calf thymus DNA, although TNT itself did not. DNA damage was enhanced by NADH, suggesting that NADH-mediated redox reactions involving TNT metabolites enhanced toxicity. Catalase and bathocuproine inhibited DNA damage, indicating the involvement of H2O2 and Cu(I). These findings suggest that TNT induces reproductive toxicity through oxidative DNA damage mediated by its metabolite. We propose that oxidative DNA damage in the testis plays a role in reproductive toxicity induced by TNT and other nitroaromatic compounds.
To our knowledge Pisa syndrome in childhood or adolescence has not previously been described. The syndrome developed in an adolescent girl following administration of neuroleptic medication for psychotic features, and was transiently thought to be abnormal illness behaviour. This case emphasises the need for early diagnosis and rapid effective treatment.
Angiotensin II (AII) is the well-known determinant of kidney damage increasing intraglomerular pressure, matrix expansion and fibroblast proliferation. Renin-angiotensin system (RAS) inhibition, limiting the hemodynamic effects of AII, reduces proteinuria and is renoprotective in the long term.
We studied 15 chronic proteinuric patients by Doppler ultrasonography to clarify the intrarenal hemodynamic changes during RAS blockade by Benazepril (10-20 mg/day) alone and combined with Valsartan (80-160 mg/day). We also investigated the correlation between hemodynamic indices, RAS components and antiproteinuric effect.
After 1 month of Benazepril proteinuria, resistive index (RI) and pulsatility index (PI) significantly decreased and proteinuria reduction was directly correlated to decrease in RI (r = 0.55, p = 0.03). Contrarily, after 1 month of combined therapy, RI and PI restored to baseline and progressively increased in the following 3 months, while proteinuria decreased. Increase in RI was directly correlated to concomitant increase in plasma renin activity (r = 0.65, p = 0.01) suggesting a direct role of renin in restoring intrarenal resistances.
The hemodynamic changes caused by RAS inhibitors partially contribute to the antiproteinuric effect. Other RAS components, such as renin, may contribute to renal vasoconstriction and could be a further determinant of kidney damage besides a promising target for renoprotection.
A 21-year-old female patient with psychotic symptoms developed hyperthermia, muscular rigidity and hypertension after administration of haloperidol. A muscle biopsy showed some atrophic and necrotic fibers, and a great number of fibers with central cores in the oxidative enzyme preparations. A related syndrome, Malignant Hyperthermia (MH), is sometimes associated with central core disease. The present case shows an association of a hyperthermic syndrome related to haloperidol with central core disease.
