Although, the role of Botulinum Toxin-A in the treatment of the neurogenic and non-neurogenic neurogenic bladder is becoming more defined, this is the first review article to characterize the emerging role of Botulinum Toxin-A in the pediatric urologic population. Injection of Botulinum Toxin-A at the level of the bladder works by inhibiting uninhibited bladder contractions and, possibly, by blocking some of the sensory nerve fibers. In children with sphincter dyssynergy, injection at the level of the urethral sphincter works by inhibiting the involuntary guarding reflex and blocking dyssynergic voiding.
To evaluate the toxicity, effects on immune function, antitumor effects, antiretroviral effects, and pharmacokinetics of zidovudine therapy in patients with early human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and Kaposi sarcoma.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
National Institutes of Health, a referral-based research institution (single site).
Physician-referred volunteer patients with HIV infection, Kaposi sarcoma, CD4+ lymphocyte counts greater than 0.2 x 10(9)/L, and no systemic symptoms or history of opportunistic infection. Of 41 patients enrolled, 4 had not met all entry criteria and were therefore not evaluable.
Patients were randomized to one of four treatment groups for an initial 12-week treatment period: oral placebo (9 patients); zidovudine, 250 mg orally every 4 hours (9 patients); zidovudine, 0.5 mg/kg body weight intravenously every 4 hours (9 patients); and zidovudine, 2.5 mg/kg intravenously every 4 hours (10 patients). After at least 12 weeks of therapy at their assigned dose, patients were treated with oral zidovudine, generally 250 mg every 4 hours, with a mean 42-week follow-up.
Anemia and granulocytopenia were the major toxicities. Significant increases in platelet counts and declines in serum HIV antigen and IgG and IgM levels occurred in treated patients. Treated patients were more likely than those on placebo to clear HIV from the cerebrospinal fluid. There were no differences in tumor progression or CD4+ or CD8+ lymphocyte counts among the groups.
Zidovudine was well tolerated and had antiretroviral activity in patients with early HIV infection and Kaposi sarcoma but it had no significant effect on the extent of Kaposi sarcoma or on immune function.
There is concern that early-life exposure to bisphenol A (BPA) may alter developmental programming and predispose individuals to obesity and reproductive anomalies. The present study was designed to determine if a high fat diet at sexual maturation moderates testicular toxicity occasioned by exposure to BPA during reproductive development. Therefore, male rats were exposed to BPA by maternal gavage (0, 2.5 or 25 μg/kg body weight/day) from gestational day 12 to postnatal day 21. At weaning, control and BPA-exposed animals were placed on a regular normal fat diet (NFD) until 70 days of age when they were continued on the NFD or were maintained on a high fat diet (HFD) until euthanasia at 98 days. Adult male rats maintained on HFD were generally heavier than NFD animals due to greater energy intake but energy intake per unit body weight gain was similar in all animals. However, perinatal exposure to BPA decreased (P<0.05) serum adiponectin as well as adiponectin and AdipoR2 protein expression levels in Leydig cells. Importantly, the combination of BPA exposure and HFD consumption promoted lipid peroxidation evidenced by elevated serum thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and glutathione concentrations. These findings imply that interaction between BPA and HFD potentially causes testicular dysfunction to a greater degree than would be due to BPA exposure or HFD consumption. Given the relationship that exists between energy homeostasis and reproductive activity, additional studies are warranted to investigate the consequences of BPA-diet interactions on testicular function.
Bis(12)-hupyridone (B12H), derived from the Chinese medicinal component huperzine A, was originally designed as a novel acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor. In this paper, we report that B12H (24-h pretreatment) effectively blocked glutamate-induced neuronal excitotoxicity in cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). However, the huge discrepancy between the EC50 value and IC50 value of B12H, to protect against neuronal toxicity (0.09 μM) and to block the NMDA receptor (21.8 μM) respectively, suggests that the neuroprotection of B12H might be not primarily due to the blockade of the NMDA receptor. Pretreatment by specific antagonists of alpha7-nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7nAChR), but not muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) or α4β2nAChR, decreased the neuroprotection of B12H. The neuroprotection of B12H could also be abolished by the pretreatment of specific PI3-K inhibitors. Furthermore, B12H restored the suppressed activation of the Akt pathway caused by glutamate as evidenced by the decreased expressions of pSer473-Akt and pSer9-GSK3β. All these results suggest that B12H substantially protected CGNs against glutamate-induced neuronal excitotoxicity via activating α7nAChR/PI3-K/Akt cascade.
A rat model was used to evaluate the general acute toxicity and the late cardiotoxicity of 4 mg/kg doxorubicin (DOX) given either as free drug or in the form of three N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide (HPMA) copolymer conjugates. In these HPMA copolymers, DOX was covalently bound via peptide linkages that were either non-biodegradable (Gly-Gly) or degradable by lysosomal proteinases (Gly-Phe-Leu-Gly). In addition, one biodegradable conjugate containing galactosamine was used; this residue was targeted to the liver. Over the first 3 weeks after the i.v. administration of free and polymer-bound DOX, all animals showed a transient reduction in body weight. However, the maximal reduction in body weight seen in animals that received polymer-bound DOX (4 mg/kg) was significantly lower than that observed in those that received free DOX (4 mg/kg) or a mixture of the unmodified parent HPMA copolymer and free DOX (4 mg/kg; P less than 0.01). Throughout the study (20 weeks), deaths related to cardiotoxicity were observed only in animals that received either free DOX or the mixture of HPMA copolymer and free DOX; in these cases, histological investigations revealed marked changes in the heart that were consistent with DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Sequential measurements of cardiac output in surviving animals that received either free DOX or the mixture of HPMA copolymer and free DOX showed a reduction of approximately 30% in function beginning at the 4th week after drug administration. The heart rate in these animals was approximately 12% lower than that measured in age-matched control rats (P less than 0.05). Animals that were given the HPMA copolymer conjugates containing DOX exhibited no significant change in cardiac output throughout the study (P less than 0.05). In addition, no significant histological change was observed in the heart of animals that received DOX in the form of HPMA copolymer conjugates and were killed at the end of the study. However, these animals had shown a significant increase in heart rate beginning at 8 weeks after drug administration (P less than 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In a patient with a proximal myopathy due to Epsilon Amino Caproic Acid (EACA) bedrest led to marked improvement even before withdrawal of the drug. A biopsy showed a selective necrosis of type I fibers. Plasma level of EACA was low and plasma level of lysine was normal. A 99mTechnetium-MDP showed marked uptake in the affected muscles, whereas a 67Gallium scan was negative.
The modifying potential of 31 different compounds on the development of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase-positive (gamma-GT+) liver cell lesions was compared in an in vivo short-term assay system. Rats were initially given a single dose (200 mg/kg) of diethylnitrosamine intraperitoneally and 2 weeks later were treated with test compounds for 6 weeks and then sacrificed, all rats being subjected to partial hepatectomy at week 3. Modifying potential was scored by comparing the number and area (mm2)/cm2 of induced gamma-GT+ foci with those of the corresponding control group given DEN alone. 2-Acetylaminofluorene, 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene, dimethylnitrosamine, phenobarbital, barbital, dipyrone and deoxycholic acid caused a significant enhancement of both the number and area of foci. 4-Acetylaminofluorene, ethionine, benzo[alpha]pyrene, disulfiram and cholic acid had a moderate enhancing effect, whereas slight, but not unequivocal, increases in gamma-GT+ foci were observed after captafol, glutathione, sodium ascorbate and taurine administration. In contrast, acetaminophen, ethoxyquin, butylated hydroxyanisole, butylated hydroxytoluene, and ethyl alcohol showed clear inhibitory effects. It is concluded that the present short-term in vivo system has practical application for the screening of modifying agents for liver tumorigenesis including hepatocarcinogens.
Previous research has demonstrated that a high dose of histamine (1600 pmol) injected i.t. in mice can evoke nociceptive behaviors consisting of biting/licking along with occasional scratching. The present study was undertaken to examine the involvement of spinal N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and histamine H(1) and H(2) receptors in the nociceptive behaviors evoked by high-dose histamine. Co-administration of the histamine H(1) receptor antagonists, d-chlorpheniramine and pyrilamine, or the histamine H(2) receptor antagonists, ranitidine and zolantidine, failed to suppress the histamine-evoked nociceptive behaviors. Moreover, following histamine administration, nociceptive behaviors in histamine H(1) receptor-knockout and histamine H(2) receptor-knockout mice were indistinguishable from those in wild-type mice, suggesting that histamine-induced nociceptive behaviors are not mediated through histamine H(1) and H(2) receptors in the spinal cord. The histamine-induced nociceptive behaviors were inhibited by co-administration of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, d-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D-APV) and 3-((+)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPPA), and the ion channel blocker, (5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cycloheptene-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801). Co-administration of ifenprodil, an antagonist for both the polyamine site and the NR2B subunit of NMDA receptors, also inhibited the histamine-induced nociceptive behaviors. (R-[R, S])-alpha-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-beta-methyl-4-(phenylmethyl)-1-piperidinepropanol hydrochloride (Ro25-6981), an antagonist of the NMDA receptor subtype containing the NR2B subunit, did not inhibit histamine-induced nociceptive behaviors, whereas these behaviors were attenuated by pretreatment with an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide against the mRNA for the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor. Moreover, agmatine and arcaine, antagonists for a polyamine site on the NMDA receptor, inhibited nociceptive behaviors induced by histamine. These results suggest that a polyamine site on spinal NMDA receptors is involved in eliciting the nociceptive behavioral episode following intrathecal injection of histamine.
The promoting effects of 5 bile acids on liver carcinogenesis were investigated in male Fischer rats initially treated with diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Two weeks after a single dose of DEN (200 mg/kg, intraperitoneally), rats were given bile acids for 8 weeks. At 3 weeks following DEN administration, all rats were subjected to partial hepatectomy. Among the bile acids tested, cholic acid (CA) and deoxycholic acid (DCA) exerted promoting activity as evidenced by significantly increased values of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase-positive (gamma-GT+) foci as compared with the corresponding controls given DEN alone. In contrast, the other 3 bile acids tested, chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA), lithocholic acid (LCA) and ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), did not significantly increase the level of gamma-GT+ foci over that induced by DEN alone. It is noteworthy that only bile acids of the same metabolic pathway, CA as a primary bile acid and DCA as a secondary bile acid, showed promoting effects whereas CDCA and its metabolic derivatives, LCA and UDCA, were inactive. The results indicate that CA and DCA might act as endogenous promoters of hepatocarcinogenesis in pathological conditions with increased levels of serum bile acids.
Recent study has shown that monophosphoryl lipid A-induced delayed preconditioning enhanced preservation with cardioplegia and that the protective effects of monophosphoryl lipid A were related to stimulation of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) release. The purpose of the present study was to explore whether the elevated release of CGRP induced by monophosphoryl lipid A is secondary to stimulation of CGRP synthesis via the nitric oxide (NO) pathway and to characterize the isoform of CGRP. Sprague-Dawley rats were pretreated with monophosphoryl lipid A 24 h before the experiment, and then the left main coronary artery of rat hearts was subjected to 1 h occlusion followed by 3 h reperfusion. Infarct size, plasma creatine kinase activity, the plasma level of CGRP, and the expression of CGRP isoforms (alpha- and beta-CGRP) mRNA in lumbar dorsal root ganglia were measured. Pretreatment with monophosphoryl lipid A (500 microg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced infarct size and creatine kinase release. Monophosphoryl lipid A caused a significant increase in the expression of alpha-CGRP mRNA, but not of beta-CGRP mRNA, concomitantly with an increase in plasma concentrations of CGRP, and the increased level of CGRP expression happened before stimulation of CGRP release. The effect of monophosphoryl lipid A was completely abolished by pretreatment with L-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 10 mg/kg, i.p.), an inhibitor of NO synthase or capsaicin (50 mg/kg, s.c.), which selectively depletes transmitters in capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves. The results suggest that the delayed cardioprotection afforded by monophosphoryl lipid A involves the synthesis and release of CGRP via the NO pathway, and that the protection is mainly mediated by the alpha-CGRP isoform.
Cyclazocine is a kappa-opioid receptor agonist and mu-opioid receptor antagonist that was studied in the 1960s as a potential treatment for heroin addicts. Based on the evidence that opioid mechanisms modulate the reinforcing effects of cocaine, it has been suggested that cyclazocine be reconsidered for use in treating cocaine dependence. In the present study, the effects of orally administered (+/-)-cyclazocine, (+)-cyclazocine and (-)-cyclazocine on intravenous cocaine self-administration were assessed in rats. (+/-)-Cyclazocine produced a dose-related (2-8 mg/kg) decrease in cocaine intake without affecting bar-press responding for water. Neither enantiomer significantly altered responding for either cocaine or water. The efficacy of orally administered (+/-)-cyclazocine on cocaine self-administration was comparable to that previously observed using the intraperitoneal route. Distinct actions of the enantiomers of cyclazocine that might contribute to the unique efficacy of the racemate are discussed. Although the mechanistic basis for the results are not entirely understood, the data suggest that (+/-)-cyclazocine should be considered as a potential treatment for cocaine dependence.
Mercury exposure is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease and profound cardiotoxicity. However, the correlation between Hg(2+)-mediated toxicity and alteration in cardiac cytochrome P450s (Cyp) and their dependent arachidonic acid metabolites has never been investigated. Therefore, we investigated the effect of acute mercury toxicity on the expression of Cyp-epoxygenases and Cyp-ω-hydroxylases and their associated arachidonic acid metabolites in mice hearts. In addition, we examined the expression and activity of soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) as a key player in arachidonic acid metabolism pathway. Mercury toxicity was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection (IP) of 2.5 mg/kg of mercuric chloride (HgCl₂). Our results showed that mercury treatment caused a significant induction of the cardiac hypertrophy markers, atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP); in addition to Cyp1a1, Cyp1b1, Cyp2b9, Cyp2b10, Cyp2b19, Cyp2c29, Cyp2c38, Cyp4a10, Cyp4a12, Cyp4a14, Cyp4f13, Cyp4f15, Cyp4f16 and Cyp4f18 gene expression. Moreover, Hg(2+) significantly increased sEH protein expression and activity levels in hearts of mercury-treated mice, with a consequent decrease in 14,15-, and 11,12-epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs) levels. Whereas the formation of 14,15-, 11,12-, 8,9-dihydroxyeicosatrienoic acids (DHETs) was significantly increased. In conclusion, acute Hg(2+) toxicity modulates the expression of several Cyp and sEH enzymes with a consequent decrease in the cardioprotective EETs which could represent a novel mechanism by which mercury causes progressive cardiotoxicity. Furthermore, inhibiting sEH might represent a novel therapeutic approach to prevent Hg(2+)-induced hypertrophy.
Aflatoxin B1 is a potent carcinogen which can induce** hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in mammals. Though microRNAs are known to play important roles in tumorigenesis, the functional complexity of microRNAs in AFB1-induced hepatocellular tumorigenesis has not yet been elucidated. Here, we applied Illumina deep sequencing technology for high-throughput profiling of microRNA in rat liver tissue before and after treatment with aflatoxin B1. Analysis of mature miRNAs from different arms of pre-miRNAs allowed us to identify the predominant form of miRNA. We studied the differential expression profile of miRNAs in two libraries, identifying several cancer-related microRNAs which exhibit abnormal expression. KEGG analysis indicated that predicted target genes of differentially expressed miRNAs are involved in cancer-related pathways. Bioinformatic analysis predicted 16 potential novel miRNAs. Our work provides new insights at the miRNA level into AFB1-induced hepatic injury which may lead to HCC.
Maneb, an organomanganese fungicide, is largely used in agricultural regions for control of field crop pathologies. Despite its apparent low toxicity, there are reports showing that maneb has harmful effects on peripheral and central nervous systems. In this work the effects of acute administration of maneb were studied on some experimental animal models. Male adult mice were treated with several doses of maneb, IP, and submitted to gross behavioral observation (200-1000 mg/kg) and measurement of locomotor activity, barbiturate-induced sleeping time, isolation-induced aggressiveness, catatonia, climbing behavior and of rota-rod performance (30, 60 and 100 mg/kg). The results showed that maneb has an inhibitory effect on locomotor activity and aggressiveness and increases barbiturate-induced sleeping time and haloperidol-induced catatonia. However, maneb did not affect the apomorphine-induced climbing behavior of animals. These data indicate that maneb has a CNS depressant-like effect, and suggest, at least partially, the involvement of dopaminergic systems in the mediation of this effect.
Although both sirolimus (CYPHER) and paclitaxel (TAXUS) drug-eluting stents have demonstrated efficacy and safety in clinical trials, human autopsy data have raised concerns about long-term healing and the potential for local inflammatory reactions.
Overlapping stents (CYPHER drug-eluting stents, Bx SONIC bare metal stents, TAXUS drug-eluting stents, and Liberté bare metal stents) were implanted in noninjured coronary arteries of 58 domestic swine. Histopathological evaluation of proximal, overlapped, and distal stented segments was determined with emphasis on inflammation at 30, 90, and 180 days. Circumferential granulomatous inflammation in all stented segments was defined as inflammation consisting of macrophages, multinucleated giant cells, lymphocytes, and granulocytes, including many eosinophils, adjacent to almost all struts. Circumferential granulomatous inflammation was more prevalent in CYPHER (9 of 23, 39%) compared with TAXUS (1 of 21, 5%; P=0.01) and control bare metal stents (0 of 44) in the combined 90- and 180-day cohorts. Only CYPHER specimens showed marked adventitial inflammation (P=0.0025) and fibrosis (P=0.0055) accompanied by extensive remodeling. Fibrin deposition within neointima and medial smooth muscle cell death were greater (both P<0.001) in TAXUS than CYPHER at 30 days, with more fibrin in TAXUS than CYPHER through 90 days (P<0.05).
Although these data cannot be directly extrapolated to humans, the high prevalence in this porcine model of diffuse granulomatous inflammation seen with CYPHER stents, persisting at 180 days and associated with extensive remodeling of the artery, and persistent para-strut fibrin deposition with TAXUS stents emphasize the need for further investigation of biocompatibility with these and other novel combination drug/polymer drug-eluting stents.
Hodgkin lymphoma is considered a common type of non-AIDS defining tumor among patients infected with HIV, commonly presenting as a widespread disease and with different pathologic features compared with Hodgkin lymphoma in the general population. Despite that, the best treatment option is undefined.
The authors present a retrospective study of 31 patients with Hodgkin lymphoma-HIV attended at 3 Brazilian centers, 2 of them considered reference centers for HIV treatment. Chemotherapy schemes used were ABVD (doxorubicin/bleomycin/vinblastine/dacarbazine) or hybrid MOPP-ABV (mechlorethamine/vincristine/procarbazine/prednisone-doxorubicin/bleomycin/vinblastine), with prophylactic granulocyte colony-stimulating factor.
Treatment response could be evaluated in 22 patients (70.9%) who completed initial treatment: 20 (91%) reached complete remission, 1 had partial remission, and 1 did not exhibit a response. The overall response rate was 95.5% (95% confidence interval, 91.2%-99.8%). After a median follow-up of 3 years, the overall survival (OS) rate among all patients was 80.3%; median OS was not reached. On univariate analysis, only CD4 cell count at diagnosis was significantly related to survival.
This retrospective study shows that for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma development in the HIV setting in these 3 Brazilian centers, there was high complete remission and satisfactory OS rates, comparable with results found for Hodgkin lymphoma in patients without HIV.
Thrombin contributes to edema formation after intracerebral hemorrhage. Recent studies suggest that thrombin may also play a role in ischemic brain damage. In the present study, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital. Middle cerebral artery (MCA) was occluded using the suture method. We found that brain thrombin activity was elevated after permanent MCA occlusion as was prothrombin messenger RNA expression. Intracerebral injection of a thrombin inhibitor, hirudin, reduced neurological deficits following cerebral ischemia. In contrast, intracerebral administration of exogenous thrombin (at a dose that is non-toxic to normal brain), markedly exacerbated brain edema after transient focal cerebral ischemia. These results indicate that extravascular thrombin inhibition may be a new therapeutic target for cerebral ischemia.
Cardiac hypertrophy has been observed in newborn infants treated with dexamethasone (DEX). This study was undertaken to examine whether DEX-induced hypertrophy in newborn rats is associated with redistribution of cardiac myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoforms and, if so, the effects involve transcriptional regulation. Newborn rats were injected with either DEX (1 mg/kg/day; s.c.) or equivalent volume normal saline for 1, 3, 5, 7 or 9 days. Hypertrophy was quantified by heart dry/wet wt ratios, heart/body wt ratios, and total protein content of the myocardium. Changes in the expression of cardiac MHC mRNA were characterized by northern blot and slot blot analyses, using isoform specific probes for alpha- and beta-MHC genes. DEX effect on alpha-MHC gene transcription was analyzed by transiently transfecting various alpha-MHC promoter/CAT reporter constructs into primary cultures of cardiac myocytes derived from one day old rat pups. DEX administration into newborn rats produced significant cardiac hypertrophy ranging from 23% at day 1 to 59% at 9 days. The hypertrophy was accompanied by immediate increase (83%) in steady state level of the alpha-MHC mRNA within one day and a maximum increase (148%) at 7 days of treatment. The steady state level of beta-MHC mRNA declined by 25% at day 1 and a maximum decrease of 54% at day 7 of DEX treatment. The changes in MHC mRNA were also reflected in their protein levels as determined by V1 and V3 isozyme analysis. DEX treatment of primary cultures of cardiomyocytes following transfection with alpha-MHC promoter/CAT reporter constructs resulted in increased CAT expression in a dose dependent manner. The minimum alpha-MHC gene sequences responding to DEX treatment were located between the -200 to -74-bp region of the gene, resulting in 2-fold and 6-fold activation of CAT reporter after 0.05 and 0.1 mM doses of DEX, respectively. Our data indicate that DEX induced cardiac hypertrophy in newborn rats is accompanied by increased expression of alpha-MHC and decreased expression of beta-MHC. The alpha-MHC effects are mediated in part through transcriptional mechanisms.
Acute renal failure, a brief seizure, and mild rhabdomyolysis developed in a 27-year-old man following overdosage with the tricyclic antidepressant, amoxapine. Renal function returned to normal approximately ten days following drug ingestion. Strikingly, of 111 cases of amoxapine overdosage reported to the manufacturer, acute renal failure has occurred in 12. Of these 12 patients, seizures were documented in seven, and presumptive or definitive evidence of rhabdomyolysis or myoglobinuria was documented in eight. Three possible mechanisms of the renal failure are (1) acute tubular necrosis secondary to nontraumatic rhabdomyolysis; (2) hypotension-induced acute tubular necrosis; and (3) direct nephrotoxic reaction from amoxapine. Rapid hydration with intravenously administered saline is proposed as a means of reducing the substantial incidence of acute renal failure following amoxapine overdosage.
The molecular pathogenesis of autism is complex and involves numerous genomic, epigenomic, proteomic, metabolic, and physiological alterations. Elucidating and understanding the molecular processes underlying the pathogenesis of autism is critical for effective clinical management and prevention of this disorder. The goal of this study is to investigate key molecular alterations postulated to play a role in autism and their role in the pathophysiology of autism. In this study we demonstrate that DNA isolated from the cerebellum of BTBR T+tf/J mice, a relevant mouse model of autism, and from human post-mortem cerebellum of individuals with autism, are both characterized by an increased levels of 8-oxo-7-hydrodeoxyguanosine (8-oxodG), 5-methylcytosine (5mC), and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC). The increase in 8-oxodG and 5mC content was associated with a markedly reduced expression of the 8-oxoguanine DNA-glycosylase 1 (Ogg1) and increased expression of de novo DNA methyltransferases 3a and 3b (Dnmt3a and Dnmt3b). Interestingly, a rise in the level of 5hmC occurred without changes in the expression of ten-eleven translocation expression 1 (Tet1) and Tet2 genes, but significantly correlated with the presence of 8-oxodG in DNA. This finding and similar elevation in 8-oxodG in cerebellum of individuals with autism and in the BTBR T+tf/J mouse model warrant future large-scale studies to specifically address the role of OGG1 alterations in pathogenesis of autism.
Liuwei Dihuang (LWDH), a classic Chinese medicinal formula, has been used to improve or restore declined functions related to aging and geriatric diseases, such as impaired mobility, vision, hearing, cognition and memory. Here, we report on the effect and possible mechanisms of LWDH mediated protection of β-amyloid (Aβ) induced paralysis in Caenorhabditis elegans using ethanol extract (LWDH-EE) and water extract (LWDH-WE). Chemical profiling and quantitative analysis revealed the presence of different levels of bioactive components in these extracts. LWDH-WE was rich in polar components such as monosaccharide dimers and trimers, whereas LWDH-EE was enriched in terms of phenolic compounds such as gallic acid and paeonol. In vitro studies revealed higher DPPH radical scavenging activity for LWDH-EE as compared to that found for LWDH-WE. Neither LWDH-EE nor LWDH-WE were effective in inhibiting aggregation of Aβ in vitro. By contrast, LWDH-EE effectively delayed Aβ induced paralysis in the transgenic C. elegans (CL4176) model which expresses human Aβ1-42. Western blot revealed no treatment induced reduction in Aβ accumulation in CL4176 although a significant reduction was observed at an early stage with respect to β-amyloid deposition in C. elegans strain CL2006 which constitutively expresses human Aβ1-42. In addition, LWDH-EE reduced in vivo reactive oxygen species (ROS) in C. elegans (CL4176) that correlated with increased survival of LWDH-EE treated N2 worms under juglone-induced oxidative stress. Analysis with GFP reporter strain TJ375 revealed increased expression of hsp16.2::GFP after thermal stress whereas a minute induction was observed for sod3::GFP. Quantitative gene expression analysis revealed that LWDH-EE repressed the expression of amy1 in CL4176 while up-regulating hsp16.2 induced by elevating temperature. Taken together, these results suggest that LWDH extracts, particularly LWDH-EE, alleviated β-amyloid induced toxicity, in part, through up-regulation of heat shock protein, antioxidant activity and reduced ROS in C. elegans.
Our aim was to assess the efficacy of the liver dialysis unit (LDU) in the treatment of patients with acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure.
Seventeen patients with acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure between January 1996 and December 2001 were retrospectively studied. A liver dialysis unit became available in our Unit in July 2000, and as of December 2001, four of these 17 patients had undergone treatment with liver dialysis.
Mean age was 29 years (range: 14-47) and 76% were women. Four of 17 patients underwent a total of 12 (range: 1-4) LDU sessions. Ammonia level tended to be lower following the LDU and all four patients recovered without a need for orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). Prior to July 2000, eight of 13 patients survived with supportive therapy, three expired and two underwent OLT. No major bleeding episodes were observed during the LDU course. A significant difference was found between the three cases who died and the cases that survived with respect to the grade of encephalopathy (p<0.001). There was significant difference in the admission serum creatinine among survivors (p<0.05).
In conclusion, the Liver Dialysis Unit treatment appeared to benefit patients with acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure by reverse of the encephalopathy and spontaneous recovery of the damaged liver in selected patients.
Metoclopramide, a central and peripheral dopamine type 2 receptor antagonist, has been used as an attractive and safer alternative to cisapride. However, cardiac side-effects have also been reported with this drug.
To evaluate the effects of intravenous metoclopramide administration on cardiac repolarization using QT dynamicity, a reliable indicator of arrhythmic side-effects.
The effect of metoclopramide on cardiac repolarization was evaluated in 10 healthy male volunteers in the supine position. Metoclopramide (10 mg) or placebo was administered intravenously at random in a double-blind, cross-over manner to the participants during continuous electrocardiographic recording in the supine position. The 30-min stationary segments of the recordings before and after drug administration were used to investigate QT dynamicity.
Metoclopramide administration, but not placebo, resulted in steeper QT/RR slopes compared with the pre-drug values (metoclopramide: 0.037 +/- 0.004 vs. 0.064 +/- 0.012; P = 0.041; placebo: 0.045 +/- 0.006 vs. 0.050 +/- 0.004; P = 0.563). In a two-way analysis of variance model, metoclopramide administration also increased the QT variance independently (F = 6.225, P = 0.023).
Metoclopramide administration increases the QT/RR slope and QT variance. These findings may partly explain the underlying mechanism of ventricular arrhythmias associated with metoclopramide.
To investigate the intestinal immune system in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and the influence of sulfasalazine treatment.
Total IgA, secretory IgA and IgM and secretory component were determined in jejunal perfusion fluid in 19 patients with AS before and after 3 months' treatment with sulfasalazine and compared with 18 healthy control subjects. Serum immunoglobulins and inflammatory activity were measured with standard methods and compared with a clinical scoring of disease activity.
Total IgA, secretory IgA, IgM and secretory component were significantly increased in the lavage fluid when compared with healthy controls. Treatment with sulfasalazine normalized these alterations.
Our findings demonstrate that the intestinal immune system is activated in AS and that such activation can be influenced by treatment. This observation supports the idea that antigenic stimulation in the gut is a possible causative event in AS.
Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that estradiol and progesterone affect beta-endorphin and Met-enkephalin levels in specific brain regions and that these effects are diurnally controlled. The present investigation was conducted to evaluate the effects of estradiol and progesterone on pain latency and brain opioid receptors of ovariectomized rats. Female Sprague-Dawley rats (100-120 g) adapted to a 12 hr light:12 hr dark illumination cycle were used in these studies. Animals were ovariectomized under pentobarbital anesthesia. After a recovery period of 10-14 days, estradiol (50 micrograms/kg/day in 0.2 ml olive oil) and progesterone (5 mg/kg/day in 0.1 ml olive oil) were administrated subcutaneously in the dorsal neck region alone and in combination at 16:00 hr for 7 days. Control animals received 0.2 ml olive oil. Control and treated groups were evaluated daily for pain latency postinjection using the tailflick and hotplate methods. On Day 7 of drug treatment, animals were sacrificed by decapitiation after pain latency evaluations. Whole brains were removed and immediately frozen at -70 degrees C. Binding and affinity of brain opiate receptors were determined for each treatment group. Results obtained indicate that estradiol and progesterone treatment alone or in combination significantly alter pain latency. This alteration in pain was not accompanied by any change in affinity or number of mu opioid receptors. However, an increase in Kd of kappa opiate receptors was observed following treatment with estradiol, progesterone, or their combination. This increase in Kd of kappa opiate receptors may in part explain the increased hotplate sensitivity following estrogen administration. The present findings suggest that the decrease in pain sensitivity induced by estradiol or progesterone could not be explained by their effects on opioid receptors. The previously reported effects of estradiol and progesterone on brain levels of beta-endorphin and Met-enkephalin may contribute to the analgesic effects of these steroids.
Patients using acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) have an increased risk of upper gastrointestinal discomfort. The aim of this study was to assess whether gastric acid suppression improves upper gastrointestinal symptoms in patients using low-dose aspirin for cardiovascular disease.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomised trial, 150 patients using low-dose (80 mg) acetylsalicylic acid with upper gastrointestinal symptoms who had been admitted at the Coronary Care Unit of the University Medical Center Nijmegen were assigned to treatment with rabeprazole (20 mg once daily) or placebo for 4 weeks. Treatment success, defined as complete upper gastrointestinal symptom relief, could be evaluated in 143 patients.
At 4 weeks after randomization, 34 of the 73 patients assigned to rabeprazole therapy (47%) as compared with 30 of the 70 patients given placebo (43%) reported complete upper gastrointestinal symptom relief (P = 0.54). Rabeprazole therapy did lead to a 52% improvement of heartburn symptoms [25% vs. 16%; odds ratio (OR) 0.48, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.24-0.97]. Epigastric pain, regurgitation, bloating and nausea symptoms did not statistically change after treatment. Patients with a history of dyspepsia more often reported treatment success in comparison to those without (75% vs. 40%; OR 0.25, 95% CI: 0.09-0.70).
Proton-pump inhibitor therapy significantly reduced heartburn, but not other acetylsalicylic acid associated symptoms.
The in vivo effects of phenytoin (diphenylhydantoin, Dilantin) and the experimental anticonvulsant, eboracin, a substituted indenopyrrole, were compared in mice. Pretreatment with varying dosages of either agent followed by challenge with the chemoconvulsant pentylenetetrazol (Metrazol) indicated that eboracin provided slightly less protection against seizures than phenytoin and was much less toxic. Intermediate doses of either agent led to a form of clonic status epilepticus which persisted for an average of 18 min in phenytoin-treated and 58 min in eboracin-treated mice. Pretreatment with higher or lower doses did not lead to these manifestations. Animals in which this syndrome had been induced should be of value in studies of the chemistry and physiology of the clonic state.
