We detected a unique de novo complex chromosome rearrangement (CCR) in a patient with multiple abnormalities including growth retardation, facial anomalies, exudative vitreoretinopathy (EVR), cleft palate, and minor digital anomalies. Cytogenetic analysis, fluorescent in situ hybridization, and microsatellite genotyping showed a reciprocal translocation between chromosomes 5 and 8, and a complex translocation-deletion-inversion process in the formation of derivative chromosomes 11 and 16. High-density whole-genome oligonucleotide array comparative genomic hybridization (oaCGH) defined a 35-megabase interstitial deletion of 11q14.1-q23.2 and a 1 megabase deletion of 16q22.3-q23.1. The Frizzled-4 (FZD4) gene is located within this 11q deletion. Parental studies and sequencing analysis confirmed that the patient was hemizygous for FZD4 due to the loss of a paternal allele on the derivative chromosome 11. Mutations in FZD4 are known to cause autosomal dominant exudative vitreoretinopathy (EVR1). Our patient's findings suggest that haploinsufficiency of the FZD4 gene product can also be a disease-causing mechanism for EVR1. We reviewed the clinical manifestations of 23 cases with 11q14-q23 interstitial deletions, with particular scrutiny of the present case and four reported cases characterized by molecular cytogenetics. These findings were used to construct a regional deletion map consisting of a haplosufficient segment at 11q14.3, a flanking centromeric segment at 11q14.1-q14.2, and a flanking telomeric segment at 11q21-q23.3. We propose that deletions of the FZD4 gene located within the centromeric segment cause retinal dysgenesis, while deletions within the telomeric segment account for dysmorphic craniofacial features, growth and mental retardation, and mild digital anomalies. These results provide insight into karyotype-phenotype correlations and prompt a rational analytic approach to cases with interstitial deletions of the 11q14-q23 region.
As an anti-metabolite, Azathioprine inhibits the de novo and salvage pathways of purine synthesis. Intraperitoneal injection of this drug results in not only lymphocyte suppression but also toxicity to bone marrow, gastrointestinal tract, and liver. This Azathioprine-induced hepatotoxicity was found to be associated with oxidative damage. Plants with antioxidative properties have been traditionally used to prevent diseases associated with free radicals. In this report, we used water extracts of three herbal plants that have been commonly used for treating many illnesses (Hibiscus sabdariffa, Rosmarinus officinalis and Salvia officinalis). Here we show their novel hepatoprotective effects against Azathioprine-induced hepatotoxicity in rats. Typically, administration of Azathioprine induces oxidative stress through depleting the activities of antioxidants and elevating the level of malonialdehyde in liver. This escalates levels of alanine aminotransferase, and aspartate aminotranferase in serum. Pretreatment with any of the three herbal plants used in this investigation proved to have a protective effect against Azathioprine-induced hepatotoxicity. Animals pretreated with water extracts from any of the three herbs under investigation not only failed to show necrosis of the liver after azathioprine administration, but also retained livers that, for the most part, were histologically normal. In addition, these herbs blocked the induced elevated levels of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotranferase in serum. The Azathioprine-induced oxidative stress was relieved to varying degrees by the examined herbal extracts. This effect was evident through reducing malonialdehyde levels and releasing the inhibitory effect of Azathioprine on the activities of glutathione, catalase and superoxide dismutase. To our knowledge, this report is the first that shows hepatoprotective effects of Hibiscus, Rosmarinus and Salvia species against Azathioprine-induced acute liver damage.
We analyzed the DNA sequence of the cDNA encoding the NH2 terminal region of beta spectrin from members of a kindred with autosomal dominant hereditary spherocytosis associated with defective protein 4.1 binding. We found a point mutation at codon 202 within the 272 amino acid NH2-terminal region of beta spectrin. TGG was changed to CGG, resulting in the replacement of tryptophan by arginine. The base change eliminates a normally occurring PvuII restriction site and creates a new MspI site. This finding enabled rapid detection or exclusion of the mutation at the DNA level among the family members, including one member for whom this analysis was performed prenatally. The mutation was found only in the affected family members and occurred as a de novo mutation in the proband. It has not been found in 20 other kindreds. The recombinant peptide derived from the normal cDNA retains the capacity to sediment with protein 4.1 and F-actin. The mutant peptide spontaneously degrades. This variant represents both the first point mutation and the first beta spectrin mutation demonstrated in autosomal dominant hereditary spherocytosis. Furthermore, the mutation is located within a conserved sequence among spectrinlike proteins and may define an amino acid critical for protein 4.1 binding activity.
Ergotamine and related compounds have been used for many years in the management of migraine. This review highlights the potential for toxic effects upon the arterial system which may arise from the use of ergot medications. Data on four female patients aged from 30 to 49 years were collected retrospectively from in-patient records and out-patient follow-up between 1978 and 1990. All four patients presented with the symptoms and signs of arterial obstruction and all had been prescribed ergot preparations as treatment and prophylaxis of migraine, for periods ranging from three to 12 years. Two patients had an acute arterial obstruction that resolved completely when the migraine medication was withdrawn. Two had chronic obstructions and radiological and surgical examination gave evidence of arterial stenosis. These two patients were treated with bypass surgery. Review of the literature indicated that other authors had described similar cases but without specifying the methods of data collection. This report supports the findings of others regarding the toxic effects of ergot preparations upon the arterial system, which may take the form of chronic or acute obstruction. General practitioners and physicians should be aware of the possible complications arising from prolonged or excessive use of ergot medications.
To describe a patient with neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) induced by risperidone, an atypical antipsychotic, and to review the available literature related to risperidone-associated NMS.
Case report information was obtained from the resident physician and medical records. MEDLINE and Index Medicus were searched to obtain literature published between 1960 and 1995.
We report an adolescent boy who developed NMS after treatment with risperidone. Risperidone therapy was started after unsuccessful treatment and development of extrapyramidal adverse effects with haloperidol. The patient demonstrated the classic tetrad of fever, generalized skeletal muscle rigidity, altered mental status, and autonomic dysfunction. Risperidone was discontinued and the patient recovered after a prolonged hospital course with supportive management.
Clinicians are cautioned about the possibility of NMS with risperidone.
Hepatocytes actively involved in albumin synthesis were identified by immunohistochemical method. In sections of perioidate-lysine-2 per cent (w/v) paraformaldehyde fixed normal rat liver, albumin was detected in all hepatocytes. At the ultrastructural level, albumin was localized in the rough endoplasmic reticulum and in Golgi complexes located near the nucleus in only a small subpopulation of hepatocytes, while all other hepatocytes contained albumin only in Golgi complexes located near the bile canaliculi. Stimulation of albumin synthesis by puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis resulted in an altered intracellular distribution of albumin at the light microscopic level. When examined at the ultrastructural level, albumin was localized in the rough endoplasmic reticulum as well as in Golgi complexes located near the nucleus in nearly all these hepatocytes. Hepatocytes with the potential to synthesize albumin were identified by in situ hybridization of albumin mRNA. In sections of 0.1 per cent (v/v) glutaraldehyde perfusion fixed normal rat liver, albumin mRNA was detected in the cytoplasm of only a few hepatocytes scattered throughout the lobule. Following stimulation of albumin synthesis by the induction of nephrosis, albumin mRNA was detected in the cytoplasm of the hepatocytes. The source of albumin in those hepatocytes which lacked albumin mRNA was identified in analbuminemic rats injected with rat albumin. At 6 h post injection, the light microscopic distribution of albumin in the liver of these animals was virtually indistinguishable from that in normal rat liver. At the ultrastructural level, injected albumin was localized in lysosomes and in Golgi complexes located near the bile canaliculi.
To report two cases of hypertension related to amphotericin B infusion.
A 63-year-old woman with Candida albicans bacteremia and an 84-year-old man with Aspergillus fumigatus pneumonia developed hypertension within minutes of amphotericin B administration. Both patients' blood pressure returned to baseline soon after the infusion of amphotericin B was stopped. Neither patient was rechallenged.
A causal relationship may exist between the administration of amphotericin B and these hypertensive episodes. Blood pressure in both patients normalized without treatment on discontinuation of the infusion. The mechanism of amphotericin B-associated hypertension is unclear but could include vasoconstricting properties of the drug or the administration of intravenous NaCl 0.9% prior to amphotericin B infusion. We recommend that intravenous NaCl 0.9% be administered following amphotericin B infusion and that the infusion be stopped if hypertensive episodes arise.
Both acute hypertension and hypotension can occur in patients receiving amphotericin B for systemic fungal infections.
To evaluate the antiemetic efficacy of a modified regimen of oral ondansetron and dexamethasone in patients with lupus nephritis undergoing treatment with cyclophosphamide whose conventional antiemetic regimen had failed.
A before-after prospective observational pilot project.
A federal research hospital.
Fourteen outpatients with lupus nephritis receiving intravenous cyclophosphamide 0.75-1.0 g/m2 had previously experienced chemotherapy-induced emetic events (vomiting or retching) while receiving a standard combination intravenous antiemetic regimen. The regimen consisted of four doses of thiethylperazine 10 mg and diphenhydramine 25 mg every 6 hours, and two doses of lorazepam 0.5 mg every 6 hours starting at 1 hour prior to cyclophosphamide. A subset of 8 patients previously completed a blinded study in which they received the intravenous formulation of ondansetron (4 doses of 4-16 mg q4h) administered orally beginning 30 minutes prior to the cyclophosphamide infusion.
The number of emetic events and cost of drug administration were assessed for the modified ondansetron intervention and compared with those of the standard antiemetic regimen. The incidence of emetic events and visual analog nausea scores for the subset of eight patients were also evaluated.
To account for the delayed onset of emesis associated with cyclophosphamide, patients received both ondansetron 8 mg orally every 4 hours (3 doses) and dexamethasone 10 mg orally (1 dose) beginning 4 hours after the cyclophosphamide infusion. This is different from the manufacturer's recommended dose schedule, in which ondansetron is administered prior to chemotherapy.
No emetic events were observed following the administration of oral ondansetron/dexamethasone. The 95% confidence interval for the true rate of emesis was 0% to 19.3%. There was a significant difference in efficacy between ondansetron/dexamethasone and the triple antiemetic regimen (p < 0.0002). None of the patients experienced adverse effects while receiving the ondansetron/dexamethasone regimen. Cost comparisons (including admixture and nursing administration times) for standard combination therapy and oral ondansetron/dexamethasone were $109.09 and $70.24, respectively. No difference in emetic events or nausea ratings was observed between oral ondansetron/dexamethasone tablets and oral administration of ondansetron using the intravenous formula.
This study suggests that a modified oral ondansetron/dexamethasone regimen is safe and efficacious, and costs less than alternative regimens to prevent cyclophosphamide-induced emesis in patients with lupus nephritis.
To investigate the effect of rhein on the development of hepatic fibrosis.
The animal models were made with carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) mixed with vegetable oil (3/2, v/v), which was injected subcutaneously twice a week for 6 weeks, and with 5% ethanol for free drinking water. At the same time, Rhein was administrated at the dose of 25 mg/kg or 100 mg/kg once a day for 6 weeks. The changes of both biochemical markers, such as the levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), hyaluronic acid (HA), procollagen type III (PCIII) in serum and SOD, malondialdehyde (MDA) in liver, and related histopathological parametres were determined.
Compared with the model group, there were three kinds of changes in the larger quantity of rhein treated group. (1) The levels of ALT, HA, PCIII in serum and MDA in liver homogenate were decreased significantly (from 150 U/L +/- 16 U/L to 78 U/L +/- 18 U/L, 321 microg/L +/- 97 microg/L to 217 microg/L +/- 75 microg/L, 31 microg/L +/- 14 microg/L to 16 microg/L +/- 6 microg/L and 3.67 nmol/mg +/- 0.68 nmol/mg to 1.88 nmol/mg +/- 0.34 nmol/mg, respectively, t > or 2.977, P<0.01). However the level of SOD in liver was increased (from 62.45 NU/mg +/- 8.74 NU/mg to 91.26 NU/mg +/- 14.04 NU/mg, t=4.453, P<0.01). (2) The expressions of transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta 1) and alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) in liver were markedly reduced (P<0.05 and P<0.01). (3) The collagen staining positive area was decreased and the grade of fibrosis was reduced significantly in liver (P<0.05 and P<0.01).
Rhein can protect hepatocyte from injury and prevent the progress of hepatic fibrosis in rats, which may associate with that rhein plays a role in antioxidation, anti-inflammation, inhibiting the expression of TGF-beta1 and suppressing the activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs).
Patients affected with Refsum disease (RD) have elevated levels of phytanic acid due to a deficiency of the peroxisomal enzyme phytanoyl-CoA hydroxylase (PhyH). In most patients with RD, disease-causing mutations in the PHYH gene have been identified, but, in a subset, no mutations could be found, indicating that the condition is genetically heterogeneous. Linkage analysis of a few patients diagnosed with RD, but without mutations in PHYH, suggested a second locus on chromosome 6q22-24. This region includes the PEX7 gene, which codes for the peroxin 7 receptor protein required for peroxisomal import of proteins containing a peroxisomal targeting signal type 2. Mutations in PEX7 normally cause rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata type 1, a severe peroxisomal disorder. Biochemical analyses of the patients with RD revealed defects not only in phytanic acid alpha-oxidation but also in plasmalogen synthesis and peroxisomal thiolase. Furthermore, we identified mutations in the PEX7 gene. Our data show that mutations in the PEX7 gene may result in a broad clinical spectrum ranging from severe rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata to relatively mild RD and that clinical diagnosis of conditions involving retinitis pigmentosa, ataxia, and polyneuropathy may require a full screen of peroxisomal functions.
Serum beta 2-microglobulin and creatinine values were compared with creatinine clearance in 20 lithium-treated patients. beta 2-microglobulin, but not creatinine, correlated significantly with creatinine clearance, indicating that beta 2-microglobulin is a more sensitive test than serum creatinine for monitoring glomerular filtration rate in chronic lithium therapy.
Pretreatment with ammonium acetate (NH4Ac) (6 mmol/kg s.c.) approximately doubled the time morphine-treated mice remained on a hot surface and similarly increased muscular incoordination by diazepam, but NH4Ac treatment alone had no effect. Thus, hyperammonemia is capable of altering drug action and must be considered along with impaired drug metabolism in enhanced drug responses associated with liver disease. Experiments in vitro showed that acetylcholine-induced catecholamine release from bovine adrenal medulla is depressed as much as 50% by 0.3 mM NH4Ac and KCl-induced contractions of guinea-pig ileum were inhibited 20% by 5 mM NH4Ac. Addition of excess calcium reversed the depression in both tissues, but calcium-independent catecholamine release by acetaldehyde was not blocked by NH4Ac. These results suggested that ammonia blocks calcium channels. Parallels in the actions of NH4Ac and the calcium channel blocker verapamil support this concept. Both verapamil (10 mg/kg i.p.) and NH4Ac pretreatment enhanced morphine analgesia- and diazepam-induced muscular incoordination and antagonized amphetamine-induced motor activity, and neither verapamil nor NH4Ac affected the convulsant action of metrazol. The data suggest that hyperammonemia exerts a calcium channel blocking action which enhances the effects of central nervous system depressants and certain opioid analgesics.
Cholestatic liver diseases leading to progressive destruction of intra-hepatic bile ducts and ductopenia encompass multiple etiologies. Pathophysiology and natural history of drug-induced cholangiopathies remain unclear. We report a case of prolonged ductopenia attributed to Tenoxicam (Tilcotil o--a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug of the oxicam family) ingested at therapeutic dose. A 36 year-old male patient was admitted for jaundice and Lyell syndrome starting 1 week after the ingestion of Tenoxicam. Liver biopsy showed cholestasis, non-suppurative cholangitis and polymorphous inflammatory infiltrate of the portal tracts (round cells, macrophages an eosinophils). Treatment with ursodesoxycholic acid and cholestyramine was instituted and the patient was asymptomatic 1 year after. Three years later mild biological cholestasis persisted and ductopenia was evidenced on liver biopsy. In this report we found that: (1) The toxicity of tenoxicam was probably mediated by an immunoallergic mechanism (Lyell syndrome and eosinophils on histology); (2) ductopenia was secondary to inflammatory cholangitis. Factors responsible for this chronic evolution are still unknown (genetic predisposition, vascular factors, etc.); and (3) the presence of ductopenia contrasted with the "clinical recovery" of the disease suggesting accessory bile drainage by cholangioles or partial reconstruction of the biliary tree.
To evaluate the effects of metoclopramide-induced hyperprolactinemia on the prolactin receptor of murine endometrium.
Experimental study using the RNA extraction to detect tissue prolactin receptor isoforms by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
University-based laboratory.
Seventy-two female swiss albino mice (Mus musculus), approximately 100 days old, were divided into six 12-animal groups: (GI) nonoophorectomized mice given vehicle; (GII) nonoophorectomized mice treated with metoclopramide; (GIII) oophorectomized mice treated with metoclopramide; (GIV) oophorectomized mice treated with metoclopramide and 17beta-estradiol; (GV) oophorectomized mice treated with metoclopramide and micronized progesterone; (GVI) oophorectomized mice treated with metoclopramide and a solution of 17beta-estradiol and micronized progesterone.
Drugs were administered for 50 days. Following euthanasia, the middle portions of the uterine horns were removed, sectioned, and immediately frozen for RT-PCR procedures. Blood was collected for the dosage of prolactin and serum estrogen and progesterone using radioimmune assay.
Identification of uterine prolactin receptor isoforms.
The PRL receptor and its isoform L were identified only in GI (control group) and GII (metoclopramide), the two groups with nonoophorectomized animals. The amount of PRL receptor mRNA and that of its isoform L from GII were the largest. No other isoforms of the prolactin receptor were identified in any of the groups.
Our results suggest that replacement of estrogen and progestin may not increase the mRNA of endometrial PRL receptor in metoclopromide-induced hyperprolactinemia in rats after castration.
We compared the efficacy of desmopressin and enuresis alarm as first and second line treatment options for monosymptomatic nocturnal enuresis.
A total of 104 children with monosymptomatic nocturnal enuresis were randomly assigned to either desmopressin (54) or enuresis alarm (50) as first line treatment. Following 12 weeks of first line treatment children with a full response were evaluated for relapse 12 weeks after withdrawal of treatment. Children with partial or no response were switched to the alternative treatment and then evaluated after 12 weeks of crossover treatment. Relapse was defined as more than 1 episode of bedwetting monthly.
Following first line treatment 77.8% of the desmopressin group and 82% of the enuresis alarm group achieved a successful result, including full response in 37% and 50% of the groups, respectively (p=0.433). Of the children with a full response 50% in the desmopressin group and 12% in the enuresis alarm group experienced a relapse when treatment stopped (p=0.005). Following second line crossover treatment 71.4% of the enuresis alarm-desmopressin group and 67.8% of the desmopressin-enuresis alarm group achieved a successful result, including full response in 47.6% and 45.2% of the groups, respectively (p=0.961).
There was no difference between desmopressin and enuresis alarm during treatment for achieving dryness, but the chance of relapse after treatment stopped was higher following desmopressin. Switching to the alternative treatment following partial or no response provided an additional benefit.
Cardiotoxicity is a rare but very serious side effect of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) treatment. Many theories have been suggested to explain the mechanism of this problem. Most commonly, coronary artery spasm is considered responsible in cardiovascular toxicity. Ischemic symptoms and signs related to 5-FU therapy are observed during the late phase of the administration of the drug. The close and careful monitoring of all patients, especially the ones with pre-existent coronary artery disease, during 5-FU infusion is mandatory. Because there is not a single and effective modality of prevention of 5-FU cardiotoxicity, the patients should be selected carefully for its administration, 5-FU infusion should be stopped as soon as symptoms are encountered. A case of a 58-year-old woman treated with 5-FU due to colon cancer is described. In the late phase of 5-FU administration, the patient developed anginal pain with transitional ST segment elevation in ECG. Patient, after coronary angiography, was successfully treated with percutaneous coronary intervention. Interventional methods, most of all stent implantation, seem to be the best treatment of 5-FU-related acute coronary syndromes.
To elucidate the mechanism underlying suppression by curcumin of esophageal carcinogenesis induced by NMBA, we evaluated the CYP level and mutagenic activation of environmental carcinogens, by immunoblot analyses and Ames preincubation test, respectively, and bilirubin, 4-nitrophenol and testosterone UDPGT activities in F344 rats treated with curcumin and/or NMBA. No significant alterations in the hepatic levels of constitutive CYP proteins, mutagenic activation by liver S9 or hepatic UDPGT activities were produced by subcutaneous treatment with 0.5 mg/kg NMBA for 5 weeks and/or feeding of 0.05% and 0.2% curcumin for 6 weeks. In contrast, gavage of 0.2% curcumin decreased esophageal CYP2B1 and 2E1 by up to 60%, compared with vehicle control. Similarly, intragastric treatment with 270 mg/kg curcumin decreased esophageal and gastric CYP2B1 and CYP2E1, but not in lung, kidney or intestine. Conversely, large intestinal CYP2B1 was 2.8-fold higher in the treated rats than in control rats. Mutagenic activities of NOC, including NMBA, in the presence of esophagus and stomach S9 were markedly decreased in the treated rats, whereas those in the presence of large intestine S9 were 2.2-3.0-fold above control. These results show that modifying effects of curcumin on esophageal carcinogenesis can be attributed to a decrease in metabolic activation of NMBA by esophageal CYP2B1 during the initiation phase, without the contribution of metabolic activation and inactivation by liver. Further, the present findings suggest the potential of curcumin for modification of gastric and intestinal carcinogenesis initiated with NOC.
To describe a severe adverse reaction in a child who received an infusion of propofol for sedation in the intensive care unit (ICU). To describe the management and further investigation of this patient and review similar published reports.
Case report and literature review.
Community hospital ICU and tertiary pediatric ICU.
Infant with upper respiratory obstruction secondary to an esophageal foreign body who required tracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation.
Conventional cardiovascular and respiratory support. Continuous veno-venous hemofiltration (CVVH) and plasmapheresis.
The patient received a propofol infusion at a mean rate of 10 mg/kg/hr for 50.5 hrs. He developed lipemia and green urine and subsequently, a progressive severe lactic acidemia and bradyarrhythmias unresponsive to conventional treatment. These abnormalities resolved with CVVH. He was encephalopathic and developed liver and muscle necrosis histologically compatible with a toxic insult. Examination of homogenized muscle tissue demonstrated a reduction in cytochrome C oxidase activity. There was no evidence of systemic infection or underlying metabolic disease. He eventually recovered completely.
Propofol has been associated with severe adverse reactions in children receiving intensive care. The biochemical and histologic abnormalities described in this patient may guide further investigation. We advise against prolonged use of propofol for sedation in children.
A 52 year old man with myasthenia gravis and normal liver function was treated with neostigmine, prednisolone and azathioprine. Three years after starting azathioprine he developed clinical evidence of portal hypertension. A liver biopsy showed nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH). The development of NRH following azathioprine treatment in a patient with myasthenia gravis strengthens the case for a causal role of azathioprine in producing NRH and portal hypertension.
A 53-year-old woman was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) confirmed by bone marrow biopsy to be pre-B ALL. The patient underwent a hyperfractionated cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and dexamethosone (hyper-CVAD) regimen, except the doxorubicin was withheld. She received two intrathecal injections of cytarabine and methotrexate and two months later presented to Tulane University Hospital with paresthesias and weakness causing her to be wheelchair bound.
We used naloxone to investigate the role of central nervous system opiate receptors in the cardiovascular depression of canine hemorrhagic and endotoxic shock. Shock was induced by bleeding dogs into a reservoir to achieve and maintain a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 45 mmHg for 30 min; at 30 min the reservoir was clamped and the animals were treated with intracerebroventricular (ICV) perfusion of naloxone 0.1 mg/kg (n = 5) or artificial CSF (n = 5) for 30 min. Endotoxemic shock was induced by the iv injection of E. coli endotoxin 1 mg/kg; 15 min later the animals were given naloxone 0.1 mg/kg (n = 5) or artificial CSF (n = 5) ICV for 30 min. ICV naloxone significantly increased MAP, cardiac output (CO), and left ventricular performance (LV dP/dt max) compared to artificial CSF in canine endotoxic shock but not hemorrhagic shock. Naloxone 0.1 mg/kg (n = 5) given into the cisterna magna failed to significantly improve MAP, CO, or LV dP/dt max in dogs subjected to reservoir hemorrhagic shock for 60 min compared to artificial CSF (n = 5). These results are compatible with opiate-receptor-mediated central cardiovascular depression in endotoxic shock and peripheral cardiovascular depression in hemorrhagic shock. Accordingly, the sites of action of naloxone are mainly central in endotoxic shock and peripheral in hemorrhagic shock.
On the basis of previous experimental studies we postulated that individuals who were phenotypically good hydroxylators but poor sulphoxidisers would be susceptible to chlorpromazine jaundice. Sulphoxidation capacity was assessed in 12 subjects with a history of chlorpromazine jaundice, using S-carboxymethyl-L-cysteine as an in vivo probe. Following an oral dose of 750 mg, unchanged compound and sulphoxide metabolites were measured in urine. All 12 subjects (100%) were shown to be poor sulphoxidisers compared to 22% of normal controls (P less than 0.001) and 23.8% of liver disease controls (P less than 0.001). No subjects with a history of chlorpromazine jaundice had an impaired hydroxylation capacity as assessed by recovery of 4-hydroxydebrisoquine in urine following oral debrisoquine. The results support the hypothesis and demonstrate an inherent metabolic basis of susceptibility to chlorpromazine jaundice.
The effects of the opioid tilidine and the opiate antagonist naloxone on somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) and pain ratings (E), elicited by electrical skin stimuli with randomized intensities, were investigated for different, orally administered tilidine and naloxone combinations in a double-blind Latin square design in 15 healthy humans. A high correlation between SSEP amplitudes and E was found for all treatments investigated. Tilidine (100 mg) decreased both SSEP amplitudes and E by about 25% compared to the placebo. No significant differences were found between the analgesic effects of tilidine and TN8 (tilidine 100 mg; naloxone 8 mg). The effects of both treatments were significantly different from those of the naloxone, placebo and TN32 treatments (tilidine 100 mg; naloxone 32 mg), indicating a marked naloxone-induced reversal of tilidine analgesia. Naloxone (32 mg) increased the SSEP amplitudes. No naloxone-induced hyperalgesia was seen in the pain ratings.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is a well-known neurotoxicant inducing neuronal degeneration in the central nervous system. This in vivo study investigated the involvement of tau hyperphosphorylation in MeHg-induced neuropathological changes in the mouse brain, because abnormal tau hyperphosphorylation causes significant pathological changes associated with some neurodegenerative diseases. Mice that were administrated to 30 ppm MeHg in drinking water for 8 weeks exhibited neuropathological changes, e.g. a decrease in the number of neuron; an increase in the number of migratory astrocytes and microglia/macrophages; necrosis and apoptosis in the cerebral cortex, particularly the deep layer of primary motor cortex and prelimbic cortex. Western blotting revealed that MeHg exposure increased tau phosphorylation at Thr-205, Ser-396 and Ser-422 in the cerebral cortex, consistent with the phosphorylation patterns noted in Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed that the distribution of tau-phosphorylated (Thr-205) neurons corresponded with the areas showing considerable neuropathological changes. Among the kinases and phosphatases related to tau hyperphosphorylation, the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4 (MKK4) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) was recognized. Neither neuropathological changes nor tau hyperphosphorylation was detected in the hippocampus in this study although the mercury concentration here was twice that in the cerebral cortex. These findings suggest that MeHg exposure induces tau hyperphosphorylation at specific sites of tau mainly through the activation of JNK pathways, leading to neuropathological changes in the cerebral cortex selectively, but not in the hippocampus of mouse brain.
A metabolism-based approach toward the optimization of a series of N-arylsulfonamide-based γ-secretase inhibitors is reported. The lead cyclohexyl analogue 6 suffered from extensive oxidation on the cycloalkyl motif by cytochrome P450 3A4, translating into poor human liver microsomal stability. Knowledge of the metabolic pathways of 6 triggered a structure-activity relationship study aimed at lowering lipophilicity through the introduction of polarity. This effort led to several tetrahydropyran and tetrahydrofuran analogues, wherein the 3- and 4-substituted variants exhibited greater microsomal stability relative to their 2-substituted counterparts. Further reduction in lipophilicity led to the potent γ-secretase inhibitor and 3-substituted oxetane 1 with a reduced propensity toward oxidative metabolism, relative to its 2-substituted isomer. The slower rates of metabolism with 3-substituted cyclic ethers most likely originate from reductions in lipophilicity and/or unfavorable CYP active site interactions with the heteroatom. Preliminary animal pharmacology studies with a representative oxetane indicate that the series is generally capable of lowering Aβ in vivo. As such, the study also illustrates the improvement in druglikeness of molecules through the use of the oxetane motif.
In a multicenter study, a long-term analysis was made of the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of subcutaneous (s.c.) sumatriptan in the acute treatment of migraine attacks over a period of up to 18 months. A total of 2263 patients took part in the study, all able to perform their own acute treatment of migraine attacks at home by s.c. administration of 6 mg of sumatriptan. A headache diary was used by each patient to record the various migraine parameters before the injection and 1 h and 2 h after it. A total of 43,691 attacks were treated and analyzed during the study period from October 1991 to June 1993. Therapy was successful in 89.5% of attacks. Freedom from headache was achieved in 71.0% of cases. In 22.7% of the attacks a second injection was administered on recurrence of the headache; 82.9% of the patients achieved an intraindividual therapy success rate ranging from over 80% to 100%. In the course of treatment there was no change in either the therapy success rate or in the frequency of attacks. Some 4.9% of the patients withdrew from the study because of insufficient efficacy or adverse events. A total of 44.5% of patients reported adverse events, and these were rated serious in the case of 1.7%. S.c. administration of sumatriptan for acute migraine therapy is an effective treatment method, with reliable action, that can be used with good tolerability provided the contraindications are taken into account.
Chenopodium ambrosioides have been used for centuries in the Americas as a popular remedy for parasitic diseases. The essential oil of this plant possesses anthelmintic activity and is still used in some regions to treat parasitosis and leishmaniasis. However, the Chenopodium oil caused also some fatalities, leading to its commercial disuse. In this work, we studied the mechanism of toxicity of the essential oil and its major pure ingredients (carvacrol, caryophyllene oxide, and ascaridole, which was synthesized from alpha-terpinene) with respect to mammalian cells and mitochondria. We observed that all products, but especially caryophyllene oxide, inhibited the mitochondrial electron transport chain. This effect for carvacrol and caryophyllene oxide was mediated via direct complex I inhibition. Without Fe2+, ascaridole was less toxic to mammalian mitochondria than other major ingredients. However, evidence on the formation of carbon-centered radicals in the presence of Fe2+ was obtained by ESR spin-trapping. Furthermore, it was shown that Fe2+ potentiated the toxicity of ascaridole on oxidative phosphorylation of rat liver mitochondria. The increase of the alpha-tocopherol quinone/alpha-tocopherol ratio under these conditions indicated the initiation of lipid peroxidation by Fe2+-mediated ascaridole cleavage. Further ESR spin-trapping experiments demonstrated that in addition to Fe2+, reduced hemin, but not mitochondrial cytochrome c can activate ascaridole, explaining why ascaridole in peritoneal macrophages from BALB/c mice exhibited a higher toxicity than in isolated mitochondria.
Migraine with aura and migraine without aura have the same pain phase, thus indicating that migraine with aura and migraine without aura share a common pathway of nociception. In recent years, increasing evidence has suggested that the messenger molecule nitric oxide (NO) is involved in pain mechanisms of migraine without aura. In order to clarify whether the same is true for migraine with aura, in the present study we examined the headache response to intravenous infusion of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) (0.5 microg/kg/min for 20 min) in 12 sufferers of migraine with aura. The specific aim was to elucidate whether an aura and/or an attack of migraine without aura could be induced. Fourteen healthy subjects served as controls. Aura symptoms were not elicited in any subject. Headache was more severe in migraineurs than in the controls during and immediately after GTN infusion (p=0.037) as well as during the following 11 h (p = 0.008). In the controls, the GTN-induced headache gradually disappeared, whereas in migraineurs peak headache intensity occurred at a mean time of 240 min post-infusion. At this time the induced headache in 6 of 12 migraineurs fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for migraine without aura of the International Headache Society. The results therefore suggest that NO is involved in the pain mechanisms of migraine with aura. Since cortical spreading depression has been shown to liberate NO in animals, this finding may help our understanding of the coupling between cortical spreading depression and headache in migraine with aura.
