To demonstrate the association between tetracycline treatment and pseudotumor cerebri (PTC).
Consecutive patients from two neuro-ophthalmic referral centers, who developed PTC syndrome post-treatment with tetracycline, were enrolled and followed for a minimum of 2 years after cessation of tetracycline.
A total of 243 consecutive patients were diagnosed with PTC; 18 had concurrent history of tetracycline treatment; a third experienced a limited course of illness with no relapses; 12 had a variable course with a prolonged relapsing illness. Mean duration of tetracycline treatment prior to diagnosis was 2.73 months.
Tetracycline, and especially minocycline, is currently considered a cause or a precipitating factor for PTC. Although there is little information on the natural course of tetracycline induced PTC, the present cases demonstrate that drug withdrawal is curative only in some patients.
A multicenter study was performed in 110 patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Adriamycin (50 mg/50 ml) was administered intravesically within 24 h after transurethral resection of TA-T1 (O-A) bladder tumors. Instillation was repeated twice during the first week, then weekly during the first month and afterwards monthly for 1 year. The tolerance was evaluated in these 110 patients, and 29 patients presented with local side-effects. In 24 of these patients chemical cystitis was severe enough for them to drop out of the study. No systemic side-effects were observed. Recurrence was studied in 82 evaluable patients after 1 year of follow-up and in 72 patients followed for 2-3 years (mean 32 months). Of the 82 patients studied after 1 year, 23 had primary and 59 recurrent disease. Of the 82 evaluable patients, 50 did not show any recurrence after 1 year (61%), while 32 presented with one or more recurrences (39%). Of these recurrences, 27 were T1 tumors while five progressed to more highly invasive lesions. In patients that were free of recurrence during the first year, 80% remained tumor-free during the 2- to 3-year follow-up period. Of the patients developing one or more recurrences during the first year, only 50% presented with further recurrence once the instillations were stopped. The beneficial effect of Adriamycin appears obvious and might be related to the drug itself, the early and repeated instillations after TUR, or both.
Eighteen cases of bladder cancer were treated with intravesical instillation therapy with 60 mg Adriamycin daily. Overall, the treatment was markedly effective in two cases, effective in nine cases, and ineffective in seven cases. Bladder irritation was noted in four cases. Postinstillation therapy was required in most cases.
Although epidural opioids have excellent analgesic property, their side-effects limit its use in patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA). This study was designed to compare side-effects of epidural sufentanil in ropivacaine with that of morphine in ropivacaine focusing on lower urinary tract function after major abdominal surgery.
In total 60 patients undergoing gastrectomy were randomly allocated to receive either sufentanil in ropivacaine (Group S, n=30) or morphine in ropivacaine (Group M, n=30) for their PCEA. Epidural catheter was inserted between the 7th and 8th thoracic spine. Visual analogue pain score and side-effects such as nausea, vomiting, pruritus, hypotension and urinary retention were evaluated during postoperative days (PODs) 1 and 2 in the postanaesthetic care unit.
The incidence of serious to major micturition problem in Group S was lower than that in Group M (P<0.001). The incidence of pruritus, nausea and vomiting was also lower in Group S than in Group M on POD 1.
The lower incidence of major/serious micturition problem in patients receiving sufentanil in ropivacaine thoracic epidural analgesia suggests that continuation of urinary drainage may not be necessary from POD 1 onwards.
The aim of this study was to assess the effects of withdrawal from placebo and carbamazepine administered for agitation associated with dementia and to assess safety, tolerability, and efficacy of subsequent ongoing carbamazepine therapy.
We previously reported the results of a 6-week, randomized, parallel-group study of placebo versus carbamazepine in 51 nursing home patients with dementia who were agitated; 47 subjects completed that study. This report first presents the results of withdrawal from that experimental treatment assessed by (blinded) observations 3 weeks later (N = 45 remaining). The primary outcome measure was the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. Secondary outcome measures addressed other aspects of behavior, cognition, function, safety, and tolerability. Patients were then treated with carbamazepine for an additional 6 weeks (N = 32 remaining) or 12 weeks (N = 25 remaining), with the same assessments performed.
Patients who had previously shown behavioral improvement with carbamazepine therapy reverted to their baseline state after washout, whereas there was no change in the patients previously treated with placebo. There were no other significant effects of washout. During subsequent therapy with carbamazepine at a modal dose of 300 mg/day, there were 2 deaths and 4 other adverse events resulting in dropout. Neither of the deaths, and only 1 serious adverse experience, was judged to be related to carbamazepine. There were a variety of nonserious adverse experiences during the trial. Behavior ratings showed ongoing improvement in agitation and aggression, as well as in other aspects of psychopathology.
The washout data provided independent confirmation of efficacy found in the prior placebo-controlled phase of this trial. Ongoing treatment was not associated with unexpected toxicity and was associated with improvement in measures of agitation and aggression that appeared to continue for up to 12 weeks. These findings confirm and extend results from earlier placebo-controlled studies.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A) is the most common inherited nerve disorder. CMT1A is characterised by peripheral nerve demyelination, weakness, and impaired motor function and is caused by the duplication of PMP22, the gene that encodes peripheral myelin protein 22. High-dose ascorbic acid has been shown to have remyelinating potential and to correct the phenotype of a transgenic mouse model of CMT1A by decreasing expression of PMP22. We tested the efficacy and safety of ascorbic acid supplementation in children with CMT1A.
This 12-month, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial undertaken between June, 2007, and December, 2008, assessed high-dose oral ascorbic acid (about 30 mg/kg/day) in 81 children with CMT1A (2-16 years). Randomisation was done on a 1:1 ratio by a computer-generated algorithm. All investigators and participants were blinded to treatment allocation with the exception of the trial pharmacist. The primary efficacy outcome was median nerve motor conduction velocity (m/s) at 12 months. Secondary outcomes were foot and hand strength, motor function, walking ability, and quality of life. Compliance was measured by plasma ascorbic acid concentration, pill count, and medication diary entries. Analysis was by intention to treat. This trial is registered with the Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, Number 12606000481572.
81 children were randomly assigned to receive high-dose ascorbic acid (n=42) or placebo (n=39). 80 children completed 12 months of treatment. The ascorbic acid group had a small, non-significant increase in median nerve motor conduction velocity compared with the placebo group (adjusted mean difference 1.7 m/s, 95% CI -0.1 to 3.4; p=0.06). There was no measurable effect of ascorbic acid on neurophysiological, strength, function, or quality of life outcomes. Two children in the ascorbic acid group and four children in the placebo group reported gastrointestinal symptoms. There were no serious adverse events.
12 months of treatment with high-dose ascorbic acid was safe and well tolerated but none of the expected efficacy endpoints were reached.
Previously, we reported that perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) promotes liver cancer in a manner similar to that of 17β-estradiol (E2) in rainbow trout. Also, other perfluoroalkyl acids (PFAAs) are weakly estrogenic in trout and bind the trout liver estrogen receptor. The primary objective of this study was to determine whether multiple PFAAs enhance hepatic tumorigenesis in trout, an animal model that represents human insensitivity to peroxisome proliferation. A two-stage chemical carcinogenesis model was employed in trout to evaluate PFOA, perfluorononanoic acid (PFNA), perfluorodecanoic acid (PFDA), perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), and 8:2 fluorotelomer alcohol (8:2FtOH) as complete carcinogens or promoters of aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1))- and/or N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine (MNNG)-induced liver cancer. A custom trout DNA microarray was used to assess hepatic transcriptional response to these dietary treatments in comparison with E2 and the classic peroxisome proliferator, clofibrate (CLOF). Incidence, multiplicity, and size of liver tumors in trout fed diets containing E2, PFOA, PFNA, and PFDA were significantly higher compared with AFB(1)-initiated animals fed control diet, whereas PFOS caused a minor increase in liver tumor incidence. E2 and PFOA also enhanced MNNG-initiated hepatocarcinogenesis. Pearson correlation analyses, unsupervised hierarchical clustering, and principal components analyses showed that the hepatic gene expression profiles for E2 and PFOA, PFNA, PFDA, and PFOS were overall highly similar, though distinct patterns of gene expression were evident for each treatment, particularly for PFNA. Overall, these data suggest that multiple PFAAs can promote liver cancer and that the mechanism of promotion may be similar to that of E2.
To determine if pergolide injures heart valves, by comparing echocardiographic findings in pergolide-treated patients with those of a historical control group.
Letters were sent to all patients in the authors' practice believed to be taking pergolide, and those responders who wished to continue it were urged to undergo echocardiography. Echocardiograms were obtained on 46 patients, and scores for valvular regurgitation were compared with those from an age-matched control group derived from the Framingham Study. The composite valve regurgitation score was modeled as a linear function of total milligrams lifetime use of pergolide, controlling for age.
Eighty-nine percent of pergolide-treated patients had some degree of valvular insufficiency. For each of the three valves for which there are control data, we found an approximately 2- to 3-fold increased risk of abnormal valves in the pergolide patients (odds ratio [OR] approximately 3) and an estimated 14-fold increased risk of concerning tricuspid regurgitation (OR = 18.4). The composite valve score (the sum of valve scores for each of the four valves) was a function of lifetime pergolide use.
Pergolide may injure cardiac valves, resulting most commonly in tricuspid regurgitation.
The antiarrhythmic activity of the compound N-(trans-3-hydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2-naphthyl)-N-(3-oxo-3-phenyl-2-methylpropyl)-piperazine hydrochloride, referred to as P11, is studied on anaesthesized cats and Wistar albino rats, as well as on non-anaesthesized rabbits. Four types of experimental arrhythmia are used--with BaCl2, with chloroform-adrenaline, with strophantine G and with aconitine. The compound P11 is introduced in doses of 0.25 and 0.50 mg/kg intravenously and 10 mg/kg orally. The compound manifests antiarrhythmic activity in all models of experimental arrhythmia used, causing greatest inhibition on the arrhythmia induced by chloroform-adrenaline (in 90 per cent) and with BaCl2 (in 84 per cent). The results obtained are associated with the beta-adrenoblocking and with the membrane-stabilizing action of the compound.
Lucidone was previously reported to exhibit anti-inflammatory activity in vitro and in vivo. In the present study, we characterized the mechanisms underlying the hepatoprotective effect of lucidone against alcohol-induced oxidative stress in vitro. Human hepatoma (HepG2) cells were pretreated with lucidone (1-10μg/mL) and then hepatotoxicity was stimulated by the addition ethanol (100mM). With response to ethanol-challenge, increased amount of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspirate aminotransferase (AST) release were observed, whereas lucidone pretreatment significantly inhibited the leakage of AST and ALT in HepG2 cells without appreciable cytotoxic effects. We also found that lucidone pretreatment significantly decreased ethanol-induced nitric oxide (NO), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), malondialdehyde (MDA), reactive oxygen species (ROS) and glutathione (GSH) depletion in HepG2 cells. Furthermore, Western blot and quantitative-PCR analyses showed that ethanol-exposure apparently down-regulated endogenous anti-oxidant hemoxygenase-1 (HO-1) expression, whereas pretreatment with lucidone significantly up-regulates HO-1 expression followed by the transcriptional activation of NF-E2 related factor-2 (Nrf-2). Interestingly, the profound up-regulation of HO-1 and Nrf-2 were observed in only ethanol-challenged cells, which evidenced that lucidone-induced induction of HO-/Nrf-2 were specific with oxidative stress. Thus, we concluded that lucidone-mediated up-regulation of phase-II enzymes and HO-1 via Nrf-2 signaling pathway may provide a pivotal mechanism for its hepatoprotective action.
The subfornical organ (SFO) and the area postrema (AP), two of the sensory circumventricular organs (CVO), are known to play a role in the chronic central control of blood pressure. In previous studies in which these regions were independently lesioned, the chronic hypotensive effects of the AT(1) receptor blocker losartan (10 mg/kg/day) were attenuated by ~15 mm Hg. In the present study, we sought to investigate the effect of concurrent lesion of both the SFO and the AP on the cardiovascular effects of chronic losartan infusion in order to test the hypothesis that a greater attenuation of the hypotensive effects of losartan would be observed in rats with dual lesions. To do so, arterial pressure and heart rate responses to 10-day infusion of losartan were compared in sham rats and those with dual lesions of the AP and SFO. Two important findings resulted from this study. First, dual lesion rats exhibited a sustained and significant decrease in resting blood pressure (83+/-1 mm Hg vs. 104+/-1 mm Hg, respectively) and heart rate (356+/-3 bpm vs. 398+/-6 bpm, respectively) compared to sham animals. Secondly, rats with concurrent lesion of both the AP and the SFO demonstrated a significantly attenuated response to losartan compared to sham animals but showed no greater attenuation of losartan's chronic hypotensive effects than animals with lesion of either the SFO or the AP (approximately 15 mm Hg). Although these results do not support the stated hypothesis, they do suggest redundancy and compensatory roles of the AP and SFO in basal cardiovascular control.
To investigate the influence of platelet activating factor (PAF) and its antagonist BN52021 on portal hypertension associated with liver cirrhosis.
Ten SD rats were injected intraperitoneally with carbon tetrachloride to establish a liver cirrhosis model and 10 rats were injected with olive oil as controls. The concentrations of PAF in the blood and liver was examined by rapid (3)H-PAF scintillation proximity assay and the hepatic PAF binding capacity was examined by receptor saturation binding technique. The pressure of portal vein and pressure of femoral artery were measured by intubation method. BN52021 was infused into the portal vein to observe its influence on the blood pressure.
The hepatic PAF levels of the cirrhotic rats was 4.0 ng/g +/- 0.4 ng/g, significantly higher than that of the control rats (2.7 ng/g +/- 0.5 ng/g, P < 0.01). The hepatic efflux PAF level of the cirrhotic rats was 6.3 ng/g +/- 0.6 ng/g, significantly higher than that of the control rats (3.4 ng/g +/- 0.6 ng/g, P < 0.01). The hepatic output PAF levels of the cirrhotic rats was 1.0 ng/g +/- 0.6 ng/g, significantly lower than that of the control rats (0.3 ng/g +/- 0.5 ng/g, P < 0.01). The maximum PAF binding capacity of the cirrhotic rats was 2.8 +/- 0.21 fmol/microg protein, significantly higher than that of the control rats (0.9 +/- 0.06 fmol/microg protein, P < 0.01). However, the receptor affinity was not significantly different between these 2 groups. The portal pressure of the cirrhotic rats was 12.2 mm Hg +/- 0.7 mm Hg, significantly higher than that of the control rats (5.3 mm Hg +/- 0.6 mm Hg, P < 0.01). The femoral arterial pressure of the cirrhotic rats was 82 mm Hg +/- 10 mm Hg, significantly lower than that of the control rats (114 mm Hg +/- 9 mm Hg, P < 0.01). Infusion of PAF via the portal vein increased the portal pressure from 12.1 mm Hg +/- 0.6 mm Hg with an increase of 32% (P < 0.01) in the cirrhotic rats, and from 7.7 mm Hg +/- 0.8 mm Hg with an increase of 23%. The PAF response of the cirrhotic rats was 4.1 mm Hg +/- 1.0 mm Hg (227%), significantly higher than that of the control rats (1.8 mm Hg +/- 0.3 mm Hg, P < 0.01). The femoral artery pressure decreased from 82 mm Hg +/- 10 mm Hg to 48 mm Hg +/- 4 mm Hg (P < 0.01) in the cirrhotic rats, and from 114 mm Hg +/- 9 mm Hg to 52 mm Hg +/- 4 mm Hg (P < 0.01). After portal infusion of BN52021 the portal pressure decreased from 14.6 mm Hg +/- 1.6 mm Hg to 12.3 mm Hg +/- 0.8 mm Hg (P < 0.05) with a decrease of 16%, however, did not significantly influenced the femoral arterial pressure in the cirrhotic rats, and did not significantly influenced the portal pressure and femoral arterial pressure in the control rats.
The increased hepatic PAF synthesis in cirrhotic is the major source of elevated circulating PAF It upregulates the hepatic hemodynamics that contributes to portal hypertension. The increased portal pressure by endogenous PAF can be decreased to a certain extent by BN52021 which may be used in treatment of portal hypertension.
The effect on cerebral blood flow of acute diazoxide-induced hypotension was studied in rats with renal and spontaneous hypertension. Diazoxide (5 mg/kg, i.v. bolus), caused arterial pressure to fall rapidly to that of normotensive rats, i.e. c. 75 mmHg. There was a concomitant fall in cerebral blood flow of about 35% (P less than 0.01) in renal hypertensive rats and 25% (P less than 0.05) in spontaneously hypertensive rats; the greater fall in flow in the former corresponded to a greater drop in pressure. Flow remained at these reduced levels during a 2 h observation period. Histological examination revealed small areas of ischaemic damage in the brains of five of the twelve animals. In control hypertensive rats not given diazoxide, cerebral blood flow and blood pressure were stable during a 2 1/2 h period and there was no evidence of ischaemic damage to the brains. The diazoxide-induced reduction in cerebral blood flow was interpreted as being secondary to a blood pressure fall to below the lower limit of cerebral blood flow autoregulation. No evidence was found of direct effects on the cerebral circulation such as seen with ganglionic blockers, alpha-blockers and cerebral vasodilators.
To analyze the clinical features and outcomes of hyperthyroidism patients positive in propylthiouracil (PTU)-induced antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA).
The clinical data, including the clinical manifestations, treatment, and outcomes of 45 PTU-induced ANCA positive patients with hyperthyroidism were prospectively studied.
Seventeen of the 45 patients had clinically evident vasculitis and 28 of the 45 patients were not complicated by vasculitis. In the vasculitis group, 13 patients (76.5%) had renal involvement manifested by hematuria, proteinuria, and renal insufficiency. 7 of them (41.2%) had lung involvement and 6 of them had hemoptysis. Perinuclear ANCA (p-ANCA) was detected in all 17 patients and 16 of them (94.1%) were anti-myeloperoxidase antibodies (MPO-ANCA) positive. PTU was discontinued in all 17 patients and the treatment was switched over to methimazole (MMI) in 6 patients. Four patients with severe organ involvement received prednisone and immunosuppressant for 6 to 12 months. No relapse or death occurred during the follow-up period (8 to 60 months with a median of 30 months). All the 17 patients achieved clinical remission except for two that developed end stage renal disease due to late diagnosis. 27 of the 28 patients without vasculitis (96.4%) were p-ANCA positive and 14 of them (50.0%) were MPO-ANCA positive. PTU treatment was discontinued in 24 patients and switched over to MMI treatment in 15 patients, and 4 patients continued to take low dose PTU. No vasculitis manifestation occurred during the follow-up period (3 to 36 months with a median of 20 months). However, the ANCA titer declined slowly in most patients in both groups.
PTU treatment should be discontinued without delay in the PTU-induced ANCA positive patients with hyperthyroidism. Treatment can be switched over to MMI when necessary. Patients with severe organ involvement should receive prednisone and immunosuppressant. No vasculitis relapse is found during the follow-up after withdrawal of PTU. However, ANCA may keep positive for a long time.
Accumulating evidences support the important roles of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1 (SREBP-1) activation in ethanol-induced fatty liver, but the underlying mechanisms for its activation are not fully understood. Recent studies have demonstrated that phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway activation could enhance SREBP-1 activity. The current study was designed to investigate the potential roles of PI3K/Akt pathway in acute ethanol-induced fatty liver in mice. In the first experiment, mice were treated with ethanol (2.5 or 5 g/kg bw) or isocaloric/isovolumetric maltose-dextrin solution, and sacrificed at several time points after ethanol exposure. As expected, ethanol dose-dependently increased the hepatic triglyceride (TG) levels and the protein levels of the mature form of SREBP-1 (n-SREBP-1). The phosphorylation of Akt and glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β) was significantly increased in mice treated with ethanol (5 g/kg bw), while the protein levels of PI3K-p85 were significantly reduced. To confirm the roles of PI3K/Akt pathway, mice were then pretreated with wortmannin (0.7 or 1.4 mg/kg bw), a specific PI3K/Akt pathway inhibitor, before exposure to ethanol. Interestingly, a dual effect of wortmannin was observed. Low dose of wortmannin significantly reduced the hepatic TG levels, while high dose of wortmannin aggravated ethanol-induced fatty liver. The ratio of LC3II/LC3I of wortmannin (1.4 mg/kg bw) group mice was significantly increased, while the p62 protein level was significantly decreased compared to those of ethanol group, which indicated that wortmannin (1.4 mg/kg bw) might suppress the lipid degradation by autophagy. These results supported the hypothesis that PI3K/Akt activation might be involved in acute ethanol-induced fatty liver, and PI3K/Akt inhibitors might have therapeutic potential for the treatment of ethanol-induced fatty liver.
Lithium treatment for 4 wk caused severe polyuria, dramatic downregulation in aquaporin-2 (AQP-2) expression, and marked decrease in AQP-2 immunoreactivity with the appearance of a large number of cells without AQP-2 labeling in the collecting ducts after lithium treatment. Surprisingly, this was not all due to an increase in AQP-2-negative principal cells, because double immunolabeling revealed that the majority of the AQP-2-negative cells displayed [H(+)]ATPase labeling, which identified them as intercalated cells. Moreover, multiple [H(+)]ATPase-labeled cells were adjacent, which was never seen in control rats. Quantitation confirmed a significant decrease in the fraction of collecting duct cells that exhibited detectable AQP-2 labeling compared with control rats: in cortical collecting ducts, 40 +/- 3.4 vs. 62 +/- 1.8% of controls (P < 0.05; n = 4) and in inner medullary collecting ducts, 58 +/- 1.6 vs. 81 +/- 1.3% of controls (P < 0.05; n = 4). In parallel, a significant increase in the fraction of intercalated ([H(+)]ATPase-positive) cells was shown. Urine output, whole kidney AQP-2 expression, cellular organization, and the fractions of principal and intercalated cells in cortex and inner medulla returned to control levels after 4 wk on a lithium-free diet following 4 wk on a lithium-containing diet. In conclusion, lithium treatment not only decreased AQP-2 expression, but dramatically and reversibly reduced the fraction of principal cells and altered the cellular organization in collecting ducts. These effects are likely to be important in lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
A sesquiterpenoid Bakkenolide (1), and two steroids, (3beta, 22E)-Stigmasta-5, 22-diène-3-ol (Stigmasterol) (2) and stigmasterol 3beta-glucoside (3), isolated from the Hertia cheirifolia (L.) chloroform extract, were evaluated respectively for their spasmolytic and anti-inflammatory activities. We note that these natural products were isolated and purified for the first time from the specie Hertia cheirifolia. Their structures have been established by spectroscopy (1 and 2D NMR experiences) and mass spectrometry. Chloroform-, ethyl acetate- and methanol-extracts were also tested for their spasmolytic and anti-inflammatory activities. Spasmolytic and anti-inflammatory screening were based respectively on the contractile response effects on rat isolated smooth muscles and on the dose-related carrageenan induced paw edema in rats. screening of the crude extracts showed spasmolytic and anti-inflammatory positive results. The antispasmodic effect of Bakkenolide was found in the same range as that of Alverine, a standard musculotropic spasmolytic agent.
A case of white clot syndrome in a 61-year-old man is reported. The patient suffered simultaneous aortic and vena caval thromboses while receiving heparin therapy for pulmonary embolism. Thrombocytopenia was noted. Thrombectomies successfully relieved the thromboses. Apart from heparin, no factors predisposing to aortic thrombosis were evident, and the patient remained well in the succeeding 7 years since. A brief review of the literature on the white clot syndrome suggests that the entity remains poorly defined, regarding both the mechanism of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and its relation to thrombosis.
In the present study, we investigated the protective effect of Bacopa monniera, an indigenous Ayurvedic medicinal plant in India, against morphine-induced liver and kidney toxicity in rats. Morphine intoxicated rats received 10-160 mg/kg body weight of morphine hydrochloride intraperitoneally for 21 days. Bacopa monniera Extract (BME) pretreated rats were administered with BME (40 mg/kg) orally once a day 2 h before the injection of morphine for 21 days. Pretreatment with BME has shown to possess a significant protective effect against morphine-induced liver and kidney functions in terms of serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase, serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenases and gamma-glutamyl transferase activities and urea, creatinine and uric acid level respectively. Histopathological changes of liver and kidney were also in accordance with the biochemical findings. The results of this study indicate that Bacopa monniera extract exerted a protection against morphine-induced liver and kidney toxicity.
Combination therapy for chronic hepatitis C is associated with depression, which may lead to worse treatment outcomes. The objectives of this study were to determine the association between patient characteristics and depression before and during treatment and to evaluate the relationship between depression and treatment outcomes.
Prospective data from the Viral Resistance to Antiviral Therapy of Chronic Hepatitis C (Virahep-C) study were analyzed (191 African Americans, 203 Caucasians). Depression was defined as a score of >23 on the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression (CES-D) scale. Scores were taken before treatment, at weeks 4, 12, and 24 of treatment, and 24 weeks after treatment ended. Baseline social support was measured using the Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Social Support Survey. Associations between baseline patient characteristics and incident depression were assessed with discrete-time Cox proportional hazards models.
At baseline, 47 (12%) participants had CES-D scores 23. Univariable analyses indicated that several patient characteristics were associated with baseline depression, including lower social support (P<0.0001). On treatment, these patients were more likely to have psychiatric adverse events (AEs) or start new antidepressants (45 vs. 28%, P=0.02) and to have had early treatment discontinuation (38 vs.13%, P<0.0001); however, sustained virological response (SVR) rates were similar (38 vs. 40%, P=0.79) to those of participants without baseline depression. The incidence of new-onset depression was 26% by 24 weeks. One-third of patients were started on antidepressants, and no patients attempted suicide. Multivariable analyses indicated that new-onset depression was significantly associated with younger age (P=0.04), lower social support (P<0.001), and "feeling depressed, sad, or blue" (P=0.008). Patients who developed depression during treatment were more likely to have a psychiatric AE or begin antidepressants (44 vs. 23%, P<0.001) but had lower rates of treatment discontinuation (6 vs. 15%, P=0.02) and comparable rates of SVR compared with patients without depression (47 vs. 38%, P=0.16). There were no differences in the frequency of pretreatment or new-onset depression between African-American and Caucasian participants in this study.
In this large prospective analysis, baseline and new-onset depression were associated with patient characteristics and treatment outcomes; however, SVR rates did not differ between depressed and nondepressed patients. The relationship of lower baseline social support with depressive symptoms warrants further investigation.
Today, various heavy metals are widespread in the ecosystem and have become important environmental contaminants. Exposure to these hazardous metals such as chromium usually results in cytotoxicity and large-scale protein changes which reflect pathologic states.
We used a comprehensive proteomic tool to survey changes in plasma proteins elicited by two chromium species (Cr(6+) and Cr(3+)). RT-PCR was applied to evaluate levels of cytokines associated with adverse responses. Lectin blotting was used to investigate the contents of fucosylated proteins.
Protein profiles revealed statistically significant changes in the intensity of 12 proteins. The network analysis implied that Cr(6+) application strongly induced the IL-6-stimulated inflammatory pathway. mRNA levels of specific cytokines were also correlated with inflammatory events. Increased IL-6 modulation of the fucosylation of haptoglobin was also identified in Cr(6+)-treated samples.
These results suggest that Cr(6+) may induce IL-6-mediated inflammatory responses which result in hepatic injury. This paper highlights the applications of functional proteomics of plasma profiles and fucosylated glycoproteins as a predictive tool to monitor human health in contact with chromium.
The purpose of this study was histological evaluation in light microscopy of kidneys of pregnant female rats, which before pregnancy suffered from adriamycin-induced NS. The result show numerous changes in glomerules and renal convoluted tubules, which were the evidence of increased protein loss with urine.
The purpose of this study was the histological evaluation of kidneys on the ultrastructural level. In the experiment there were used pregnant female rats in which gestation coexisted with adriamycin-induced NS. Results showed numerous focal changes in kidney glomerules and tubules which were the evidence of increased protein loss and filtration barrier damage as the main cause of increased permeability for proteins.
Local heating of non-glabrous skin increases skin blood flow (SkBF) in two phases: the initial peak (P1) is mediated by sensory axon reflex, and the plateau phase (P2) is thought to be mediated by local production of substances including nitric oxide. We evaluated P1 and P2 responses in subacute myelo-optico-neuropathy (SMON).
SkBF response to local heating from 32 degrees C (5 min of baseline) to 42 degrees C (at least for 30 min) of the dorsal surface of the hand skin were measured in 7 SMON patients (67.6+/-10.0 years) and 7 normal control volunteers (65.0+/-7.4 years) participated.
Mean values of SkBF at P1 (SkBFP1) and SkBF during P2 (SkBFP2) were significantly lower in SMON patients than in controls (p<0.05, p<0.05). Mean SkBFP1/SkBF at baseline (SkBFbase) and SkBFP2/SkBFbase ratios were significantly lower in SMON patients than in controls (p<0.01 and p<0.05, respectively).
The SkBF response to local heating was diminished in SMON patients. This may reflect the involvement of the spinal cord, peripheral sensory nerves, and sympathetic post-ganglionic nerves in SMON.
Disulfiram (Antabuse) is being used in outpatient clinical trials to determine its efficacy as a treatment for cocaine dependence. This inpatient randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subjects study was conducted to determine whether disulfiram (placebo, 250 or 500 mg/day) alters responses to acute intranasal cocaine (placebo, 1 or 2 mg/kg) administration. Effects of disulfiram on cocaine pharmacokinetics, physiological, and behavioral responses were determined. Disulfiram treatment increased plasma cocaine concentrations three to six times and significantly increased cocaine-associated cardiovascular responses, but did not significantly alter behavioral responses to cocaine. These interactions should be considered in the decision regarding disulfiram treatment in cocaine dependent patients.
