Ibutilide is a class III antiarrhythmic agent used for the termination of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter. It mainly affects membrane potassium currents and prolongs the cardiac action potential. This effect is reflected as QT interval prolongation on the surface electrocardiogram. Like other drugs that affect potassium currents, ibutilide is prone to induce a malignant ventricular tachycardia, torsade de pointes. We report four cases of torsade de pointes after administration of ibutilide for pharmacologic cardioversion of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter; three of these cases required direct current cardioversion for termination of torsade de pointes. All four patients were female. We discuss the risk factors for development of ibutilide-induced torsade de pointes.
Subcutaneous interferon beta-1a is a recognized treatment of relapsing multiple sclerosis, and it may delay the onset of definite multiple sclerosis in patients with a first clinical demyelinating episode. Interferon beta-1a exerts beneficial effects on cognitive functioning via both short-term and long-term mechanisms. The beneficial effect is thought to be a result of immune modulation, with inhibition of leukocyte proliferation and antigen presentation and an increased amount of interleukins. The systemic side effects of interferon beta-1a are flu-like syndrome and development of neutralizing antibodies, the clinical significance of which is not known. There have been concerns about the rare development of an acute demyelinating disease after interferon beta-1a therapy as a result of upregulation of inflammatory mediators. In the clinical trials, there is evidence of development of mild anemia with a hemoglobin level below 10 g/dL only in 3% of the patients. There has been no reported case of development of aplastic anemia in patients being treated with interferon beta-1a. Described here is a case of development of aplastic anemia with interferon beta-1a in a patient with multiple sclerosis. Our patient underwent a complete hematologic evaluation to rule out other causes of aplastic anemia. Association with interferon beta-1a was highly suspected.
Bortezomib, a specific and selective inhibitor of the 26S proteasome with antitumor activity against a wide range of malignancies, has been approved for the treatment of relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma and other cancers. Recently, bortezomib has been identified as an effective inhibitor of neuroblastoma cell growth and angiogenesis.
In the present study, we demonstrate that some neuroblastoma cell lines are actually resistant to bortezomib. We have sought to characterize the main pathway by which proteasome inhibition leads to apoptosis, and to define the mechanism responsible for resistance to bortezomib in neuroblastoma cells. Our results show that SB202190, an inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) p38, enhances the ability of bortezomib to induce apoptosis by preventing the phosphorylation of the heat shock protein (HSP) 27.
This study opens the way to further clinical investigations and suggests a potential benefit of using a combination of bortezomib with an inhibitor of p38 MAPK for the treatment of neuroblastoma relapse.
Arterial infusion of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (CDDP) is an effective therapy for malignant neoplasms. Severe complications after this therapy in 298 patients with malignant tumors were reviewed in our institute from March 1982 to August 1989. Arteries infused with CDDP and the number of infusions were as follows: bronchial artery (a.) 277, hepatic a. 153, internal iliac a. 51, femoral or popliteal a. 15, lumbar a. 6, pulmonary a. 5, esophageal a. 3 and intercostal a. 3. Eight cases of severe complications were encountered: 3 of esophageal ulcer, 3 of spinal paralysis, and one each of mediastinitis and toe necrosis. The arteries responsible for complications were the bronchial a. in 3 cases of esophageal ulcer and 2 of spinal paralysis, intercostal a. in one of spinal paralysis, esophageal a. in one of mediastinitis and popliteal a. in toe necrosis. Complication rates were 2.7% (8/298 cases) and 1.5% (8/518 infusions). Angiotensin II was infused in 6 of 8 of the cases with complications. The complication rate was 2.9% (6/209 infusions) in the group with CDDP and angiotensin II and 0.6% (2/309 infusions) in the group with CDDP only. Arterial infusion of CDDP, especially combined with angiotensin II, should be done in consideration of the arteries responsible for such complications.
The processes of development and disintegration of axonal spheroids were electron microscopically studied in the rat cerebellum with chronic diphenylhydantoin intoxication. According to the severity and character of membrane accumulation, the whole course ranging from development to disintegration of altered axon terminals and synaptic endings in the DPH-intoxicated rat cerebellum was classified into the following four stages--initial, moderate, advanced and terminal. The initial stage was characterized by the appearance of a small number of interconnected tubules 150 to 350 A in diameter in non-enlarged axon terminals and synaptic endings. Usually these tubular structures tended to congregate in a certain part of axoplasm so that there were no intimate relationships between them and ordinary cell organelles. The moderate stage was characterized by an increased number of interconnected tubules in slightly or moderately swollen axon terminals and synaptic endings. The advanced stage was characterized by an extraordinary number of interconnected tubules in extremely highly swollen axon terminals and synaptic endings. Membranous scrolls and/or membranous strands separated by a cleft-like space were also found in an association with interconnected tubules so that the morphological organization of spheroids in the rat cerebellum with chronic DPH intoxication was very analogous to those of infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy. The terminal stage was characterized by the following three axonal events, i.e., rarefaction and coagulation necroses, and phagocytosis of spheroids by glial elements, presumably astrocytic in origin. The formation and fate of such axonal spheroids have not as yet been shown and discussed by electron microscopists. Thus the present paper was the first to reveal the electron microscopic observations suggestive of the details of development and disintegration mechanisms of spheroids by means of animal experimentations.
The increased incidence of cerebral toxoplasmosis in AIDS has led to a resurgence in the use of sulphadiazine. One complication of this is acute renal failure secondary to sulphadiazine-induced crystalluria. Three cases are described which demonstrate a spectrum of ultrasound findings ranging from echogenic foci in the renal parenchyma to echogenic material in both dilated and non-dilated collecting systems. In patients with AIDS having sulphadiazine treatment, these ultrasonic findings suggest that sulphadiazine is the cause of the renal failure.
Pemetrexed (Alimta, Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN) is a structurally novel anti-folate agent. The United States Food and Drug Administration has approved pemetrexed for the treatment of patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma and previously treated patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. In the phase III trials that led to its approval, rash was reported in 17 and 22% of patients receiving pemetrexed alone or in combination with cisplatin. However, little has been published about the characteristics of this rash or about its mechanism. In an attempt to contribute to the growing body of knowledge about this new agent, we describe a case in which a patient developed a rash secondary to urticarial vasculitis associated with pemetrexed.
Epidemiological studies suggest that the frequent intake of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is associated with a decreased risk of developing esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). This decrease is thought to correlate with the inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX) activity. The production of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), a major metabolite of COX, is increased in numerous human cancers including esophageal SCC, therefore, inhibition of COX activity and subsequent suppression of the formation of PGE2 may be chemopreventive in the esophagus. The objective of the present study was to determine whether L-748706 (L-706), a novel selective COX-2 inhibitor, would prevent N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA)-induced esophageal tumor progression in the Fischer 344 (F344) rat. In rats pretreated with a low-dose of NMBA (0.25 mg/kg body weight), L-706 at 100 p.p.m. in the diet significantly reduced tumor multiplicity but not tumor incidence. At 150 p.p.m. in the diet, L-706 alone and in combination with 200 p.p.m. piroxicam produced significant reductions in both tumor incidence and multiplicity. Inhibition of tumor development in low-dose NMBA-treated rats was associated with reductions in esophageal cell proliferation rates and PGE2 levels in preneoplastic tissues. In contrast, in rats treated with a higher dose of NMBA (0.5 mg/kg body weight), neither L-706 alone nor in combination with piroxicam reduced esophageal tumor incidence or multiplicity in spite of the fact that they reduced esophageal PGE2 levels in preneoplastic tissues and in papillomas. Cell proliferation rates were reduced only in animals treated with L-706 + piroxicam. Our data suggest that the chemopreventive treatments were effective in inhibiting tumor development in NMBA-treated animals only when they reduced PGE2 levels in preneoplastic esophageal tissues approximately to those levels found in normal esophagus.
Mitochondrial dysfunction is implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic cardiomyopathy, a common complication of diabetes. Adenosine nucleotide translocase (ANT) translocates ADP/ATP across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Our study aimed to test the hypothesis that overexpression of ANT1 in cardiomyocytes has cardioprotective effects in diabetic cardiomyopathy induced by streptozotocin (STZ). Mice specifically overexpressing murine ANT1 in the heart were generated using alpha-myosin heavy chain promoter. Expression of ANT1 mRNA and protein in hearts was characterized by real-time polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analysis. Five- to 6-month-old male transgenic mice and their age-matched wild-type littermates were subjected to type 1 diabetes induced by STZ. Six weeks later, haemodynamic measurement was performed to assess cardiac function. Ventricular mRNA expression of atrial natriuretic peptide, a molecular marker of heart failure, was characterized by RNase-protection assay. Both ANT1 mRNA and ANT1 protein were specifically overexpressed in the heart of transgenic mice. Heart weight was decreased and cardiac function was dramatically impaired in wild-type mice 6 weeks after induction of diabetes, but ANT1 overexpression prevented these significant changes. The mRNA expression level of atrial natriuretic peptide confirmed the haemodynamic findings, being upregulated in wild-type mice receiving STZ, but showing no statistical differences in ANT1 transgenic mice. Cardiomyocyte-restricted overexpression of ANT1 prevents the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy; therefore, accelerated ADP/ATP exchange could be a new promising target to treat diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Patients with pulmonary small cell carcinoma are well known to have a poor prognosis. However, predictors of prognosis and treatment outcome have not been reported for this type of cancer. We examined whether excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1), phosphorylated Akt (p-Akt), phosphorylated mammalian target of rapamycin (p-mTOR), and the uridine diphosphate glucuronosyl transferase 1A1 (UGT1A1) genetic polymorphism were useful indicators of prognosis in cases of small cell carcinoma of the lung. We investigated 45 patients with advanced small cell lung cancer who received chemotherapy with irinotecan combined with cisplatin or carboplatin. Staining results showed that 12 of 45 cases (27%) were positive for p-Akt, while 18 (40%) were positive for p-mTOR and 16 (36%) were positive for ERCC1. As for UGT1A1, more than one polymorphism was found in 30 cases (67%). There was a significant relationship observed between the expressions of p-Akt and p-mTOR (P= 0.0006). Univariate analysis indicated a significantly better survival rate for patients positive for p-Akt or p-mTOR, while multivariate analysis using a Cox test showed p-Akt to be the strongest prognostic factor. Our results indicate that p-Akt is a reliable prognostic factor in patients with small cell carcinoma of the lung.
The development of schizophrenia may include an early neurodevelopmental stress component which increases vulnerability to later stressful life events, in combination leading to overt disease. We investigated the effect of an early stress, in the form of maternal deprivation, combined with a later stress, simulated by chronic periadolescent corticosterone treatment, on behaviour in rats. Acute treatment with apomorphine caused disruption of prepulse inhibition (PPI) in controls and in rats that had undergone either maternal deprivation or corticosterone treatment, but was surprisingly absent in rats that had undergone the combined early and late stress. Amphetamine treatment significantly disrupted PPI in both non-deprived groups, but was absent in both maternally deprived groups. The serotonin-1A receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT, induced a significant disruption of PPI in all groups. Amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity was similar in all groups. These results show an inhibitory interaction of early stress, caused by maternal deprivation, combined with 'adolescent' stress, simulated by corticosterone treatment, on dopaminergic regulation of PPI. The altered effects of apomorphine and amphetamine could indicate differential changes in dopamine receptor signalling leading to functional desensitisation, or altered modulation of sensory gating in the nucleus accumbens by limbic structures such as the hippocampus.
A 77-year-old man with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease was treated with low-dose methotrexate (7.5-15 mg per week). After 15 months a diagnosis of urothelial carcinoma of the bladder was made; after a further 6 months pneumonitis and pancytopenia developed. The patient died due to massive pulmonary hemorrhage. A malignant teratoma was diagnosed in a 65-year-old asthmatic man 16 months after initiation of methotrexate therapy (15 mg per week). The patient died 4 months later due to fulminant progression of the neoplasm. A third malignant neoplasm (dermal squamous cell carcinoma) was seen in a 64-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis after 13 months treatment with 7.5 mg methotrexate per week. These three cases, while obviously not proving a causal relationship between long-term treatment with low-dose methotrexate and development of malignant neoplasm, do call for stringent treatment criteria, close surveillance, and prospective studies.
Electrolyte and renal hemodynamic imbalance, acute interstitial nephritis with nephrotic-range proteinuria, papillary necrosis, tubular necrosis, and vasculitis are complications after intake of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID). We report on 2 cases of biopsy-proven granulomatous interstitial nephritis with rapidly progressing renal insufficiency. Patient 1 was on ketoprofen for 7 months and indomethacin for 10 weeks before admission to hospital. The medication was not discontinued and renal insufficiency progressed to end-stage renal failure. Renal function did not respond to steroid and tuberculostatic treatment. Patient 2 was on diclofenac for 6 months and indomethacin for 7 weeks before admission to hospital. These drugs were withdrawn at diagnosis and renal function rapidly improved. We conclude that granulomatous interstitial nephritis may be a complication of NSAID medication indicating a cell-mediated immunologic disorder. False diagnosis (sarcoidosis, tuberculosis) may lead to end-stage renal disease (case 1). Discontinuation of medication obviates further therapy (case 2).
In GOG 184, the addition of paclitaxel to cisplatin and doxorubicin offered no additional clinical benefit, yet was associated with increased provider-rated toxicity. We now compare patient-reported neuropathy between treatment arms and patient reports to the clinician reports of neuropathy.
Of 659 enrolled patients, 552 were randomly assigned to receive either cisplatin 50 mg/m² + doxorubicin 45 mg/m²+G-CSF 5 μg/kg on days 2-11 ("CD"), or the above regimen plus paclitaxel 160 mg/m² infused over 3h ("CDP"). Patient-reported neuropathy was measured with 11-item Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Neurotoxicity (FACT-Ntx) Scale, at baseline, and 4 weeks and 6 months post chemotherapy. Group differences on patient-reported neuropathy over time, and correspondence between patient and provider ratings, were evaluated by fitting linear mixed models to the data.
After adjusting for non-significant baseline differences in neuropathy, the average neuropathy (FACT-Ntx) score of CDP-treated patients was 5.2 points lower/worse (95% CI: 4.0-6.5; p < 0.001) than the average score observed in CD-treated patients. The difference diminished after 6 months but still remained statistically significant (difference = 1.6; 95% CI: 0.3-2.8; p = 0.014). The sensory component was most significantly affected. Each increase (worsening) of grade in provider-rated toxicity was significantly associated with change in patient-reported severity of 4-6 points in the 11-item total score and 2-3 points in the 4-item sensory neuropathy score.
Patient-reported neuropathy was worse in CDP-treated patients compared to CD-treated patients, especially in the sensory component. Patient-reported change corresponded with provider grade, but offered more detail on the nature of impact.
A high incidence of transitional cell carcinomas were induced in the bladder of mice by bladder implantation of pellets containing crude tryptophan pyrolysate and the pyrolysis products, 3-amino-1,4-dimethyl-5H-pyrido-[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-1) and 3-amino-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-2), which are highly mutagenic substances.
We previously discovered an orally active human gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor antagonist, thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine-2,4-dione derivative 1 (sufugolix). To reduce the cytochrome P450 (CYP) inhibitory activity and improve in vivo GnRH antagonistic activity, further optimization of this scaffold was carried out. We focused our synthetic efforts on chemical modification at the 5 and 3 positions of the thieno[2,3-d]pyrimidine-2,4-dione ring based on computational modeling, which resulted in the discovery of 1-{4-[1-(2,6-difluorobenzyl)-5-[(dimethylamino)methyl]-3-(6-methoxypyridazin-3-yl)-2,4-dioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrothieno[2,3-d]pyrimidin-6-yl]phenyl}-3-methoxyurea (16b) as a highly potent and orally active GnRH antagonist. Compound 16b showed potent in vitro GnRH antagonistic activity in the presence of fetal bovine serum (FBS) without CYP inhibition. Oral administration of 16b maintained the suppressive effect of the plasma luteinizing hormone levels in castrated cynomolgus monkeys at a 3 mg/kg dose for more than 24 h. Compound 16b is currently under clinical development with the code name of TAK-385.
Epidemiological and experimental data suggest that activation of the oestrogen receptor pathway limits the incidence and the progression of diabetic nephropathy. We tested the hypothesis that raloxifene protects against increasing urinary albumin excretion in post-menopausal women with Type 2 diabetes in a randomized pilot clinical trial.
We included 39 post-menopausal women with Type 2 diabetes and micro- or macro-albuminuria in a 6-month, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial: 20 received placebo and 19 received 60 mg raloxifene per day. The albumin : creatinine ratio (ACR) in urine was determined on three consecutive days during the week before randomization and during the week before the final visit.
One patient in each group dropped out in the first 3 weeks, leaving 37 patients for the analysis (19 on placebo and 18 on raloxifene). From randomization to the final visit, mean ACR was unchanged in the placebo group {277 microg/mg (67; 651) [median (interquartile range)] vs. 284 microg/mg (79; 1508)} but decreased slightly in the raloxifene group [376 microg/mg (67; 615) vs. 243 microg/mg (103; 549)]. This corresponds to a change of +24 (-37; +517) for the placebo group vs. -10 microg/mg (-36; +16) for the raloxifene group (P = 0.11). In multivariate analysis, raloxifene treatment (P(adjusted) = 0.013), baseline low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (P(adjusted) = 0.023) and change in LDL cholesterol (P(adjusted) = 0.008) were related to the absolute change in ACR. Adverse effects were similar in the two groups.
These results suggest that raloxifene may limit the progression of albuminuria in post-menopausal women with diabetes; further studies in a larger population are warranted.
A 39-year-old man with no prior history of atrial fibrillation was hospitalized with atrial fibrillation and a rapid ventricular rate. For the 7 months before presentation, he had been chewing nicotine polacrilex gum on his own. The week he first developed palpitations, he was chewing more than 1 piece of nicotine Polacrilex gum per hour during work. His diagnostic work-up during hospitalization found no cause for atrial fibrillation. He was cardioverted to sinus rhythm. At 6-month follow-up, he had not renewed chewing nicotine polacrilex gum, was in sinus rhythm, and had no history of palpitations. The temporal relation between more frequent gum usage and the excessive consumption of nicotine polacrilex chewing gum with a probable high serum nicotine level at the time the patient developed his first episode of atrial fibrillation suggests a causal relationship.
There is evidence that deregulation of apoptosis is mechanistically involved in cancer development and somatic mutations of apoptosis-related genes have been reported in human cancers. BID, a pro-apoptotic member of the Bcl-2 family, interconnects the extrinsic apoptosis pathway initiated by death receptors to the intrinsic apoptosis pathway. To explore the possibility that genetic alterations of BID might be involved in the development of human cancers, this study analysed the entire coding region and all splice sites in the human BID gene in 67 advanced gastric carcinomas. Overall, four BID mutations (6.0%) were detected that consisted of one frameshift and three missense mutations. The tumour-derived BID mutants were expressed in 293T cells and it was found that, compared with wild-type BID, the frequency of apoptosis was significantly reduced in cells expressing the gene containing the frameshift mutation. Furthermore, expression of the inactivating frameshift mutant interfered with cell death by overexpression of death receptors, indicating that this mutant inhibits the extrinsic apoptosis pathway in a dominant-negative fashion. Also, the frameshift mutation rendered cancer cells resistant to apoptosis induced by the anti-cancer drug 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). This is the first report of BID gene mutation in human malignancy. The data suggest that such mutations occur rarely in gastric cancers and that only a small fraction of BID mutations may lead to the loss of its apoptotic function.
Cisplatin is a cytostatic agent used in the treatment of many types of cancer, but its use is associated with increased incidences of secondary leukemia. We evaluated cisplatin's in vivo genotoxic potential by analyzing peripheral blood for Pig-a mutant phenotype erythrocytes and for chromosomal damage in the form of micronuclei. Mutant phenotype reticuloyte and erythrocyte frequencies, based on anti-CD59 antibody labeling and flow cytometric analysis, were determined in male Sprague Dawley rats treated for 28 consecutive days (days 1-28) with up to 0.4 mg cisplatin/kg/day, and sampled on days -4, 15, 29, and 56. Vehicle and highest dose groups were evaluated at additional time points post-treatment up to 6 months. Day 4 and 29 blood samples were also analyzed for micronucleated reticulocyte frequency using flow cytometry and anti-CD71-based labeling. Mutant phenotype reticulocytes were significantly elevated at doses ≥0.1 mg/kg/day, and mutant phenotype erythrocytes were elevated at doses ≥0.05 mg/kg/day. In the 0.4 mg/kg/day group, these effects persisted for the 6 month observation period. Cisplatin also induced a modest but statistically significant increase in micronucleus frequency at the highest dose tested. The prolonged persistence in the production of mutant erythrocytes following cisplatin exposure suggests that this drug mutates hematopoietic stem cells and that this damage may ultimately contribute to the increased incidence of secondary leukemias seen in patients cured of primary malignancies with platinum-based regimens.
Following treatment with stimulant medications for symptoms of attention deficit disorder, Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome occurred in 15 patients. Early signs of Tourette's syndrome may be difficult to distinguish from hyperactive and attention disordered symptoms, leading the clinician to consider treatment with stimulants. In these Tourette's-susceptible patients, stimulants may exacerbate severe motor and phonic tics, requiring discontinuation of administration of stimulants and institution of haloperidol therapy for tic control. Clinical evaluation for tics and Tourette's syndrome in children and their families should precede and dictate use of stimulant medications in children.
Amitraz is a formamidine compound used in veterinary medicine as a topical dip to control ticks and mites on dogs and livestock. A 10-year-old female Scottish terrier was presented following the accidental oral administration of a dip containing amitraz. This case report describes the clinical signs, treatment and pathology of this dog. Clinical signs of toxicity from amitraz result from stimulation of alpha2-adrenergic receptors. Amitraz is seldom fatal because the effects can be reversed by alpha2-adrenergic antagonists. The dog recovered from the amitraz toxicity but died 5 days later from acute renal failure.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II (HIT-II) is a serious complication in heparin treatment. Because of arterial and/or venous thromboembolism, HIT-II quite often takes a life-threatening course. This article describes the clinical course of seven trauma patients, who developed HIT-II during thromboembolism prophylaxis with unfractionated heparin (UFH, Heparin-Natrium-Nattermann, 250,000 I.E., Rhone-Poulenc Rorer GmbH), given subcutaneously. Thromboembolic complications occurred in 5 out of 7 cases (71.4%). One case took a fatal course (14.3%). UFH was replaced by Orgaran when HIT-II was suspected or diagnosed. There were no more complications. Thrombocyte count increased to normal values within 3 to 9 days. The importance of HIT-II in heparin therapy during in- and outpatient therapy is discussed with reference to the current literature.
Highly polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) is transiently expressed specifically in newly generated cells, and is important for cell migration and neurite outgrowth. Developmental lead (Pb) exposure has been considered to affect the expression of PSA-NCAM, which contributes to the neurotoxicity of Pb exposure. However, the effect of maternal low-level Pb exposure on the expression of PSA-NCAM in neonatal rat pups has not been reported. In the present study, female Wistar rats were exposed to vehicle or different dosages of lead chloride (0.5-4mM PbCl2) 2 weeks before and during pregnancy. This exposure protocol resulted in neonatal rat pups blood Pb levels up to 12.12+/-0.38 microg/dl, and hippocampal Pb levels up to 9.22+/-0.81 microg/g at postnatal day 1 (PND 1). Immunohistochemistry analysis and Western blot analysis revealed that the expressions of PSA-NCAM and NCAM in the hippocampi of neonatal rat pups at PND 1 were significantly reduced by the maternal low-level Pb exposures. Furthermore, the mRNA levels of NCAM and polysialyltransferases (STX and PST), measured by the fluorescent real-time quantitative RT-PCR, dosage-dependently and significantly decreased by 13.26-37.62%, 25.17-59.67%, and 10.78-47.81%, respectively. In addition, the sialyltransferase activity in neonatal rat pups was significantly reduced by 6.23-32.50% in the presence of the low-level Pb exposure, too. Taken together, these results suggest that maternal low-level Pb exposure reduces the expression of PSA-NCAM, NCAM, and the activity of sialyltransferase in the hippocampi of neonatal rat pups, which might contribute to the learning and memory impairments in the developmental pups following maternal low-level Pb exposure.
Public drinking water treated with chemical disinfectants contains a complex mixture of disinfection by-products (DBPs) for which the relative toxicity of the mixtures needs to be characterized to accurately assess risk. Potassium bromate (KBrO(3)) is a by-product from ozonation of high-bromide surface water for production of drinking water and is a rodent carcinogen that produces thyroid, mesothelial, and renal tumors. The proposed mechanism of KBrO(3) renal carcinogenesis involves the formation of 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG), a promutagenic base lesion in DNA typically removed through base excision repair (BER). In this study, male Long-Evans rats were exposed via drinking water to carcinogenic concentrations of KBrO(3) (0.4 g/L), 3-chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (0.07 g/L), chloroform (1.8 g/L), bromodichloromethane (0.7 g/L), or a mixture of all these chemicals at the same concentrations for 3 weeks. Half of one kidney was processed for microscopic examination, and the remaining kidney was frozen for isolation of genomic DNA. Levels of 8-oxoG were measured using HPLC with electrochemical detection in DNA samples incubated with formamidopyrimidine-DNA glycosylase. Aldehydic lesions (e.g. abasic sites) in DNA samples were quantitated using an aldehyde-reactive probe slot-blot assay. Treatment with KBrO(3) produced a measurable increase of 8-oxoG in the kidney, and this effect was greater than that produced by treatment with the DBP mixture. No other single chemical treatment caused measurable increases of 8-oxoG. The mixture effect on the amount of 8-oxoG observed in this study suggests an interaction between chemicals that reduced the generation of oxidative DNA damage. No increases in abasic sites were observed with treatment, but a decrease was apparent in the rats treated with the DBP mixture. These data are consistent with previous studies where chronic exposure to this chemical mixture in drinking water resulted in a less than additive carcinogenic response in Tsc2 mutant Long-Evans rats.
C3H/HeN-MTV+ female mice were fed diets containing 320 or 640 ppb diethylstilboestrol (DES). DES feeding was started at 3 wk of age and was either continued throughout life or discontinued after 4, 8 or 26 wk of administration. A control group consisted of mice fed the same diet without DES, for the duration of the experiment. Mice were killed when palpable body masses (presumed to be mammary adenocarcinomas) reached a diameter of 1 cm. Adenocarcinomas developed in 79% of control mice and 96% of the mice exposed to DES for 26 wk, irrespective of the dose. The frequency and rate of removal of tumour-bearing mice were not increased further with lifetime exposure at a given dose. The time at which the first tumour occurred was largely dependent on the duration of exposure, not dose. The rate of occurrence of subsequent tumours was dependent on dose and duration of exposure; the rate of removal of mice with mammary adenocarcinomas was significantly greater at 640 ppb than at 320 ppb DES. Tumour frequency was 83% in mice exposed to 320 ppb DES for 8 wk and in those exposed for 4 wk; however, tumours developed at a faster rate in mice exposed for 8 wk. Tumour frequency was 94-96% in mice exposed to 640 ppb DES for 4 wk and 8 wk, and tumours developed more rapidly in mice exposed for 8 wk than in those exposed for 4 wk. When data were plotted as log-dose v. log-t50 (time to a probability that half the mice would be removed with mammary tumours) linear extrapolation to the control log-t50 gave an estimate of the no-effect level of exposure to DES. This estimate was remarkably consistent for all data sets (40-93 ppb) and was independent of the duration of exposure.
