Sulfur mustard (2,2'-dichlorodiethyl sulfide; HD) is a potent vesicating chemical warfare agent that poses a continuing threat to both military and civilian populations. Significant cutaneous HD injuries can take several months to heal, necessitate lengthy hospitalizations, and result in long-term complications. There are currently no standardized or optimized methods of casualty management. New strategies are needed to provide for optimal and rapid wound healing.
The primary aim of this research was to develop improved clinical strategies (treatment guidelines) for optimal treatment of superficial dermal (second degree) cutaneous HD injuries, with the goal of returning damaged skin to optimal appearance and normal function in the shortest period of time.
Superficial dermal HD injuries were created on the ventral abdominal surface of weanling pigs. At 48h post-exposure, lesions were laser debrided and a treatment adjunct applied. Cultured epithelial allografts and 11 commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) products were examined for their efficacy in improving wound healing of these injuries. Clinical evaluations and a variety of non-invasive bioengineering methods were used at 7 and 14 days post-surgery to follow the progress of wound healing and evaluate various cosmetic and functional properties of the wounds. Measurements included reflectance colorimetry to measure erythema; evaporimetry to examine transepidermal water loss as a method of evaluating barrier function; torsional ballistometry to evaluate the mechanical properties of skin firmness and elasticity; and two-dimensional high frequency ultrasonography (HFU) to monitor skin thickness (e.g., edema, scar tissue). Histopathology and immunohistochemistry were performed 14 days following surgery to examine structural integrity and quality of healing. Logical Decisions((R)) for Windows was used to rank the 12 treatment adjuncts that were studied.
The most efficacious treatment adjuncts included (1) Vacuum Assisted Closure, V.A.C., involving application of topical negative pressure, (2) Amino-Plex Spray (biO(2) Cosmeceuticals International, Inc., Beverly Hills, CA), a nutritive cosmeceutical product that is designed to increase oxygen in cells, stimulate ATP synthesis, improve glucose transportation, stimulate collagen formation, and promote angiogenesis, and (3) ReCell Autologous Cell Harvesting Device (Clinical Cell Culture Americas LLC, Coral Springs, Florida), an innovative medical device that was developed to allow rapid harvesting of autologous cells from a thin split-thickness biopsy followed by spray application of a population of skin cells onto wounds within 30 min of collecting the biopsy, without the need of culturing the keratinocytes in a clinical laboratory.
Complete re-epithelialization of debrided HD injuries in 7 days is possible. In general, shallow laser debridement through the basement membrane zone (100 microm) appears to provide better results than deeper debridement (400 microm) with respect to early re-epithelialization, cosmetic appearance, functional restoration, and structural integrity. Of the 12 treatment adjuncts examined, the most promising included Vacuum Assisted Closure, Amino-Plex Spray, and ReCell Autologous Cell Harvesting Device.
Lithium treatment in 9 elderly individuals with Alzheimer's disease led to a marked accentuation of extra-pyramidal symptoms (EPS) in 5 of 6 patients with preexisting EPS. EPS scores significantly correlated with plasma and RBC lithium levels. Lithium treatment had no such effects in the 3 patients without preexisting extrapyramidal symptoms.
We compared the efficacy and safety of olanzapine vs placebo for the treatment of acute bipolar mania.
Four-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel study. A total of 115 patients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of bipolar disorder, manic or mixed, were randomized to olanzapine, 5 to 20 mg/d (n = 55), or placebo (n = 60). The primary efficacy measure was the Young-Mania Rating Scale (Y-MRS) total score. Response and euthymia were defined, a priori, as at least a 50% improvement from baseline to end point and as a score of no less than 12 at end point in the Y-MRS total score, respectively. Safety was assessed using adverse events, Extrapyramidal Symptom (EPS) rating scales, laboratory values, electrocardiograms, vital signs, and weight change.
Olanzapine-treated patients demonstrated a statistically significant greater mean (+/- SD) improvement in Y-MRS total score than placebo-treated patients (-14.8 +/- 12.5 and -8.1 +/- 12.7, respectively; P<.001), which was evident at the first postbaseline observation 1 week after randomization and was maintained throughout the study (last observation carried forward). Olanzapine-treated patients demonstrated a higher rate of response (65% vs 43%, respectively; P =.02) and euthymia (61% vs 36%, respectively; P =. 01) than placebo-treated patients. There were no statistically significant differences in EPSs between groups. However, olanzapine-treated patients had a statistically significant greater mean (+/- SD) weight gain than placebo-treated patients (2.1 +/- 2.8 vs 0.45 +/- 2.3 kg, respectively) and also experienced more treatment-emergent somnolence (21 patients [38.2%] vs 5 [8.3% ], respectively).
Olanzapine demonstrated greater efficacy than placebo in the treatment of acute bipolar mania and was generally well tolerated.
Since pentamidine has become commercially available, there is renewed interest in using it as the initial treatment for Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) in AIDS patients. We reviewed the use of pentamidine in 24 patients with PCP to gain information on the prevalence and severity of adverse effects from this drug. Twenty out of twenty-four patients (83 percent) experienced some kind of adverse effect. Hepatic abnormalities (58 percent), nausea and vomiting (46 percent), hypoglycemia (33 percent), azotemia (25 percent), and pain at the injection site (25 percent) were the most frequently seen effects. We recommend monitoring guidelines to be applied during pentamidine therapy based on the observed frequency of specific side effects.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is associated with the t(15;17) translocation, which generates a PML/RAR alpha fusion protein between PML, a growth suppressor localized on nuclear matrix-associated bodies, and RAR alpha, a nuclear receptor for retinoic acid (RA). PML/RAR alpha was proposed to block myeloid differentiation through inhibition of nuclear receptor response, as does a dominant negative RAR alpha mutant. In addition, in APL cells, PML/RAR alpha displaces PML and other nuclear body (NB) antigens onto nuclear microspeckles, likely resulting in the loss of PML and/or NB functions. RA leads to clinical remissions through induction of terminal differentiation, for which the respective contributions of RAR alpha (or PML/RAR alpha) activation, PML/RAR alpha degradation, and restoration of NB antigens localization are poorly determined. Arsenic trioxide also leads to remissions in APL patients, presumably through induction of apoptosis. We demonstrate that in non-APL cells, arsenic recruits the nucleoplasmic form of several NB antigens onto NB, but induces the degradation of PML only, identifying a powerful tool to approach NB function. In APL cells, arsenic targets PML and PML/RAR alpha onto NB and induces their degradation. Thus, RA and arsenic target RAR alpha and PML, respectively, but both induce the degradation of the PML/RAR alpha fusion protein, which should contribute to their therapeutic effects. The difference in the cellular events triggered by these two agents likely stems from RA-induced transcriptional activation and arsenic effects on NB proteins.
D-penicillamine is not generally considered to cause hepatic damage. Cholestatic jaundice developed in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis 4 weeks after penicillamine was added to his regimen, and he died in acute renal failure. The probability that penicillamine caused the cholestasis is discussed.
Patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) often require anticoagulation and platelet inhibition, but data are limited on the bleeding risk of combination therapy.
We performed a cohort study using nationwide registries to identify all Danish patients surviving first-time hospitalization for AF between January 1, 1997, and December 31, 2006, and their posthospital therapy of warfarin, aspirin, clopidogrel, and combinations of these drugs. Cox proportional hazards models were used to estimate risks of nonfatal and fatal bleeding.
A total of 82,854 of 118,606 patients (69.9%) surviving AF hospitalization had at least 1 prescription filled for warfarin, aspirin, or clopidogrel after discharge. During mean (SD) follow-up of 3.3 (2.6) years, 13,573 patients (11.4%) experienced a nonfatal or fatal bleeding. The crude incidence rate for bleeding was highest for dual clopidogrel and warfarin therapy (13.9% per patient-year) and triple therapy (15.7% per patient-year). Using warfarin monotherapy as a reference, the hazard ratio (95% confidence interval) for the combined end point was 0.93 (0.88-0.98) for aspirin, 1.06 (0.87-1.29) for clopidogrel, 1.66 (1.34-2.04) for aspirin-clopidogrel, 1.83 (1.72-1.96) for warfarin-aspirin, 3.08 (2.32-3.91) for warfarin-clopidogrel, and 3.70 (2.89-4.76) for warfarin-aspirin-clopidogrel.
In patients with AF, all combinations of warfarin, aspirin, and clopidogrel are associated with increased risk of nonfatal and fatal bleeding. Dual warfarin and clopidogrel therapy and triple therapy carried a more than 3-fold higher risk than did warfarin monotherapy.
Effects of calcium channel blockers were investigated on withdrawal signs in lorazepam dependent rats. Physical dependence was produced by giving lorazepam admixed with the food in the following dose schedule: 10 x 4, 20 x 4, 40 x 4, 80 x 4 and 120 x 7 (mg/kg daily x days). Parameters such as body weight, food intake, spontaneous locomotor activity (SLA), body temperature, reaction time to pain, foot shock-aggression (FSA) and audiogenic seizures were observed during the period of administration of lorazepam and after its withdrawal. Calcium channel blockers viz. verapamil, nifedipine and nimodipine in different doses were administered orally twice daily in separate groups during the withdrawal period. The withdrawal signs observed in control group (without calcium channel blockers) were hyperkinesia, hyperthermia, hyper-aggression and audiogenic seizures. The administration of verapamil (5-20 mg/kg), nifedipine (1.75-7 mg/kg) and nimodipine (5-20 mg/kg) during the withdrawal period of lorazepam showed dose dependent significant blockade of all the withdrawal signs. Audiogenic seizures were completely blocked by 20 mg/kg dose of verapamil and nimodipine while nifedipine was partially effective. It may be concluded that calcium channel blockers exert protective effects on benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome.
We studied the role of TS (5'VNTR, 5'SNP and 3'UTR), XRCC1-399, XPD-751, ERCC1-118 and XRCC3-241 genetic polymorphisms in tailoring fluroropyrimidine/oxaliplatin treatment. For this purpose, 110 XELOX (capecitabine/oxaliplatin)- or FUOX (fluorouracil/oxaliplatin)-treated metastatic colorectal cancer patients were selected prospectively for genotyping. In the FUOX group, TS-3'UTR +6bp/+6bp (hazards ratio, HR=2.62, p=0.007) and ERCC1-118C/T or C/C (HR=1.96, p=0.050) genotypes correlated with a shorter progression-free survival (PFS). When analysed jointly, the higher the number of favourable genotypes (FG) the longer the PFS (6.8m, 9.6m and 25.8m for 0, 1 or 2 FG; p=0.005). Disease-control rate was 100% in patients with 2 FG (87% and 38.5% for 1 or 0 FG; p=0.001). In the multivariate analysis, ERCC1-118 (HR=2.12, p=0.0037) and TS-3'UTR (HR=2.68, p=0.006) were strong independent prognostic factors. According to this, patients harbouring TS-3'UTR +6bp/+6bp and ERCC1-118C/T or C/C genotypes may better receive capecitabine instead of 5FU in an oxaliplatin-based first-line treatment.
Branched-chain alpha-ketoacid dehydrogense complex (BCKDH) is a regulatory enzyme of valine, isoleucine and leucine catabolism. Its activity is mainly regulated by covalent modification achieved by a specific BCKDH kinase (BDK) and phosphatase (BDP). The goal of our study was to investigate the effect of increasing doses of fenofibrate on BDK and BCKDH activities in rat's liver. For 14 days fenofibrate was administrated to Wistar male rats (fed chow containing 8% protein) at one of the daily doses: 5, 10, 20 and 50mg/kg. Control group was given only vehicle (0.3% methylcellulose). BDK activity as well as actual BCKDH activity and total BCKDH activity were assayed spectrophotometrically and BDK protein amount was determined by Western blotting. In rats administered fenofibrate BDK activity decreased by 61%, 64%, 66% and 89% (p<0.0001). Changes in BDK protein expression did not correspond with changes in BDK activity. BCKDH complex actual activity was 3.7+/-0.3, 4.1+/-0.1, 4.6+/-0.3 and 4.0+/-0.3fold higher (p<0.0001) and BCKDH total activity 1.3+/-0.1, 1.3+/-0.1, 1.5+/-0.1 and 1.3+/-0.1fold higher comparing to control group (p<0.001). BCKDH activity state (percentage of active, dephosphorylated form) increased 2.8+/-0.2, 3.1+/-0.1, 3.2+/-0.1 and 3.0+/-0.1fold (p<0.0001). In addition, fenofibrate prevented body weight gain starting from the dose of 10mg/kg/day and induced hepatomegaly in a dose-dependent manner. It can be concluded that fenofibrate under condition of protein restriction starting from the lowest dose inhibits BDK activity at the posttranslational level and increases BCKDH activity state. It is conceivable that fenofibrate decreases of branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) levels by stimulation of their catabolism. Since leucine plays an important role in up-regulation of protein anabolism in muscles, the reduced level of this amino acid may be one of the factors involved in pathomechanism of myopathy observed during treatment with fenofibrate.
Administration of anabolic steroids carries many risks. We present a series of 15 patients with primary hypogonadism who as a group had statistically significant increases in whole body hematocrit and red blood cell volume while on testosterone therapy of 300 mg. intramuscularly every 3 weeks. A small decrease in plasma volume over-all was not significant. Subsequent analyses compared subgroups whose whole body hematocrit during testosterone therapy was either 48% or greater (9) or less than 48% (6). Interaction effects indicated that the subgroups were similar when off testosterone but when on testosterone the former group exhibited an increase in red blood cell volume and a decrease in plasma volume, while the latter group had little change in either measurement. Subsequent to stopping testosterone therapy 2 patients in the whole body hematocrit 48% or greater group suffered strokes and 1 had transient ischemic attacks while on therapy. No one in the whole body hematocrit less than 48% group has had any cerebrovascular symptoms. Clinical implications, as well as cost-effective and practical suggestions for detecting possible dangerous hemoconcentration are discussed.
Catecholamine and indoleamine metabolism in nucleus tractus solitarius were studied during drug-induced hypertension and hypotension. Urethane-anesthetized normotensive male Sprague-Dawley rats implanted with a 250-mu carbon paste in vivo electrochemical electrode were infused with phenylephrine to raise blood pressure 50 mm Hg. Other animals were given nitroprusside to lower pressure 20 mm Hg. Phenylephrine-induced hypertension was associated with a 30% reduction in the electrochemical peak corresponding to norepinephrine. The electrochemical peak which was identified as 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) was increased 25% with the onset of hypertension and remain elevated after the phenylephrine infusion was stopped. Nitroprusside-induced hypotension resulted in a 20% reduction in the norepinephrine peak during the infusion followed by an additional 10% reduction after the infusion. 5-HIAA concentration did not change during the hypotensive phase but showed a 40% increase after the nitroprusside was stopped as blood pressure rebounded to levels higher than the control period. Direct tissue assays of norepinephrine and 5-HIAA confirmed the electrochemical findings. These experiments were repeated in rats which had undergone sinoaortic denervation. The electrochemical changes in norepinephrine and 5-HIAA associated with hypertension and hypotension were attenuated in these animals indicating that the brain neurotransmitter changes were a consequence of baroreceptor input to the brain. We conclude that 5-HIAA in nucleus tractus solitarius appears to be a marker for elevated blood pressure, whereas norepinephrine falls with either an increase or a decrease in pressure.
We investigated whether chronic ouabain treatment changes the vasoconstrictor responses induced by electrical field stimulation (EFS) in endothelium-denuded rat superior mesenteric arteries and a possible role of neuronal nitric oxide (NO).
Mesenteric arteries from untreated and ouabain-treated rats (approximately equal to 8.0 microg/kg per day, for 5 weeks) were used in this study. Vascular reactivity was analyzed by isometric tension recording. Expression of the neuronal NO synthase isoform was analyzed by Western blot. Noradrenaline release was evaluated in segments incubated with [H]noradrenaline.
Systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure were higher in ouabain-treated rats than in untreated rats (SBP, untreated: 120 +/- 3.5 mmHg versus ouabain-treated: 150 +/- 4.7 mmHg, P < 0.01; DBP, untreated: 87 +/- 3.0 mmHg versus ouabain-treated: 114 +/- 2.6 mmHg, P < 0.001). EFS-induced vasoconstrictions were smaller in arteries from ouabain-treated rats than in those from untreated animals, while the EFS-induced [H]noradrenaline release and the vasoconstriction induced by exogenous noradrenaline (1 nmol/l-10 micromol/l) remained unmodified. The non-selective NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor, N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 micromol/l), increased the EFS-induced vasoconstriction in mesenteric arteries from both groups, although the effect was more pronounced in segments from ouabain-treated rats. The selective neuronal NOS inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (7-NI; 100 micromol/l) increased EFS-induced contraction only in segments from ouabain-treated rats. Neuronal NOS expression was greater in the mesenteric arteries from ouabain-treated rats than in those from untreated animals. Sodium nitroprusside (0.1 nmol/l-10 micromol/l) induced a similar vasodilatation in segments from both groups.
These results suggest that chronic ouabain treatment is accompanied by an increase in neuronal NO release that reduces EFS-induced vasoconstriction.
Thalidomide is successfully used in the treatment of multiple myeloma, leprosy and various autoimmune diseases due to its anti-angiogenic, immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory effects. Thalidomide's most common side effects are constipation, neuropathy, fatigue, sedation, rash, tremor and peripheral edema. We achieved complete response with a 400 mg/day dose thalidomide therapy in a 58-year-old male patient diagnosed with relapsing refractory multiple myeloma. While continuing thalidomide for sustainable response, the therapy was terminated at the ninth month due to development of leukocytoclastic vasculitis. We describe the case and discuss the place of thalidomide in the treatment of multiple myeloma and the rare occurrence of leukocytoclastic vasculitis during thalidomide therapy in multiple myeloma, since only one such case has been reported in the literature thus far.
Diabetes mellitus is the most common and serious metabolic disorder among people all over the world. Many plants have successfully been used to overcome this problem. Costus speciosus is widely used in Indian medicine to treat various diseases including diabetes. Bioassay guided fractionation was followed to isolate costunolide from the hexane extract of C. speciosus root. The structure was elucidated using X-ray crystallography. Costunolide was administered to streptozotocin (STZ) (50 mg/kg bw)-induced diabetic male wistar rats at different doses (5, 10, 20 mg/kg bw) for 30 days to assess its effect on fasting plasma glucose and cholesterol levels. It was found that plasma glucose was significantly (p<0.05) reduced in a dose-dependent manner when compared to the control. In addition, oral administration of costunolide (20 mg/kg bw) significantly decreased glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)), serum total cholesterol, triglyceride, LDL cholesterol and at the same time markedly increased plasma insulin, tissue glycogen, HDL cholesterol and serum protein. Also costunolide restored the altered plasma enzyme (aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotrasferase, lactate dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase and acid phosphatase) levels to near normal. Costunolide might have stimulated the beta islets to secrete insulin by inhibiting the expression of nitric oxide synthase. The results of this experimental study indicated that costunolide possessed normo-glycemic and hypolipidemic activity and hence it could be used as a drug for treating diabetes.
Two patients with acute schizophrenic or schizo-affective psychosis were treated with benzodiazepine-monotherapy. In the first patient with paranoid-hallucinatory psychosis, catatonic symptoms disappeared completely after application of Lorazepam. Side effects of neuroleptic medication (neuroleptic turbulences) were the reason for benzodiazepine treatment in the second patient. In neither patients were psychotic symptoms observed during several weeks on benzodiazepine medication. Subsequently, no further neuroleptic treatment was necessary in one patient. Benzodiazepine effects on schizophrenia are probably caused by an activation of inhibitory GABA-ergic neurons. Besides stupor and catatonia, severe side effects of neuroleptic treatment or even contra-indications of neuroleptic medication may be an indication for benzodiazepine treatment in acute schizophrenia.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) is among the motor complications that arise in Parkinson patients after a prolonged treatment with levodopa (L-DOPA). Since previous transcriptome and proteomic studies performed in the rat model of LID suggested important changes in striatal energy-related components, we hypothesize that oral creatine supplementation could prevent or attenuate the occurrence of LID. In this study, 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats received a 2% creatine-supplemented diet for 1 month prior to L-DOPA therapy. During the 21 days of L-DOPA treatment, significant reductions in abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) have been observed in the creatine-supplemented group, without any worsening of parkinsonism. In situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry analysis of the striatum also showed a reduction in the levels of prodynorphin mRNA and FosB/DeltaFosB-immunopositive cells in creatine-supplemented diet group, an effect that was dependant on the development of AIMs. Further investigation of the bioenergetics' status of the denervated striatum revealed significant changes in the levels of creatine both after L-DOPA alone and with the supplemented diet. In conclusion, we demonstrated that combining L-DOPA therapy with a diet enriched in creatine could attenuate LID, which may represent a new way to control the motor complications associated with L-DOPA therapy.
Recessive inactivating mutations in human matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP2, gelatinase A) are associated with syndromes that include abnormal facial appearance, short stature, and severe bone loss. Mmp2(-/-) mice have only mild aspects of these abnormalities, suggesting that MMP2 function is redundant during skeletal development in the mouse. Here, we report that Mmp2(-/-) mice with additional mutations that render type I collagen resistant to collagenase-mediated cleavage to TC(A) and TC(B) fragments (Col1a1(r/r) mice) have severe developmental defects resembling those observed in MMP2-null humans. Composite Mmp2(-/-);Col1a1(r/r) mice were born in expected Mendelian ratios but were half the size of wild-type, Mmp2(-/-), and Col1a1(r/r) mice and failed to thrive. Furthermore, composite Mmp2(-/-);Col1a1(r/r) animals had very abnormal craniofacial features with shorter snouts, bulging skulls, incompletely developed calvarial bones and unclosed cranial sutures. In addition, trabecular bone mass was reduced concomitant with increased numbers of bone-resorbing osteoclasts and osteopenia. In vitro, MMP2 had a unique ability among the collagenolytic MMPs to degrade mutant collagen, offering a possible explanation for the genetic interaction between Mmp2 and Col1a1(r). Thus, because mutations in the type I collagen gene alter the phenotype of mice with null mutations in Mmp2, we conclude that type I collagen is an important modifier gene for Mmp2. Developmental Dynamics 236:1683-1693, 2007. (c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
A 27-year-old woman who used oral contraceptives for 2 years and had 2 incidents of blurred vision followed by painful "blood-red" fingers is described. Contraceptive treatment was stopped. Most fingers of both hands were characterized by bluish, cyanotic, apparent pregangrenous discoloration. All laboratory tests were within normal range except; latex agglutination (weakly reactive), LE preparation (weakly positive twice, normal once), globulin immunoeletrophoresis (slightly elevated IgM), and blood volume determination (500 ml deficit of whole blood). 500 ml daily of low molecular weight dextran for 4 days was the only treatment. Gradually over 2 weeks cyanosis and pain ebbed. The hypothesis that this thromboembolic trouble is linked to the pill is circumstantial, but episodes of blurred vision are symptomatic of retinal vessel thrombosis. Erythema or pain in finger tips is the first sign of difficulty and should produce cessation of the pill.
Tetracyclines have long been recognized as a cause of pseudotumor cerebri in adults, but the role of tetracyclines in the pediatric age group has not been well characterized in the literature and there have been few reported cases. We present 6 cases to better delineate the problem, the patient profile, the response to treatment, and the sequelae.
We retrospectively analyzed the records of all patients admitted with a diagnosis of pseudotumor cerebri who had documented usage of a tetracycline-class drug immediately before presentation at the Hospital For Sick Children in Toronto, Canada, from January 1, 1986, to March 1, 1996.
Six patients (5 female, 1 male) who met all inclusion and exclusion criteria were identified; their ages ranged from 12 to 17 years. All were being treated for acne vulgaris. Duration of use before diagnosis was as short as 2 weeks and as long as 10 months, with a mean of 4.4 months. Duration of symptoms ranged from 0.57 to 4 weeks. Symptoms included headache (6 of 6), nausea (5 of 6), and diplopia (4 of 6). All for whom height and weight data were known (5 of 6) were in the upper quartile for body mass index. Visual acuity was 6/6 in all but 1 eye of one patient (6/9) at diagnosis, and final visual acuity was 6/6 in all patients. All had normal color vision, where this was recorded (5 of 6). The only recorded field defect was enlargement of the blind spot (4 of 6). All patients responded to treatment, with loss of symptoms in 1 day to 4 weeks.
Pseudotumor cerebri as a result of tetracycline-class drugs does occur in the pediatric population. With prompt and appropriate medical treatment, long-term sequelae can almost always be avoided. Physicians who treat patients with tetracyclines need to be aware of the potential complications in children.
The neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor and its ligand, substance P, are thought to play important roles in nociception and hyperalgesia. This study evaluated the role of the NK-1 receptor in processing noxious stimuli in normal and inflammatory states.
Behavioral responses to heat and mechanical and chemical stimuli were studied in NK-1 receptor knockout mice and wild-type control mice. Thermal nociception was evaluated by measuring paw lick or jump latencies to hot plate (52, 55, and 58 degrees C) and paw withdrawal latencies to radiant heat applied to the hind paws. Mechanical nociception was measured by von Frey monofilament applications to the hind paws. Intraplantar capsaicin-induced (10 microg/20 microl) paw licking and mechanical and heat hyperalgesia were compared in NK-1 knockout and wild-type mice.
Withdrawal responses to radiant heat (4.3+/-0.18 s for knockout and 4.4+/-0.8 s for wild-type mice) and von Frey monofilaments were similar in knockout and wild-type mice. In the hot plate test, increasing the hot plate temperature from 52 degrees C to 58 degrees C resulted in a decrease in the response latency in the wild-type mice (30.4+/-17.5 s to 15.2+/-6.8 s, P < 0.05), whereas in the knockout mice the response latencies remained constant (28.2+/-19.8 s to 29+/-15.1 s, not significant). Capsaicin-induced paw licking (14.5+/-12.8 s for knockout and 41.3+/-37.3 s for wild-type mice, P < 0.05) and mechanical and heat hyperalgesia were attenuated in the knockout mice.
NK-1 receptors contribute to the withdrawal responses to high-intensity heat stimuli and to capsaicin-induced mechanical and heat hyperalgesia.
Seizures are a recognized complication of citalopram overdose. The present study sought to establish risk factors for seizures in this high-risk patient group, including stated dose ingested, co-ingested drugs or ethanol, and electrolyte disturbances.
A retrospective casenote review was carried out of patients who attended the Emergency Department due to citalopram overdose between January 2000 and July 2007 inclusive. Stepwise logistic regression analysis considered age, gender, stated citalopram dose, acute ethanol consumption, co-ingested drugs, administration of activated charcoal, and hyponatraemia.
There were 241 patients (177 women), and the median (interquartile range) stated citalopram dose was 300 mg (200 to 600 mg). Generalized seizures occurred in 18 patients (7.5%). Logistic regression analysis found co-ingested tricyclic antidepressants or venlafaxine predicted seizures with odds ratio = 15 (95% confidence interval 3, 75). In the absence of co-ingested drugs, the minimum citalopram dose associated with seizures was 400 mg. Odds ratio for seizures = 1.1 (95% confidence interval 1.0, 1.2) for every 100 mg increment in citalopram dose. Seizures were associated with a greater need for invasive ventilatory support, higher creatine kinase activity, and prolonged hospital stay.
Generalized seizures are an important manifestation of citalopram toxicity, and cannot be explained solely by electrolyte disturbances or co-ingestion of other drugs or ethanol. The strongest predictors of seizures in this patient series were ingestion of high citalopram dosages and co-ingestion of drugs capable of lowering seizure threshold.
This study measured axonal transport of 6-phosphofructokinase (PFK) and aldolase activities in the sciatic nerves of rats with short-term streptozotocin-induced diabetes. The diabetic rats showed deficits in anterograde (69% of controls; p less than 0.001) and retrograde (33% of controls; p less than 0.01) accumulations of PFK activity as well as its content per unit length of unconstricted sciatic nerve (86% of controls; p less than 0.05). There were no accumulation deficits in aldolase activity in the nerves of the diabetic rats, although the activity per unit length of unconstricted nerve was deficient (81% of controls; p less than 0.05). Treatment of diabetic rats with mixed bovine brain gangliosides (10 mg/kg of body weight/day, i.p.) did not affect the deficit in PFK activity in unconstricted nerve (84% of ganglioside-treated controls; p less than 0.01), but all the other defects in enzyme activities were prevented completely. The diabetic rats also showed a reduction of 7% (p less than 0.01) in sciatic nerve dry weight per unit length, which was prevented by ganglioside treatment. In contrast, the reduced motor nerve conduction velocity, accumulation of polyol pathway metabolites, and depletion of myo-inositol, characteristic of untreated short-term diabetes, were unaffected by ganglioside treatment.
4-Hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) is an endogenous product of lipid peroxidation known to play a role in cellular signaling through protein modification and is a major precursor for protein carbonyl adducts found in alcoholic liver disease (ALD). In the present study, a greater than 2-fold increase in protein carbonylation of sirtuin 3 (SIRT3), a mitochondrial class III histone deacetylase, is reported in liver mitochondrial extracts of ethanol-consuming mice. The consequence of this in vivo carbonylation on SIRT3 deacetylase activity is unknown. Interestingly, mitochondrial protein hyperacetylation was observed in a time-dependent increase in a model of chronic ethanol consumption; however, the underlying mechanisms for this remain unknown. Tandem mass spectrometry was used to identify and characterize the in vitro covalent modification of rSIRT3 by 4-HNE at Cys(280), a critical zinc-binding residue, and the resulting inhibition of rSIRT3 activity via pathophysiologically relevant concentrations of 4-HNE. Computational-based molecular modeling simulations indicate that 4-HNE modification alters the conformation of the zinc-binding domain inducing minor changes within the active site, resulting in the allosteric inhibition of SIRT3 activity. These conformational data are supported by the calculated binding energies derived from molecular docking studies suggesting the substrate peptide of acetyl-CoA synthetase 2 (AceCS2-K(ac)) and display a greater affinity for native SIRT3 as compared with the 4-HNE adducted protein. The results of this study characterize altered mitochondrial protein acetylation in a mouse model of chronic ethanol ingestion and thiol-specific allosteric inhibition of rSIRT3 resulting from 4-HNE adduction.
A boy with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) experienced life-threatening vincristine neurotoxicity while simultaneously exposed to itraconazole. Five pediatric and six adult cases of itraconazole-enhanced vincristine toxicity have been reported, all with ALL. Upon cessation of the itraconazole, the patient's symptoms resolved, which is similar to the outcome of the previously reported cases: 10 of 11 patients had complete resolution of symptoms.
A study was made of the radiological findings in 57 patients with a clinical diagnosis of analgesic nephropathy. The ages of the patients ranged from 27 to 72 years, and females predominated over males in the ratio 4-7 to 1. Renal failure varied from mild to very severe and the patients showed the usual high incidence of analgesic-induced gastro-intestinal, haematological and neurological disorders. In 82% of cases, kidneys were of normal size, but there was radiological evidence of reduced renal function in 85%. Thus, a small kidney with good renal function was unlikely to be due to analgesic nephropathy. Medullar necrosis was observed in 65%, and papillary atrophy and papillary necrosis each in 46%. Although usually gradual, acute massive sloughing of necrotic papillae could occur and occasionally led to ureteric obstruction. Papillary cavitation was seen in 39% but fistulae and ring shadows were observed in only 11% and 14% respectively, while renal calcification occurred in 26%. With the use of high dose techniques and retrograde pyelography, it is almost always possible to make a positive radiological diagnosis of analgesic nephropathy, even in patients with markedly reduced renal function.
