In utero 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) exposure causes abnormal ventral, dorsolateral, and anterior prostate development in wild-type but not aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) null mutant C57BL/6 mice. Experiments have now been conducted to test the hypothesis that TCDD causes an AhR-dependent inhibition of the earliest visible stage of prostate development, the formation of prostatic buds by urogenital sinus (UGS) epithelium. A novel method for viewing budding was developed that uses scanning electron microscopy of isolated UGS epithelium instead of three-dimensional reconstruction of serial histological sections of intact UGS. In the initial experiment, the time course for prostatic epithelial bud formation in vehicle- and TCDD-exposed wild-type C57BL/6J mice was determined. A single maternal dose of TCDD (5 mug/kg) on gestation day 13 delayed the appearance of dorsal, lateral, and anterior buds by about one day, reduced dorsolateral bud number, and prevented ventral buds from forming. No such effects were seen in TCDD-exposed AhR null mutant fetuses, while AhR null mutation, alone, had no detectable effect on budding. Treatment of wild-type dams with sufficient 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) to masculinize female fetuses failed to protect against the inhibition of budding caused by TCDD. These results demonstrate that in utero TCDD exposure causes an AhR-dependent inhibition of prostatic epithelial bud formation commensurate with its inhibitory effects on ventral and dorsolateral prostate development, and that the inhibition of budding is not due to insufficient DHT. Inhibited bud formation appears to be the primary cause of abnormal prostate development in TCDD-exposed mice.
This study attempted to examine the brain's sensitivity to monetary rewards of different magnitudes in cocaine abusers and to study its association with motivation and self-control.
Sixteen cocaine abusers and 13 matched healthy comparison subjects performed a forced-choice task under three monetary value conditions while brain activation was measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging. Objective measures of state motivation were assessed by reaction time and accuracy, and subjective measures were assessed by self-reports of task engagement. Measures of trait motivation and self-control were assessed with the Multidimensional Personality Questionnaire.
The cocaine abusers demonstrated an overall reduced regional brain responsivity to differences between the monetary value conditions. Also, in comparison subjects but not in cocaine abusers, reward-induced improvements in performance were associated with self-reports of task engagement, and money-induced activations in the lateral prefrontal cortex were associated with parallel activations in the orbitofrontal cortex. For cocaine abusers, prefrontal cortex sensitivity to money was instead associated with motivation and self-control.
These findings suggest that in cocaine addiction 1) activation of the corticolimbic reward circuit to gradations of money is altered; 2) the lack of a correlation between objective and subjective measures of state motivation may be indicative of disrupted perception of motivational drive, which could contribute to impairments in self-control; and 3) the lateral prefrontal cortex modulates trait motivation and deficits in self-control, and a possible underlying mechanism may encompass a breakdown in prefrontal-orbitofrontal cortical communication.
Hypoxic brain cell injury is a complex process that results from a series of intracellular events. In this work, we tested whether severe hypoxia for 6 h can affect gene expression and protein levels of intracellular calcium channels, ryanodine receptors, and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors in mouse cerebellum. In addition, we tested the effect of hypoxia on cerebellar granular cells of rats. We have found that gene expression of types 1 and 2 IP(3) receptors is significantly increased after the exposure of mice to hypoxic stimulus for 6 h and also in rat cerebellar granular cells. Increased gene expression of IP(3) receptors was reflected in increased protein levels of these channels as well. In this process, reactive oxygen species are most probably involved, as antioxidant quercetin abolished hypoxia-induced increase in both types 1 and 2 IP3 receptor. Ryanodine receptors of types 1 and 2 and sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase were not affected by hypoxia on the level of messenger RNA. To test physiological consequences, we measured levels of intracellular calcium. We observed significantly elevated calcium level in hypoxic compared to normoxic cells. Deeper understanding of mechanisms, through which hypoxia regulates intracellular calcium, could point towards the development of new therapeutic approaches to reduce or suppress the pathological effects of cellular hypoxia, such as those seen in stroke or ischemia.
Methotrexate (MTX) is a key drug in the chemotherapy for childhood acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). It is essential in the treatment of such areas as the central nervous system (CNS) and reproductive organs. High-dose chemotherapy is applied for this purpose to obtain an effective plasma concentration in the target organs. There are three major mechanisms of nephrotoxicity related with MTX. One is that induced by allergic reaction, which usually appears as interstitial nephritis. In this case MTX is contraindicated. Another is direct pharmacological toxicity against renal tubules. The third is precipitation of MTX, which plugs the renal tubules. The latter two are consequently dose dependent, and are usually associated with high-dose chemotherapy. To prevent these nephrotoxicities, hydration and alkalinization of the urine are performed to accelerate the urinary excretion and avoid the precipitation of MTX.
Numerous studies have reported that day-to-day changes in particulate air pollution are associated with day-to-day changes in deaths. Recently, several reports have indicated that the software used to control for season and weather in some of these studies had deficiencies.
To investigate the use of the case-crossover design as an alternative.
This approach compares the exposure of each case to their exposure on a nearby day, when they did not die. Hence it controls for seasonal patterns and for all slowly varying covariates (age, smoking, etc) by matching rather than complex modelling. A key feature is that temperature can also be controlled by matching. This approach was applied to a study of 14 US cities. Weather and day of the week were controlled for in the regression.
A 10 microg/m3 increase in PM10 was associated with a 0.36% increase in daily deaths from internal causes (95% CI 0.22% to 0.50%). Results were little changed if, instead of symmetrical sampling of control days the time stratified method was applied, when control days were matched on temperature, or when more lags of winter time temperatures were used. Similar results were found using a Poisson regression, but the case-crossover method has the advantage of simplicity in modelling, and of combining matched strata across multiple locations in a single stage analysis.
Despite the considerable differences in analytical design, the previously reported associations of particles with mortality persisted in this study. The association appeared quite linear. Case-crossover designs represent an attractive method to control for season and weather by matching.
The growing popularity and availability of over-the-counter (OTC) health products, including vitamins, raises serious concern about vitamin toxicity. We report a case of cirrhosis in a patient with habitual daily ingestion of an OTC dietary supplement that contained 13,000 microg vitamin A and was associated with marked clinical improvement after discontinuation. This case highlights the potential for liver damage that may be associated with long-term intake of OTC vitamin supplements, and indicates the need for medical supervision of such products.
On the basis of recent findings, the increased use of serotonin selective reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) in combination with antipsychotics and concomitant benztropine is likely.
Five patients who developed delirium while receiving a neuroleptic, an SSRI, and benztropine are described.
The timing of the delirium in relation to drug administration suggests the delirium was the result of an interaction of the SSRI and benztropine.
Possible mechanisms are explored. Clinicians should be aware that patients receiving this combination may be at increased risk for delirium.
Aquaporin (AQP) 3, which is predominantly expressed in the colon, is considered to play an important role in regulating the fecal water content in the colon. In this study, the role of AQP3 in the colon was examined using HgCl(2) and CuSO(4), which are known to inhibit AQP3 function. The fecal water content was measured up to 1 h after the rectal administration of HgCl(2) or CuSO(4) to rats. The results showed that the fecal water content in the HgCl(2) administration group increased significantly to approximately 4 times that in the control group, and severe diarrhea was observed. However, no changes were observed in the mRNA expression level of the osmoregulatory genes (sodium myo-inositol transporter and taurine transporter) and the level and distribution of AQP3 protein expression, as determined 1 h after the administration of HgCl(2). Comparable results were observed in the CuSO(4) administration group. The results of this study indicated that the inhibition of AQP3 function in the colon caused diarrhea. Therefore, it has been revealed that the fecal water content in the colon is controlled by the transport of water from the luminal side to the vascular side, which is mediated by AQP3. Our findings suggest that a drug that modulates the function or expression of AQP3 in the colon may represent a new target for the development of laxatives.
A patient developed severe neurological toxicity, with peripheral and cerebral components and hyponatraemia following one intrathecal injection of 80 mg cytosine arabinoside. The severity of his symptoms may reflect heavy prior neurotoxic chemotherapy.
The nonsteroidal antiandrogenic drug flutamide [4'-nitro-3'-(trifluoromethyl)isobutyranilide] is a safe and generally well-tolerated drug used for the treatment of prostate cancer. We describe the case of a 74-year-old male who developed life-threatening acute liver failure during flutamide therapy. Other causes of acute liver failure were appropriately ruled out and there was no evidence of active prostate cancer or liver metastases. The use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a highly probable relationship between the development of acute liver failure and flutamide therapy. Severe liver dysfunction has been rarely documented in patients treated with flutamide, even though cases of fulminant liver failure have been described. A few cases have been reported also among patients with hirsutism being treated with flutamide. The mechanisms responsible for the occurrence of hepatotoxicity during treatment with flutamide are unknown. Mitochondrial dysfunction seems to be implicated. The potential of flutamide to act as a potent hepatotoxin should be borne in mind when treatment with this drug is being planned.
Red blood cell macrocytosis is a wellknown complication of azathioprine therapy. In a group of 91 patients receiving azathioprine immunosuppressive therapy for renal graft, the mean corpuscular volume determined by an electronic cell counter was substantially higher than in the normal population. Selective erythroid hypoplasia is another known but much less frequent complication of azathioprine use. The case of a child who had a selective erythroid hypoplasia while receiving azathioprine immunosuppressive therapy for renal graft is reported. The patient recovered as the drug therapy was discontinued. With progressive reintroduction of the drug, a second decrease in the hemoglobin was seen when a dose of 2 mg/kg was reached although with a smaller dose, no recurrence of anemia was observed.
We have studied the effect of misonidazole (MISO) on the antitumour activity, normal tissue toxicity and pharmacokinetics of four bifunctional nitrogen mustards: chlorambucil (CHL); phenylacetic acid mustard (PAAM), a metabolite of CHL; beta, beta-difluorochlorambucil (beta-F2CHL), an analogue which is metabolized less efficiently by the beta-oxidation pathway; and melphalan (MEL). MISO (2.5 mmol/kg) increased the response of the KHT tumour to CHL, PAAM and beta-F2CHL by dose-modifying factors (DMFs) of 1.55-1.85, 1.35-1.65 and 1.5-1.8, respectively. In contrast, the activity of MEL was not altered. However, with 5.0 mmol/kg MISO an enhanced response to MEL was observed (DMF = 1.35-1.55). Similarly, for CHL and PAAM, but not MEL, acute toxicity was also increased by 2.5 mmol/kg MISO. The increase in toxicity with CHL and PAAM was similar to the increase in antitumour activity, and their therapeutic indices were unchanged. Effective chemosensitizers were shown to be powerful inhibitors of drug clearance. Thus, potent chemosensitizers such as MISO, the lipophilic analogue benznidazole (BENZO), the microsomal enzyme inhibitor SKF 525A, and the parent heterocycle imidazole all reduced the plasma clearance of CHL and its metabolites and therefore increased drug exposure (AUC). Conversely, the hydrophilic MISO metabolite Ro 05-9963 was a poor chemosensitizer and produced only very weak pharmacokinetic effects. As the DMFs for chemosensitization agreed very well with those for increased AUC, it seems likely that pharmacokinetic changes are the major cause of the enhancement of tumour response to CHL. For MEL, chemosensitization also appears to be related to pharmacokinetic changes. MISO at a dose of 2.5 mmol/kg produced no change in MEL pharmacokinetics and no enhancement of tumour response, whereas 5.0 mmol/kg MISO was effective on both counts.
Norplant is a long-acting subdermal implant system that is widely used for contraception. The implant releases a continuous dose of levonorgestrel, a synthetic progestin. Although oral contraceptives are associated with depression and panic disorder, no cases have been reported of psychiatric disorders secondary to the use of Norplant.
Two women, aged 18 and 29 years, are described who developed major depression and panic disorder while using the Norplant system.
These women who had no prior psychiatric history developed major depression and panic disorder 1 to 2 months after insertion of Norplant system capsules. The symptoms worsened over the course of a year. Following removal of Norplant, the symptoms of depression and anxiety resolved within 1 month.
The progesterone content of oral contraceptives has been linked to major depression and panic disorder. Since Norplant is a progestin-only preparation, it is likely that some women will develop these disorders. These cases illustrate the importance of careful follow-up for adolescents and adults who select Norplant for contraception. Patients should be informed about the possible occurrence of psychiatric disorders. When evaluating new onset of depression and panic disorder in adolescent and adult women, it is important to inquire about Norplant insertion.
To compare the effects of the ACE inhibitor perindopril and the beta-blocker carvedilol on blood pressure and endothelial functions in NIDDM patients with hypertension.
We conducted a double-blind randomized trial in 26 patients with NIDDM and mild hypertension. A 4-week run-in placebo period preceded the active 12-week treatment with perindopril (4-8 mg daily) or carvedilol (25-50 mg daily). Endothelial functions were assessed by evaluating the hemodynamic (mean blood pressure, leg blood flow) and rheological (platelet aggregation, blood viscosity, and blood filterability) responses to an intravenous bolus of 3 g L-arginine, the natural precursor of nitric oxide.
Both perindopril and carvedilol significantly reduced mean blood pressure (P < 0.001) and increased leg blood flow (P < 0.05) to the same extent; blood filterability remained unchanged in both perindopril- and carvedilol-treated groups. Carvedilol reduced platelet aggregation and blood viscosity significantly (P < 0.05) but perindopril did not. Before treatment, the hemodynamic and rheologic responses to L-arginine were significantly lower in patients (P < 0.05-0.01) than in 20 nondiabetic nonhypertensive control subjects. After 12 weeks of treatment, both drugs normalized the hemodynamic responses to L-arginine. Platelet aggregation response to L-arginine was ameliorated by carvedilol and remained unchanged in the perindopril group.
At the doses used, both drugs effectively reduce blood pressure and normalize the hemodynamic responses to L-arginine. The implications of the ameliorated endothelial function for the poor cardiovascular outlook of the NIDDM hypertensive patient need further assessment.
The study objective was, firstly, to investigate whether anaesthesia with induced arterial hypotension would cause leakage of a biochemical marker of neuronal injury, adenylate kinase (AK), into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). (
arterial hypotension = mean arterial pressure (MAP) 50-65 mmHg during > or = 10 min). Secondly, a subgroup of patients was examined with a limited battery of psychometric tests. Patients, scheduled for orthognathic surgery, were allocated to either hypotension (n = 20) or normotension (n = 20). Seventeen patients were subjected to psychometry. Arterial blood pressure was recorded continuously and controlled by adjustments of the administered concentration of the inhalational anaesthetic isoflurane. Fentanyl, an opioid, was given equally in both groups. A lumbar puncture was performed approximately 20 h post-operatively for a CSF sample, later analysed for AK activity. Neuropsychological tests were performed the day before surgery and the fourteenth day postoperatively. The CSF-AK value was pathologically increased ( > 0.040 U/L) in 24 patients (65%), of whom 9 were normotensive. There was no significant difference between the CSF-AK values in the hypotensive and normotensive groups, mean values were 0.082 (s.d. 0.051) and 0.066 (s.d. 0.059) U/L, respectively. The overall correlation between the 10 min MAP levels and the CSF-AK values was close to zero. In the pilot neuropsychological investigation some abnormalities were observed, indicating clinically significant adverse effects in four hypotensive patients, of whom two displayed pathologically increased CSF-AK values. At the group level, the correlation between the changes in psychometry and the measured CSF-AK values was poor. Increases in CSF-AK activities may be a non-specific occurrence in the perioperative interval, possibly indicating an adverse effect on the brain. Arterial hypotension could not be proven to explain the CSF-AK outcome.
Phenazopyridine (Sedural) is widely used in the treatment of dysuria. It is considered a benign drug and most physicians are unaware of its potential toxicity. A 24-year-old woman who developed methemoglobinemia, acute renal failure and hemolytic anemia following a single 1 g dose of the drug is presented.
Blockade of sodium channels located in the sinoatrial node can slow diastolic depolarisation rate, recorded in vitro. The objective was therefore to determine whether these blockers could slow heart rate in vivo. The heart rate was firstly measured in spontaneously beating, isolated rat heart atria in the presence of different voltage gated sodium channel blockers. Tetrodotoxin and lidocaine slightly reduced heart rate whereas KC 12291 and R 56865, which mainly interact with the persistent component of the sodium current, concentration dependently and potently induced bradycardia. In the pithed rat, tetrodotoxin induced statistically significant decreases heart rate, maximal effects were: -32.2+/-6.1 beat per min. KC 12291 and R 56865 dose-dependently induced bradycardia (Delta heart rate obtained, -55.1+/-5.2 beat per min, P<0.05, and -71.9+/-8.5 bpm, P<0.05, respectively). In conclusion, voltage gated sodium channel blockers rather selective for the persistent current, exert a potent bradycardic effect in the rat.
We compared delusions and hallucinations of 100 cocaine abusers and 100 paranoid schizophrenic subjects admitted to an East Texas state psychiatric hospital. Subjects in both groups feared that individuals or organized groups might harm them in some way, but delusions of the paranoid schizophrenic subjects were more often bizarre than those of the cocaine abuse subjects. "Cocaine bugs" (parasitosis) were more often found in the cocaine abuse subjects. Command hallucinations were found in both groups, but the commands of the schizophrenic group more often related to harming or killing others. Cocaine abusers had a greater frequency of visual hallucinations (47 to 7), distinguished by shadows, flashing lights ("snow lights"), objects moving and bugs crawling on the arm. Finally, the most distinguishing characteristics were identity delusions, possession delusions, grandiose delusions (other than identities and possessions), and delusions that their families were imposters (Capgras Syndrome) reported by paranoid schizophrenics. No such delusions were reported by the cocaine abusers.
In a double-blind trial, 50 patients were randomly allocated to receive up to 0.29 mg/kg diazepam (Valium 5 mg/ml) or 0.14 mg/kg of midazolam (midazolam hydrochloride 5 mg/ml) intravenously at a first session of conservative dentistry, the alternative being administered at the second session. Good operating conditions were reported under each sedative and no important physiological differences were observed. Most patients failed to return to 'street fitness' 30 minutes after either session of treatment. Previous reports of reduced incidence of venous thrombophlebitis with midazolam were not convincingly confirmed in this trial, but data quality was poor. For about half the patients, the amnesic effect was stronger following midazolam.
Four cases are reported in which substantial depression was associated with the use of the calcium channel blocker nifedipine. In one instance, a patient became unresponsive to treatment with nortriptyline when nifedipine was introduced. In each case, the depression resolved following discontinuation of nifedipine. Possible mechanisms by which nifedipine may influence affective states are discussed.
24S-hydroxycholesterol is a side-chain oxidized oxysterol formed in the brain that is continuously crossing the blood-brain barrier to reach the circulation. There may be an opposite flux of 27-hydroxycholesterol, which is formed to a lower extent in the brain than in most other organs. Here we measured cholesterol, lathosterol, 24S- and 27-hydroxycholesterol, and plant sterols in four different brain areas of deceased Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and controls. 24S-hydroxycholesterol was decreased and 27-hydroxycholesterol increased in all the brain samples from the AD patients. The difference was statistically significant in four of the eight comparisons. The ratio of 27-hydroxycholesterol to 24S-hydroxycholesterol was significantly increased in all brain areas of the AD patients and also in the brains of aged mice expressing the Swedish Alzheimer mutation APP751. Cholesterol 24S-hydroxylase and 27-hydroxylase protein was not significantly different between AD patients and controls. A high correlation was observed between the levels of 24S-hydroxycholesterol and lathosterol in the frontal cortex of the AD patients but not in the controls. Most probably the high levels of 27-hydroxycholesterol are due to increased influx of this steroid over the blood-brain barrier and the lower levels of 24S-hydroxycholesterol to decreased production. The high correlation between lathosterol and 24-hydroxycholesterol is consistent with a close coupling between synthesis and metabolism of cholesterol in the frontal cortex of the AD brain.
1. The objective of the present paper was to evaluate the relevance of neuronal balance of cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP concentration for functional regulation of nociceptor sensitivity during inflammation. 2. Injection of PGE2 (10-100 ng paw-1) evoked a dose-dependent hyperalgesic effect which was mediated via a cyclic AMP-activated protein kinase (PKA) inasmuch as hyperalgesia was blocked by the PKA inhibitor H89. 3. The PDE4 inhibitor rolipram and RP73401, but not PDE3 and PDE5 inhibitors potentiated the hyperalgesic effects of PGE2. The hyperalgesic effect of dopamine was also enhanced by rolipram. Moreover, rolipram significantly potentiated hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan, bradykinin, TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-6 and IL-8. This suggests that neuronal cyclic AMP mediates the prostanoid and sympathetic components of mechanical hyperalgesia. Moreover, in the neuron cyclic AMP is mainly metabolized by PDE4. 4. To examine the role of the NO/cyclic GMP pathway in modulating mechanical hyperalgesia, we tested the effects of the soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor, ODQ. This substance counteracts the inhibitory effects of the NO donor, SNAP, on the hyperalgesia induced by PGE2. 5. The ODQ potentiated hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan, bradykinin, TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-6 and IL-8. In contrast, ODQ had no significant effect on the hyperalgesia induced by PGE2 and dopamine. This indicates that the hyperalgesic cytokines may activate soluble guanylate cyclase, which down-regulate the ability of these substances to cause hyperalgesia. This event appears not to be mediated by prostaglandin or dopamine. 6. In conclusion, the results presented in this paper confirm an association between (i) hyperalgesia and elevated levels of cyclic AMP as well as (ii) antinociception and elevated levels of cyclic GMP. The intracellular levels of cyclic AMP that enhance hyperalgesia are controlled by the PDE4 isoform and appear to result in activation of protein kinase A whereas the intracellular levels of cyclic GMP results from activation of a soluble guanylate cyclase.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with D-penicillamine (D-pen) 500 mg/kg/day for 10 or 42 days. Pair fed rats served as controls. Changes in aortic morphology were examined by light- and transmission-electron microscopy (TEM). In addition, the endothelial permeability and the penetration through the aortic wall of albumin were studied 10 minutes, 24 and 48 hours after i. v. injection of human serum 131I-albumin (131I-HSA). TEM revealed extensive elastolysis in the arterial wall of D-pen-treated rats, consistent with an inhibitory effect on crosslink formation. In experimental animals excess deposition of collagen and glycoaminoglycans was observed in the subendothelial and medial layer of the aortic wall, together with prominent basal membrane substance around aortic smooth muscle cells. The aorta/serum-ratio and the radioactive build-up 24 and 48 hours after injection of 131I-HSA was reduced in animals treated with D-pen for 42 days, indicating an impeded transmural transport of tracer which may be caused by a steric exclusion effect of abundant hyaluronate. The endothelial ultrastructure was unaffected by D-pen, and no differences in aortic 131I-HSA radioactivity or aorta/serum-ratio were recorded between experimental and control groups 10 minutes after tracer injection, indicating that the permeability of the endothelial barrier to albumin remained unaffected by D-pen treatment. These observations support the hypothesis that treatment with high doses of D-pen may induce a fibroproliferative response in rat aorta, possibly by an inhibitory effect on the cross-linking of collagen and elastin.
Adipocytes from mesenteric white adipose tissue amplify the inflammatory response and participate in inflammation-driven immune dysfunction in Crohn's disease by releasing proinflammatory mediators. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR)-α and -γ, pregnane x receptor (PXR), farnesoid x receptor (FXR) and liver x-receptor (LXR) are ligand-activated nuclear receptor that provide counter-regulatory signals to dysregulated immunity and modulates adipose tissue.
To investigate the expression and function of nuclear receptors in intestinal and adipose tissues in a rodent model of colitis and mesenteric fat from Crohn's patients and to investigate their modulation by probiotics.
Colitis was induced by TNBS administration. Mice were administered vehicle or VSL#3, daily for 10 days. Abdominal fat explants obtained at surgery from five Crohn's disease patients and five patients with colon cancer were cultured with VSL#3 medium.
Probiotic administration attenuated development of signs and symptoms of colitis, reduced colonic expression of TNFα, IL-6 and IFNγ and reserved colonic downregulation of PPARγ, PXR and FXR caused by TNBS. Mesenteric fat depots isolated from TNBS-treated animals had increased expression of inflammatory mediators along with PPARγ, FXR, leptin and adiponectin. These changes were prevented by VSL#3. Creeping fat and mesenteric adipose tissue from Crohn's patients showed a differential expression of PPARγ and FXR with both tissue expressing high levels of leptin. Exposure of these tissues to VSL#3 medium abrogates leptin release.
Mesenteric adipose tissue from rodent colitis and Crohn's disease is metabolically active and shows inflammation-driven regulation of PPARγ, FXR and leptin. Probiotics correct the inflammation-driven metabolic dysfunction.
1. Nociceptin, also known as orphanin FQ, is an endogenous ligand for the orphan opioid receptor-like receptor 1 (ORL1) and involves in various functions in the central nervous system (CNS). On the other hand, nocistatin is recently isolated from the same precursor as nociceptin and blocks nociceptin-induced allodynia and hyperalgesia. 2. Although ORL1 receptors which display a high degree of sequence homology with classical opioid receptors are abundant in the hippocampus, little is known regarding their role in learning and memory. 3. The present study was designed to investigate whether nociceptin/orphanin FQ and nocistatin could modulate impairment of learning and memory induced by scopolamine, a muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonist, using spontaneous alternation of Y-maze and step-down type passive avoidance tasks in mice. 4. While nocistatin (0.5-5.0 nmol mouse-1, i.c.v.) administered 30 min before spontaneous alternation performance or the training session of the passive avoidance task, had no effect on spontaneous alternation or passive avoidance behaviours, a lower per cent alternation and shorter median step-down latency in the retention test were obtained in nociceptin (1.5 and/or 5.0 nmol mouse-1, i.c.v.)-treated normal mice. 5. Administration of nocistatin (1.5 and/or 5.0 nmol mouse-1, i.c.v.) 30 min before spontaneous alternation performance or the training session of the passive avoidance task, attenuated the scopolamine-induced impairment of spontaneous alternation and passive avoidance behaviours. 6. These results indicated that nocistatin, a new biologically active peptide, ameliorates impairments of spontaneous alternation and passive avoidance induced by scopolamine, and suggested that these peptides play opposite roles in learning and memory.
Although erythromycin frequently induces long QT interval and torsade de pointes, the newer drug, azithromycin, has rarely been reported to be associated with torsade de pointes. We report here the occurrence of a significant typical QT prolongation within a few hours after taking azithromycin which lead to torsade de pointes.
In the present study we tested the efficacy of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) to minimize nephrotoxic effects of iodine contrast agents in intact rats as well as in 5/6-nephrectomized (5/6-Nx) rats.
Rats were allocated to a group of intact rats (n = 42) and a group of 5/6-Nx rats (n = 42). After 1 month of recovery from surgery, 5/6-Nx rats and intact (sham-operated) animals received either 6 ml/kg body weight (b.w.) meglumine ioxithalamate (Telebrix 350) or 6 ml/kg b.w. iohexol (Omnipaque 350) intravenously with or without pretreatment with 100 mg/kg b.w. NAC. Plasma and urinary concentrations of creatinine, sodium and protein in 24-hour urine collections were determined prior to and on days 1, 3 and 7 after drug administration.
In intact animals, contrast agents caused no significant changes in kidney function throughout the duration of the experiment. In contrast, significant increases in plasma creatinine levels and decreases in creatinine clearance were induced by both contrast agents in 5/6-Nx rats. These changes were significantly attenuated by NAC pretreatment.
The results of the present study demonstrate that iodine contrast agent-induced nephropathy in 5/6-Nx rats is significantly attenuated by intravenous pretreatment with NAC.
