Adverse maternal environments can lead to increased fetal exposure to maternal cortisol, which can cause infant neurobehavioral deficits. The placenta regulates fetal cortisol exposure and response, and placental DNA methylation can influence this function. FK506 binding protein (FKBP5) is a negative regulator of cortisol response, FKBP5 methylation has been linked to brain morphology and mental disorder risk, and genetic variation of FKBP5 was associated with post-traumatic stress disorder in adults. We hypothesized that placental FKBP5 methylation and genetic variation contribute to gene expression control, and are associated with infant neurodevelopmental outcomes assessed using the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) Network Neurobehavioral Scales (NNNS). In 509 infants enrolled in the Rhode Island Child Health Study, placental FKBP5 methylation was measured at intron 7 using quantitative bisulfite pyrosequencing. Placental FKBP5 mRNA was measured in a subset of 61 infants by quantitative PCR, and the SNP rs1360780 was genotyped using a quantitative allelic discrimination assay. Relationships between methylation, expression and NNNS scores were examined using linear models adjusted for confounding variables, then logistic models were created to determine the influence of methylation on membership in high risk groups of infants. FKBP5 methylation was negatively associated with expression (P = 0.08, r = -0.22); infants with the TT genotype had higher expression than individuals with CC and CT genotypes (P = 0.06), and those with CC genotype displayed a negative relationship between methylation and expression (P = 0.06, r = -0.43). Infants in the highest quartile of FKBP5 methylation had increased risk of NNNS high arousal compared to infants in the lowest quartile (OR 2.22, CI 1.07-4.61). TT genotype infants had increased odds of high NNNS stress abstinence (OR 1.98, CI 0.92-4.26). Placental FKBP5 methylation reduces expression in a genotype specific fashion, and genetic variation supersedes this effect. These genetic and epigenetic differences in expression may alter the placenta's ability to modulate cortisol response and exposure, leading to altered neurobehavioral outcomes.
Chlorpyrifos is a commonly used insecticide that can be metabolically activated by CYP2B to the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor chlorpyrifos-oxon causing cholinergic overstimulation and neurotoxicity. Rat brain extracts can also activate chlorpyrifos in vitro, and the lack of circulating oxon in serum suggests that metabolic activation within the brain may be responsible for chlorpyrifos neurotoxicity. Rats received intracerebroventricular (ICV) injections of CYP2B mechanism-based inhibitors (MBI), once or repeatedly, followed by chlorpyrifos (62.5-250 mg/kg sc). Rats were assessed for neurochemical (acetylcholinesterase activity), physiological (temperature), and behavioral measures (e.g., gait, righting reflex, arousal, incline angles) at 4 hours 3 days after chlorpyrifos treatment. ICV CYP2B MBIs increased brain chlorpyrifos levels, decreased brain chlorpyrifos-oxon levels, and attenuated the reduction in brain acetylcholinesterase; there was no effect on serum chlorpyrifos levels or acetylcholinesterase activity reduction. Inhibition of brain chlorpyrifos metabolism by CYP2B MBIs blocked centrally mediated hypothermia but not peripherally mediated hyperthermia. A single ICV MBI treatment significantly attenuated chlorpyrifos neurotoxicity mediated behavioral outcomes at 1 day after chlorpyrifos treatment with a gradual worsening of behavioral scores through day 3, suggesting a recovery of brain CYP2B activity and an increase in local chlorpyrifos activation. Daily ICV MBI injections attenuated neurotoxicity across all test days consistent with prolonged inhibition of brain chlorpyrifos activation. Thus, rat brain CYP2B contributes significantly to chlorpyrifos's neurotoxic effects. Variable human brain CYP2B levels, influenced by genetics and environmental exposures, may contribute to interindividual differences in neurotoxicity. Therapeutic inhibition of brain CYP2B could also be explored as a treatment for exposure to CYP2B-activated neurotoxins.
Overweight and obesity are major factors contributing to the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) and cardiovascular disease (CVD). In addition to the many physical and metabolic consequences of obesity, there are also mental health consequences, in particular, the risk for depression. Depression can lead to poor self-care, poor treatment compliance, and possible increased morbidity and mortality from such illnesses as type 2 DM and CVD. Lifestyle modification for the treatment of overweight and obesity is rarely successful over the long term, and use of surgery is limited by eligibility criteria; therefore, researchers and clinicians continue to explore pharmacotherapy, with intense efforts being directed toward the development of agents that, optimally, will reduce weight and simultaneously reduce or eliminate modifiable cardiovascular and metabolic risk factors. Among the promising new agents are the CB(1) receptor antagonists. These agents target receptors of the endocannabinoid system, a neuromodulatory system recently found to influence energy balance, eating behavior, and metabolic homeostasis via central and peripheral mechanisms. In animal and clinical studies, antagonism of CB(1) receptors has resulted in meaningful weight loss and improvement of lipid and glycemic profiles. Thus, these agents may provide a rational and effective approach for the management of not only overweight and obesity but also their metabolic and cardiovascular sequelae.
Mucocutaneous leishmaniasis (MCL) is an important health problem in many rural areas of Latin America, but there are few data on the results of programmatic approaches to control the disease. We report the results of a control programme in San Martin de Pangoa District, which reports one of the highest prevalences of MCL in Peru. For 2 years (2001--2002), the technicians at the health post were trained in patient case management, received medical support and were supplied with antimonials. An evaluation after 2 years showed the following main achievements: better diagnosis of patients, who were confirmed by microscopy in 34% (82/240) of the cases in 2001 and 60% of the cases (153/254) in 2002; improved follow-up during treatment: 237 of 263 (90%) patients who initiated an antimonial therapy ended the full treatment course; improved follow-up after treatment: 143 of 237 (60%) patients who ended their full treatment were correctly monitored during the required period of 6 (cutaneous cases) or 12 (mucosal cases) months after the end of treatment. These achievements were largely due to the human and logistical resources made available, the constant availability of medications and the close collaboration between the Ministry of Health, a national research institute and an international non-governmental organization. At the end of this period, the health authorities decided to register a generic brand of sodium stibogluconate, which is now in use. This should allow the treatment of a significant number of additional patients, while saving money to invest in other facets of the case management.
Intranasal exposure to the heavy metal cadmium has been linked to olfactory dysfunction and neurotoxicity. Here, we combine optical imaging of in vivo neurophysiology, genetically defined anatomical tract tracing, mass spectrometry, and behavioral psychophysical methods to evaluate the persistent harmful effects of acute intranasal exposure to cadmium in a mouse model and to investigate the functional consequences of sensory rehabilitation training. We find that an acute intranasal instillation of cadmium chloride leads to an accumulation of cadmium in the brain's olfactory bulb that persists for at least 4 weeks. This is accompanied by persistent severe pathophysiology of the olfactory nerve, a gradual reduction in axonal projections from the olfactory epithelium, and complete impairment on an olfactory detection task. Remarkably, 2 weeks of odorant-guided operant conditioning training proved sufficient to restore olfactory detection performance to control levels in cadmium-exposed mice. Optical imaging from rehabilitated mice showed that this training did not cause any detectable restoration of olfactory nerve function, suggesting that the recovery of function was mediated by central neuroplasticity in which the brain learned to interpret the degraded sensory input. These data demonstrate that sensory learning can mask even severe damage from neurotoxicants and suggest that explicit sensory training may be useful in rehabilitation of olfactory dysfunction.
Children with neuroblastoma receiving high-dose carboplatin as part of their conditioning regimen for autologous marrow transplantation have a high incidence of speech frequency hearing loss. We evaluated hearing loss in 11 children with advanced stage neuroblastoma who underwent autologous marrow transplantation, following a conditioning regimen containing high-dose carboplatin (2g/m2, total dose). Audiometric evaluations were obtained at diagnosis, prior to and following transplant. Exposure to other known ototoxins also was assessed. All patients sustained worsening of hearing following high-dose carboplatin. Nine of the 11 children (82%) had evidence of speech frequency hearing loss post transplant for which hearing aids were recommended (grades 3-4). Three of the nine children had speech frequency loss prior to transplant which progressed following transplant. The entire group was heavily pre-treated with platinum-containing chemotherapy pre-BMT and had extensive exposure to other ototoxins, including aminoglycoside antibiotics, diuretics, and noise exposure - all of which could have exacerbated the effects of carboplatin. High-dose carboplatin is ototoxic, particularly in patients who have been primed with previous platinum therapy or other ototoxic agents. We conclude that further efforts are needed to monitor and minimize this complication. In cases where hearing loss is inevitable due to cumulative ototoxic exposures, families need to be adequately prepared for the tradeoffs of potentially curable therapy.
The potential modulation of TRPV1 nociceptive activity by the CB(1) receptor was investigated here using CB(1) wild-type (WT) and knock-out (KO) mice as well as selective CB(1) inverse agonists. No significant differences were detected in baseline thermal thresholds of ICR, CB(1)WT or CB(1)KO mice. Intraplantar capsaicin produced dose- and time-related paw flinch responses in ICR and CB(1)WT mice and induced plasma extravasation yet minimal responses were seen in CB(1)KO animals with no apparent differences in TRPV1 channel expression. Capsaicin-evoked CGRP release from spinal cord tissue and capsaicin-evoked action potentials on isolated skin-nerve preparation were significantly decreased in CB(1)KO mice. Pretreatment with intraplantar galanin and bradykinin, compounds known to sensitize TRPV1 receptors, restored capsaicin-induced flinching in CB(1)KO mice. The possibility that constitutive activity at the CB(1) receptor is required to maintain the TRPV1 receptor in a "sensitized" state was tested using CB(1) inverse agonists. The CB(1) inverse agonists elicited concentration-related inhibition of capsaicin-induced calcium influx in F-11 cells and produced dose-related inhibition of capsaicin-induced flinching in ICR mice. These data suggest that constitutive activity at the CB(1) receptor maintains the TRPV1 channel in a sensitized state responsive to noxious chemical stimuli. Treatment with CB(1) inverse agonists may promote desensitization of the channel resulting in antinociceptive actions against chemical stimulus modalities. These studies propose possible therapeutic exploitation of a novel mechanism providing pain relief by CB(1) inverse agonists.
The opioid mu receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine (beta-FNA) blocked the development of physical dependence in rats when infused simultaneously with morphine for 6 days. In addition, beta-FNA given s.c. 24 h prior to the initiation and on day 3 of a 6 day period of morphine infusion in rats reduced the development of physical dependence in a dose-dependent manner. In morphine-dependent rhesus monkeys, beta-FNA precipitated a prompt and long-lasting withdrawal, which was not reversed within 30 h by subsequent injections of morphine. In contrast, naloxone-induced withdrawal lasted approximately 90 min. These results provide further evidence that beta-FNA is a long-acting antagonist of the opioid mu receptor, and that this receptor has a major role in the development of morphine-induced physical dependence.
Although labetalol is sometimes given to patients with cocaine-associated chest pain, its influence on cocaine-induced coronary vasoconstriction is unknown.
In 15 patients (7 men, 8 women, aged 40 to 79 years) undergoing catheterization for chest pain, heart rate, mean arterial pressure, and coronary arterial area (by computer-assisted quantitative angiography) were measured (1) at baseline, (2) 15 minutes after intranasal cocaine, 2 mg/kg, then (3) 5 minutes after intravenous saline (n = 6) or labetalol, 0.25 mg/kg (n = 9).
Of 40 coronary arterial segments analyzed, cocaine induced a 13% +/- 10% (mean +/- standard deviation) decrease in coronary arterial area in 32. Subsequently, no variable changed after saline administration. Although labetalol reduced mean arterial pressure (117 +/- 14 mm Hg after cocaine, 110 +/- 11 mm Hg after labetalol; p < 0.05), it induced no change in the coronary arterial area (3.47 +/- 1.37 mm2 after cocaine, 3.37 +/- 1.32 mm2 after labetalol; p = NS).
Labetalol reverses the cocaine-induced rise in mean arterial pressure, but does not alleviate cocaine-induced coronary vasoconstriction.
Foscarnet is a pyrophosphate analogue that has been successfully used in severe cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections. Little is known of the incidence and mechanisms of foscarnet-induced nephrotoxicity as most data comes from recipients of renal allografts or from patients with severe underlying disease or with other nephrotoxic drugs. We have retrospectively analyzed the evolution of renal function after 56 courses of foscarnet. In addition, we have prospectively studied the protective effects of hydration on foscarnet nephrotoxicity (2.5 liters of saline/day during the night before the foscarnet therapy and throughout the course of treatment). Foscarnet-induced acute renal failure was defined as a rise in serum creatinine of at least 25% from the basal value. An increase in serum creatinine occurred in 37 cases out of the 56 courses of foscarnet (66%). The mean serum creatinine prior to foscarnet was 80.5 +/- 3.3 mumol/l and the mean increase was 190 +/- 28.3 mumol/l (range 80-1,000). Peak serum creatinine was higher than 200 and 300 mumol/l in 16 and 13 patients, respectively. Kidney obtained at autopsy from a 30-year-old male with AIDS, CMV pneumonitis and acute renal failure secondary to foscarnet administration showed an extensive tubular necrosis. In the group which was prospectively hydrated only 1 patient had an acute renal failure. The mean serum creatinine at the peak (96 +/- 4 mumol/l) and at the end of the treatment (83 +/- 4 mumol/l) was significantly lower (p less than 0.05) than in non hydrated patients. In conclusion, foscarnet is a highly nephrotoxic drug which induces acute tubular necrosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The central and peripheral adrenergic systems are involved in the regulation of gastric secretion but little is known about the role of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors in gastroprotection. In this study, acute gastric lesions were produced by an intragastric (i.g.) application of 100% ethanol and gastric blood flow (GBF) was determined by H2-gas clearance technique in rats with or without i.g. or intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of alpha- or beta-adrenoceptor agonists or antagonists. Phenylephrine, alpha1-adrenergic agonist, and clonidine, alpha2-agonist, significantly augmented the ethanol-induced lesions while decreasing the GBF and these effects were reversed by the blockade of alpha1-adrenoceptors with prazosin and alpha2-adrenoceptors with yohimbine. In contrast, isoproterenol (ISO) (0.01-10 mg/kg i.g.), beta-adrenoceptor agonist, reduced dose-dependently ethanol-induced mucosal injury and this effect was accompanied by an elevation of the GBF similarly as after epidermal growth factor (EGF) (100 microg/kg x h s.c.) or after classic protective agent, 16,16-dimethyl-PGE2 (PGE2) (10 microg/kg i.g.). The pretreatment with beta-antagonist, propranolol, diminished the protective and hyperemic effects of ISO and EGF but failed to affect those induced by PGE2. Suppression of nitric oxide (NO) synthase activity by L-NAME or sensory denervation with capsaicin attenuated significantly the ISO- and EGF-induced gastroprotection and elevation of GBF, whereas the inhibition of PG biosynthesis by indomethacin remained without any significant effect. Adrenal medullectomy or chemical sympathectomy by 6-hydroxydopamine by itself failed to influence significantly the ethanol-induced damage but completely abolished the protective and hyperemic effects of EGF being without any influence on those induced by PGE2. ISO combined with EGF, restored the protective and hyperemic effects of this peptide in medullectomized rats. We conclude that (1) local activation of beta-adrenoceptors by ISO affords protection and elevation of GBF, both these effects being mediated by arginine-NO pathway and sensory nerves and (2) sympathetic system and adrenal medulla contribute to the protective and hyperemic activity of EGF.
Heme oxygenase (HO)-1 is a protective antioxidant enzyme that prevents cardiomyocyte apoptosis, for instance, during progressive cardiomyopathy. Here we identify a fundamental aspect of the HO-1 protection mechanism by demonstrating that HO-1 activity in mouse heart stimulates the bigenomic mitochondrial biogenesis program via induction of NF-E2-related factor (Nrf)2 gene expression and nuclear translocation. Nrf2 upregulates the mRNA, protein, and activity for HO-1 as well as mRNA and protein for nuclear respiratory factor (NRF)-1. Mechanistically, in cardiomyocytes, endogenous carbon monoxide (CO) generated by HO-1 overexpression stimulates superoxide dismutase-2 upregulation and mitochondrial H(2)O(2) production, which activates Akt/PKB. Akt deactivates glycogen synthase kinase-3beta, which permits Nrf2 nuclear translocation and occupancy of 4 antioxidant response elements (AREs) in the NRF-1 promoter. The ensuing accumulation of nuclear NRF-1 protein leads to gene activation for mitochondrial biogenesis, which opposes apoptosis and necrosis caused by the cardio-toxic anthracycline chemotherapeutic agent, doxorubicin. In cardiac cells, Akt silencing exacerbates doxorubicin-induced apoptosis, and in vivo CO rescues wild-type but not Akt1(-/-) mice from doxorubicin cardiomyopathy. These findings consign HO-1/CO signaling through Nrf2 and Akt to the myocardial transcriptional program for mitochondrial biogenesis, provide a rationale for targeted mitochondrial CO therapy, and connect cardiac mitochondrial volume expansion with the inducible network of xenobiotic and antioxidant cellular defenses.
Previous published experiments reported that in vitro exposure of postimplantation rat embryos to the triazole fungicide triadimefon (FON) resulted in specific abnormalities at the branchial apparatus and that the sensitive period is restricted to the first 24 hr of culture and is associated with the abnormal expression of TGF family genes (some of a large panel of genes regulated by retinoic acid (RA) and involved in branchial arch morphogenesis). The aim of this study is the determination of the sensitive window to FON-induced abnormalities during in vitro development and the evaluation of the expression of some genes controlled by RA and involved in early branchial arch morphogenesis (Gsc, Msx1, Msx2, Dlx1, Dlx2, Shh, Patched (the main Shh receptor)).
Rat embryos were exposed in vitro to the FON under condition known to be able to induce 100% of abnormal embryos (250  µM) at different stages and examined after 48 hr of culture. The sensitive window for FON-induced abnormalities was during the hours E9 h8.00 PM-E10 h8.00 AM. To evaluate the expression of selected genes, embryos exposed during the sensitive stages were processed to perform quantitative PCR after 18 and 24 hr of culture.
FON was able to affect the expression of some genes in a stage-specific manner: earlier embryos were characterized by the downregulation of Msx2 and Gsc, later embryos showed the downregulation of Gsc, Shh, and Patched. The obtained data suggest that FON-induced abnormalities are mediated, at least in part, through the imbalance of the expression of RA-related signals.
Four cardiac ischaemic events are reported during and after prolonged anaesthesia with desflurane.
We have evaluated desflurane in 21 consecutive patients undergoing advanced head and neck reconstructive surgery. Four deaths occurred which were associated with cardiac ischaemic syndromes either during or immediately after operation. All patients in the study received a similar anaesthetic. This comprised induction with propofol and maintenance with alfentanil and desflurane in oxygen-enriched air. Inotropic support (either dopamine or dobutamine in low dose, 5 micrograms.kg.min-1) was provided as part of the anaesthetic technique in all patients. Critical cardiovascular incidents were observed in each of the four patients during surgery. These were either sudden bradycardia or tachycardia associated with ST-segment electrocardiographic changes. The four patients who died had a documented past history of coronary heart disease and were classified American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) II or III. One patient (#2) did not survive anaesthesia and surgery and the three others died on the first, second and twelfth postoperative days. Enzyme increases (CK/CK-MB) were available in three patients and confirmed myocardial ischaemia.
These cases represent an unexpected increase in the immediate postoperative mortality for these types of patients and this anaesthetic sequence.
Adult offspring aged 52-104 weeks, from male Sprague-Dawley rats treated chronically with cyclophosphamide (CP) were examined for tumours and gross abnormalities. Litter size at birth and at weaning was found to be greatly reduced as a result of paternal CP treatment. No unusual abnormalities were found at post-mortem examination but there was an increase in the incidence of hydronephrosis in offspring from CP-treated males compared with offspring from control males. This increase could have been indirectly caused by CP-treatment through reduced litter size. Histological examination of 26 tumours showed a variety of tumour types in the offspring of CP-treated and control males. Two of the four uterine tumours in offspring from CP-treated males were examined histologically; one was a sarcoma and the other an adenocarcinoma. Although no uterine tumours were found in offspring from control males, it is not clear whether this difference in frequency was treatment-related. The most common tumour site in female offspring from both CP-treated and control males was the mammary gland, and all six of these tumours which were examined histologically were adenofibromas. Abnormal karyotypes were observed in 2 out of 21 offspring showing abnormalities from CP-treated males and none out of 2 offspring with abnormalities from control males. These were not associated with tumours. It was concluded from this limited study that there was no clear evidence of increased tumour incidence in the offspring from CP-treated males. There was an indication that abnormal karyotypes may have been caused by the paternal CP treatment and these abnormalities persisted into adulthood.
To present the case of a patient with Graves' hyperthyroidism in whom treatment with methimazole led to severe cholestasis.
A detailed case report and an overview of previously published cases of methimazole- and carbimazole-induced hepatotoxicity, found in a MEDLINE search with use of methimazole, carbimazole, thionamides and antithyroid agents as subject headings, are provided.
In a 36-year-old woman with severe hyperthyroidism, treatment with methimazole (20 mg twice daily) was initiated. Nineteen days later, pruritus, scleral icterus, dark urine, and abdominal discomfort prompted discontinuation of the therapy. Laboratory investigations and abdominal ultrasonography showed findings consistent with a cholestatic reaction to methimazole. Recovery was slow but complete. Of the 30 previously published cases of hepatotoxicity related to treatment with methimazole or carbimazole in which the nature of the hepatic injury was described, 19 were also cholestatic.
Physicians should be aware that thionamide drugs can be associated with hepatotoxicity. Analysis of the known cases suggests that older age of the patient and higher dose of the drug are risk factors for cholestatic injury.
Arsenic is a well established human carcinogen and is associated with a variety of cancers including those of the skin. Paradoxically, arsenic has also been used, amid at low doses, in the treatment of leukemia for over a century. Here we demonstrate that low to moderate concentrations of arsenite (2-10 microm) that has little or no effect on normal melanocytes may induce apoptosis of human melanomas including highly metastatic ones despite their low surface Fas levels. The two prerequisites that dictate apoptotic response of melanomas upon arsenite treatment are low nuclear NF-kappaB activity and an endogenous expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha. Under these conditions, melanoma cells acquired sensitivity to tumor necrosis factor alpha-mediated killing. On the other hand, signaling pathways including those of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-AKT, MEK-ERK, and JNK play a protective role against arsenite-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis in melanoma cells. Suppression of these pathways dramatically accelerates arsenite-induced apoptosis. Taken together, these data could provide potential approaches to sensitize melanomas to the cytotoxic effects of arsenite through modulating the signaling pathways.
p-Aminophenol (pAP, 225 mg/kg) administration to rats induced renal failure and has been associated with markers of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, as well as calpain and caspase-12 activation in kidneys. To determine the importance of ER stress and calpain during pAP-induced nephrotoxicity, rats were pretreated with low, nontoxic, doses of ER stress inducers or with the selective calpain inhibitor PD150606 (3 mg/kg). Prior ER stress induced by tunicamycin and oxidized dithiothreitol did not result in protection against renal failure, but PD150606 administration was protective and decreased significantly the rise in creatinine and blood urea nitrogen observed after 24-h post-pAP administration. pAP-induced XBP1 upregulation was not modified by calpain inhibition, but a trend to lower GRP94 induction was determined, suggesting that pAP-induced ER stress was mostly calpain independent. In contrast, pAP-induced caspase-12 cleavage products were significantly decreased with PD150606 pretreatment, demonstrating that caspase-12 activation was calpain dependent. This study reveals the importance of calpain in pAP-induced renal failure. Further research with other nephrotoxicants needs to be performed to determine if calpain activation is a common feature of drug-induced renal failure.
Polyamine levels are greatly increased in alveolar macrophages (AMs) during Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP), leading to increased production of H(2)O(2), which causes AMs to undergo apoptosis. One of the mechanisms by which polyamine levels in AMs are elevated is enhanced uptake of exogenous polyamines. In this study, the possibility of targeting polyamine uptake as a treatment for PCP was examined. Four anthracene- and one benzene-polyamine conjugates that are potential polyamine transport inhibitors, including N1-anthracen-9-ylmethyl-butane-1,4-diamine; N-(4-aminobutyl)-N-anthracen-9-ylmethylbutane-1,4-diamine; N-[4-(4-aminobutylamino)butyl]-N-anthracen-9-ylmethylbutane-1,4-diamine; N-(4-amino-butyl)-N'-(10-[[4-(4-amino-butylamino)butylamino]-methyl]anthracen-9-ylmethyl)butane-1,4-diamine (44-Ant-44); and benzene-polyamine conjugate N-(4-amino-butyl)-N'-(4-[[4-(4-amino-butylamino)butylamino]-methyl]benzyl)butane-1,4-diamine (44-Bn-44), were tested. Compounds 44-Ant-44 and 44-Bn-44 were found to have a very low toxicity to AMs in vitro and were evaluated for their therapeutic effect on PCP in vivo. Sprague-Dawley rats infected with P. carinii for 28 days were intranasally instilled with 50 microl of a 1 mM solution of 44-Bn-44 or 44-Ant-44 every 2 days. Twenty-one days after initiation of the treatment, three to five rats from each group were sacrificed and examined for lung pathology, organism burden, and apoptosis of AMs. Both 44-Bn-44 and 44-Ant-44 reduced organism burdens; however, only 44-Ant-44 decreased the severity of the infection with reduced lung inflammation, increased clearance of exudates, increased air space, and decreased apoptosis of AMs. 44-Ant-44 also significantly prolonged the survival of treated animals. These results suggest that polyamine uptake is a potential target for treatment of PCP.
High-dose cytosine arabinoside may benefit patients with refractory acute leukemia. Peripheral nervous system disturbances caused by cytosine arabinoside have rarely been reported. We describe a patient with acute leukemia who developed Horner's syndrome and a severe demyelinating peripheral neuropathy leading to death after receiving high-dose cytosine arabinoside. Peripheral nerve dysfunction is a potentially serious complication of high-dose cytosine arabinoside.
This study investigated alleviation of streptomycin-induced vestibulotoxicity by edaravone in guinea pigs. Edaravone, a free radical scavenger, has potent free radical quenching action and is used in clinical practice to treat cerebral infarction. Streptomycin was administered to the inner ear by osmotic pump for 24 h, and edaravone (n=8) or saline (n=6) was intraperitoneally injected once a day for 7 days. We observed horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex as a marker of postoperative vestibular function. Animals injected with saline showed statistically smaller gains than those injected with edaravone. These results suggest that edaravone suppresses streptomycin-induced vestibulotoxicity.
In tests on mice, tetraethylammonium chloride (TEAC) was superior to atropine sulfate as an antidote for some carbamate insecticides and nicotine; it did not produce the traumatic and sometimes fatal reactions caused by atropine sulfate, although injections of the two antidotes provided equal protection against lethal oral doses of the carbamates Zectran, NIA-10242, and Lannate. The effects of TEAC were not evaluated against the carbamates Sevin and Baygon because acute oral toxicity values could not be determined. Results with Matacil were inconclusive. Tetraethylammonium chloride was not an effective antidote against the organophosphate Parathion, but its use fully eliminates the effects of nicotine intoxication.
Both the systemic release of inflammatory mediators and activation of the neuroendocrine axis by sensory afferent nerves (SANs) have been implicated as initiators of the metabolic response to infection. In this study, we investigate the role of SANs as mediators of protein catabolism and the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) axis during abdominal sepsis using capsaicin (Cap) to selectively destroy nociceptive sensory axons.
Four groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats were studied: Control, Control+Cap, Sepsis, and Sepsis+Cap. Rats were injected with Cap (75 mg/kg) on day 1 and (50 mg/kg) on day 2 to destroy SANs. Time-matched control and septic rats were pair-fed and injected with vehicle on the same schedule. Controls underwent sham laparotomy, while septic rats had a fecal-agar pellet inoculated with Escherichia coli and Bacteroides fragilis implanted in the peritoneal cavity. Blood and tissues were harvested 5 days after the induction of sepsis. Plasma IGF-I, IGFBP-1, and -3 were measured by radioimmunoassay and Western blot analysis. IGF-I, acid-labile subunit (ALS), IGFBP-1 and -3 mRNA levels were determined by Northern blot analysis.
Mortality was 40% in septic rats vs 0% in the sepsis+Cap group. Capsaicin had no effect on muscle mass, protein content, or the IGF system in control rats. However, sepsis-induced reductions in gastrocnemius mass (25%) and protein content (35%) were ameliorated by capsaicin. The sepsis-induced decrease in hepatic IGF-I mRNA and circulating IGF-I (26%), as well as the 4-fold increase in plasma IGFBP-1 and hepatic IGFBP-1 mRNA were prevented by capsaicin.
Capsaicin-sensitive nerves mediate mortality, the catabolism of skeletal muscle, and selected elements of the IGF system during abdominal sepsis. The results suggest an important role for nociceptive SANs and the neuroendocrine system in mediating the host response to abdominal infection.
Inorganic arsenic is a major environmental contaminant associated with an increased risk of human skin cancer. Arsenic modulates cellular signaling pathways that affect diverse processes such as cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis, including genotoxic damage. The p53 protein plays a central role in mediating stress and DNA damage responses, leading to either growth arrest or apoptosis. Several signal transduction pathways activated under a plethora of stressing conditions increase p53 protein levels. To further understand the molecular mechanisms involved in the arsenic mode of action, we explored the effects of this metalloid on the activation of the phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Ca2+/diacylglicerol dependent protein kinase/protein kinase B (PKB) signaling cascade and its repercussion in p53 activation in two epithelial cell types: primary normal human keratinocytes cultures (NHK) and the carcinoma-derived C33-A cell line. Although in both cell systems arsenic leads to an increase in p53 and its binding to DNA, the final outcome is different. In NHK, arsenic triggers a sustained activation of the PI3K/PKB/glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta pathway, driving the cell into a cell-differentiated stage in which the proliferation signals are turned down. In sharp contrast, in C33-A cells, arsenic leads to a transient increase in p53 followed by a drastic reduction in its nuclear levels and an increase in cell proliferation. These findings favor the notion that p53-stage and transcriptional abilities are important to understand modifications in the proliferation-differentiation balance, an equilibrium that is severely impaired by arsenic.
Use of the chemotherapeutic agent doxorubicin (Dox) is limited by dose-dependent cardiotoxic effects. The molecular mechanism underlying these toxicities are incompletely understood, but previous results have demonstrated that Dox induces p53 expression. Because p53 is an important regulator of the cell birth and death we hypothesized that targeted disruption of the p53 gene would attenuate Dox-induced cardiotoxicity. To test this, female 6-8 wk old C57BL wild-type (WT) or p53 knockout (p53 KO) mice were randomized to either saline or Dox 20 mg/kg via intraperitoneal injection. Animals were serially imaged with high-frequency (14 MHz) two-dimensional echocardiography. Measurements of left ventricle (LV) systolic function as assessed by fractional shortening (FS) demonstrated a decline in WT mice as early as 4 days after Dox injection and by 2 wk demonstrated a reduction of 31 +/- 16% (P < 0.05) from the baseline. In contrast, in p53 KO mice, LV FS was unchanged over the 2 wk period following Dox injection. Apoptosis of cardiac myocytes as measured by the TUNEL and ligase reactions were significantly increased at 24 h after Dox treatment in WT mice but not in p53 KO mice. After Dox injection, levels of myocardial glutathione and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase were preserved in p53 KO mice, but not in WT animals. These observations suggest that p53 mediated signals are likely to play a significant role in Dox-induced cardiac toxicity and that they may modulate Dox-induced oxidative stress.
