Twelve adolescents with attention deficit disorder were treated with desipramine in an open trial to assess its efficacy and safety. Eleven patients improved within 1 month, and improvement was sustained for 6-12 months without significant adverse effects in nine patients.
The giant sarcomeric protein titin contains a protein kinase domain (TK) ideally positioned to sense mechanical load. We identified a signaling complex where TK interacts with the zinc-finger protein nbr1 through a mechanically inducible conformation. Nbr1 targets the ubiquitin-associated p62/SQSTM1 to sarcomeres, and p62 in turn interacts with MuRF2, a muscle-specific RING-B-box E3 ligase and ligand of the transactivation domain of the serum response transcription factor (SRF). Nuclear translocation of MuRF2 was induced by mechanical inactivity and caused reduction of nuclear SRF and repression of transcription. A human mutation in the titin protein kinase domain causes hereditary muscle disease by disrupting this pathway.
Adverse reactions involving the central nervous system have been rarely reported with ranitidine, a H2-receptor antagonist. A 72 year old female is described that developed visual hallucinations shortly after initiation of ranitidine therapy. Rechallenge with the drug resulted in both visual and auditory hallucinations following a single dose.
Angio-oedema are often massive but temporary swellings of the soft tissue of the face or the throat, which can also affect other regions of the human body (e.g. the skin or internal organs). An oedema of the face and throat represents a life-threatening situation. Apart from the clinical condition of the patient and detailed knowledge of the medical history (incl. medical applications), the treatment should depend on the different pathogenesis. In this reported case, we describe the severe clinical development of an angio-oedema under a long-term treatment with an ACE-inhibitor, which in the end was only successfully treated with the application of a C1 inhibitor concentrate.
The anti-apoptotic properties of melatonin have been demonstrated previously in several in vivo and in vitro studies. Previous reports have shown increased apoptosis during puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN). The aim of this study was to determine if melatonin (MEL) can prevent apoptosis and modify oxidative stress, an apoptosis inducer, in this experimental model.
Rats were injected intraperitoneally with puromycin aminonucleoside. In addition, by the intragastric route they received 1 mg/kg/day of MEL or vehicle 3 days before puromycin injection and throughout the experiment. Animals were sacrificed at weeks 1 and 2 of nephrosis and frozen renal sections were studied for apoptosis by TUNEL, for apoptosis-associated proteins by monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies, and for superoxide anion (O(2)(-)) by a histochemical method. Nitric oxide (NO), malondialdehyde (MDA) and reduced glutathione (GSH), and the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase were measured in homogenized kidney tissue by appropriate biochemical and enzymatic methods.
Increases in apoptosis, p53, Fas and Fas-ligand were observed in nephrotic animals. MEL treatment decreased apoptosis at weeks 1 and 2 in the glomerular, interstitial and tubular compartments. This was accompanied by decreased expression of p53 (glomerulus, week 1; tubules, weeks 1 and 2), Fas (glomerulus and interstitium, week 2; tubules, weeks 1 and 2) and Fas-ligand (interstitum and tubules, week 2). Increased expression of Bcl-2-positive cells was observed at week 2 in all renal compartments in MEL-treated animals. High levels of O(2)(-) and NO generation and lipid peroxidation (MDA) were found in nephrotic animals. SOD and GSH remained unchanged, and only decreased catalase activity (week 1) was observed in PAN animals. Tendencies toward decreased values of O(2)(-) and MDA content along with recovery of catalase activity (week 1) were observed in MEL-treated nephrotic animals, but were insignificant in magnitude. MEL, however, did significantly downregulate pro-apoptotic genes and upregulated anti-apoptotic genes.
The data demonstrate that, in PAN, melatonin has anti-apoptotic effects, which might in part be independent of the modulation of the oxidative status.
Coronary artery disease is associated with increased serum levels of cholesterol, triglycerides and LDL, but low levels of HDL. The most potent agent capable of reversing this trend is the vitamin nicotinic acid (niacin). However, compliance even with extended-release preparations and addition of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) is hampered by the development of a feeling of erythema and burning ("flush"), especially on the face. We recently showed that the natural flavonoids quercetin and luteolin can eliminate "flush", as well as inhibit both niacin-induced plasma prostaglandin D2 (PGD2) and serotonin increase in an animal model. We conducted a pilot clinical study in humans. Four normal male subjects received (a) 1 g immediate release niacin either alone or after (b) the dietary formulation (Algonot-plus) containing 150 mg quercetin per capsule. Subjects completed a visual scale (1 = no, 5 = worst response) symptom assessment. Erythema and burning sensation scores were both 4.75+/-0.50 and lasted for 3.63+/-1.11 hours. After Algonot-plus administration, both scores were reduced to 2.5+/-0.58 and lasted only for 1.68+/-0.70 hours. Quercetin also inhibited methylnicotinate-induced human mast cell PGD2 release. These preliminary results suggest that quercetin could reduce niacin-induced "flush" in humans.
Five patients in whom deterioration in renal function was associated with the use of the aldosterone antagonist, spironolactone, are reported. Care in the use of this drug is urged, especially in the elderly. Patients with known renal functional impairment should not receive this agent.
Theophylline has been used in the management of bronchial asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease for over 50 years. It has not only a bronchodilating effect, but also an anti-inflammatory one conducive to the inhibition of airway remodeling, including subepithelial fibrosis. To date however, whether theophylline has a direct inhibitory effect on airway fibrosis has not been established. To clarify this question, we examined whether theophylline affected the function of lung fibroblasts. Theophylline suppressed TGF-beta-induced type I collagen (COL1) mRNA expression in lung fibroblasts and also inhibited fibroblast proliferation stimulated by FBS and TGF-beta-induced alpha-SMA protein. A cAMP analog also inhibited TGF-beta-induced COL1 mRNA expression in lung fibroblasts. A PKA inhibitor reduced the inhibitory effect of theophylline on TGF-beta-induced COL1 mRNA expression. These results indicate that theophylline exerts anti-fibrotic effects, at least partly, through the cAMP-PKA pathway.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia/thrombosis (HITP) is thought to be mediated by immunoglobulins that activate platelets in the presence of pharmacologic concentrations of heparin, but the molecular basis for this relatively common and often serious complication of heparin therapy has not been established. We found that plasma from each of 12 patients with HITP contained high titer (> or = 1:200) antibodies that reacted with immobilized complexes of heparin and platelet factor 4 (PF4), a heparin-binding protein contained in platelet alpha-granules. Recombinant human PF4 behaved similarly to PF4 isolated from platelets in this assay system. Complexes formed at an apparent heparin/PF4 molecular ratio of approximately 1:2 (fresh heparin) and approximately 1:12 (outdated heparin) were most effective in binding antibody. Immune complexes consisting of PF4, heparin, and antibody reacted with resting platelets; this interaction was inhibited by a monoclonal antibody specific for the Fc gamma RII receptor and by excess heparin. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells, known to express heparin-like glycosaminoglycan molecules on their surface, were recognized by antibody in the presence of PF4 alone; this reaction was inhibited by excess heparin, but not by anti-Fc gamma RII. Antibodies reactive with heparin/PF4 were not found in normal plasma, but IgG and IgM antibodies were detected at dilutions of 1:10 (IgG) and 1:50 (IgM) in 3 of 50 patients (6%) with other types of immune thrombocytopenia. These findings indicate that antibodies associated with HITP react with PF4 complexed with heparin in solution or with glycosaminoglycan molecules on the surface of endothelial cells and provide the basis for a new hypothesis to explain the development of thrombocytopenia with thrombosis or disseminated intravascular coagulation in patients sensitive to heparin.
The liver fluke, Opisthorchis viverrini, is the risk factor of cholangiocarcinoma, which is a major health problem in northeastern Thailand. Production of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species during the host's response leads to oxidative and nitrosative stress contributing to carcinogenesis. We investigated the protective effect of melatonin against O. viverrini-induced oxidative and nitrosative stress and liver injury. Hamsters were infected with O. viverrini followed by oral administration of various doses of melatonin (5, 10, and 20 mg/kg body weight) for 30 days. Uninfected hamsters served as controls. Compared to the levels in O. viverrini-infected hamsters without melatonin treatment, the indoleamine decreased the formation of oxidative and nitrosative DNA lesions, 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine and 8-nitroguanine, in the nucleus of bile duct epithelium and inflammatory cells, in parallel with a reduction in 3-nitrotyrosine. Melatonin also reduced the expression of heme oxygenase-1 and cytokeratin 19, nitrate/nitrite levels, and bile duct proliferation in the liver. Alanine transaminase activity and the levels of 8-isoprostane and vitamin E were also dose dependently decreased in the plasma of melatonin-treated hamsters. Melatonin reduced the mRNA expression of oxidant-generating genes [inducible nitric oxide synthase, nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB), and cyclooxygenase-2] and proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α and IL-1β), accompanied by an increase in the expression of antioxidant genes [nuclear erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and manganese superoxide dismutase]. Thus, melatonin may be an effective chemopreventive agent against O. viverrini-induced cholangiocarcinoma by reducing oxidative and nitrosative DNA damage via induction of Nrf2 and inhibition of NF-κB-mediated pathways.
Nephrotoxicity is less common than hepatotoxicity in paracetamol overdose but renal tubular damage and acute renal failure occur even in the absence of hepatotoxicity. It is possible that antidotal therapy with agents such as N-acetylcysteine may not prevent renal toxicity and, indeed, on the basis of animal work, may actually potentiate tubular damage. Careful clinical attention should be paid to renal function in patients poisoned with paracetamol.
Groups of 40, 29, 39 and 44 F0 rats of each sex were fed a semi-synthetic diet containing butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) in concentrations to provide intakes of 0, 25, 100 or 500 mg/kg body weight/day, respectively. The F0 rats were mated, and groups of 100, 80, 80 and 100 F1 rats of each sex were formed. After weaning, the highest dose of BHT was lowered to 250 mg/kg/day for the F1 rats. At weaning the BHT-treated F1 rats, especially the males, had lower body weights than the controls and the effect was dose related. The survival of the BHT-treated rats of both sexes was higher than that of the controls. Dose-related increases in the numbers of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were statistically significant in male F1 rats when all groups together were tested for heterogeneity or analysis for trend. The increases in hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas in treated female F1 rats were only statistically significant for adenomas in the analysis for trend. All hepatocellular tumours were detected when the F1 rats were more than 2 years old.
Four patients with ventricular arrhythmias due to sotalol intoxication were successfully treated with overdrive pacing. In three patients the reason for sotalol overdose was a suicidal attempt and in the fourth patient the reason was unknown. In all cases a prolongation of the Q-T interval was seen, which is a typical feature of sotalol overdose. Other features of beta-blocker intoxication like bradycardia were found in all patients and hypotension in two patients. Three of four patients received lidocaine, but with no effect on multiple ventricular premature beats (VPB) or ventricular tachycardia (VT) of "torsade de pointes"-type. Overdrive pacing abolished immediately VPBs and VTs in three patients, and in the fourth patient there was apparent decrease in dysrhythmia. Temporary overdrive pacing is suggested as treatment of ventricular arrhythmias in association with prolonged Q-T interval caused by overdose of sotalol.
Continuous feeding of 0.5 or 0.05% butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) enhances the development of spontaneously occurring liver tumours in C3H mice, but not in BALB/c mice. In mouse lung, the tumour-enhancing effects of BHT vary with the carcinogen used. In the gastro-intestinal tract of mice and rats, BHT enhances the development of dimethylhydrazine-induced tumours, but is without effect on tumours produced by methylnitrosourea. Strain differences, the effect upon various carcinogens, paradoxical dose responses and mechanisms of action remain major questions in the toxicology of BHT.
The pathology lesions from three studies, two with butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) and one with butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), are reviewed. When BHA was fed at 0.5 and 2.0% of the diet to F344 rats for two years, there was an increase in epithelial hyperplasia of the forestomach at both treatment levels. Papilloma and squamous-cell carcinoma of the forestomach were increased at the 2.0% level. When BHA was fed to beagle dogs at 1.0 and 1.3% of the diet for 180 days, no lesions/tumours of the distal oesophagus or stomach could be identified either at gross necropsy or by light or electron microscopy. The BHT was fed to Wistar rats at 0, 25, 100 and 250 mg/kg body weight. At the highest dose there was an increase in the number of rats with hepatocellular adenoma and with hepatocellular carcinoma.
Spinal intrathecal injections of the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory analgesics (NSAIAs) indomethacin and acetylsalicylic acid, which inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, cause dose-dependent hypoalgesia in the rat. Intrathecal injections of prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2) produce dose-dependent hyperalgesia. To determine whether this action of prostaglandins on the central nervous system is mediated through pain-generating or analgesia pathways, we studied the effect of intrathecal PGE2 on endogenous opioid-induced analgesia. Intrathecal PGE2 antagonized the analgesia produced by both brain stimulation and intracerebroventricular morphine. In contrast, the NSAIAs synergized with brain stimulation and morphine-induced analgesia. The alpha-adrenergic antagonist phentolamine and the catecholaminergic selective neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine, used to block tonic catecholamine activity in endogenous opioid-mediated analgesia systems, prevented the hyperalgesia induced by intrathecal PGE2. Phentolamine did not, however, block the hyperalgesia caused by intradermal PGE2. These findings suggest that prostaglandins can block endogenous opioid-mediated analgesia systems by inhibiting the bulbospinal noradrenergic component of this analgesia pathway.
The case of a 28-year-old Jehovah's Witness illustrates the feasibility of using a combined technique of induced hypotension and hemodilution to minimize the surgical loss of red blood cells during the insertion of a Harrington rod. A Swan-Ganz catheter with thermister tip was inserted to measure pulmonary arterial pressure, pulmonary arterial wedge pressure and cardiac output. Other intraoperative monitoring included continuous arterial pressure, electrocardiography, oropharyngeal temperature, esophageal stethoscope, arm-cuff blood pressure and urinary output from an indwelling Foley catheter. A total of 10 L of crystalloid was infused over a 2 1/2-hour period while hypotension was induced by intravenous nitroprusside and enflurane anesthesia. Hematocrit was diluted from 46% to 26% intraoperatively with an estimated surgical blood loss of 2,740 ml. The 24-hour postoperative hematocrit was 30% and recovery was uneventful. This method may be useful in any orthopedic procedure in which heavy blood loss is anticipated and the patient refuses transfusion of blood or blood products. However, the patient must be in good health and have an uncompromised cardiopulmonary system.
Losartan is a novel orally active nonpeptidal antihypertensive agent that specifically blocks the angiotensin II type 1 receptor. This paper compares the short- and long-term safety and tolerability of losartan with those of placebo. Approximately 3800 patients with mild-to-severe essential hypertension were enrolled in 16 double-masked and 4 open clinical trials worldwide. Of these, approximately 2900 were treated with losartan either alone or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs. These trials included patients with diabetes mellitus (n = 133). An additional 5 trials enrolled hypertensive patients with compromised renal function (n = 115) or heart failure (n = 220). Losartan dosages primarily ranged from 10 to 150 mg once daily, with most patients receiving 50 to 100 mg per day. Hypertension trials generally lasted 12 weeks. The most frequently reported adverse events were headache, upper respiratory tract infection, dizziness, and asthenia/fatigue, but only dizziness occurred more frequently (> or = 1%) in the losartan-treated groups. Cough occurred in 3.1% of patients treated with losartan and 2.6% of patients treated with placebo. The overall incidence of clinical and laboratory adverse events in the losartan- and placebo-treated groups was similar among patients with hypertension and either diabetes mellitus, renal impairment, or heart failure. The data suggest that losartan can be safely administered in hypertensive patients with concomitant illnesses. It can be considered for first-line therapy and is suitable as an alternative therapy in patients already experiencing side effects with other agents.
To compare the safety and efficacy of ropinirole and bromocriptine as adjunct therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) not optimally controlled by L-dopa.
A randomised, double-blind trial in which 555 patients were assigned to three treatment groups according to the level of daily dosage of L-dopa, presence of motor fluctuations, and use of dopamine agonist before study entry. Patient response was defined as at least a 20% reduction in daily L-dopa dose plus: for patients with no prior treatment and no motor fluctuations, a 20% reduction in UPDRS motor score; for patients with motor fluctuations, a 20% reduction in time spent "off"; and for patients already taking an agonist, an improvement on the CGI scale.
Safety assessments showed no significant differences in the two treatment groups for patients without prior dopamine-agonist therapy. In the group of patients with prior dopamine-agonist therapy, more patients reported adverse events in the ropinirole group (90% versus 79%, p < 0.001). The proportions of responders tended to be higher in ropinirole groups compared with bromocriptine groups and, in the subgroup with motor fluctuations, this difference was statistically significant (9.1% versus 0.0%, respectively; p < 0.05).
Both drugs were well tolerated. In patients receiving a relatively high dose of L-dopa and requiring the addition of a dopamine agonist to control motor fluctuations or dyskinesias, ropinirole was significantly more effective than bromocriptine.
The transhydroxystilbene resveratrol is found at high levels in red wine and grapes, and red wine consumption may be inversely associated with prostate cancer risk. To gain insights into the possible mechanisms of action of resveratrol in human prostate cancer, we did DNA microarray analysis of the temporal transcriptional program induced by treatment of the human prostate cancer cell line LNCaP with resveratrol.
Spotted DNA microarrays containing over 42,000 elements were used to obtain a global view of the effects of resveratrol on gene expression. Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and androgen receptor (AR) expression were determined by Northern blot and immunoblot analyses. Cell proliferation was determined by the 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazolyl-2)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay and cell cycle analysis by flow cytometry.
We observed time-dependent expression changes in >1,600 transcripts as early as 6 hours after treatment with resveratrol. Most striking was the modulation of a number of important genes in the androgen pathway including PSA and AR. Resveratrol also down-regulated expression of cell cycle and proliferation-specific genes involved in all phases of the cell cycle, induced negative regulators of proliferation, caused accumulation of cells at the sub-G1 and S phases of the cell cycle, and inhibited cell proliferation in a time- and dose-dependent manner.
Resveratrol produces gene expression changes in the androgen axis and cell cycle regulators that may underlie its putative anticancer activities in prostate cancer.
Four patients with acute nonlymphocytic leukemia developed one or more components of the "ara-C syndrome" including fever, peritonitis, pericarditis, and a maculopapular rash during therapy with continuous infusions of low-dose (20 mg/m2/d) cytosine arabinoside (ara-C). These complications, described with standard and high doses of ara-C, have not been previously noted with low-dose regimens.
The efficacy of the oral leukotriene-receptor antagonist zafirlukast was assessed as maintenance therapy for patients with mild-to-moderate asthma. A total of 762 patients aged 12 to 76 years were enrolled in a 13-week, multicenter, double-masked, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial and randomly assigned to receive either zafirlukast (20 mg twice daily) or placebo. Patients were maintained on as-needed beta-agonist therapy throughout the study and had to have a cumulative daytime asthma symptoms score > or = 8 (on a daily scale of 0 to 3) over 7 consecutive days before randomization. Efficacy was assessed by changes in symptoms, beta-agonist use, and pulmonary function. Safety was assessed by adverse experiences, laboratory test results, physical examination, and electrocardiography. Zafirlukast significantly decreased daytime asthma symptoms scores (-26.5%), nighttime awakenings (-19.8%), mornings with asthma (-29.0%), and beta-agonist use (-22.3%) and significantly increased morning peak expiratory flow rate (6.9%) and forced expiratory volume in 1 second (6.3%) compared with placebo. Changes in symptoms, beta-agonist use, and pulmonary function occurred within 2 days of zafirlukast treatment and continued throughout the trial. Zafirlukast was well tolerated. Pharyngitis and headache were the most common adverse events, occurring with similar frequency in both the zafirlukast and placebo groups. No clinically significant changes were observed in laboratory test results, findings on physical examination, or electrocardiographic findings. We conclude that zafirlukast produces early and sustained effects in the treatment of mild-to-moderate asthma.
Neural adaptations in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) are thought to be crucial in the development and maintenance of addictive behaviors. The mPFC receives a dense serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) innervation from raphe nuclei and 5-HT exerts complex actions on mPFC pyramidal neurons. The present study, using a rat model of behavioral sensitization to cocaine, was designed to determine whether repeated cocaine exposure in vivo is capable of altering 5-HT-induced regulation of glutamatergic transmission in the mPFC. In layer V pyramidal neurons of the mPFC, application of 5-HT, through activation of 5-HT(2A) receptors, induced a massive enhancement of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs). Repeated cocaine administration for 5 days resulted in an attenuation in the ability of 5-HT to enhance sEPSCs. This effect was prevented when cocaine was co-administered with the selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist ketanserin and was mimicked by repeated 5-HT(2A) receptor agonist (-)4-iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenylisopropylamine administration. Repeated cocaine administration is not associated with any changes in the levels of 5-HT(2A) receptors or regulator of GTP-binding protein signaling 4. These results suggest that cocaine-induced inhibition of 5-HT(2A) receptor-mediated enhancement of glutamatergic transmission in the mPFC may be caused, at least in part, by the impairment of coupling of 5-HT(2A) receptors with GTP-binding proteins during cocaine withdrawal. These alterations in 5-HT(2A) receptor responsiveness in the mPFC may be relevant to the development of behavioral sensitization and withdrawal effects following repeated cocaine administration.
We sought to evaluate arterial recanalization as measured by changes in the presence of hyperdense artery sign (HAS) on initial and 24-hour computed tomography scans in patients treated with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) or placebo, and to assess the effect of rt-PA on patient outcomes in this population.
Patients in the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA Stroke Trial composed the study group. We determined the percentage of patients with HAS in rt-PA- and placebo-treated groups who had persistence (HAS +/+) or resolution (HAS +/-) of HAS on 24-hour computed tomography, and compared outcomes in those with resolution or persistence of the sign in these treatment groups.
Baseline HAS occurred in 79 of 604 eligible patients (13%). The two treatment groups were similar, although patients treated with rt-PA were significantly older. Of the 79 patients with HAS on baseline computed tomography scan, 14 of 37 (38%) treated with rt-PA had resolution of HAS at 24 hours compared with 7 of 42 (17%) treated with placebo (P = .03). Infarct volumes at 24 hours were significantly smaller in patients treated with rt-PA with resolution of the sign, compared with those who had persistence of the sign (P = .004). In our analysis, functional outcomes were not significantly improved based on resolution of HAS in either treatment group. There were 4 symptomatic ICHs in the rt-PA-treated group with HAS as compared with two in the placebo-treated group.
Among patients with HAS at baseline in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial, intravenous rt-PA increased recanalization as measured by resolution of HAS and reduced infarct volumes at 24 hours.
The bronchodilating properties and side effects of theophylline and a beta 2-adrenoceptor stimulating drug (terbutaline) alone and in combination were studied in 10 adult asthmatic patients. Initially, each individual's pharmacokinetic parameters for theophylline were determined. On 3 separate days theophylline was infused to defined steady-state concentrations (0, 7.5, and 15 microgram/ml, respectively) followed by the administration, at 1-h intervals, of incremental i.v. doses of terbutaline. It was shown that: 1. Theophylline caused a concentration-dependent increase in FEV1. Theophylline itself had no significant effect on objectively recorded skeletal muscle tremor or heart rate but enhanced the terbutaline-induced increase in tremor and heart rate. At the highest concentration (15 microgram/ml) two of the patients experienced nausea. 2. Terbutaline caused a concentration-dependent increase in FEV1, heart rate, and tremor. The plasma levels of terbutaline at the given doses did not differ significantly between individuals or within individuals at the different theophylline levels. 3. The combination of theophylline and terbutaline resulted in a mere additive effect on the bronchodilatation. At comparable bronchodilatation the combination of theophylline and terbutaline caused a lesser degree of side effects than each of the drugs alone.
Circulating cardiac troponin T, a marker of cardiomyocyte injury, predicts adverse outcome in patients with heart failure (HF) but is detectable in only a small fraction of those with chronic stable HF. We assessed the prognostic value of circulating cardiac troponin T in patients with stable chronic HF with a traditional (cTnT) and a new precommercial highly sensitive assay (hsTnT).
Plasma troponin T was measured in 4053 patients with chronic HF enrolled in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT). Troponin T was detectable in 10.4% of the population with the cTnT assay (detection limit < or = 0.01 ng/mL) compared with 92.0% with the new hsTnT assay (< or = 0.001 ng/mL). Patients with cTnT elevation or with hsTnT above the median (0.012 ng/mL) had more severe HF and worse outcome. In Cox proportional hazards models adjusting for clinical risk factors, cTnT was associated with death (780 events; hazard ratio=2.08; 95% confidence interval, 1.72 to 2.52; P<0.0001) and first hospitalization for HF (655 events; hazard ratio=1.55; 95% confidence interval, 1.25 to 1.93; P<0.0001). HsTnT was associated with the risk of death in unadjusted analysis for deciles of concentrations and in multivariable models (hazard ratio=1.05; 95% confidence interval, 1.04 to 1.07 for increments of 0.01 ng/mL; P<0.0001). Addition of hsTnT to well-calibrated models adjusted for clinical risk factors, with or without brain natriuretic peptide, significantly improved prognostic discrimination (C-index, P<0.0001 for both outcomes).
In this large population of patients with HF, detectable cTnT predicts adverse outcomes in chronic HF. By the highly sensitive assay, troponin T retains a prognostic value at previously undetectable concentrations.
