Cocaine abuse represents a significant public health problem. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonists may attenuate the behavioral effects of cocaine and may be effective pharmacotherapies for cocaine abuse and dependence.
The aim of this experiment was to determine the combined effects of oral cocaine (0 and 300 mg) and triazolam (0 and 0.5 mg), a GABA(A) modulator, in 10 individuals with recent histories of cocaine use.
Volunteers received each of the four possible drug combinations in mixed order. Drug effects were assessed using a battery of subject-rated drug-effect questionnaires and physiological indices.
Cocaine alone produced prototypical stimulant-like subject-rated drug effects (e.g., increased ratings of High, Like Drug, and Willing to Take Drug Again). Triazolam alone produced sedative-like effects (e.g., increased scores on the Pentobarbital, Chlorpromazine, Alcohol Group [PCAG] scale of the Addiction Research Center Inventory [ARCI]). Triazolam pretreatment did not significantly attenuate the subject-rated effects of cocaine.
While the results of this study do not support the utility of GABA(A) modulators as pharmacotherapies for cocaine abuse, future research should test other benzodiazepines (e.g., alprazolam) using more sophisticated methods (e.g., dose-response curves for the drugs alone and in combination) and behavioral arrangements (e.g., drug discrimination).
We sought to assess the effect of baseline ejection fraction on survival difference between patients with life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias who were treated with an antiarrhythmic drug (AAD) or implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD).
The Antiarrhythmics Versus Implantable Defibrillators (AVID) study demonstrated improved survival in patients with ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia with a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) < or =0.40 or hemodynamic compromise.
Survival differences between AAD-treated and ICD-treated patients entered into the AVID study (patients presenting with sustained ventricular arrhythmia associated with an LVEF < or =0.40 or hemodynamic compromise) were compared at different levels of ejection fraction.
In patients with an LVEF > or =0.35, there was no difference in survival between AAD-treated and ICD-treated patients. A test for interaction was not significant, but had low power to detect an interaction. For patients with an LVEF 0.20 to 0.34, there was a significantly improved survival with ICD as compared with AAD therapy. In the smaller subgroup with an LVEF <0.20, the same magnitude of survival difference was seen as that in the 0.20 to 0.34 LVEF subgroup, but the difference did not reach statistical significance.
These data suggest that patients with relatively well-preserved LVEF (> or =0.35) may not have better survival when treated with the ICD as compared with AADs. At a lower LVEF, the ICD appears to offer improved survival as compared with AADs. Prospective studies with larger patient numbers are needed to assess the effect of relatively well-preserved ejection fraction (> or =0.35) on the relative treatment effect of AADs and the ICDs.
We studied two children with recurrent cancer, who during treatment with ifosfamide developed severe encephalopathy characterized by coma of several days duration. Ifosfamide was used as a single drug without mesna as an uroprotector. A 1-hour infusion of ifosfamide (1.8 g/m2) was given on days one and two of a planned 5-day course. Encephalopathy was associated with severe electroencephalographic abnormalities, e.g. slowing in delta range in one patient and electrographic seizures in another. Both, clinical and electroencephalographic features of encephalopathy were reversible.
Injection of sodium succinate in doses of 5 or 10 mmol/kg (but not 1 mmol/kg) intensified oxygen consumption in rats with sodium thiopental-induced coma. Injection of SDH inhibitor (sodium malonate) inhibited gas exchange and abolished the effect of sodium succinate. The effect of succinate on rat survival was positive, while that of malonate was negative, but manifested only as a trend. The critical role of succinate oxidation in preventing lethal complications of barbiturate-induced coma is proved.
To estimate the net cardiovascular (CV) (coronary heart disease, stroke, congestive heart failure), and gastrointestinal (GI) (peptic ulcer complications) risk-benefit public health impact of the use of celecoxib compared to non-selective NSAIDs in the arthritis population.
We applied discrete event simulation models to data from the US National Health Surveys, CV risk-prediction models from the Framingham Heart Study, and population-based studies. Models took into account the multifactorial effect of risk factors, comorbidity, and competing risk of mortality. We simulated the natural history of CV and GI disease in the U.S. arthritis population over 1 year, through the individual baseline cardiovascular and gastrointestinal risk profile. This model was modified with relative risks associated with the use of each treatment. The mean number of events was estimated for each end-point in each model: natural history, celecoxib, diclofenac, ibuprofen, naproxen. The number of events for celecoxib was compared with each NSAID.
The evaluation included 1% of the U.S. population with arthritis. Celecoxib, when applied to 100 000 patients over 1 year, resulted in 570 (range from sensitivity analysis: 440-691), 226 (124-313), and 746 (612-868) fewer ulcer complications than diclofenac, ibuprofen, and naproxen, respectively. There were 20 (16-25), 8 (4-12), and 27 (22-32) fewer deaths from ulcer complications, respectively. No increase in cardiovascular events or all cause mortality was observed for celecoxib versus the other individual NSAIDs.
Results from these simulations suggest a gastrointestinal benefit for celecoxib not offset by increased cardiovascular events or mortality. The methodology used here provides a risk-benefit assessment framework for evaluating the public heath impact of drugs.
We describe a 71-year-old woman with spontaneous rupture of the left pulmonary artery. She was admitted with pulselessness of her left arm and lack of sensibility in her left arm and leg. Echocardiography and thoracic CT did not confirm aortic dissection. CT only showed hematoma around the descending aorta. She underwent left-sided thoracotomy. Intraoperatively, a rupture of the left pulmonary artery without any evidence of an aneurysm was found. Potentially predisposing factors for this rupture were long-term use of steroids due to COPD and her age.
Liddle's syndrome is an autosomal dominant disease characterized by sodium-sensitive early hypertension and mutations in either the beta- or gamma-subunit of the amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel encoded by SCNN1B and SCNN1G. We sequenced the 381 bp-coding regions in exon 13 of SCNN1B and the 381 bp-coding regions in exon 12 of SCNN1G in 948 and 953 Japanese patients with hypertension, respectively. In the SCNN1B gene, we identified three missense mutations, P592S (n=3), T594M (n=2), and E632K (n=1) in a heterozygous state in addition to four synonymous ones, Ile515 (n=1), Ser520 (n=19), Ser533 (n=1), and Thr594 (n=11). In the SCNN1G gene, we identified three missense mutations, A578V (n=1), P603S (n=1), and L609F (n=1) in a heterozygous state in addition to two synonymous ones, Ile550 (n=1) and Leu649 (n= 91, heterozygous; n=2, homozygous). We did not identify the same mutations previously reported in Liddle's syndrome kindreds. Two of the six hypertensive patients with missense mutation in the SCNN1B gene showed atypical renin and aldosterone levels, though one of them was diagnosed with renovascular hypertension. One patient with T594M in the SCNN1B gene was resistant to hypertension. The roles of these missense mutations in the SCNN1B or SCNN1G gene identified in hypertensive patients are not clear in the pathogenesis of hypertension and the regulation of electrolytes. Thus, further investigation of these mutations, including functional analyses, will be needed.
To compare the safety and effectiveness of morphine and diamorphine for the sedation of ventilated preterm neonates in a double blind, randomised trial.
Eighty eight babies were allocated to receive either morphine (n = 44) or diamorphine (n = 44) by bolus infusion (200 or 120 mcg/kg, respectively, over two hours), followed by maintenance infusion (25 or 15 mcg/kg/h, respectively) during the initial phase of their respiratory disease. Serial monitoring of physiological, behavioural, and biochemical variables over the first 24 hours of the infusions was performed. Longer term outcomes were also monitored.
Morphine, but not diamorphine, was associated with a mean (SEM) decrease in mean arterial blood pressure of 2.2 (1.0) mm Hg (p = 0.05) over the initial loading infusion. Physiological (blood pressure variability) and behavioural measures of sedation (clinical assessment and sedation scoring) indicated that the two drug regimens were equally effective after 24 hours, but the sedative effects of diamorphine were evident more quickly than those of morphine. Both regimens significantly reduced plasma adrenaline concentrations over the first 24 hours of the infusions. No significant differences in mortality, ventilator days, chronic lung disease or intracranial lesions were noted.
Both drug regimens reduce the stress response to ventilation in preterm neonates. However, diamorphine's more rapid onset of sedation and morphine's hypotensive tendency suggest that diamorphine is preferable for the sedation of mechanically ventilated preterm neonates.
We hypothesized that manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), known to be induced in rat mesothelial cells by asbestos fibers, cytokines, and hyperoxia, may also be induced in asbestos-related pleural diseases such as mesothelioma. MnSOD was assessed in healthy human pleural mesothelium (n = 6), in biopsy samples of human pleural mesothelioma (n = 7), in transformed nonmalignant human mesothelial cells (Met5A), and in two human mesothelioma cell lines (M14K and M38K) established from the tumor tissue of mesothelioma patients. There was no MnSOD immunoreactivity in five of the six samples of healthy pleural mesothelium, whereas MnSOD immunoreactivity was high in the tumor cells in all the mesothelioma samples. Northern blotting, immunohistochemistry, Western blotting, and specific activity measurements showed lower MnSOD in the nonmalignant Met5A mesothelial cells than in the M14K and M38K mesothelioma cells. In additional experiments the mesothelial and mesothelioma cells were exposed to menadione, which generates superoxide intracellularly, and to epirubicin, a cytotoxic drug commonly used to treat mesothelioma. The M38K mesothelioma cells were most resistant to menadione and epirubicin when assessed by LDH release or by adenine nucleotide (ATP, ADP, and AMP) depletion. These same cells showed not only the highest MnSOD levels, but also the highest mRNA levels and activities of catalase, whereas glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase levels did not differ significantly. We conclude that MnSOD expression is low in healthy human pleural mesothelium and high in human malignant mesothelioma. The most resistant mesothelioma cells contained coordinated induction of MnSOD and catalase.
Cyclic replacement therapy using estrogen and progesterone was instituted in 28 patients with gonadal dysgenesis and 13 patients with hypopituitarism. When estriol was given at a dose of 2 mg per day, 10 patients (9 gonadal dysgenesis and 1 hypopituitarism) developed hyperreninemia and 3 of the 10 patients (all gonadal dysgenesis) were associated with hypertension. These side effects subsided within 6 months when the therapy was discontinued or the dose of estriol was decreased to 1 mg per day in addition to beta-blocker. Hypercholesterolemia was observed in 8 patients, but not related to high blood pressure. Attention should be paid to plasma renin activity and blood pressure when estrogen and progesterone are given for the development of genitalia in patients with gonadal dysgenesis.
Chronic hypoxia contributes to pulmonary hypertension through complex mechanisms that include enhanced NADPH oxidase expression and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in the lung. Stimulation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) reduces the expression and activity of NADPH oxidase. Therefore, we hypothesized that activating PPARgamma with rosiglitazone would attenuate chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension, in part, through suppressing NADPH oxidase-derived ROS that stimulate proliferative signaling pathways. Male C57Bl/6 mice were exposed to chronic hypoxia (CH, Fi(O2) 10%) or room air for 3 or 5 weeks. During the last 10 days of exposure, each animal was treated daily by gavage with either the PPARgamma ligand, rosiglitazone (10 mg/kg/d) or with an equal volume of vehicle. CH increased: (1) right ventricular systolic pressure (RVSP), (2) right ventricle weight, (3) thickness of the walls of small pulmonary vessels, (4) superoxide production and Nox4 expression in the lung, and (5) platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFRbeta) expression and activity and reduced phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) expression. Treatment with rosiglitazone prevented the development of pulmonary hypertension at 3 weeks; reversed established pulmonary hypertension at 5 weeks; and attenuated CH-stimulated Nox4 expression and superoxide production, PDGFRbeta activation, and reductions in PTEN expression. Rosiglitazone also attenuated hypoxia-induced increases in Nox4 expression in pulmonary endothelial cells in vitro despite hypoxia-induced reductions in PPARgamma expression. Collectively, these findings indicate that PPARgamma ligands attenuated hypoxia-induced pulmonary vascular remodeling and hypertension by suppressing oxidative and proliferative signals providing novel insights for mechanisms underlying therapeutic effects of PPARgamma activation in pulmonary hypertension.
Withdrawal of chronic infusion of clonidine elicits severe tachycardia and short-lasting blood pressure elevations (upswings). Withdrawal of clonidine in low dosage (30 micrograms kg-1 day-1 i.c.v., 7 days) elicited a maximum of 10.9 +/- 0.5 upswings h-1. Cessation of s.c. infusion of clonidine (30 micrograms kg-1 day-1 7 days) evoked a maximum of 1.9 +/- 0.5 upswings h-1. After cessation of the two clonidine infusions no overshoot of heart rate occurred. Withdrawal of a higher dose of clonidine (300 micrograms kg-1 day-1 s.c., 7 days), however, induced tachycardia (from 302 +/- 8 to 433 +/- 8 beats min-1) and 7.6 +/- 1.4 upswings h-1. The administration of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine precipitated withdrawal tachycardia in animals treated with oxymetazoline, a hydrophilic alpha-adrenoceptor agonist. Yohimbine (3 mg kg-1 i.p.) precipitated a severe rise in heart rate from 285 +/- 14 to 520 +/- 5 beats min-1 in oxymetazoline (300 micrograms kg-1 day-1 s.c., 7 days) treated rats and from 320 +/- 13 to 420 +/- 11 beats min-1 in saline-treated animals. Upswings were not induced by yohimbine treatment. It is concluded, that the blood pressure upswings after clonidine withdrawal are due to a central mechanism, whereas the mechanism of the overshoot of heart rate is located peripherally, probably at the cardiac presynaptic level.
The changes of plasma lipoproteins which occur during the development of nephrotic syndrome induced in the rat were investigated by the administration of the antineoplastic drug adriamycin. Rats received a single intravenous injection of the drug (7.5 mg/Kg) and were sacrificed 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30 days after treatment. By monitoring plasma and urine albumin, four stages in the development of nephrosis were identified: (1) a prenephrotic stage, (2) a mild nephrosis with moderate albuminuria and hypoalbuminemia; (3) a severe nephrosis with massive albuminuria and severe hypoalbuminemia; and (4) a recovery stage in which plasma albumin showed the tendency to increase. Apart from a mild elevation of plasma triacylglycerols and VLDL observed as early as Day 5, no changes in plasma cholesterol and in the other lipoprotein classes were observed at the stage of mild nephrosis (Day 10). However, as the disease became more severe (Day 15-25) there was a striking increase of HDL1 (1.050-1.090 g/ml) and, above all, of HDL2 (1.090-1.210 g/ml). VLDL and LDL also increased but at a later stage. The elevation of HDL1 and HDL2 was associated with an increase of apolipoprotein A-I in plasma (fourfold increase). Moreover, the relative content of this apolipoprotein in HDL1 and HDL2 increased as the disease progressed from mild to severe, so that in severely nephrotic rats HDL1 and HDL2 contained almost exclusively A-I and C apolipoproteins. HDL enriched in apolipoprotein A-I were also found in urine of severely nephrotic animals. Since these findings are similar to those previously described in nephrotic syndrome induced by puromycin aminonucleoside (Gherardi, E., and Calandra, S. (1982). Biochim. Biophys. Acta 710, 188.) the following conclusions can be drawn: (1) the key signs of nephrotic syndrome (albuminuria and hypoalbuminemia) precede the elevation of plasma lipoproteins; (2) the pattern of nephrotic hyperlipoproteinemia evolves as a function of the severity of the disease; (3) the accumulation of HDL enriched in apolipoprotein A-I represents an early and specific feature of nephrotic hyperlipoproteinemia in the rat.
Several recent publications have suggested an association between the administration of gadolinium (Gd)-based contrast agents and the occurrence of Nephrogenic Systemic Fibrosis (NSF), an acquired disorder marked by skin thickening and fibrosis occurring in patients with severe renal dysfunction. The aim of this study was to establish a preclinical experimental setting to investigate the possible link between NSF and Gd-based contrast agents, and specifically the role of Gd and/or depletion of endogenous metal ions as possible triggers for NSF.
Thirty-five healthy male rats received repeated intravenous injections of Magnevist (gadopentetate dimeglumine; Gd-DTPA), Omniscan (gadodiamide; Gd-DTPA-BMA), or gadodiamide without caldiamide at a dose of 2.5 mmol Gd/kg body weight over at least 20 days to simulate the exposure to Gd-containing contrast agents in patients with severe renal dysfunction. In addition, caldiamide (the excess ligand in Omniscan) and Gd-ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (Gd-EDTA) as a positive control, and saline as a negative control were studied. Histopathologic and immunohistochemical analysis of the skin was performed. Gd and zinc concentrations were measured in skin, femur, and liver tissue by atomic emission spectrometry.
Rats receiving Gd-EDTA, gadodiamide without caldiamide, and Omniscan developed epidermal ulceration and acanthosis, dermo-epidermal clefts, minimal-to-slight dermal fibrosis, and increased dermal infiltration of different cells, partly positive for CD34 fibrocytes. No such NSF-like macroscopic lesions were observed in the saline, caldiamide, and Magnevist groups. High Gd concentrations in the skin were found in the Gd-EDTA, gadodiamide without caldiamide, and Omniscan groups. In the Magnevist group, Gd levels in the skin were 10-times lower than in the Omniscan-treated animals but elevated compared with saline.
A preclinical experimental setting has been established where NSF-like lesions could be observed. The link between the application of Gd-based contrast media and the induction of NSF-like lesions was established. The data indicate that the observed skin lesions are related to the release of Gd and not to the depletion of endogenous ions. The investigations further suggest potential importance of the stability of Gd-based contrast agents.
Huperzine A is a reversible and selective cholinesterase inhibitor approved for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. To identify which cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes are involved in the metabolism of Huperzine A, an in vitro study was performed with rat liver microsomes and immunoinhibition and chemical inhibition methods. Huperzine A metabolism was analyzed with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and expressed as Huperzine A disappearance rate. Result showed that 76.2% of Huperzine A metabolism was inhibited by CYP1A2 antibody and 17.8% by CYP3A1/2 antibody. Inhibitory effects produced by CYP2C11 and 2E1 antibodies were minor. The CYP1A2 substrate phenacetin showed an inhibitory effect of 70.3%. In conclusion, Huperzine A metabolism in rat liver microsomes is mediated primarily by CYP1A2, with a probable secondary contribution of CYP3A1/2. CYP2C11 and 2E1 are likely not involved in Huperzine A metabolism.
Experimental approaches on anaesthetised guinea pigs have been shown recently to be satisfactorily predictive of the torsadogenic risk of drugs. This work aimed at obtaining additional data, for a further understanding of the reliability and/or the limits of this model. Clonidine (non-torsadogenic in humans) induced a lengthening of the ECG parameter of RR in anaesthetised guinea pigs, without any corresponding increase of QT (corrected by the algorithms of Bazett and Fridericia). Thus, 'QT correct' prolonging effects produced by drugs torsadogenic in humans, on the guinea pig model are primarily due to inhibition of cardiac repolarisation. The corresponding RR prolongation is a consequence (not the cause) of this primary effect. Astemizole, haloperidol and terfenadine, torsadogenic in humans, produced in Langendorff perfused guinea pig hearts a prolongation of the QT interval. Chlorprotixene (non-torsadogenic) did not produce any significant effect on QT. These results are fully consistent with previous observations in anaesthetised guinea pigs. In Langendorff perfused hearts, pentobarbital does not affect cardiac repolarisation and does not potentiate the QT-prolonging effect of astemizole. Together with the findings reported by many authors, these data suggest that ECG recording in anaesthetised guinea pigs is a reliable model for cardiac safety studies evaluating the influence of drugs on the repolarisation process.
To describe a case of exacerbated mania potentially related to an interaction between lopinavir/ritonavir and valproic acid (VPA) and propose a mechanism of action for this interaction.
A 30-year-old man with bipolar disorder and HIV initiated treatment with lopinavir/ritonavir, zidovudine, and lamivudine. Prior to beginning therapy with these antiretrovirals, he was receiving VPA 250 mg 3 times daily, with his most recent VPA concentration measured at 495 micromol/L. Twenty-one days after starting antiretroviral treatment, he became increasingly manic. His VPA concentration at admission was 238 micromol/L, a 48% decrease. The daily VPA dose was increased to 1500 mg, and olanzapine was introduced. The VPA concentration following this dose escalation was 392 micromol/L, and the patient improved clinically.
Fifty percent of VPA is metabolized by glucuronidation, 40% undergoes mitochondrial beta-oxidation, and less than 10% is eliminated by the cytochrome P450 isoenzymes. Ritonavir can induce glucuronidation of several medications including ethinyl estradiol, levothyroxine, and lamotrigine. We believe that ritonavir-mediated induction of VPA glucuronidation resulted in a decrease in VPA concentrations and efficacy. An objective causality assessment suggested that the increased mania was probably related to the decrease in VPA concentration and that a possible interaction exists between lopinavir/ritonavir and VPA.
A potential interaction exists between VPA and all ritonavir-boosted antiretroviral regimens. Clinicians should monitor patients closely for a decreased VPA effect when these medications are given concomitantly.
Sublingual nitroglycerin 0.8 mg every five minutes for a total of 4.8 mg was administered to 11 healthy volunteers. One volunteer had to withdraw due to a hypotensive bradycardic reaction after 2.4 mg. In the remaining subjects, methemoglobinemia over the next hour never significantly increased from baseline levels, reaching a peak of only 0.71%. We conclude that commonly used doses of sublingual nitroglycerin do not induce significant methemoglobinemia and that nitroglycerin would not be useful in the treatment of cyanide poisoning.
It was recently demonstrated that particulate matter (PM) containing water-soluble zinc produces cardiac injury following pulmonary exposure. To investigate whether pulmonary zinc exposure produces systemic metal imbalance and direct cardiac effects, male Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats (12-14 wk age) were intratracheally (IT) instilled with saline or 2 micromol/kg zinc sulfate. Temporal analysis was performed for systemic levels of essential metals (zinc, copper, and selenium), and induction of zinc transporter-2 (ZT-2) and metallothionein-1 (MT-1) mRNA in the lung, heart, and liver. Additionally, cardiac gene expression profile was evaluated using Affymetrix GeneChips (rat 230A) arrays to identify zinc-specific effects. Pulmonary zinc instillation produced an increase in plasma zinc to approximately 20% at 1 and 4 h postexposure with concomitant decline in the lung levels. At 24 and 48 h postexposure, zinc levels rose significantly (approximately 35%) in the liver. At these time points, plasma and liver levels of copper and selenium also increased significantly, suggesting systemic disturbance in essential metals. Zinc exposure was associated with marked induction of MT-1 and ZT-2 mRNA in lung, heart, and liver, suggesting systemic metal sequestration response. Given the functional role of zinc in hundreds of proteins, the gene expression profiles demonstrated changes that are expected based on its physiological role. Zinc exposure produced an increase in expression of kinases and inhibition of expression of phosphatases; up- or downregulation of genes involved in mitochondrial function; changes in calcium regulatory proteins suggestive of elevated intracellular free calcium and increases in sulfotransferases; upregulation of potassium channel genes; and changes in free radical-sensitive proteins. Some of these expression changes are reflective of a direct effect of zinc on myocardium following pulmonary exposure, which may result in impaired mitochondrial respiration, stimulated cell signaling, altered Ca2+ homeostasis, and increased transcription of sulfotransferases. Cardiotoxicity may be an outcome of acute zinc toxicosis and occupational exposures to metal fumes containing soluble zinc. Imbalance of systemic metal homeostasis as a result of pulmonary zinc exposure may underlie the cause of extrapulmonary effects.
The purpose of this investigation was to study the acute effects of caffeine on learning, performance, and anxiety in normal prepubertal children.
Twenty-one children were evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover design. Subjects were studied during four sessions, 1 week apart, under the following conditions: baseline, placebo, 2.5 mg/kg caffeine, and 5.0 mg/kg caffeine. Subjects were randomized to order of placebo and the two dosages of caffeine. Dependent measures included tests of attention, manual dexterity, short-term memory, and processing speed. Anxiety rating scales were also administered. Saliva samples were analyzed for caffeine levels.
Caffeine improved performance on two of four measures of the Test of Variables of Attention and on a test of manual dexterity in the dominant hand. There was a trend toward increased current level of self-reported anxiety after caffeine on a visual analogue measure of anxiety. Children reported feeling significantly less "sluggish" after caffeine ingestion than after placebo ingestion.
In a small sample size, there was indication that caffeine enhanced performance on a test of attention and on a motor task. Children also reported feeling less "sluggish" but somewhat more anxious. Because caffeine is so widely available and frequently consumed by children, these results are important and need replication.
Although different treatment modalities have been implemented for pulmonary fibrosis, the results have not been promising and these conditions have been considered untreatable and irreversible. Thus, a plethora of new drugs has been tried for the control of this condition in recent years. This study examined the effects of two angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, captopril and enalapril, on paraquat-induced pulmonary fibrosis in rats, through biochemical and histopathological parameters. Male albino Wistar rats were divided into eight groups (n = 4-5 each), including control, paraquat, captopril alone, captopril treatment and pre-treatment, enalapril alone, enalapril treatment and pre-treatment. After 21 days of treatment, the lungs were removed and the levels of hydroxyproline, glutathione and lipid peroxidation were determined. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors showed no effect on glutathione and lipid peroxidation. The results also demonstrated that captopril and enalapril improved pulmonary fibrosis as shown by histopathology, as well as a decreased content of hydroxyproline (P < 0.001) in the lung tissue. In conclusion, the present findings suggest that the antifibrotic effect of these drugs may be related to the inhibition of angiotensin-converting enzyme.
We analysed end-systolic pressure-volume relations (ESPVR), using the conductance technique, to study the potential inotropic effects of (1) PDE inhibitor drugs, (2) class 1 anti-arrhythmic drugs and (3) PTCA-induced myocardial ischaemia (MIS). The question of contractility involvement is of clinical importance, since with inotropy-induced rise in MVO2 there is a risk of MIS, should any of the cardiotonic drugs (amrinone, enoximone, piroximone) be used in patients with CAD. Accordingly, we analysed their haemodynamic effects, identified improved contractility as one factor of these drugs' mode of action and proved their inability to induce MIS. Anti-arrhythmic drugs may cause cardiodepression, a risk theoretically well recognized but clinically poorly defined. We monitored the haemodynamics of six class 1 anti-arrhythmic drugs and found that drug-induced moderate impairments of contractility (at rest and during tachycardia) proved significant, but clinically asymptomatic, and did not differ significantly from drug to drug. PTCA provides routine models of MIS in man. We analysed ESPVR and haemodynamics during MIS with PTCA and coronary angiography (CORO) and the induced diminished LV function during CORO v PTCA appeared quantitatively less. Inotropy impairment was rather modest during ischaemia: dP/dtmax was reduced by 11%, slope k of the ESPVR by 14%, while the EDV was increased by 67%. All changes were reversible about 90 s after PTCA balloon occlusion and 20 s after CORO.
Psychiatric patients often require chronic treatment with antipsychotic drugs, and while rats are frequently used to study antipsychotic-induced metabolic adverse effects, long-term exposure has only partially mimicked the appetite-stimulating and weight-inducing effects found in the clinical setting. Antipsychotic-induced effects on serum lipids are also inconsistent in rats, but in a recent study we demonstrated that subchronic treatment with the orexigenic antipsychotic olanzapine resulted in weight-independent increase in serum triglycerides and activation of lipogenic gene expression in female rats. In addition, a recent long-term study in male rats showed that chronic treatment with antipsychotic drugs induced dyslipidemic effects, despite the lack of weight gain.
In the current study, we sought to examine long-term effects of antipsychotic drugs on weight gain, lipid levels and lipid composition after twice-daily administration of antipsychotics to female rats, and to investigate potential beneficial effects of the lipid-lowering agent tetradecylthioacetic acid (TTA), a modified fatty acid.
Female rats were exposed to orexigenic antipsychotics (olanzapine or clozapine), metabolically neutral antipsychotics (aripiprazole or ziprasidone), or TTA for 8 weeks. Separate groups received a combination of clozapine and TTA or olanzapine and TTA. The effects of TTA and the combination of olanzapine and TTA after 2 weeks were also investigated.
The antipsychotic-induced weight gain and serum triglyceride increase observed in the subchronic setting was not present after 8 weeks of treatment with antipsychotics, while lipid-lowering effect of TTA was much more pronounced in the chronic than in the subchronic setting, with concomitant upregulation of key oxidative enzymes in the liver. Unexpectedly, TTA potentiated weight gain in rats treated with antipsychotics.
TTA is a promising candidate for prophylactic treatment of antipsychotic-induced dyslipidemic effects, but a more valid long-term rat model for antipsychotic-induced metabolic adverse effects is required.
The consequences of the neurotoxic insult induced by 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, an amphetamine derivative with specific action on the serotonergic system) were compared with those of methamphetamine (a derivative with specific action on dopaminergic system) in rats. Both drugs induced a very similar loss of body weight, especially evident 24 h after treatment. Their hyperthermic profile was also very similar and was dependent on ambient temperature, corroborating the thermo-dysregulatory effect of both substances. Methamphetamine (four injections of 10 mg kg(-1) s.c. at 2-h intervals) induced the loss of dopaminergic (35%) but not of serotonergic, terminals in the rat striatum and, simultaneously, a significant increase in striatal peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor density, pointing to a glial reaction. Evidence for this drug-induced astrogliosis was the increased heat shock protein 27 (HSP27) expression in striatum, cortex and hippocampus. MDMA (20 mg kg(-1) s.c. b.i.d. for 4 days) induced a similar dopaminergic lesion in the striatum 3 days post-treatment, which reversed 4 days later. An important neurotoxic effect on serotonergic terminals was also observed in the cortex, striatum and hippocampus 3 days post-treatment, which partially reversed 4 days later in the striatum and hippocampus. No microglial activation was noticeable at either 3 or 7 days after MDMA treatment. This lack of effect on microglial cells was assessed by [(3)H]PK 11195 binding and OX-6 immunostaining, which were unchanged in the striatum and cortex after MDMA treatment. A non-significant tendency to increase was noted in the hippocampus 3 days after MDMA treatment. Furthermore, in MDMA-treated rats, neither HSP27 expression nor an increase in HSP27 immunoreactivity were detected. This result, together with the lack of increase in glial fibrilliary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity, indicate no astroglial activation at either 3 or 7 days post-treatment. Without microglial activation, an inflammatory process would not accompany the lesion induced by MDMA. The differences in glial activation between methamphetamine and MDMA observed in the present study could have implications for the prognosis of the injury induced by these drugs.
The gene (E2A) for enhancer binding transcription factors E12 and E47 maps to the t(1;19) chromosomal translocation breakpoint in pre-B cell leukemias. Altered E2A transcripts lacking sequences coding for the helix-loop-helix DNA binding motif were detected in several t(1;19)-carrying cell lines. Fusion cDNAs that crossed the t(1;19) breakpoint were cloned and shown to code for an 85 kd protein consisting of the amino-terminal two-thirds of E2A fused to a chromosome 1-derived protein. The fusion protein has the features of a chimeric transcription factor in which the DNA binding domain of E2A is replaced by the putative DNA binding domain of a homeoprotein from chromosome 1 for which the name Prl (pre-B cell leukemia) is proposed. Identical E2A-prl mRNA junctions were detected by PCR in three t(1;19)-carrying cell lines, indicating that the fusion transcripts and predicted chimeric protein are a consistent feature of this translocation.
