1. Diabetic neuropathy is one of the most common complications of diabetes and oxidative stress has been implicated to play a major role in its pathophysiology. 2. In the present study, we targeted oxidative stress using trolox, an anti-oxidant, in streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy in rats. 3. Compared with control rats, diabetic rats showed significant deficits in motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV; 49.91 +/- 1.94 vs 42.77 +/- 1.39 m/s, respectively) and nerve blood flow (NBF; 107.98 +/- 8.22 vs 38.9 +/- 2.7 arbitarary perfusion units, respectively) after 8 weeks of diabetes. Tail flick latencies for cold and hot immersion tests were also significantly reduced in diabetic rats, indicating thermal hyperalgesia. These observations indicate development of diabetic neuropathy. 4. A significant decrease in the activity of anti-oxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase and catalase) and an increase in lipid peroxidation were observed in sciatic nerves from diabetic rats compared with age-matched control rats. Alterations in the activity of anti-oxidant enzymes and lipid peroxidation in diabetic rats indicate oxidative stress in diabetic neuropathy. 5. Two weeks treatment with trolox (10 and 30 mg/kg, i.p.) started on completion of the 6th week of diabetes significantly improved MNCV, NBF and inhibited thermal hyperalgesia. Trolox treatment also improved the activity of anti-oxidant enzymes and inhibited lipid peroxidation in sciatic nerves of diabetic rats. 6. The results of the present study suggest the beneficial effects of trolox in experimental diabetic neuropathy.
The authors evaluated the incidence of cancer among pesticide applicators with exposure to alachlor in the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective cohort study of licensed pesticide applicators in Iowa and North Carolina. A total of 49,980 pesticide applicators are included in this analysis; 26,510 applicators (53%) reported use of alachlor on the enrollment questionnaire. Detailed pesticide exposure and other information were obtained from a self-administered questionnaire completed at the time of enrollment (1993-1997). Poisson regression analysis was used to evaluate the exposure-response relations between alachlor and cancer incidence controlled for the effects of potential confounding factors. A total of 1,466 incident malignant neoplasms were diagnosed during the study period, 1993-2000. Among alachlor-exposed applicators, the authors found a significant increasing trend for incidence of all lymphohematopoietic cancers associated with lifetime exposure-days (p for trend = 0.02) and intensity-weighted exposure-days (p for trend = 0.03) to alachlor. The risks of leukemia (rate ratio = 2.83, 95% confidence interval: 0.74, 10.9) and multiple myeloma (rate ratio = 5.66, 95% confidence interval: 0.70, 45.7) were increased among applicators in the highest alachlor exposure category. Our findings suggest a possible association between alachlor application and incidence of lymphohematopoietic cancers among applicators in the Agricultural Health Study.
The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) is part of the vasomotor centre which controls the cardiovascular system and may therefore be critical to the genesis of postoperative hypertension. This area is probably a common site of termination of different inputs involved in the baroreflex. It contains at least two classes of neurons exhibiting spontaneous activities and projecting to sympathetic preganglionic neurons located in the intermediolateral cell-column (IML) of the spinal cord. The first class of neurons corresponds to cells with slow axonal conduction velocities (< 0.8 m s-1) and which contain immunoreactive phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (CI cells); the second class, characterized by faster conduction velocities (2.5-8 m s-1), is considered as glutamatergic, although the C1 cells may also release glutamate alongside catecholamine. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the involvement of the "fast-conducting' RVLM barosensitive bulbospinal (RVLM-BB) neurons in the hypertension occurring upon emergence from halothane anaesthesia. Rats were anaesthetized with halothane, paralysed, and their lungs mechanically ventilated. Avoidable pain, distress or discomfort was consistently avoided as required by the fundamental principles of ethical animal research. Hence, all pressure points and surgical wounds, as well as tracheal tube were carefully covered or infiltrated with adequate local anaesthetic. Control experiments have been performed, allowing us to assert that hypertension accompanying halothane withdrawal was not due to suffering (see Discussion). Under halothane anaethesia, fast conducting (2.7 +/- 1.0 m s-1) RVLM-BB neurons (n = 10) exhibited a continuous discharge (8.4 +/- 7.5 Hz). Five minutes after discontinuing halothane, in increase in arterial blood pressure was recorded (AP 19 +/- 6 mmHg), which was accompanied by an increase in the unitary activities (n = 8.43 +/- 23%). Afterwards, both AP and unitary activity frequencies further increased to reach a maximum value at the end of the sequence (34 +/- 9 mmHg and 161 +/- 120% respectively, n = 10). After resumption of halothane administration, both AP and unitary activities fall down to the baseline level within 5 min (n = 10). This study shows that emergence from halothane anaesthesia reversibly induces RVLM-BB units activation, suggesting that a putative glutamatergic bulbospinal pathway may be involved in the genesis of hypertension occurring upon emergence from anaesthesia. These data may therefore contribute to better understanding of postoperative hypertension and to improve its pharmacological treatment in man.
Characterizing the alterations of protein expression in cancer cells can be very useful in providing insight into the changes in the functional pathways and thus the fundamental mechanisms of cancer development at the molecular level. In this study, we profiled protein expressions in eleven pairs of primary cell cultures derived from renal-cell carcinoma (RCC) tissues and patient-matched normal kidney tissues utilizing two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2-D PAGE). Together with the immunoblot analysis of proteins from the RCC tissues, the study also demonstrated that the alterations of protein expression observed in RCC primary cell cultures reflected those observed in the original RCC tissues. We analyzed the expression profiles and identified proteins differentially expressed in RCC primary cell cultures by 2-D PAGE and mass spectrometry (MS). We found sixteen proteins were overexpressed and seven proteins underexpressed in RCC. The deregulated expressions of proteins include those involved in metabolism, cellular morphology, heat shock response, cell growth, etc. Overexpression of three proteins, alphabeta-crystallin, manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), and annexin IV, most commonly observed in primary RCC cell cultures, were also observed by immunoblot analysis of proteins from the RCC tissues from which the primary cell cultures were derived. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis revealed the direct correlation between deregulated gene expression and the corresponding protein abundance in two of the three most commonly upregulated proteins we found in RCC.
We present a fatal case of acute submassive hepatic necrosis occurring in a 42-yr-old black woman treated for hyperthyroidism with propylthiouracil for 1 yr. Alcohol and drug abuse were ruled out and all serological tests for hepatitis A and B, cytomegalovirus, and Epstein-Barr virus infection were negative. At autopsy the liver was shrunken and presented a yellow granular appearance. Microscopy disclosed submassive necrosis with bile stasis and severe chronic inflammation, as well as mild bile duct proliferation. Although non-A, non-B hepatitis cannot be ruled out (there was no transfusion of blood or its products), this is considered to be the third fatal case and ninth instance of propylthiouracil-induced hepatic necrosis.
To investigate whether enalapril (E) 10 mg and spironolactone (S) 100 mg attenuate the hypokalemic effect of inhaled terbutaline (T).
Randomized single-blind crossover. Subjects received the following treatment combinations: (a) placebo (P), (b) T alone, (c) T + E, or (d) T + S.
University Department of Clinical Pharmacology.
Twenty healthy volunteers (ten male, ten female) of mean age 22.8 +/- 3.1 years.
Serum potassium, magnesium, ECG changes (R-R interval, T wave, and QTc interval) for 4 h after terbutaline inhalation.
Baseline serum potassium levels were higher following prior treatment with E and S; P, 3.78 mmol/L (3.67 to 3.88); T + E, 3.93 mmol-1 (3.82 to 4.03); and T + S, 4.03 mmol/L (3.93 to 4.14) (p less than 0.05). Mean potassium concentrations over 4 h were also higher following prior treatment with E and S; T, 3.58 mmol/L (3.54 to 3.63); T + E, 3.68 mmol/L (3.64 to 3.72) (p less than 0.05); and T + S, 3.73 mmol/L (3.68 to 3.78) (p less than 0.01).
Enalapril and spironolactone protect against the fall in serum potassium over 4 h by elevating baseline potassium concentration. These potassium-sparing drugs, however, should not be used to prevent the hypokalemic and electrocardiographic sequelae of inhaled beta 2-agonists.
Transgenerational carcinogenesis refers to transmission of cancer risk to the untreated progeny of parents exposed to carcinogens before mating. Accumulated evidence suggests that the mechanism of this process is epigenetic, and might involve hormonal and gene expression changes in offspring. To begin to test this hypothesis, we utilized a mouse model (NIH Swiss) in which exposure of fathers to Cr(III) chloride 2 wk before mating can alter incidence of neoplastic and nonneoplastic changes in offspring tissues. Utilizing a MS-RDA approach, we found that the sperm of these fathers had a significantly higher percentage of undermethylated copies of the 45S ribosomal RNA gene (rRNA); this finding was confirmed by bisulfite sequencing. Because gene methylation is a known mechanism of expression control in germ cells, and ribosomal RNA levels have been linked to cancer, these findings are consistent with the hypothesis. Secondly, we observed that offspring of Cr(III)-treated fathers were significantly heavier than controls, and had higher levels of serum T3. Possible effects of T3 levels on gene expression in the offspring were examined by microarray analysis of cDNAs from liver. A total of 58 genes, including 25 named genes, had expression ratios that correlated significantly with serum T3 ratios at P </= 0.001. Some of these genes have potential roles in growth and/or tumor suppression. These results also support the hypothesis of an epigenetic and/or gene expression-based mechanism for transgenerational carcinogenesis. Published 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
A retrospective 9-year cohort study was conducted to identify the hospitalization costs, length of hospital stay, and mortality associated with nephrotoxicity (NT) among 494 inpatients who were treated with conventional amphotericin B (CAB). Survival regression methods were used to model the effect of NT. The rate of NT was 12%; the overall in-hospital mortality rate was 22%. After adjustment for confounding, NT was associated with a 2.7-fold higher risk of death (P<.001). Although the unadjusted effects of NT on length of hospital stay and hospitalization costs after the initiation of CAB were consistent with small increases, such effects were not significant in multivariate models (time ratio, 1.2 [P=.2]; cost ratio, 1.1 [P=.8]). The greater the number of days before the onset of NT that were included in the analysis, the greater the apparent effect of NT on costs. CAB-associated NT was associated with increased mortality, but it did not impact the costs and length of hospital stay.
Fatal pulmonary hemorrhages and rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis occurred in three patients with Wilson's disease (hepatolenticular degeneration) who had been treated with penicillamine for 2 to 31/2 years. Light microscopic studies of the kidneys showed severe glomerulonephritis with crescent formation, and the lungs showed intraalveolar hemorrhages. Although the clinical and pathologic abnormalities were those of Goodpasture's syndrome, immunofluorescence microscopic studies in the one case tested showed an interrupted, rather than linear, fluorescence pattern.
Recently, increased expression of inflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, has been reported in both humans and animal models with CDH and the decreased TNF-alpha expression in CDH lung after antenatal dexamethasone (Dex) treatment. Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM)-1 are induced by several inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha. The aim of this study was to investigate pulmonary ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression in CDH lung in rats and to determine the effect of antenatal glucocorticoid. CDH model was induced in pregnant rats following administration of nitrofen on day 9.5 of gestation. In control animals, the same dose of olive oil was given without nitrofen. Dex (0.25 mg/kg) was given on day 18.5 and 19.5 of gestation. RT-PCR was performed to evaluate the relative amount of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 mRNA expression. Fluorescein immunohistochemistry using anti-ICAM-1 and anti-VCAM-1 antibody was performed using light and confocal microscopy. ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 mRNA expression and ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 immunoreactivity were markedly increased in CDH lung compared to controls. Dex downregulated the expression of both adhesion molecules in the hypoplastic lung. Increased ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 mRNA expression in hypoplastic lungs would suggest that the increased local synthesis of pulmonary adhesion molecules may induce respiratory distress in CDH. Decreased expression of adhesion molecules in CDH lungs after Dex treatment suggests that antenatal glucocorticoids therapy may improve pulmonary immaturity and associated respiratory distress in nitrofen-induced CDH lung.
The incidence of adrenergic-induced arrhythmias was studied in 19 patients with chronic obstructive lung disease uncomplicated by respiratory failure or cardiac desease. The effects of isoproterenol hydrochloride and a placebo were studied, using a randomized double blind technique and continuous monitoring of the cardiac rhythm. Two of the patients had episodes of arrhythmia associated only with nebulization of isoproterenol hydrochloride. Ten patients had no abnormality associated with isoproterenol hydrochloride or placebo nebulizations. In the remainder, episodes of arrhythmia occurred but could not be consistently correlated with placebo or drug nrbulizations. None of the patients was aware of any cardiac irregularity. A chi square analysis of the dataindicated no relationship between the isoproterenol nebulizations and cardiac arrhythmias. In our patients with uncomplicated chronic obstructive lung disease, nebulization of adrenergic bronchodilators seemed an infrequent cause of cardiac arrhythmias.
Menkes disease is an X-linked recessive disorder of the copper metabolism and affected males suffer a systemic copper deficiency due to malabsorption and defective distribution of dietary copper. It is caused by a defect in the Menkes (ATP7A) gene, which encodes a transmembrane copper-transporting P-type ATPase. A variety of mutations were reported; however, only a few mutations were reported in Asian patients. We identified four novel mutations and one known mutation in five Korean patients. Arg646Ter in exon 8, a novel mutation transmitted from his carrier mother, was identified in one patient. Prenatal DNA diagnosis on an unaffected fetus in this carrier mother was successfully accomplished. An additional three novel mutations, Leu706Arg in exon 9, Gly1118Asp in exon 17, and Gly1255Arg in exon 19, were identified. Splicing mutation was not identified. Menkes disease in Korean patients appears to be caused by heterogeneous mutations with different spectrums from Caucasian patients.
In patients undergoing high-dose ifosfamide treatment tubular nephrotoxicity with hypophosphatemia has been described. Long-lasting hypophosphatemia may be associated with bone disease including rickets. Serum osteocalcin is considered a sensitive marker for reduced osteoblast activity and bone formation. In our study we determined osteocalcin serum levels in 11 children with cancer and chemotherapy, comparing them with fractional reabsorption of phosphate, aminoaciduria and a1-microglobulin excretion. A decrease of serum levels of osteocalcin and serum phosphate during chemotherapy was found. Progressive hyperaminoaciduria, a1-microglobulin loss and a low fractional reabsorption of phosphate were also detected during chemotherapy. All parameters tended to become normal after treatment. We conclude that serum osteocalcin levels may decrease soon after the initiation of chemotherapy, indicating low osteoblast activity, probably as a result of phosphate loss. Patients with decreased osteocalcin levels may therefore be at risk for osteoporosis.
The effect of chronic bilateral high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) on levodopa-induced dyskinaesias was investigated in eight patients with fluctuating Parkinson's disease complicated by functionally disabling off-period dystonia. All of the patients also had severe diphasic and peak-dose chorea, so that it was possible to study the effect of high-frequency stimulation on the different types of levodopa-induced dyskinaesias. Off-period fixed dystonia was reduced by 90% and off-period pain by 66%. After acute levodopa challenge, high-frequency stimulation of the STN reduced diphasic mobile dystonia by 50% and peak-dose choreic dyskinaesias by 30%. The effect of bilateral high-frequency stimulation of the STN on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor score had the same magnitude as the preoperative effect of levodopa. This allowed the levodopa dose to be reduced by 47%. The combination of reduced medication and continuous high-frequency stimulation of the STN reduced the duration of on-period diphasic and peak-dose dyskinaesias by 52% and the intensity by 68%. Acute high-frequency stimulation of the STN mimics an acute levodopa challenge, concerning both parkinsonism and dyskinaesias, and suppresses off-period dystonia. Increasing the voltage can induce repetitive dystonic dyskinaesias, mimicking diphasic levodopa-induced dyskinaesias. A further increase in voltage leads to a shift from a diphasic-pattern dystonia to a peak-dose pattern choreodystonia. Chronic high-frequency stimulation of the STN also mimics the benefit of levodopa on parkinsonism and improves all kinds of levodopa-induced dyskinaesias to varying degrees. Off-period dystonia, associated with neuronal hyperactivity in the STN is directly affected by stimulation and disappears immediately. The effect of chronic high-frequency stimulation of the STN on diphasic and peak-dose dyskinaesias is more complex and is related directly to the functional inhibition of the STN and indirectly to the replacement of the pulsatile dopaminergic stimulation by continuous functional inhibition of the STN. Chronic high-frequency stimulation of the STN allows a very gradual increase in stimulation parameters with increasing beneficial effect on parkinsonism while reducing the threshold for the elicitation of stimulation-induced dyskinaesias. In parallel with improvement of parkinsonism, the levodopa dose can be gradually decreased. As diphasic dystonic dyskinaesias are improved to a greater degree than peak-dose dyskinaesias, both direct and indirect mechanisms may be involved. Peak-dose choreatic dyskinaesias, associated with little evidence of parkinsonism and thus with low neuronal activity in the STN, are improved, mostly indirectly. Fixed off-period dystonia, mobile diphasic dystonia and peak-dose choreodystonia seem to represent a continuous clinical spectrum reflecting a continuous spectrum of underlying activity patterns of STN neurons.
We assessed the efficacy and safety of full-dose CHOP regimen plus granulocyte colony-stimulating factor to treat aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in elderly patients. Forty-two patients with untreated disease were included in this study, aged 70-79 years, with stage II or higher disease and a performance status of 0-3, without severe organ dysfunction. Of the 40 patients who could be evaluated 87.5% achieved complete remission, with a 4-year survival rate of 69% and a 3-year progression-free survival rate of 49%. When stratified by the International prognostic Index, the 4-year survival rate was 90.9% for the low and low-intermediate risk group and 41.3% for the high-intermediate and high risk group, whereas the 3-year progression survival rate was 87.7% and 11.3%, respectively. Grade 3 or 4 hematological toxicity was found in 31 instances of granulocytopenia (77.5%) and 7 of anemia (17.5%). Nonhematological toxicity of grade 3 or 4 included pneumonia in two patients, heart failure in one, and gastrointestinal bleeding in one. Full-dose CHOP regimen with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor support could achieve a high-dose intensity in elderly patients whose general physical condition was good and hence achieved a high complete remission rate, but the disease often recurred within 2 years. Consequently, a new therapeutic strategy needs to be established, particularly for patients with high-intermediate or high risk.
The carcinogenicity of vinyl chloride in humans was recognized in 1974 based on observations of hepatic angiosarcomas in highly exposed workers. A multiplicity of endpoints has been demonstrated. The primary target organ, the liver, displays differential susceptibilities of hepatocytes and sinusoidal cells, which are modified by factors of age and dose. There is consistency in organotropism between experimental animals and humans. Vinyl chloride is a pluripotent carcinogen, predominantly directed toward hepatic endothelial (sinusoidal) cells, and second toward the parenchymal cells of the liver. The similarity of results between experimental animals and humans is a solid basis of an amalgamation of experimental and epidemiological risk estimates. Vinyl chloride requires metabolic activation for carcinogenicity and mutagenicity, and toxicokinetics are a key to interpret the dose response. Practically the entire initial metabolism of vinyl chloride is oxidative. At higher exposure concentrations this is nonlinear, and metabolic saturation of metabolism in rats is reached at about 250 ppm. This is consistent with the plateau of hepatic angiosarcoma incidence in rat bioassays. Physiologically based pharmacokinetic/toxicokinetic (PBPK) models have been developed and successfully applied within the frame of human cancer risk assessments. The major DNA adduct induced by vinyl chloride (approximately 98% of total adducts in rats), 7-(2-oxoethyl)guanine, is almost devoid of promutagenic activity. The clearly promutagenic "etheno" adducts N2,3-ethenoguanine and 3,N4-ethenocytosine each represent approximately 1% of the vinyl chloride DNA adducts in rats, and 1,N6-ethenoadenine is found at even lower concentrations. Etheno adducts appear to have a long persistence and are repaired by glycosylases. Vinyl chloride represents a human carcinogen for which a series of mechanistic events connects exposure with the carcinogenic outcome. These include (1) metabolic activation (to form chloroethylene oxide), (2) DNA binding of the reactive metabolite (to exocyclic etheno adducts), (3) promutagenicity of these adducts, and (4) effects of such mutations on protooncogenes/tumor suppressor genes at the gene and gene product levels. In rat hepatocytes, a further event is a biomarker response. Cancer prestages (enzyme-altered foci), as quantitative biomarkers, provide a tool to study dose response even within low dose ranges where a carcinogenic risk cannot be seen in cancer bioassays directly. Such biomarker responses support a linear nonthreshold extrapolation for low-dose assessment of carcinogenic risks due to vinyl chloride. Published risk estimates based on different sets of data (animal experiments, epidemiological studies) appear basically consistent, and on this basis an angiosarcoma risk of approximately 3 x 10(-4) has been deduced by extrapolation, for exposure to 1 ppm vinyl chloride over an entire human working lifetime. An important point that should be considered in regulatory standard settings is the presence of a physiological background of those etheno DNA adducts, which are also produced by vinyl chloride. Likely reasons for this background are oxidative stress and lipid peroxidation. In essence, fundamentals of the hepatocarcinogenicity of vinyl chloride appear now well established, providing a solid scientific basis for regulatory activities.
Methionine-sulfoximine (MSO), a convulsant is known to increase the activity of histamine N-methyl transferase. The effect of a selective H3 receptor agonist R- (alpha) methylhistamine (RAMH) and antagonist (thioperamide, THP) and some antiepileptic drugs (gabapentin and sodium valproate) have been evaluated on MSO-induced convulsions in mice. The effect of THP was also evaluated in combination with these antiepileptic drugs. Sodium valproate (300 mg/kg, po) and gabapentin (400 mg/kg, po) offered protection against MSO-induced convulsions as evidenced by a significant prolongation of latency to abnormal dorsoflexion and complete protection against mortality within 6 h of administration. THP (15 mg/kg, ip) alone and in combination with sub-effective doses of gabapentin (75 mg/kg, po) and sodium valproate (75 mg/kg, po) revealed no significant differences from the control group or either drug alone. Hence, the convulsant action of MSO does not appear to be mediated via histaminergic mechanisms.
Metals have been in the environment during the entire evolution of man and the use of metals is key to human civilization. None-the-less, several very toxic species are included in the metallic elements and compounds either widely used by man and/or widely found in the human environment. This includes the five metallic agents considered human carcinogens, namely arsenic and arsenic compounds, beryllium and beryllium compounds, cadmium and cadmium compounds, chromium(VI) compounds, and nickel compounds, all of which are proven carcinogens in laboratory animals as well. There is significant human exposure to these carcinogenic inorganics, either occupationally, through the environment, or both. Inhalation is typical in the workplace while inhalation or ingestion occurs from environmental sources. Human metallic carcinogens frequently cause tumors at the portal of entry and lung cancers are the most common tumor after inhalation. Agent-specific tumors occur as well, like urinary bladder tumors after arsenic exposure, which are due to biokinetics or mechanisms that are specific to arsenic. Even in their simplest elemental form, metals are not inert, and they have biological activity. However, it should be kept in mind that these inorganic carcinogens, when in the atomic form, cannot be broken down into less toxic subunits, and this, in part, is why they are so important as environmental human carcinogens. This chapter focuses on the metallic agents that are known human carcinogens.
Morphometric observations were made on rats injected subcutaneously daily with puromycin aminonucleoside after two, four, six and eight daily injections. As a result it was possible to correlate the morphological alterations of the various glomerular components with the biochemical manifestations of the nephrotic syndrome particularly the onset of proteinuria. There was already significant loss of foot processes of the glomerular epithelial cells by the 2nd day, that is before the onset of proteinuria, suggesting that the loss of foot processes is a consequence of some metabolic impairment produced by the puromycin aminonucleoside which also subsequently causes the proteinuria. Swelling of the glomerular epithelial cells became significant by the 6th and 8th day of injection after the development of proteinuria, suggesting that it is a consequence of the increased amount of protein in the glomerular filtrate. Two independent morphometric methods suggest a decrease in the amount of glomerular basement membrane. Unfortunately because of difficulties in the determination of mean glomerular volumes it is not possible to be absolutely certain that this is a true finding, however it is what would be expected if the synthesis of basement membrane was depressed by the puromycin aminonucleoside.
