Furazolidone (FZ), a potent inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO), fed at concentrations of 700 ppm to turkey poults 2 through 5 weeks of age, produces cardiomyopathy and cardiomegaly. To determine the role of MAO inhibition in FZ-induced cardiomyopathy, the effects of FZ were compared with those of a chemically different MAO inhibitor, tranylcypromine (TCP), and a chemically similar non-MAO inhibitor, nitrofurazone (NFZ). At 14 days of age, poults were divided randomly into four groups. Control poults were fed a standard turkey starter ration, and poults in the experimental groups were fed the standard ration that included one of the following drugs at the given concentrations: 700 ppm FZ, 350 ppm NFZ, or 50 ppm TCP. Activity of MAO was assayed in liver and kidney homogenates from poults chosen at random at 14, 17, 21, 28, and 35 days of age in one trial and on heart homogenates at 14, 15, 17, 19, and 28 days of age in another trial. Development of cardiomyopathy was assessed using an electrocardiographic (ECG) technique and substantiated with necropsy examination. Inhibition of MAO was observed only in the heart in FZ-fed poults, only in the kidney in NFZ-fed poults, and in all three tissues studied in TCP-fed poults. Under the conditions of this study, an increase in the incidence of cardiomyopathy, based on ECG data and necropsy results, occurred only in the FZ-fed group. The inability of the potent MAO inhibitor, TCP, to produce cardiomyopathy in this study supports the conclusion that the primary mechanism of FZ-induced cardiomyopathy in turkey poults is probably not due to MAO inhibition.
2-(Allylthio)pyrazine (2-AP), synthesized for its possible use as a hepatoprotective agent, has been found to selectively inhibit rat hepatic cytochrome P450 2E1 (Kim et al., Biochem. Pharmacol., 53, 261-269, 1997), while it enhances the activities of phase II detoxification enzymes such as glutathione S-transferase and epoxide hydrolase. As part of a program in evaluating the chemopreventive potential of 2-AP, we have determined its effects on hepatotoxicity, mutagenicity and tumorigenicity of vinyl carbamate (VC), a prototypic hepatocarcinogen preferentially activated by P450 2E1 to the ultimate carcinogenic metabolite vinyl carbamate epoxide (VCO), which undergoes detoxification by glutathione conjugation and oxirane hydrolysis. Administration of 2-AP (100 mg/kg body wt) to male Sprague-Dawley rats by gavage, 2 days, 1 day and 4 h prior to VC or VCO, markedly ameliorated the hepatotoxicity of these compounds as determined by decreased serum aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase activities. Furthermore, 2-AP pre-treatment significantly suppressed the VC-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in infant male B6C3F1 mice. In a separate experiment, the multiplicities of skin tumors formed in female ICR mice treated with 5.8 micromol of VC or VCO were inhibited 58 and 70%, respectively, by pre-treatment with 2-AP by oral administration. The mutational spectrum of ras-oncogene in papillomas was not altered by 2-AP pre-treatment. 2-AP also inhibited the mutagenicity of VC in the Salmonella-microsome assay. Taken together, these findings suggest that 2-AP is a potential chemopreventive agent.
Phthalates are ubiquitous chemicals used in consumer products. Some phthalates are reproductive toxicants in experimental animals, but human data are limited.
We conducted a cross-sectional study of urinary phthalate metabolite concentrations in relation to self-reported history of endometriosis and uterine leiomyomata among 1,227 women 20-54 years of age from three cycles of the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), 1999-2004.
We examined four phthalate metabolites: mono(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (MEHP), monobutyl phthalate (MBP), monoethyl phthalate (MEP), and monobenzyl phthalate (MBzP). From the last two NHANES cycles, we also examined mono(2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexyl) phthalate (MEHHP) and mono(2-ethyl-5-oxohexyl) phthalate (MEOHP). We used logistic regression to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs), adjusting for potential confounders.
Eighty-seven (7%) and 151 (12%) women reported diagnoses of endometriosis and leiomyomata, respectively. The ORs comparing the highest versus lowest three quartiles of urinary MBP were 1.36 (95% CI, 0.77-2.41) for endometriosis, 1.56 (95% CI, 0.93-2.61) for leiomyomata, and 1.71 (95% CI, 1.07-2.75) for both conditions combined. The corresponding ORs for MEHP were 0.44 (95% CI, 0.19-1.02) for endometriosis, 0.63 (95% CI, 0.35-1.12) for leiomyomata, and 0.59 (95% CI, 0.37-0.95) for both conditions combined. Findings for MEHHP and MEOHP agreed with findings for MEHP with respect to endometriosis only. We observed null associations for MEP and MBzP. Associations were similar when we excluded women diagnosed > 7 years before their NHANES evaluation.
The positive associations for MBP and inverse associations for MEHP in relation to endometriosis and leiomyomata warrant investigation in prospective studies.
The long-term neurotoxicity risks caused by prenatal exposures to pesticides are unclear, but a previous pilot study of Ecuadorian school children suggested that blood pressure and visuospatial processing may be vulnerable.
In northern Ecuador, where floriculture is intensive and relies on female employment, we carried out an intensive cross-sectional study to assess children's neurobehavioral functions at 6-8 years of age.
We examined all 87 children attending two grades in the local public school with an expanded battery of neurobehavioral tests. Information on pesticide exposure during the index pregnancy was obtained from maternal interview. The children's current pesticide exposure was assessed from the urinary excretion of organophosphate metabolites and erythrocyte acetylcholine esterase activity.
Of 84 eligible participants, 35 were exposed to pesticides during pregnancy via maternal occupational exposure, and 23 had indirect exposure from paternal work. Twenty-two children had detectable current exposure irrespective of their prenatal exposure status. Only children with pre-natal exposure from maternal greenhouse work showed consistent deficits after covariate adjustment, which included stunting and socioeconomic variables. Exposure-related deficits were the strongest for motor speed (Finger Tapping Task), motor coordination (Santa Ana Form Board), visuospatial performance (Stanford-Binet Copying Test), and visual memory (Stanford-Binet Copying Recall Test). These associations corresponded to a developmental delay of 1.5-2 years. Prenatal pesticide exposure was also significantly associated with an average increase of 3.6 mmHg in systolic blood pressure and a slight decrease in body mass index of 1.1 kg/m2. Inclusion of the pilot data strengthened these results.
These findings support the notion that prenatal exposure to pesticides-at levels not producing adverse health outcomes in the mother-can cause lasting adverse effects on brain development in children. Pesticide exposure therefore may contribute to a "silent pandemic" of developmental neurotoxicity.
Tamoxifen (TAM) is a nonsteroidal antiestrogen that prevents estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer in rodents and humans. Bexarotene (BEX), a selective agonist for retinoid X receptors, inhibits mammary carcinogenesis in rodents. The present study was conducted to support the preclinical development of TAM (tamoxifen citrate) + BEX for use in breast cancer chemoprevention, and to investigate the influence of these agents on hepatic gene expression. Female CD rats (20 per group) received daily oral (gavage) exposure to TAM (0 or 60 microg/kg/day) and/or BEX (0, 5, 15, or 45 mg/kg/day) for a minimum of 90 days. BEX induced mild, dose-related anemia and dose-related increases in serum alkaline phosphatase, cholesterol, triglycerides, and calcium levels, and increased platelet counts. TAM had no biologically significant effect on any clinical pathology parameter and did not alter the effects of BEX on these endpoints. Microscopic alterations induced by BEX included epidermal hyperplasia, hyperkeratosis (stomach), and cytoplasmic clearing (liver). Microscopic changes in TAM-treated rats were limited to mucous cell hypertrophy in the cervix and vagina. The toxicity of administration of the combination of TAM + BEX can generally be predicted on the basis of the toxicity of each drug as a single agent. BEX induced dose-related alterations in the expression of several genes involved in steroid, drug, and/or fatty acid metabolism; TAM did not alter these effects of BEX. Differential expression of genes involved in drug and lipid metabolism may underlie the observed effects of BEX on cholesterol and triglyceride levels and its effects on liver histology.
1. This study was aimed at evaluating the effects of IY81149[2-[[(4methoxy-3-methyl)-2-pyridinyl]methylsulfinyl]-5-(1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-1H-benzimidazole], a new proton pump inhibitor, on the development of the surgically induced reflux oesophagitis, on gastric secretion and on lipid peroxidation which is a marker of oxidative stress. Omeprazole was used as a reference drug. We furthermore investigated the influence of quercetin and desferrioxamine (DFO) on the development of the surgically induced reflux oesophagitis in rats on gastric secretion and on lipid peroxidation. 2. IY81149 and omeprazole significantly prevented the development of reflux oesophagitis and gastric secretion in a dose-dependent manner. The ED50 values of IY81149 for inhibition of oesophagitis and volume of gastric secretion were lower than of omeprazole (5.7 vs. 14.2 micromol, 15.3 vs. 24.0 micromol, respectively). IY81149 was also more potent in the acid output inhibition with an ED50 of 6.8 micromol compared with 20.8 micromol of omeprazole. 3. Malonyldialdehyde (MDA) content, the end product of lipid peroxidation, increased significantly in the oesophageal mucosa after the induction of reflux oesophagitis. IY81149 and omeprazole significantly and dose-dependently prevented lipid peroxidation. Quercetin (200 mg kg-1, p.o.) and DFO (800 mg kg-1, i.d.) significantly prevented the development of reflux oesophagitis and inhibited the lipid peroxidation independent of their actions on gastric secretion. 4. This result suggests that IY81149 is comparable with omeprazole in the treatment of reflux oesophagitis.
Eight patients with hypersomnolent, anergic major depression benefited markedly from treatment with relatively high doses of phenelzine or tranylcypromine but experienced intense afternoon somnolence and disrupted sleep. Reducing the dose of monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) or substituting isocarboxazid sometimes provided relief, but altering the schedule of drugs or meals did not. Bedtime sedation alleviated the disrupted sleep but had little effect on daytime somnolence. The mechanism underlying this side effect is unknown; sleep deprivation, narcolepsy, or hypotension does not account for it. Patients given an MAOI should be assessed for this disturbance and cautioned to avoid risk of injury when it occurs.
In this study, we evaluated the role of central 5-HT(4) receptors in the control of motor behaviors related to change of nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) transmission, namely, stereotyped behavior and catalepsy in rats. Indeed, given that 5-HT(4) receptors indirectly modulate nigrostriatal DA neuron activity, we hypothesized that these receptors would regulate nigrostriatal DA transmission in the basal ganglia, and consequently, associated motor responses. Stereotypy was induced either by an acute administration of apomorphine (0.3 and 1.5 mg/kg sc), or by a single morphine administration (15 mg/kg sc) in chronically morphine-treated (15 mg/kg sc, twice daily for 10 days) rats. Catalepsy was induced by the typical neuroleptic haloperidol (HAL; 1 mg/kg sc). The selective 5-HT(4) antagonist, GR 125487 (1 mg/kg ip), modified neither apomorphine- nor morphine-induced stereotypy. HAL-induced catalepsy, while reduced by the systemic administration of the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg sc), was insensitive to GR 125487, systemically (1, 3, 10 mg/kg ip) or locally (20 and 40 nmol/20 microl) administered into the third ventricle. Also, HAL-induced catalepsy was not affected by the selective 5-HT(4) antagonist GR 113808 (3 mg/kg ip). The obtained results indicate that 5-HT(4) receptor antagonism does not modulate motor behaviors related to change of striatal DA transmission.
Two-hundred-eight women attending family planning clinics in New York City who received the Norplant contraceptive system during the first sixteen months of Norplant implants insertions were evaluated. Within this clinic population, Norplant implants were a popular contraceptive choice and were removed from 64 of the 208 recipients. Reasons for removal included bleeding, weight gain, and headache, and were consistent with those found in the clinical trials. Prior satisfaction with oral contraceptives did not predict success or failure with Norplant implants. The rate of follow-up visits to the family planning clinics was low. However, evidence exists that these women did not lose contact with the medical center and continued to receive health care.
An analysis is provided of 208 women who accepted Norplant between March 1991 and July 1992 at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in New York City. About 9600 patients attended the family planning clinics during the study period. The findings indicated that 45% of Norplant users were insured by Medicaid, 52% were not charged, and 3% paid in full or partially. The waiting list for Norplant was 400 persons long due to budget constraints and limited product availability. There were 353 visits among 170 Norplant users by October 20, 1993, of which 25% took place within the first month following insertion. The mean follow-up time after insertion was 10.8 months for 208 patients and 11.9 months for those with any follow-up visit. Follow-ups visits were similar for teenagers and adults. 64 women returned for removal by October 20, 1993. The mean duration of use before removal was 12.1 months. The reasons for removal were given as irregular bleeding, weight gain, and headache. The mean age of those with implants removed was 26.1 years. 19.0% of Norplant acceptors were teenagers, of whom 64.0% were discontinuers. One ectopic pregnancy occurred at 24 months, and one intrauterine pregnancy occurred at 14 months. The ectopic pregnancy did not require surgery. 163 users had a contraceptive history. 93% had used oral contraceptives, and 56% had discontinued use due to side effects. The mean duration of implant use was 19.9 months distributed as follows: 45 women for 16 months, 89 women for 16-23 months, 35 women at 23-28 months, and 39 women after 28 months. The removal rate was 19/100 woman years. Teenage removal rate was 2.7/100 woman years. The first 12 months removal rate among 179 women was 15/100 woman years. The two-year removal rate was 32/100 woman years. The return visit rate was considered low, and acceptance was considered high among a Hispanic population; continuation was high among teenagers.
The effect of pretreatment with the corticotropin releasing factor (CRF-41) antagonist, alpha-helical CRF(9-41), on the hypotensive response obtained on peripheral administration of CRF-41 has been assessed in anesthetized Wistar rats. A single IV bolus dose of rat CRF-41 (2 nmol, at 0 min) produced a hypotensive effect which was rapid in onset (-52 mmHg at +1 min) and sustained throughout the 60-min study period (-42, -40, -26 and -16 mmHg at +3, +10, +30 and +60 min, respectively). The antagonist [alpha CRF(9-41)] was administered in consecutive bolus doses of 12.5, 25 and 50 nmol at -15, -10 and -5 min, respectively. This had no effect on mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) or heart rate, nor did it change significantly the magnitude of the initial rapid fall in MABP when CRF-41 was administered (-45 mmHg at +1 min). However, following pretreatment with alpha CRF(9-41), MABP returned to control values within 3 min and the sustained period of hypotension was completely blocked. Administration of CRF-41 resulted in 44% and 142% increases in norepinephrine and epinephrine measured at +60 min. Pretreatment with the antagonist attenuated the rise in circulating catecholamine levels observed after CRF-41 administration. In comparison, pretreatment with the antagonist did not alter the ACTH response to CRF-41 at +1 and +3 min and only reduced ACTH levels by 28% (p less than 0.05), 43% (p less than 0.001) and 41% (p less than 0.01) at 10, 30 and 60 min, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To evaluate the changes in cortical somatosensory-evoked potentials (SEPs) after botulinum toxin type A injection to determine what effect spasticity has on cortical SEPs.
Intervention study and before-after trial.
University-affiliated hospital in Korea.
Twelve children with spastic hemiplegic cerebral palsy (CP), 7 children with spastic diplegic CP, and 8 patients with traumatic brain injury.
All participants had botulinum toxin type A injected into the muscles of the spastic limb.
SEPs were recorded before and 7 days after the botulinum toxin type A injection. Spasticity of the affected spastic limb was also measured. The short latency and amplitude of waves in SEPs were measured. The SEP results were divided into 3 groups: flat (no evoked potential), abnormal (evoked but delayed in latency), and normal (clear waveform with normal latency).
The normal response of cortical SEP increased after injection. The SEPs exhibited more frequent improvement in the limbs, with greater improvement of spasticity in grade (>1.0 grade) and in patients of younger age (<3y) after injection (P<.05).
The observed improvement of cortical SEPs with associated reduction of spasticity that occurred after the botulinum toxin type A injection indicates that spasticity itself can be considered a factor affecting cortical SEPs.
Twenty-six cases of Reye syndrome from The Children's Hospital, Camperdown, Australia, occurring between 1973 and 1982 were reviewed. Of these, 20 cases met the US Public Health Service Centers for Disease Control criteria for the diagnosis of Reye syndrome. Aspirin or salicylate ingestion had occurred in only one of the 20 cases (5%), and paracetamol (acetaminophen) had been administered in only six of the cases (30%). Pathologic confirmation of the diagnosis of Reye syndrome was accomplished in 90% of the cases. The incidence of Reye syndrome in New South Wales, Australia, is estimated from this study to be approximately nine cases per 1 million children compared with recent US data of ten to 20 cases per 1 million children and three to seven cases per 1 million children in Great Britain. The mortality for these Reye syndrome cases in Australia was 45% as compared with a 32% case-fatality rate in the United States. In Australia, the pediatric usage of aspirin has been extremely low for the past 25 years (less than 1% of total dosage units sold), with paracetamol (acetaminophen) dominating the pediatric analgesic and antipyretic market. Reye syndrome may be disappearing from Australia despite a total lack of association with salicylates or aspirin ingestion, since there were no cases found at The Children's Hospital in 1983, 1984, or 1985.
In this study the effects of the atypical antipsychotics quetiapine and olanzapine, and the typical antipsychotic haloperidol on EEG patterns were retrospectively investigated in 81 patients under stable monotherapy with either drug (quetiapine: n=22, olanzapine: n=37, haloperidol: n=22). These three subgroups were compared with a control group of healthy subjects (n=30) which were matched regarding sex and age. Diagnoses of patients were schizophrenia (DSM-IV 295.xx, n=61), brief psychotic disorder (DSM-IV 298.8, n=9), schizoaffective disorder (DSM-IV 295.70, n=8) and delusional disorder (DSM-IV 297.1, n=3). There were no statistically significant differences regarding demographic characteristics between the groups. Digital EEG recordings were retrieved from a database and visually assessed by two independent investigators, and one blinded regarding medication. One patient from the quetiapine group (5%), 13 olanzapine patients (35%), five of the haloperidol patients (23%) and two subjects of the control group (7%) had an abnormal EEG. Epileptiform activity was observed in four patients (11%) of the olanzapine group, and none in the others. EEG abnormalities were statistically significantly increased with dose in the olanzapine group, in contrast to patients treated with haloperidol, quetiapine or healthy subjects. In conclusion, EEG abnormalities seem to occur rarely in patients treated with quetiapine comparable to the control group, but significantly more often with haloperidol and olanzapine, possibly due to different receptor profiles of these substances. To our knowledge, this is the first electrophysiological investigation comparing the new atypical antipsychotics quetiapine, haloperidol, olanzapine with healthy subjects.
We report a unique patient who had temporary isoniazid-induced myoclonic seizures. A 74-year-old man noticed involuntary movements in the upper extremities when he received isoniazid in pulmonary atypical mycobacteriosis late June 1996. Neurological examination revealed myoclonic jerking in the upper limbs. Although isoniazid treatment had been given to November 1996, the myoclonic seizures were spontaneously ameliorated at 2 weeks following the onset. The second administration of isoniazid was started for the exacerbation of pulmonary atypical mycobacteriosis in February 13, 1999. Immediately he developed myoclonic seizures in the upper extremities. Neurological examination showed myoclonic jerking in the upper extremities and cerebellar ataxia in the lower extremities. These neurological deficits were naturally improved within a week. Brain MRI suggested multiple lacunar infarction. EEG showed slow theta and sharp waves. Somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) revealed giant potentials. There was no renal or liver dysfunction. Serum vitamin B6 levels were decreased slightly. The metabolic studies of serum and cerebrospinal fluid isoniazid concentrations demonstrated slow inactivation of this agent. After the end of isoniazid treatment, EEG and SEP were normal. The results of these studies indicated that slow inactivator of isoniazid and its epileptogenic effects might contribute to the pathogenesis of myoclonic seizures in our patient.
Valvular heart abnormalities have been reported in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) treated with pergolide. However, the incidence and severity of these abnormalities vary from study to study and their course after drug withdrawal has not been systematically assessed.
To estimate the frequency and severity of valvular heart abnormality and its possible reversibility after drug withdrawal in a case-control study.
All PD patients in the Amiens area treated with pergolide were invited to attend a cardiologic assessment including transthoracic echocardiography. Thirty PD patients participated in the study. A second echocardiography was performed (median interval: 13 months) after pergolide withdrawal (n=10 patients). Controls were age- and sex-matched non-PD patients referred to the cardiology department.
Compared to controls, aortic regurgitation (OR: 3.1; 95% IC: 1.1-8.8) and mitral regurgitation (OR: 10.7; 95% IC: 2.1-53) were more frequent in PD patients (tricuspid: NS). The number of affected valves (n=2.4+/-0.7) and the sum of regurgitation grades (n=2.8+/-1.09) were higher (p=0.008 and p=0.006, respectively) in the pergolide group. Severity of regurgitation was not correlated with pergolide cumulative dose. A restrictive pattern of valvular regurgitation, suggestive of the role of pergolide, was observed in 12/30 (40%) patients including two with heart failure. Pergolide was discontinued in 10 patients with valvular heart disease, resulting in a lower regurgitation grade (p=0.01) at the second transthoracic echocardiography and the two patients with heart failure returned to nearly normal clinical examination. This study supports the high frequency of restrictive valve regurgitation in PD patients treated with pergolide and reveals that a significant improvement is usual when the treatment is converted to non-ergot dopamine agonists.
The present study investigated the toxicity of repeated subcutaneous cocaine administrations combined with oral doses of ethanol, and discussed the role of the toxic metabolite cocaethylene. Subcutaneous cocaine (70 mg/kg) was given to male ICR mice at 45 min after an oral administration of either ethanol (maximum 3 g/kg) (cocaine-ethanol group; n = 50) or saline control (cocaine group; n = 30), once per day, for up to 5 days. In the combined cocaine-ethanol group, the total frequency of death was significantly increased (86%) as compared to the cocaine group (40%). In both administration groups, regardless of the day of death, "late" deaths characterized by the late and unexpected onset of fatal symptoms could be differentiated from "early" deaths on the basis of the survival time after the last cocaine injection, the drug concentrations in the tissues at the time of death, and/or the observed physical disorders. In the combined cocaine-ethanol group, a late death group with survival times exceeding 12 hr and two early death groups could be differentiated, based on the presence or absence of cocaethylene and the different types of clinical symptoms. In the early death group in which cocaethylene could be detected, the volume of ethanol ingested was not significantly different from the late death group with large ethanol consumption and slow exacerbation of the respiratory and locomotive symptoms. Furthermore, the severity of the cocaine-induced seizures was also similarly decreased by ethanol. In the other early death group in which cocaethylene could not be detected, the volume of ethanol ingested was significantly lower than in the late death group, and seizures as severe as in the cocaine-only group were observed.
A case of 72 year old woman with arterial hypertension is presented. The woman was treated with clonidine and nifedipine. Hypokalemia was found by normal urine excretion of potassium and normal intraerythrocyte potassium contents. It is assumed that the hypokalemia was due to the nifedipine treatment.
Ficus religiosa Linn (Moraceae) is a variety of fig tree. Its figs are known to contain a high serotonergic content, and modulation of serotonergic neurotransmission plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of amnesia. Thus, the present study was envisaged.
To investigate the effect of the methanol extract of figs of Ficus religiosa (FRFE) on scopolamine-induced anterograde and retrograde amnesia in mice.
Transfer latency (TL) to the preferred niche in the elevated plus-maze (EPM) and learning avoidance of passive behavior to avoid punishment in the modified passive avoidance paradigm (MPA) served as behavioral models for the assessment of memory. Scopolamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered before training for induction of anterograde amnesia and before retrieval for induction of retrograde amnesia in both models. TL in the EPM, step down latency (SDL), number of trials, and number of mistakes in the MPA were determined in vehicle control, FRFE treated (10, 50, and 100 mg/kg, i.p.), and standard groups (piracetam 200 mg/kg, i.p.). Cyproheptadine, a non-selective 5-HT(1/2) blocker (4 mg/kg, i.p.), was administered along with the FRFE to investigate the involvement of serotonergic pathways in the anti-amnesic effect of FRFE.
FRFE resulted in a significant improvement of memory, as its treatment attenuated the scopolamine-induced anterograde and retrograde amnesia dose-dependently. Further, cyproheptadine pretreatment significantly reversed the anti-amnesic effect of FRFE.
FRFE has anti-amnesic activity against scopolamine-induced amnesia, in a dose-dependent manner. Inhibition of the anti-amnesic effect of FRFE by cyproheptadine substantiates the involvement of serotonergic pathways for its activity.
Clinical evidence of methamphetamine (MAP)-induced reverse-tolerance phenomenon is available in studies of methamphetamine psychosis. To examine the clinical relevance of the reverse-tolerance phenomenon as a model of this psychosis, two experiments were conducted using rats. In the first experiment, we examined the relationship of MAP (4 mg/kg/day)-induced reverse tolerance in behavioral stereotypy to impairment of the cliff avoidance reaction (CAR). The stereotypy scores by the method of Creese and Iversen reached a maximum at day 14, and were unchanged thereafter. Impairment of CAR appeared in 3 of 6 rats at day 21 or 28 without motor ataxia, as rated by the scoring system of Hiramatsu et al. This suggested that cognitive dysfunction reflected by CAR impairment may develop after MAP-induced reverse-tolerance phenomenon, as evaluated by the behavioral stereotyping rating scale. In the second experiment, the effect of PCP (1 mg/kg) on CAR was examined in rats pretreated with MAP (4 mg/kg/day) for 30 days. No behavioral stereotypy or CAR impairment was found in these rats for 1 hour after PCP challenge. This showed that MAP-induced reverse-tolerance did not alter sensitivity to PCP in producing behavioral stereotypy or CAR impairment.
Vitamin E deficiency has been implicated as a causal factor in neurological disease for some time. Nevertheless, only in the last 10 years have we begun to understand the role this vitamin plays in the normal functioning and structure of the nervous system. Chronic fat malabsorption syndromes are the most common causes of low levels of this highly fat-soluble vitamin. We present a case of chronic polyneuropathy due to vitamin E deficiency caused by malabsorption in which a biliary-cholonic fistula was present. Plasma tocopherol levels were normalized by parenteral substitution, leading to substantial clinical improvement. We suggest that vitamin E levels be determined in cases of digestive disorders involving malabsorption of fats and in chronic neurological diseases, particularly spinal-cerebral degenerative and polyneuropathic diseases that are mainly sensory or motor-sensory in nature, given the potential reversibility of these disorders when caused by vitamin E deficiency.
Iron participates in the generation of hydroxyl radicals by the iron-catalyzed Fenton reaction. Its role in estrogen-induced carcinogenesis has been examined in this study by investigating the effects of iron content of hamster diets on tumor induction by estradiol. The renal tumor incidence and number of tumor nodules in hamsters treated with estradiol plus a diet enriched with iron (384 p.p.m. Fe as ferric citrate) for 5 months were 2- and 4-fold higher, respectively, than those observed in animals on an iron-poor diet plus estradiol (3.9 p.p.m. Fe, as ferric citrate). Tumor incidence and number of tumor nodules in estradiol-treated hamsters on the iron-deficient diet were not different from those of animals on a normal rodent chow. No tumors were detected in hamsters treated only with the low or high iron diets. Total serum iron was significantly increased in animals treated with the high iron diet plus estradiol compared with the low iron diet plus estradiol group and the high and low iron controls. Estrogen treatment increased non-heme iron in liver of both high and low iron treatment groups and in kidney of the hamsters on the low iron diet. It is concluded that dietary iron enrichment enhances the incidence and severity of estrogen-induced tumor induction.
Catecholestrogens are postulated to contribute to carcinogenesis by causing DNA damage mediated by reactive oxygen species generated during redox cycling between catechol and quinone estrogens, and by quinone estrogens that can form depurinating adducts. The above hypothesis is based principally on studies of the cancers that develop in renal cortex of hamsters treated with primary estrogens: Hamster kidney can catalyze 2- and 4-hydroxylation of estrogens and support their redox cycling, and the kidneys of estradiol-treated hamsters show evidence of oxidative cellular and DNA damage. Here we used immunocytochemisty to test the postulate that catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), the enzyme that can prevent oxidation of catecholestrogens to their quinone derivatives, would be induced in renal cortex of hamsters treated with estradiol or ethinyl estradiol. In kidneys of control hamsters, COMT was localized in cytoplasm of epithelial cells of proximal convoluted tubules, predominantly in the juxtamedullary region where the estrogen-induced cancers arise. After 2- or 4-weeks of treatment with either estrogen, COMT was seen in epithelial cells of proximal convoluted tubules throughout the cortex, and many cells also showed intense nuclear COMT immunoreactivity. Estradiol-induced renal cancers were negative for COMT, but were surrounded by tubules with intense cytoplasmic and nuclear immunostaining. The nucleus-associated COMT was shown by immunoblot analysis to be the soluble form of the enzyme. Using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction amplification, hamster kidney COMT was shown to lack the putative nuclear localization signal sequence present in human COMT. A second phase II enzyme, CuZn-superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD), was shown by immunocytochemistry to remain extranuclear in proximal convoluted tubules of estrogen-treated hamsters, which indicates entry of COMT into the nucleus to be selective. The findings are consistent with the catechol/quinone estrogen hypothesis of estrogen-induced cancer, while the translocation of the enzyme to the nucleus following estrogen treatment suggests a response to a threat to the genome by electrophilic products of catechols.
Central nervous system (CNS) reactions to intermittently infused lidocaine HCl (i.v.) were evaluated from cardiorespiratory and behavioral responses in 33 mongrel dogs. Threshold convulsive doses were established for each of three distinct and predictable seizure patterns. The first seizure activity observed was tonic extension (TE) which occurred at an infused lidocaine dose of 12.2+/-0.6 mg/kg followed by running activity after 22.7+/-0.9 mg/kg lidocaine was given. The threshold for intermittent tonic-clonic seizures (ICS) occurred at an infused lidocaine dose of 33.3+/-1.5 mg/kg. Mean blood pressure and pulse pressure increased at the onset of TE and ICS, with a decline in arterial pH and PCO2 during the ICS. No relationship was found between the animals' acid-base status and the ICS threshold. Toxicity to lidocaine in the dog is expressed by distinct behavioral responses suggesting lidocaine may affect various parts of the CNS. The mongrel dog appears to be a satisfactory and simple model system to evaluate lidocaine toxicity from behavioral and cardiorespiratory responses.
A seven-generation family with 30 members affected by highly variable autosomal dominant zonular pulverulent cataracts has been previously described. We have localized the cataracts to a 19-cM interval on chromosome 2q33-q35 including the gamma-crystallin gene cluster. Maximum lod scores are 4.56 (theta=0.02) with D2S157, 3.66 (theta=0.12) with D2S72, and 3.57 (theta=0.052) with CRYG. Sequencing and allele-specific oligonucleotide analysis of the pseudo gammaE-crystallin promoter region from individuals in the pedigree suggest that activation of the gammaE-crystallin pseudo gene is unlikely to cause the cataracts in the family. In addition, base changes in the TATA box but not the Sp1-binding site have been found in unaffected controls and can be excluded as a sole cause of cataracts. In order to investigate the underlying genetic mechanism of cataracts in this family further, exons of the highly expressed gammaC- and gammaD-crystallin genes have been sequenced. The gammaD-crystallin gene shows no abnormalities, but a 5-bp duplication within exon 2 of the gammaC-crystallin gene has been found in one allele of each affected family member and is absent from both unaffected family members and unaffected controls. This mutation disrupts the reading frame of the gammaC-crystallin coding sequence and is predicted to result in the synthesis of an unstable gammaC-crystallin with 38 amino acids of the first "Greek key" motif followed by 52 random amino acids. This finding suggests that the appropriate association of mutant betagamma-crystallins into oligomers is not necessary to cause cataracts and may give us new insights into the genetic mechanism of cataract formation.
The effect of meso 2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) and monoisoamyl DMSA (MiADMSA) on gallium arsenide (GaAs) induced liver damage was studied. The oral feeding rat model was used in this study. The animals were exposed to 10 mg/kg GaAs, orally, once daily, 5 days a week for 24 weeks and treated thereafter with single oral daily dose of either 0.3 mmol/kg DMSA or MiADMSA for two course of 5 days treatment. The animals were sacrificed thereafter. Lipid peroxidation was assessed by measuring liver thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS). Liver damage was assessed by number of biochemical variables and by light microscopy. The activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD) beside reduced glutathione (GSH) concentration was measured in blood. Exposure to GaAs produced a significant reduction in GSH while, increased the oxidized glutathione (GSSG) concentration. Hepatic glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and catalase activity increased significantly while level of serum transaminase increased moderately. Gallium arsenide exposure also produced marked hepatic histopathological lesions. Overall, treatment with MiADMSA proved to be better than DMSA in the mobilization of arsenic and in the turnover of some of the above mentioned GaAs sensitive biochemical alterations. Histopathological lesions also, responded more favorably to chelation treatment with MiADMSA than DMSA.
Chromium, selenium, and zinc malnutrition has been implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetic mellitus. This study aims to investigate the effects of novel multiminerals-enriched yeast (MMEY) which are minerals supplementation containing elevated levels of chromium, selenium, and zinc simultaneously in a diabetic animal model. Streptozocin-induced diabetic male Balb/c mice (n = 80) were randomly divided into diabetes control group and three treatment groups. They were administrated oral gavages with low, medium, or high doses of MMEY, respectively. Meanwhile, healthy male Balb/c mice (n = 40) of the same body weight were randomly assigned into normal control group and high dose of MMEY control group. After 8 weeks duration of treatment, the animals were sacrificed by cervical dislocation. Serum glucose concentrations, lipid profiles, oxidative/antioxidant, and immunity status were determined. No significant adverse effects were observed in the high-dose MMEY control group. Treatment of the diabetic mice with medium- or high-dose MMEY significantly decreased serum glucose, triglyceride, total cholesterol, and malondialdehyde and increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, glutathione, and the activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase. In addition, MMEY ameliorated the pathological damage of the pancreatic islets, elevated the thymus or spleen coefficient, and increased the expressions of interleukin-2 and -4 in spleen lymphocytes compared with unsupplemented diabetic mice. In conclusion, these results indicate that supplemental MMEY inhibits hyperglycemia, abates oxidative stress, modulates disorders of lipid metabolism, and reduces the impairment of immune function in diabetic mice; especially notable are the protective effects of medium doses of MMEY on the islet cells of diabetic mice.
