In a previous paper we reported that medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) decreased the incidence of foreign body tumorigenesis in BALB/c mice but that mammary adenocarcinomas appeared in some of the females. The experiment was repeated in 245 virgin females as follows: (1) 40 mice treated with 40 mg of MPA depot s.c. every 2 months during a whole year; (2) 117 mice bearing a foreign body (FB) and treated with MPA; (3) 46 mice bearing a FB; (4) 42 non-treated mice. Mammary adenocarcinomas developed in 16/40 in group 1 and 30/117 in group 2; no mammary tumors appeared in either control groups. The tumors were infiltrating adenocarcinomas often affecting more than one mammary gland; metastases were occasionally observed. Animals killed after 1 year of MPA treatment presented deciduomas. MPA also decreased the incidence of FB-induced sarcomas, confirming previous results.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is treated with antidepressants, but only between 50% and 70% of the patients respond to the initial treatment. Several authors suggested different factors that could predict antidepressant response, including clinical, psychophysiological, neuropsychological, neuroimaging, and genetic variables. However, these different predictors present poor prognostic sensitivity and specificity by themselves. The aim of our work is to study the possible role of clinical variables, neuropsychological performance, and the 5HTTLPR, rs25531, and val108/58Met COMT polymorphisms in the prediction of the response to fluoxetine after 4weeks of treatment in a sample of patient with MDD.
64 patients with MDD were genotyped according to the above-mentioned polymorphisms, and were clinically and neuropsychologically assessed before a 4-week fluoxetine treatment. Fluoxetine response was assessed by using the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale. We carried out a binary logistic regression model for the potential predictive variables.
Out of the clinical variables studied, only the number of anxiety disorders comorbid with MDD have predicted a poor response to the treatment. A combination of a good performance in variables of attention and low performance in planning could predict a good response to fluoxetine in patients with MDD. None of the genetic variables studied had predictive value in our model.
The possible placebo effect has not been controlled. Our study is focused on response prediction but not in remission prediction.
Our work suggests that the combination of the number of comorbid anxiety disorders, an attentional variable, and two planning variables makes it possible to correctly classify 82% of the depressed patients who responded to the treatment with fluoxetine, and 74% of the patients who did not respond to that treatment.
Perfluorooctanoic acid is a ligand for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPARα). Ammonium perfluorooctanoate (APFO) at 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg doses activated mouse PPARα, but not human PPARα. This study aimed to clarify whether milligram-order APFO can activate human PPARα, and the receptor is involved in APFO-induced chronic hepatic damage. Male Sv/129 wild-type (mPPARα), Pparα-null, and humanized PPARα (hPPARα) mice (8 weeks old) were divided into three groups. The first was treated with water and the other two with 1.0 and 5.0 mg/kg APFO for 6 weeks, orally, respectively. Both doses activated mouse and human PPARα to a similar or lower degree in the latter. APFO dose dependently increased hepatic triglyceride levels in Pparα-null and hPPARα mice, but conversely decreased those in mPPARα ones. APFO-induced hepatic damage differed markedly among the three genotyped groups: single-cell necrosis was observed in all genotyped mice; inflammatory cells and macrovesicular steatosis only in Pparα-null mice; and microvesicular steatosis and hydropic degenerations in hPPARα and Pparα-null mice. The molecular mechanism underlying these differences may be attributable to those of gene expressions involved in lipid homeostasis (PPARα, β- and ω-oxidation enzymes, and diacylglycerol acyltransferases) and uncoupling protein 2. Thus, milligram-order APFO activated both mouse and human PPARα in a different manner, which may reflect histopathologically different types of hepatic damage.
To evaluate the catecholamine and renin-angiotensin response during controlled hypotension combined with hemodilution in the clinical setting.
Randomized, prospective study.
Inpatient surgery at Nagasaki Rosai Hospital.
30 ASA physical status I and II female patients scheduled for total hip arthroplasty.
Patients were randomly divided into three groups. Group A (N = 10) received hemodilution alone. Group B (N = 10) received controlled hypotension alone. Group C (N = 10) received hemodilution plus controlled hypotension. Hemodilution was carried out after induction of anesthesia, in which drawn blood was replaced with 6% hydroxyethyl starch, and the final hematocrit value was approximately 22%. Controlled hypotension was induced with prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) to maintain mean arterial blood pressure at 55 mmHg for 80 minutes.
Measurements included plasma renin activity (RA) and plasma concentrations of angiotensin-II (AG-II), aldosterone (AS), norepinephrine (NE), and epinephrine (EP). These indices were measured before hemodilution, after hemodilution, 80 minutes after starting hypotension, and 60 minutes after recovery from hypotension. Hemodilution alone caused no significant change in the values throughout the time course. Controlled hypotension alone caused significant increases in plasma concentrations of NE (+295%) and EP (+203%) at 80 minutes after starting hypotension, whereas it caused no change in plasma RA and plasma concentrations of AG-II and AS. Hemodilution plus controlled hypotension caused significant increases in plasma RA (+271%) and plasma concentrations of AG-II (+188%), AS (+199%), NE (+279%), and EP (+184%) at 80 minutes after starting hypotension.
The combination of hemodilution and PGE1 induced controlled hypotension causes significant responses, especially in a renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system under isoflurane anesthesia.
Beta-amyloid peptides (Abeta) are major constituents of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain and contribute to neurodegeneration, operating through activation of apoptotic pathways. It has been proposed that Abeta induces death by oxidative stress, possibly through the generation of peroxynitrite from superoxide and nitric oxide. Estrogen is thought to play a protective role against neurodegeneration through a variety of mechanisms including scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this study, we have challenged with Abeta, either in the presence or in the absence of 17beta-estradiol, differentiated human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells (named line SH) and the same line overexpressing anti-oxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1; named line WT). We have observed that: (1) WT cells are less susceptible than SH cells to Abeta insult; (2) caspase-3, but not caspase-1, is involved in Abeta-induced apoptosis in this system; (3) estrogen protects both lines, without significantly affecting SOD activity; and (4) copper chelators prevent Abeta-induced toxicity. Our results further support the notion that anti-oxidant therapy might be beneficial in the treatment of AD by preventing activation of selected apoptotic pathways.
2-Amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo-[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) are suspected human carcinogens generated in well done meats. After N-hydroxylation, they are O-acetylated by N-acetyltransferase 2 (NAT2) to electrophiles that form DNA adducts. dG-C8-MeIQx and dG-C8-PhIP adducts have been identified in human tissues. In the female rat, administration of PhIP leads to mammary and colon tumors, whereas MeIQx induces liver tumors. Both humans and rats exhibit NAT2 genetic polymorphism yielding rapid and slow acetylator phenotypes. Because O-acetylation is an activation pathway, we hypothesized that MeIQx- and PhIP-induced DNA damage would be greater in tumor target tissues and higher in rapid than slow NAT2 acetylators. Adult female rapid and slow acetylator rats congenic at the Nat2 locus received a single dose of 25 mg/kg MeIQx or 50 mg/kg PhIP by gavage, and tissue DNA was isolated after 24 h. Deoxyribonucleoside adducts were identified and quantified by capillary liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry using isotope dilution methods with deuterated internal standards. Major adducts were those bound to the C8 position of deoxyguanosine. dG-C8-PhIP DNA adducts were highest in colon, lowest in liver and did not significantly differ between rapid and slow acetylator congenic rats in any tissue tested. In contrast, dG-C8-MeIQx adducts were highest in liver and significantly (p < 0.001) higher in rapid acetylator liver than in slow acetylator liver. Our results are consistent with the tumor target specificity of PhIP and MeIQx and with increased susceptibility to MeIQx-induced liver tumors in rapid NAT2 acetylators.
Several lines of evidence support a role for the endogenous opioid system in mediating behaviors associated with drug dependence. Specifically, recent findings suggest that the kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) may play a role in aspects of nicotine dependence, which contribute to relapse and continued tobacco smoking.
The objective of this study is to determine the involvement of the KOR in the initial behavioral responses of nicotine, nicotine reward, and nicotine withdrawal using the highly selective KOR antagonist JDTic. JDTic doses of 1, 4, 8, or 16 mg/kg were administered subcutaneously (s.c.) 18 h prior to nicotine treatment.
JDTic dose-dependently blocked acute nicotine-induced antinociception in the tail-flick but not the hot-plate test and did not significantly attenuate morphine's antinociceptive effect in either the tail-flick or hot-plate test. Furthermore, JDTic (8 and 16 mg/kg, s.c.) failed to block the expression of nicotine reward as measured by the conditioned place preference model. In contrast, JDTic and the KOR antagonist norBNI attenuated the expression of both the physical (somatic signs and hyperalgesia) and affective (anxiety-related behavior and conditioned place aversion) nicotine withdrawal signs.
Our findings clearly show that the KOR is involved in mediating the withdrawal aspects of nicotine dependence. The results from this study suggest that blockade of the KOR by selective KOR antagonists may be useful smoking cessation pharmacotherapies.
N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide (DEET) is a particularly effective broad-spectrum insect repellent used commonly in recreational, occupational and military environments. Due to its widespread use and suggested link to Gulf War Illness, this study examined the immunotoxicity of DEET. Adult female B6C3F1 mice were injected sc for 14 days with DEET at 0, 7.7, 15.5, 31, or 62 mg/kg/day. Due to differences in the dermal absorption of DEET between mice and humans, this study eliminated this confounding factor by utilizing sc injection and measured circulating blood levels of DEET to assess bioavailability from sc administration. Effects on lymphocyte proliferation, natural killer cell activity, thymus and spleen weight and cellularity, the antibody plaque-forming cell (PFC) response, and thymic and splenic CD4/CD8 lymphocyte subpopulations were assessed 24 h after the last dose. No effect was observed in lymphocyte proliferation, natural killer cell activity, thymic weight, splenic weight, thymic cellularity, or splenic cellularity. Significant decreases were observed in the percentage of splenic CD4-/CD8- and CD4+/CD8- lymphocytes but only at the 62 mg DEET/kg/day treatment level and not in absolute numbers of these cells types. Additionally, significant decreases in the antibody PFC response were observed following treatment with 15.5, 31, or 62 mg DEET/kg/day. Pharmacokinetic (PK) data from the current study indicate 95% bioavailability of the administered dose. Therefore, it is likely that DEET exposure ranges applied in this study are comparable to currently reported occupational usage. Together, the evidence for immunosuppression and available PK data suggest a potential human health risk associated with DEET in the occupational or military environments assuming similar sensitivity between human and rodent responses.
Relapse is one of the main challenges facing the current treatment of cocaine addiction. Understanding its neurobiological mechanism is a critical step toward developing effective anti-relapse therapies.
Emerging evidence indicates that glutamate-mediated activation of dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) may be critically involved in cocaine-induced relapse to drug-seeking behavior. Activity of VTA DA neurons is modulated by multiple neurotransmitter systems including opioids, serotonin, dopamine, and acetylcholine. Recent studies demonstrated that activation of kappa-opioid receptors (kappaORs) in the rat VTA directly inhibits the activity of a subpopulation of DA neurons projecting to the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and amygdala. Because we previously showed that blockade of DA receptors in the dorsal PFC inhibits cocaine-induced reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior suggesting a critical role of the VTA-PFC DA circuit in this process, we tested the hypothesis that activation of kappaORs in the VTA will block cocaine-induced reinstatement in rats.
Rats were trained to self-administer intravenous cocaine (0.125 mg/infusion) under a modified fixed-ratio five schedule. After extinction of the learned behavior, the effects of activation of VTA kappaORs on cocaine-induced reinstatement were studied.
The kappaOR agonist U50 488 (0-5.6 microg/side) microinjected into the VTA dose-dependently decreased cocaine-induced reinstatement. The effects could not be explained by either a disruption of operant behavior or diffusion of the drug to the areas surrounding the VTA. Moreover, the effect was reversed by norbinaltorphimine.
The VTA DA neurons expressing functional kappaORs are critically involved in cocaine-induced reinstatement in rats.
Neurotoxicity represents a serious complication following orthotopic liver transplantation. Neurotoxicity may be evoked by various perioperative factors or develop due to drug-specific toxicity of immunosuppression. We evaluated the incidence of neurotoxicity in 121 patients, 61 randomly assigned to FK506 and 60 to CsA-based immunosuppression. The incidence of moderate or severe neurotoxicity was markedly higher in patients treated with FK506 in the early postoperative period (21.3% vs. 11.7% in patients receiving CsA), after retransplantation (100% vs. 0% in patients receiving CsA), and late (8 of 10 patients; P < or = 0.05 vs. CsA). Furthermore late neurotoxicity was highly associated with severe infections and MOFS, which had a lethal outcome in more than 50% of the patients. Patients who subsequently died developed neurologic symptoms in 67% of the cases. These patients also experienced moderate or severe neurotoxicity significantly more often in the early postoperative period compared with patients with a successful outcome (50% vs. 17.3%; P < or = 0.01). However, various blood and serum parameters, including ALT, bilirubin, urea, creatinine and glucose, when analyzed alone or in multivariate fashion, also correlated significantly with the incidence and severity of early postoperative neurotoxicity, indicating that neurotoxicity following LTX may be caused by various factors and is not exclusively a drug-specific side effect of immunosuppression.
Nephrotoxicity represents a serious side effect of immunosuppression following liver transplantation. In order to compare the nephrotoxic action of CsA and FK506 in a clinical setting, we evaluated the incidence of early and late nephrotoxicity in 121 patients, 60 of whom were randomly assigned to CsA- and 61 to FK506-based immunosuppression. Early postoperative renal insufficiency (between PODs 0 and 30; SCr 1.5-3 mg/dl) was observed to a similar extent in patients treated with CsA (38.3%) and FK506 (42.6%). Early postoperative acute renal failure (ARF) (SCr > 3 mg/dl) was observed in 18.0% of patients in the FK506 treatment group and 18.3% of patients receiving CsA therapy. Approximately half the patients with ARF required hemodialysis (CsA: 11.7%; and FK506: 8.2%). All patients with early postoperative ARF requiring hemodialysis survived for more than one year. New onset of late ARF (between PODs 30 and 365) was observed in 6.6% of patients receiving FK506 therapy and in 1.7% in the CsA treatment group as a result of severe infection with multiple organ failure syndrome (MOFS). There was 100% mortality in patients with late ARF requiring hemodialysis. Etiology and prognosis of early and late ARF seem to be completely different. Early ARF was associated with severe coagulopathy and a rise in bilirubin and free hemoglobin, and was accompanied by impaired liver function. Mean onset of hemodialysis in CsA-treated patients was POD 1 and in FK506-treated patients POD 6, which disclosed a different time course of drug-specific nephrotoxicity of CsA and FK506 in early ARF. In contrast, late ARF occurred in both treatment groups only as a part of the MOFS in association with severe infections, an observation consistent with the assumption of overimmunosuppression rather than a primary nephrotoxic effect. Late renal insufficiency appeared in 23.3% of CsA- and in 29.4% of FK506-treated patients, and represented a slowly progressing form of drug-specific nephrotoxicity of CsA and FK506. These preliminary results demonstrate a similar outcome in terms of both early and late nephrotoxicity, but longer follow-up will delineate the overall efficacy and toxicity in humans.
This case report describes a 32-year-old woman treated with indinavir who developed mild to moderate flank pain, malaise, and low-grade fever. Sterile pyuria preceded increased serum creatinine levels. Workup revealed persistent pyuria, normal-sized kidneys, a normal intravenous pyelography, and negative urinary cultures. Renal biopsy showed interstitial nephritis and chronic inflammation. Collecting ducts contained crystals. Two months after treatment with indinavir was discontinued, serum creatinine levels returned to normal and pyuria disappeared. Sterile pyuria in patients taking indinavir may help to identify patients at risk for renal dysfunction and interstitial nephritis. Markedly increasing the fluid intake above the recommended dosage may ameliorate or even reverse the process of tubulointerstitial disease.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are zinc-dependent endopeptidases which play a key role in invasion, migration, and angiogenesis of astrogliomas and other malignant tumors. Thus, controlling MMPs has been considered an important therapeutic strategy for prevention and/or treatment of gliomas. However, most MMP inhibitors developed so far are broad spectrum inhibitors; thus, it is necessary to develop a selective MMP inhibitor to minimize potential side effects. In the present study, we found that mangiferin, a glucosylxanthone isolated from Anemarrhena asphodeloides, specifically inhibited MMP-9 gene expression in phorbol myristate acetate (PMA)-stimulated human astroglioma U87MG, U373MG, and CRT-MG cells. However, it did not affect other MMPs, such as MMP-1, -2, -3, and -14. Mangiferin suppressed MMP-9 expression at the promoter, mRNA, and protein levels and additionally inhibited MMP-9 enzymatic activity. The Matrigel-invasion assay showed that mangiferin suppresses the in vitro invasiveness of glioma cells, which appears to be correlated with mangiferin-mediated MMP-9 inhibition. Further mechanistic studies demonstrated that mangiferin inhibits the binding of NF-κB and AP-1 to the MMP-9 promoter and suppresses the PMA-induced phosphorylation of Akt and MAP kinases, which are upstream signaling molecules in MMP-9 expression. Thus, the specific inhibition of MMP-9 by mangiferin may provide a valuable pharmacological tool for treatment of gliomas.
To determine whether beta-blockade protects rat heart against thyroxine (T4)-induced accelelation of lipid peroxidation, in vivo effects of 3 beta-blockers with different ancillary properties on the mitochondrial oxidative enzyme, antioxidant enzymes and lipid peroxide were investigated. The rats were rendered hyperthyroid by adding T4 to their drinking water for 3 weeks and were treated simultaneously with either carteolol (a blocker with partial agonist activity; 30 mg/kg/day), atenolol (50 mg/kg/day) or arotinolol (a blocker with weak alpha-blocking action; 50 mg/kg/day). The T4-induced tachycardia was alleviated completely by either atenolol or arotinolol, but only partially by carteolol. Cytochrome c oxidase activity in the heart muscle was increased by T4 with a parallel increase in manganese (mitochondrial) superoxide dismutase. Atenolol, but neither carteolol nor arotinolol, suppressed this increase. Similarly, the T4-induced acceleration of lipid peroxidation was suppressed by atenolol alone. Glutathione peroxidase was markedly decreased, and both copper zinc (cytosolic) superoxide dismutase and catalase were also decreased or tended to be decreased by T4. The levels of these 3 enzymes were only minimally affected by the beta-blocker treatments. These results suggest that beta-blockade suppresses mitochondrial hypermetabolism and protects heart muscle against oxidative stress in hyperthyroidism, and that the ancillary properties of beta-blockers such as partial agonist activity and alpha-blocking action negate the protection.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is characterized by progressive airflow limitation and pulmonary inflammation. Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) have been shown to be effective in the reduction of the number of exacerbations and the rate of deterioration in health status in patients with more advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Therefore current international guidelines recommend ICS for patients with severe COPD (FEV1 < 50%) with at least one exacerbation within the last year. We determined the short-term effect of the inhaled corticosteroid beclomethasone in HFA 134 formulation (Ventolair) on Health related Quality of Life (HRQOL), pulmonary function and the release of the cytokines Interleukin-10 (IL-10), Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-stimulating Factor (GM-CSF), Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and Macrophage Inflammatory Protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) from peripheral blood monocytes of patients with COPD (n = 11) in a 12 week double blind cross over placebo-controlled study. Baseline lung function and the St. George Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) were performed at the start and the end of each treatment phase. Monocytes were separated from blood at the end of each treatment phase. The treatment with Ventolair) resulted in an increase of PEF from 4.92 to 5.53 l/s and a decrease of RV% TLC (% predicted) values from 144.52 to 131.36. Inhaled HFA beclomethasone did not affect the cytokine release of IL-10, IFN-gamma, GM-CSF and MIP-1alpha. All cytokines were measured using commercially available Enzyme Linked Immun Sorbent Assay (ELISA) kits. The symptom score of the St. George Respiratory Questionnaire significantly decreased from 55.12 to 47.77 units in the active period compared to the placebo period after the treatment with HFA beclomethasone. The present study shows that a short-term treatment with inhaled steroid beclomethasone in fine particle HFA formulation decreases the hyperinflation and improves the PEF and the COPD symptoms.
Dying-back neuropathies result in sensory loss and motor signs in the distal distribution of the longest nerves of the body. It would be expected, therefore, that taller individuals with dying-back neuropathies would tend to have worse nerve damage than shorter individuals. This hypothesis was tested in patients receiving high dose paclitaxel. Nerve conductions and quantitative sensory tests were obtained in 21 breast cancer subjects, prior to and 20-40 days after 725 mg/m(2) paclitaxel administered intravenously over 24 h. Despite the uniform dose of paclitaxel, there was a wide variation in post minus pre-paclitaxel changes. Analysis by linear regression showed that decrease of peroneal nerve compound muscle action potential amplitude was significantly greater in taller subjects (P=0.004), and increase in cold detection threshold was greater in taller subjects (P=0.02). No correlation with height was found for paclitaxel drug clearance, maximum concentration, and area under the curve. Decrease in sural sensory nerve action potential amplitude and increase in vibration detection threshold did not correlate with height. In summary, the wide variation of changes seen in neurophysiological tests suggests that multiple factors are involved in determining the severity of neuropathy. Nerve length is probably one of these factors. To determine whether the effect of height is clinically important would require additional study with a larger number of subjects and longer clinical follow-up.
Essential hypertension presents a component of insulin resistance syndrome. Insulin resistance exists whenever normal concentration of hormone produces less than normal biologic response. This prospective clinical study included 15 patients (7 male and 8 female), with normal glucose tolerance, aged 53.24 +/- 6.60 years, BMI 26.97 +/- 1.24 kg/m2, with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension before and after ramipril treatment lasting 12 weeks. For assessment of peripheral insulin sensitivity and glucose effectiveness we used a reduced samples Bergman's Minimal Model method. At week 12, we noted a 50% elevation of mean insulin sensitivity index, but without achieving normal reference values (Si = 1.22 +/- 0.66 vs 1.78 +/- 0.8 x 10(-4) min/microU/ml). Glucose effectiveness, plasma lipids and electrolytes were relatively unchanged. Haemoglobin and platelet count were significantly decreased. Being metabolically neutral, with antithrombotic activity, ramipril can be recommended for treatment of patients with hypertension and insulin resistance, especially for patients with accompanied diabetes mellitus.
The case of a previously-healthy woman who developed marked hyperthermia after the intravenous self-administration of cocaine is described. Status epilepticus and a prolonged period of hypotension were followed by the development of rhabdomyolysis, disseminated intravascular coagulation, acute renal failure, impaired cerebral function and hepatic dysfunction. The pathophysiology of these events and their relationship to cocaine overdose is discussed.
Cyclophosphamide administered intraperitoneally to mice at a dose of 100 mg/kg caused a dose related increase in urinary bladder weight within 48 hours of treatment. Disulfiram effectively prevented cyclophosphamide-induced increase in bladder weight when disulfiram was administered by either the oral or intraperitoneal route. Disulfiram (125 mg/kg) was most effective when given within one hour of cyclophosphamide treatment. These results suggest that disulfiram, unlike other putative protectants, is effective when administered orally.
Triosephosphate isomerase (TPI; D-glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate ketolisomerase [E.C.5.3.1.1]) deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder that typically results in chronic, nonspherocytic hemolytic anemia and in neuromuscular impairment. The molecular basis of this disease was analyzed for one Hungarian family and for two Australian families by localizing the defects in TPI cDNA and by determining how each defect affects TPI gene expression. The Hungarian family is noteworthy in having the first reported case of an individual, A. Jó., who harbors two defective TPI alleles but who does not manifest neuromuscular disabilities. This family was characterized by two mutations that have never been described. One is a missense mutation within codon 240 (TTC [Phe]-->CTC [Leu]), which creates a thermolabile protein, as indicated by the results of enzyme activity assays using cell extracts. This substitution, which changes a phylogenetically conserved amino acid, may affect enzyme activity by disrupting intersubunit contacts or substrate binding, as deduced from enzyme structural studies. The other mutation has yet to be localized but reduces the abundance of TPI mRNA 10-20-fold. Each of the Australian families was characterized by a previously described mutation within codon 104 (GAG [Glu]-->GAC [Asp]), which also results in thermolabile protein.
Candidate risk genes for autism spectrum disorder (ASD) have been identified, but the challenge of determining their contribution to pathogenesis remains. We previously identified two ASD risk genes encoding the receptor tyrosine kinase MET and the urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (PLAUR), which is thought to modulate availability of the MET ligand. We also reported a role for Met signaling in cortical interneuron development in vitro and a reduction of these neurons in uPAR (mouse ortholog of PLAUR) null mice, suggesting that disruption of either gene impacts cortical development similarly. Here, we modify this conclusion, reporting that interneuron numbers are unchanged in the neocortex of Met(fx/fx) / Dlx5/6(cre) mice, in which Met is ablated from cells arising from the ventral telencephalon (VTel). Consistent with this, Met transcript is not detected in the VTel during interneuron genesis and migration; furthermore, during the postnatal period of interneuron maturation, Met is co-expressed in glutamatergic projection neurons, but not interneurons. Low levels of Met protein are expressed in the VTel at E12.5 and E14.5, likely reflecting the arrival of Met containing corticofugal axons. Met expression, however, is induced in E12.5 VTel cells after 2 days in vitro, perhaps underlying discrepancies between observations in vitro and in Met(fx/fx) / Dlx5/6(cre) mice. We suggest that, in vivo, Met impacts the development of cortical projection neurons, whereas uPAR influences interneuron maturation. An altered balance between excitation and inhibition has been postulated as a biological mechanism for ASD; this imbalance could arise from different risk genes differentially affecting either or both elements.
It is known that RGS9-2 gene knockout mice show supersensitivity to DA and have a marked elevation in the proportion of DA D2 receptors in the high-affinity state for DA (D2(High) receptors). As this is a similar profile to that observed in the CNS from subjects with schizophrenia, we examined whether postmortem CNS tissue from subjects with the disorder and brain striata from an animal model of psychosis or schizophrenia (the amphetamine-sensitized rat) had altered levels of RGS9-2. The mRNA for RGS9-2 in 29 control hippocampi was 0.185 +/- 0.015 fg per fg of beta-glucuronidase mRNA (average +/- SE), while that in 29 schizophrenia hippocampi was 0.145 +/- 0.015 fg per fg of beta-glucuronidase mRNA (average +/- SE), a reduction of 22%. Of the many receptor-regulating genes related to G proteins, and of 11 RGS genes, RGS9-2 was the most reduced in the amphetamine-sensitized rat striatum. The reduced levels of RGS9-2 expression in both an animal model of schizophrenia and a postmortem schizophrenia brain provide further evidence implicating RGS9-2 as a candidate gene in schizophrenia.
A case of metabolic acidosis, acute renal failure and hepatic failure following paracetamol ingestion is presented. The diagnostic difficulty at presentation is highlighted. Continuous arteriovenous haemofiltration proved a valuable means of maintaining fluid and electrolyte balance. The patient recovered.
We conducted this study to estimate residents' chronic hazard and carcinogenic risk in a groundwater-contaminated community after on-site remediation in Taiwan during 1999-2000. We followed guidelines for assessing hazardous waste sites of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and used empirically measured contaminant levels and exposure parameters to perform health risk assessment on seven chlorinated hydrocarbons. We measured groundwater concentrations of vinyl chloride, tetrachloroethylene, trichloroethylene, 1,1-dichloroethylene, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, cis-1,2-dichloroethylene, and 1,1-dichloroethane in 49 off-site residential wells by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Exposure parameters were mainly derived from our field survey of 382 residents, and partially from U.S. EPA default values. Total exposure dose estimation included routes of inhalation during showering and dermal absorption of showers and other activities involved with hand-water contacts. The ingestion route of water was not included because most residents drank boiled water with negligible contaminants. We calculated a hazard index (HI) for all seven chlorinated hydrocarbons and carcinogenic risks for known human carcinogen of vinyl chloride and probable human carcinogens of tetrachloroethylene and trichloroethylene, which had the same target organ, the liver. The HI values for reasonable maximal exposure (RME) and average exposure were 14.3 and 0.2, respectively. The cancer risks based on RME and average exposure (in parentheses) for vinyl chloride, tetrachloroethylene, and trichloroethylene were 8.4 x 10(-6) (7.3 x 10(-9)), 1.9 x 10(-4) (1.3 x 10(-7)), and 1.4 x 10(-4) (1.2 x 10(-6)), respectively. We applied Monte Carlo simulations to the sensitivity analysis, which showed that the contaminant levels, exposure duration, and time for showers were major determinants of health risks. We concluded that the contaminated groundwater was still unsafe for use even after the contaminated site underwent remediation by extraction and treatment in 1997.
Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) and hyperaldosteronism are very common in subjects with resistant hypertension. We hypothesized that aldosterone-mediated chronic fluid retention may influence OSA severity in patients with resistant hypertension. We tested this in an open-label evaluation by assessing the changes in the severity of OSA in patients with resistant hypertension after treatment with spironolactone. Subjects with resistant hypertension (clinical blood pressure (BP) >or=140/90 mm Hg on >or=3 antihypertensive medications, including a thiazide diuretic and OSA (defined as an apnoea-hypopnoea index (AHI) >or=15) had full diagnostic, polysomnography before and 8 weeks after spironolactone (25-50 mg a day) was added to their ongoing antihypertensive therapy. In all, 12 patients (mean age 56 years and body mass index 36.8 kg m(-2)) were evaluated. After treatment with spironolactone, the AHI (39.8+/-19.5 vs 22.0+/-6.8 events/h; P<0.05) and hypoxic index (13.6+/-10.8 vs 6.7+/-6.6 events/h; P<0.05), weight and clinic and ambulatory BP were significantly reduced. Plasma renin activity (PRA) and serum creatinine were significantly higher. This study provides preliminary evidence that treatment with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist substantially reduces the severity of OSA. If confirmed in a randomized assessment, it will support aldosterone-mediated chronic fluid retention as an important mediator of OSA severity in patients with resistant hypertension.
Evidence by functional imaging studies suggests the role of left DLPFC in the inhibitory control of nociceptive transmission system. Pain exerts an inhibitory modulation on motor cortex, reducing MEP amplitude, while the effect of pain on motor intracortical excitability has not been studied so far. In the present study, we explored in healthy subjects the effect of capsaicin-induced pain and the modulatory influences of left DLPFC stimulation on motor corticospinal and intracortical excitability. Capsaicin was applied on the dorsal surface of the right hand, and measures of motor corticospinal excitability (test-MEP) and short intracortical inhibition (SICI) and facilitation (ICF) were obtained by paired-pulse TMS on left motor cortex. Evaluations were made before and at different times after capsaicin application in two separate sessions: without and with high-frequency rTMS of left DLPF cortex, delivered 10 min. after capsaicin application. We performed also two control experiments to explore: 1: the effects of Left DLPFC rTMS on capsaicin-induced pain; 2: the modulatory influence of left DLPFC rTMS on motor cortex without capsaicin application. Capsaicin-induced pain significantly reduced test MEP amplitude and decreased SICI leaving ICF unchanged. Left DLPFC rTMS, together with the analgesic effect, was able to revert the effects of capsaicin-induced pain on motor cortex restoring normal MEP and SICI levels. These data support the notion that that tonic pain exerts modulatory influence on motor intracortical excitability; the activation of left DLPFC by hf rTMS could have analgesic effects, reverting also the motor cortex excitability changes induced by pain stimulation.
