Azoxymethane (AOM) administration to F344 male rats is a widely used model of human colon carcinogenesis. The current study investigates quantitatively the accumulation of K-Ras codon 12 mutations following AOM exposure. Male, 6-week-old F344 rats were treated subcutaneously with 30 mg/kg body weight of AOM, and colon tissue was collected at 1, 8, 24, and 32 weeks after treatment. The K-Ras codon 12 GGT to GAT and GGT to GTT mutant fractions (MFs) were measured using allele-specific competitive blocker polymerase chain reaction (ACB-PCR). Between 1 and 32 weeks after AOM treatment, the K-Ras codon 12 GGT to GAT geometric mean MF in the rat colon increased significantly from 12.9 × 10(-5) to 145 × 10(-5) , and the GGT to GTT geometric mean MF increased significantly from 5.26 × 10(-5) to 180 × 10(-5) . K-Ras codon 12 GGT to GAT MF also increased significantly in AOM-treated rat colon tissue at 1 week compared to controls (4.44 × 10(-5) ). The accumulation of the GGT to GAT MF long after the DNA adduct repair phase suggests that a portion of cells containing this mutation have a proliferative advantage, allowing them to accumulate as nascent tumors progress. Also, the GGT to GAT background MF increased in untreated rats, indicating that there is accumulation with age. The ACB-PCR assay generates quantitative data of cancer-related mutations and thus provides insight into pathological processes following carcinogen exposure.
Increased levels of plasma catecholamine lead to cardiac hypertrophy via the alpha-, beta-adrenergic receptors, and partially, type 1 angiotensin II (AT1) receptor. However, it remains unclear whether other factors are involved in catecholamine-induced cardiac hypertrophy. We investigated the expression of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I in hearts of male Wistar rats infused with a beta-adrenergic agent, isoproterenol (ISO) (3 mg/kg/day), with or without an AT1-receptor antagonist, TCV-116 (10 mg/kg/day). Cardiac myocytes became hypertrophied 1 day after the beginning of ISO administration. ISO induced a biphasic increase of cardiac myocytes positive for IGF-I protein in the early and late phases of the study period, whereas IGF-I gene expression was upregulated only in the late phase by ISO. TCV- 116 abolished the upregulation of IGF-I gene and protein expression in the late phase in association with the regression of cardiac hypertrophy. These results suggest that ISO-induced cardiac hypertrophy is mediated, at least in part, by IGF-I, the expression of which is upregulated through the activation of AT1 receptor.
The effect of sublingual buprenorphine on cigarette smoking was examined in 23 adult men with DSM III-R diagnosis of concurrent opiate and cocaine dependence. After admission to a clinical research ward, subjects were detoxified with methadone (10-50 mg/day), then were drug-free for 6 days before random assignment to either 4 or 8 mg/day of buprenorphine. Gradually increasing daily sublingual doses of buprenorphine were administered for 5 days, then subjects were maintained on 4 or 8 mg/day of buprenorphine for 12 days. Each subject's preferred brand of cigarettes was available ad libitum throughout the study. Five responses (FR 5) on a key were required to earn each cigarette. The time and number of cigarettes were recorded by an automated cigarette dispenser. Subjects acquired significantly more cigarettes during the buprenorphine induction and maintenance phases (25.5+/-2.0) than during the drug-free phase (18.5+/-1.8; p<0.0002). During buprenorphine induction, the number of cigarettes acquired was positively correlated with increasing doses of buprenorphine (p<0.001) and the inter-cigarette interval was significantly shorter during buprenorphine maintenance than during drug-free conditions (p<0.001). These data showed that daily administration of the partial mu opioid agonist buprenorphine was associated with increased smoking in men concurrently dependent on opiates and cocaine. These findings are consistent with previous reports of opioid-cigarette interactions.
Infections caused by heterogeneous vancomycin-intermediate Staphylococcus aureus (hVISA) are associated with high rates of vancomycin treatment failure. Telavancin is a bactericidal lipoglycopeptide active in vitro against Gram-positive pathogens including hVISA and vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus (VISA). This study characterizes the microbiological activity of telavancin against vancomycin-susceptible S. aureus (VSSA), hVISA and VISA strains.
Reference strains of VSSA, hVISA and VISA were assessed for potential telavancin heteroresistance by population analysis. In addition, the efficacies of telavancin (40 mg/kg subcutaneously every 12 h for 4 days) and vancomycin (110 mg/kg subcutaneously every 12 h for 8 days) were compared in a neutropenic murine model (immunocompromised female non-Swiss albino mice) of bacteraemia caused by hVISA strain Mu3. Blood and spleen bacterial titres were quantified from cohorts of mice euthanized pre-treatment and at 24 h intervals post-treatment for 8 days.
Telavancin was active against all strains of S. aureus tested, with MIC values < or =0.5 mg/L. Population analyses revealed no evidence of subpopulations with reduced susceptibility to telavancin. In the murine bacteraemia model of hVISA infection, all animals were bacteraemic pre-treatment and mortality was 100% within 16-24 h post-infection in untreated animals. Treatment with telavancin was associated with lower spleen bacterial titres, lower rates of bacteraemia and lower overall mortality than treatment with vancomycin.
These in vitro and pre-clinical in vivo studies demonstrate that telavancin has the potential to be efficacious in infections caused by hVISA.
The endothelin-1 (ET-1) gene was disrupted in mouse embryonic stem cells by homologous recombination to generate mice deficient in ET-1. These ET-1-/- homozygous mice die of respiratory failure at birth and have morphological abnormalities of the pharyngeal-arch-derived craniofacial tissues and organs. ET-1+/- heterozygous mice, which produce lower levels of ET-1 than wild-type mice, develop elevated blood pressure. These results suggest that ET-1 is essential for normal mouse development and may also play a physiological role in cardiovascular homeostasis.
Nitrates are widely used in the treatment of angina in patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Short-term administration prevents left ventricular (LV) dilation and infarct expansion. However, little information is available regarding their long-term effects on LV remodeling in patients surviving Q-wave AMI.
This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial designed to investigate the long-term (6-month) efficacy of intermittent transdermal nitroglycerin (NTG) patches on LV remodeling in 291 survivors of AMI. Patients meeting entry criteria had baseline gated radionuclide angiography (RNA) followed by randomization to placebo or active NTG patches delivering 0.4-, 0.8-, or 1.6-mg/h. RNA was repeated at 6 months and 6.5 days after withdrawal of double-blind medication. The primary study end point was the change in end-systolic volume index (ESVI). Both ESVI and end-diastolic volume index (EDVI) were significantly reduced with 0.4-mg/h NTG patches (-11.4 and -11.6 mL/m2, respectively, P<.03). This beneficial effect was observed primarily in patients with a baseline LV ejection fraction < or =40% (deltaESVI, -31 mL/m2; deltaEDVI, -33 mL/m2; both P<.05) and only at the 0.4-mg/h dose. After NTG patch withdrawal, ESVI significantly increased but did not reach pretreatment values.
Transdermal NTG patches prevent LV dilation in patients surviving AMI. The beneficial effects are limited to patients with depressed LV function and only at the lowest (0.4-mg/h) dose. Continued administration is necessary to maintain efficacy. Whether these remodeling effects confer a clinical or survival advantage will need to be addressed in an adequately powered cardiac event trial.
Pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) causes widespread tyrosine phosphorylation in the brain. It has been postulated that this intracellular signal may mediate potentially epileptogenic changes in the morphology and physiology of particular brain regions, including the hippocampus. The present study evaluated the effects of herbimycin A, a protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) inhibitor, over the acute (during which intense biochemical and electrophysiological activation occurs) and the chronic phase (characterized by spontaneous and recurrent epileptic seizures and the presence of synaptic reorganization, e.g., mossy fiber sprouting) of the pilocarpine model of epilepsy. The administration of a single dose of 1.74 nmol of herbimycin A (i.c.v., 5 microL) 5 min after the onset of SE did not change the acute behavioral manifestation of seizures despite significantly decreasing c-Fos immunoreactivity in different areas of the hippocampus and of the limbic cortex. Herbimycin-treated animals developed spontaneous recurrent seizures, as did control animals, with a similar latency for the appearance of the first seizure and similar seizure frequency. Neo-Timm staining revealed that all animals experiencing SE, regardless of whether or not injected with herbimycin, showed aberrant mossy fiber sprouting in the supragranular region of the dentate gyrus. Herbimycin did not obviously affect neuronal cell death as evaluated in Nissl-stained sections. These results indicate that the PTK blockade achieved with the current dose of herbimycin reduced the acute c-Fos expression but failed to alter the spontaneous seizure frequency or to attenuate the morphological modifications triggered by the SE.
The influence of vancomycin on tobramycin nephrotoxicity was assessed in male Fischer rats. Treatment groups included controls receiving diluent and groups receiving vancomycin alone at a dosage of 200 mg/kg (body weight) per day, tobramycin alone at a dosage of 80 mg/kg per day, and a combination of vancomycin and tobramycin at the above dosages. All regimens were injected on a twice-a-day schedule. The animals were sacrificed on days 1, 3, 10, 14, 17, and 21. When compared with controls, animals receiving vancomycin alone exhibited no detectable renal toxicity. Compared with the case with controls, tobramycin alone was toxic, as manifested by lower mean animal weights, increased blood urea nitrogen concentrations on days 14 and 17 (P less than 0.005), increased serum creatinine concentrations on days 17 and 21 (P less than 0.005), and the presence of renal cortical tubular necrosis and regeneration. When compared with tobramycin alone, the combination of vancomycin and tobramycin caused earlier and more severe toxicity. By day 10, the magnitude of weight loss, the rise in blood urea nitrogen, and the increase in serum creatinine concentration were all greater in the rats given the combination of vancomycin plus tobramycin than in the animals given tobramycin alone (P less than 0.005). In addition, there was more proximal tubular necrosis and regeneration in rats given vancomycin plus tobramycin compared with those given tobramycin alone. In this animal model, vancomycin alone caused no detectable renal injury, tobramycin alone produced minimal proximal tubular damage, and the combination of vancomycin and tobramycin resulted in a greater degree of kidney injury than observed with tobramycin alone.
Long-term, high-dose corticosteroid therapy is well-known to cause systemic and ocular complications. A lesser known complication is chronic central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR). Although idiopathic central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR) is known to be mild with spontaneous recovery and minimal effects on the final visual acuity, chronic CSCR as a complication of long- term steroid therapy behaves differently, and may cause irreversible visual impairment.
Three cases of chronic, recurrent CSCR were precipitated by longterm corticosteroids prescribed for post-renal transplant immunosuppressive therapy, postpituitary surgery and pemphigus vulgaris.
Two cases resolved with tapering of corticosteroids while one case was treated by focal laser photocoagulation. Two eyes had severe impairment of vision as a result of subretinal scar formation while the other 4 eyes had mild reduction of visual acuity from retinal epithelium pigment atrophy.
Long-term corticosteroid therapy can be complicated by severe, chronic and recurrent CSCR and occasionally peripheral exudative retinal detachment. This may result in subretinal fibrosis and permanent loss of vision.
A case of peripheral neuropathy following treatment with piroxicam is reported. The patient developed muscle pain and asymmetrical sensory distal neuropathy of the lower limbs a few months after the onset of the treatment. Piroxicam was withdrawn and full recovery was achieved within one year. The simultaneous appearance in the same patient of erythroderma with microvasculitis on nerve and skin biopsies suggests a common type III hypersensitivity mechanism in the pathogenesis of these two side-effects of piroxicam.
A case of pseudotumour cerebri (PTC) in a 13-year-old girl is reported. This patient experienced menarche seven months before presentation, and subsequently developed acne which necessitated antibiotic therapy. She had been treated with minocycline hydrochloride (100 mg twice a day) for two months before admission to hospital. The role of minocycline therapy associated with menarche in the aetiology of PTC is discussed.
We report the results of a phase 2 trial using lenalidomide plus dexamethasone (Rev/Dex) as initial therapy for myeloma. Thirty-four patients were enrolled. Lenalidomide was given orally 25 mg daily on days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Dexamethasone was given orally 40 mg daily on days 1 to 4, 9 to 12, and 17 to 20 of each cycle. Objective response was defined as a decrease in serum monoclonal protein level by 50% or greater and a decrease in urine M protein level by at least 90% or to a level less than 200 mg/24 hours, confirmed by 2 consecutive determinations at least 4 weeks apart. Thirty-one of 34 patients achieved an objective response, including 2 (6%) achieving complete response (CR) and 11 (32%) meeting criteria for both very good partial response and near complete response, resulting in an overall objective response rate of 91%. Of the 3 remaining patients not achieving an objective response, 2 had minor response (MR) and one had stable disease. Forty-seven percent of patients experienced grade III or higher nonhematologic toxicity, most commonly fatigue (15%), muscle weakness (6%), anxiety (6%), pneumonitis (6%), and rash (6%). Rev/Dex is a highly active regimen with manageable side effects in the treatment of newly diagnosed myeloma.
The identification of signaling pathways critical to myeloma growth and progression has yielded an array of novel agents with clinical activity. Multiple myeloma (MM) growth is IL-6 dependent, and IL-6 is secreted in an autocrine/paracrine fashion with signaling via the Ras/Raf/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. We hypothesized that combining a Ras pathway inhibitor (lonafarnib, SCH66336) with a proteasome inhibitor (bortezomib, Velcade, PS-341) would enhance myeloma-cell killing. MM cell lines and primary human cells were used to test either single agent bortezomib, lonafarnib, or the combination on MM signaling and apoptosis. Combination therapy induced synergistic tumor-cell death in MM cell lines and primary MM plasma cells. Cell death was rapid and associated with increased caspase 3, 8, and 9 cleavage and concomitant down-regulation of p-AKT. Down-regulation of p-AKT was seen only in combination therapy and not seen with either single agent. Cells transfected with constitutively active p-AKT, wild-type AKT, or Bcl-2 continued to demonstrate synergistic cell death in response to the combination. The order of addition was critically important, supporting bortezomib followed by lonafarnib as the optimal schedule. The combination of a proteasome inhibitor and farnesyl transferase inhibitor demonstrates synergistic myeloma-cell death and warrants further preclinical and clinical studies.
Although systemic corticosteroids are effective against cutaneous sarcoidosis, alternative therapies are needed.
We sought to assess the efficacy and tolerance of thalidomide for cutaneous sarcoidosis.
We performed a retrospective evaluation of thalidomide (100-200 mg/d) in 12 consecutive patients with cutaneous sarcoidosis treated in a university hospital between 2000 and 2002.
Cutaneous lesions regressed within 1 to 5 months, with an average time of 2 to 3 months for 10 patients. In all, 4 patients achieved complete responses, 6 had partial responses, and 2 had no regression. Nasopharyngeal, pulmonary neurologic, and hepatic symptoms were also attenuated. Thalidomide was well tolerated. The main adverse effect was deep vein thrombosis in 1 patient.
Thalidomide efficacy and tolerance in patients with cutaneous sarcoidosis merits further evaluation in a controlled trial.
The purposes of this study were to examine predictors of benzodiazepine use among methadone maintenance treatment patients, to determine whether baseline benzodiazepine use influenced ongoing use during methadone maintenance treatment, and to assess the effect of ongoing benzodiazepine use on treatment outcomes (i.e., opioid and cocaine use and treatment retention). A retrospective chart review of 172 methadone maintenance treatment patients (mean age = 34.6 years; standard deviation = 8.5 years; 64% male) from January 1997 to December 1999 was conducted. At baseline, 29% were "non-users" (past year) of benzodiazepine, 36% were "occasional users," and 35% were "regular/problem users." Regular/problem users were more likely to have started opioid use with prescription opioids, experienced more overdoses, and reported psychiatric comorbidity. Being female, more years of opioid use, and a history of psychiatric treatment were significant predictors of baseline benzodiazepine use. Ongoing benzodiazepine users were more likely to have opioid-positive and cocaine-positive urine screens during methadone maintenance treatment. Only ongoing cocaine use was negatively related to retention. Benzodiazepine use by methadone maintenance treatment patients is associated with a more complex clinical picture and may negatively influence treatment outcomes.
Twenty patients received 27 courses of ifosfamide administered as a 24-hour continuous infusion for 14 days without Mesna. The goal of the study was to deliver a dose rate and total cumulative dose of ifosfamide that would be comparable to standard bolus or short-term infusions administered with Mesna. Dose escalations proceeded from 200 to 300, 400, 450, 500, and 550 mg/m2/d. Four patients developed transient microscopic hematuria at 400, 450, and 500 mg/m2/d. There were no instances of macroscopic hematuria. At 550 mg/m2/d, three patients experienced nonurologic toxicity; confusion (1), nausea (1), and Grade 2 leukopenia (1). The recommended dose of 500 mg/m2/d delivers a total dose of 7 g/m2 per cycle, which is comparable to that delivered in clinical practice for bolus or short-term infusion. Because few patients received multiple courses over time, the cumulative effects are indeterminate in the present trial. The frequency and predictability of hematuria are not precise, and at least daily monitoring by urine Hematest is essential, adding Mesna to the infusate in patients with persistent hematuria. The protracted infusion schedule for ifosfamide permits convenient outpatient administration without Mesna and reduces the drug cost of clinical usage of this agent by up to $890 per cycle. Clinical activity was demonstrated in a single patient, but a comparative trial of standard bolus schedules with the protracted infusion schedule will be necessary to determine if the clinical effectiveness of the drug is maintained.
To investigate the interrelation between endothelin-1 (ET-1) and angiotensin II (AngII) in kidney tissue of rats with diabetic nephropathy.
Wistar rats were performed a removal operation of right kidney. Two weeks later the uninephrectomized rats were given intravenous injection of streptozotocin (STZ, 35 mg/kg). The diabetic rats were randomly divided into the following four groups: DM + bos group (bosentan 100 mg/kg/d by gavage); DM + ena group (enalapril 10 mg/kg/d by gavage); DM + bos + ena group (the same doses of both bosentan and enalapril by gavage); DM + veh group (only buffer by gavage). Besides, uninephrectomized rats without STZ injection were assigned as control group. Each group consisted of 6 rats. Twenty weeks later, they were sacrificed and left kidney of each rat was harvested respectively. The mRNA expression of angiotensinogen (Ao), angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1R), preproendothelin-1 and endothelin A receptor (ETaR), and the protein expression of AngII, AT1R, ET-1 and ETaR in kidney tissue were semi-quantitatively detected with reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemical staining respectively.
In the diabetic group without treatment (DM + veh group), the expression of Ao (AII), AT1R and ET-AR was significantly up-regulated (1.25, 1.94 and 2.56-folds in mRNA respectively, 2.52, 3.84 and 3.30-folds in protein respectively, P < 0.01 or P < 0.05) compared with control group. In three treatment groups, i.e. DM + bos group, DM + ena group and DM + bos + ena group, the up-regulated expression of Ao (AII), AT1R and ET-AR was significantly attenuated (-38.2% to -54.8% in mRNA and -55.3% to -69.7% in protein, P < 0.05 or P < 0.01) compared with DM group. The inhibitory rates among these three treatment groups had no significant difference (P > 0.05). In this study, the expression of preproendothelin-1 mRNA and ET-1 protein was not significantly changed among all groups (P > 0.05).
Either endothelin receptor antagonist or ACE inhibitor can significantly inhibit the expression of AngII, AT1R and ETaR in kidney tissue of diabetic rats, which suggest that there are close relationship and cross action between ET-1 and AngII.
There has been recent concern about the association between high dose methadone and prolongation of QTc in the electrocardiogram. QTc is the time from the beginning of the QRS complex to the end of the T have as measured on an electrocardiogram and corrected for heart rate. To date, no association has been made between methadone and buprenorphine in commonly used doses and prolonged QTc. Electrocardiograms were performed on groups of methadone (n = 35, mean daily dose +/- standard deviation, 69 +/- 29 mg) and buprenorphine (n = 19, mean daily dose 11 +/- 5 mg) subjects and a group of non-opioid dependent controls (n = 17). Mean QTc did not differ (p = 0.45) between methadone, buprenorphine, or controls. Methadone subjects were significantly (odds ratio of 7.8) more likely to have U waves than buprenorphine and controls combined. Methadone subjects with U waves were maintained on higher (p = 0.004) doses (89 +/- 29 mg/day) than methadone subjects without U waves (60 +/- 24 mg/day). Methadone subjects taking 60 mg and above had higher (p = 0.02) QTc (405 +/- 29 milliseconds) than methadone subjects taking less than 60 mg per day (381 +/- 27 milliseconds). Although an association is thought to exist between high methadone doses and elongated QTc, methadone and buprenorphine, at commonly used daily doses, remain safe agents for opioid substitution therapy.
1. The drug HA-966 (1-hydroxy-3-amino-pyrrolidone-2), which chemically resembles the cyclic form of GABA, has been studied for neuro-pharmacological properties and for effects on the catecholamine content of the corpus striatum.2. The acute effects on spontaneous behaviour of rodents included flaccid catalepsy and reversible tranquillization in doses which were 5% or less of the lethal dose. Long lasting depression of the CNS, followed by complete recovery, was produced in the cat and the dog. In the monkey HA-966 caused periodical sleeping episodes.3. The exploratory behaviour and the amphetamine-induced motor activity in mice were blocked by HA-966. The toxicity of amphetamine in aggregated mice was only moderately reduced, suggesting that HA-966 differs from neuroleptics.4. Tremors induced by chemical agents (nicotine, zinc and tremorine) were markedly inhibited by HA-966. The muscarinic effects of tremorine were not reduced by HA-966, indicating a selective central antitremor effect.5. HA-966 elevated the threshold to strychnine convulsions and abolished the ipsilateral flexor reflex, while not having motor endplate blocking properties. It is suggested that HA-966 depresses central internuncial neurones.6. In rats and rabbits HA-966 produced synchronous EEG and inhibited the sensory arousal in doses not causing sedation. In the monkey the drug caused a periodical dissociation between ;sleep-EEG' and behaviour.7. In rat brain, HA-966 selectively elevated the dopamine content in the corpus striatum, while no changes in noradrenaline and 5-hydroxytryptamine contents could be demonstrated. The effect was still present when dopa synthesis was inhibited with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine.8. Several effects of intravenously administered HA-966 became manifest after an appreciable delay and in hepatectomized mice the effects were much reduced. It is postulated that HA-966 is converted to a pharmacologically active metabolite.9. The results are discussed in the light of current views on drug therapy in extrapyramidal conditions and a GABA-related hypothesis as to the mode of action of HA-966 is presented.
In this study, the effect of chronic administration of melatonin on MRL/MpJ-Fas(lpr) mice has been studied. These mice spontaneously develop an autoimmune disease that has many features resembling human systemic lupus erythematosus. In fact, histological studies showed that all female mice and most male mice exhibited glomerular abnormalities, arteritic lesions, and cellular interstitial inflammatory infiltrate ranging from mild to severe patterns. Treatment with melatonin improved the histological pattern in females and worsened it in males. Moreover, female mice treated with melatonin showed a diminution of titers of total serum IgG, IgM, and anti-double-stranded DNA and anti-CII autoantibodies; a decrease in proinflammatory cytokines (IL-2, IL-6, interferon-gamma, TNF-alpha, and IL-1beta), an increase in antiinflammatory cytokines (IL-10), and a decrease in nitrite/nitrate. In male mice, treatment with melatonin exhibited the opposite effect, worsening all the immunological parameters with an elevation of titers of autoantibodies and a prevalence of proinflammatory vs. antiinflammatory cytokines. Similar results were obtained when lymphocytes from spleen and lymph nodes were cultured. Again, melatonin treatment in females decreased proinflammatory cytokines and increased antiinflammatory cytokines produced by lymphocytes; in males, the effect was the opposite. These findings suggest that melatonin action in MRL/MpJ-Fas(lpr) mice is gender dependent, probably through modulation and inhibition of sex hormones.
Mutations in the dystrophin gene causing Duchenne's muscular dystrophy (DMD) lead to premature stop codons. In mice lacking dystrophin (mdx mice), a model for DMD, these mutations can be suppressed by aminoglycosides such as gentamicin. Dystrophin plays a role in flow (shear stress)-mediated endothelium-dependent dilation (FMD) in arteries. We investigated the effect of gentamicin on vascular contractile and dilatory functions, vascular structure, and density in mdx mice.
Isolated mice carotid and mesenteric resistance arteries were mounted in arteriographs allowing continuous diameter measurements. Mdx mice showed lower nitric oxide (NO)-dependent FMD and endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) expression as well as decreased vascular density in gracilis and cardiac muscles compared with control mice. Treatment with gentamycin restored these parameters. In contrast, smooth muscle-dependent contractions as well as endothelium-dependent or -independent dilation were not affected by dystrophin deficiency or by gentamicin treatment.
Dystrophin deficiency induces a selective defect in flow-dependent mechanotransduction, thus attenuating FMD and eNOS expression, and may contribute to low arteriolar density. These findings open important perspectives regarding the mechanism involved in the pathophysiology of genetic diseases related to premature stop codons such as DMD.
Hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] is an important human carcinogen associated with pulmonary diseases and lung cancer. Exposure to Cr(VI) induces DNA damage, cell morphological change and malignant transformation in human lung epithelial cells. Despite extensive studies, the molecular mechanisms remain elusive, it is also not known if Cr(VI)-induced transformation might accompany with invasive properties to facilitate metastasis. We aimed to study Cr(VI)-induced epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and invasion during oncogenic transformation in lung epithelial cells. The results showed that Cr(VI) at low doses represses E-cadherin mRNA and protein expression, enhances mesenchymal marker vimentin expression and transforms the epithelial cell into fibroblastoid morphology. Cr(VI) also increases cell invasion and promotes colony formation. Further studies indicated that Cr(VI) uses multiple mechanisms to repress E-cadherin expression, including activation of E-cadherin repressors such as Slug, ZEB1, KLF8 and enhancement the binding of HDAC1 in E-cadherin gene promoter, but DNA methylation is not responsible for the loss of E-cadherin. Catalase reduces Cr(VI)-induced E-cadherin and vimentin protein expression, attenuates cell invasion in matrigel and colony formation on soft agar. These results demonstrate that exposure to a common human carcinogen, Cr(VI), induces EMT and invasion during oncogenic transformation in lung epithelial cells and implicate in cancer metastasis and prevention.
Lithium and valproate are the prototypic mood stabilizers and have diverse structures and targets. Both drugs influence inositol metabolism. Lithium inhibits IMPase and valproate inhibits MIP synthase. This study shows that MIP synthase inhibition does not replicate or augment the effects of lithium in the inositol sensitive pilocarpine-induced seizures model. This lack of effects may stem from the low contribution of de-novo synthesis to cellular inositol supply or to the inhibition of the de-novo synthesis by lithium itself.
Antibiotics are commonly prescribed medications for pediatric infections. Acute interstitial nephritis has been reported with B-lactam antibiotics. We report the case of a 4-year-old boy who ingested 240 mg/kg of amoxicillin and developed acute oliguric renal failure with hematuria and crystalluria. The patient was hospitalized for serial renal function and electrolyte evaluation. Although he developed hyperkalemia, full recovery was obtained with conservative management. This case emphasizes that medications considered to be non-toxic even with overdose can have serious adverse effects which may require therapeutic intervention.
A 56-year-old man developed mid-gut bowel ischaemia following an elective aortobiprofunda bypass for short-distance claudication. The bowel was resected and he was commenced on lifelong total parenteral nutrition. He was found to have developed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis, confirmed by high levels of heparin-platelet factor 4-antibody on enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). He subsequently had foregut ischaemia with a second bout of thrombocytopenia despite not being on heparin. The case describes the first report of bowel ischaemia as a consequence of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia causing sequential superior mesenteric and coeliac arterial thrombosis in this scenario and highlights the importance of the awareness of the association of these pathological entities and subsequent management.
To describe trends in hospitalizations with a diagnosis of substance abuse among reproductive-age women from 1998-2003.
Data were obtained from the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project Nationwide Inpatient Sample. Hospitalizations with a diagnosis of substance abuse were categorized into subgroups by age, primary expected payer, substance-specific diagnoses, concomitance, and hospital location. Trends in hospitalization rates per 100,000 women aged 15-44 were tested using a weighted least-squares method.
From 1998-2003, there was no change in the overall rate of hospitalization with a diagnosis of substance abuse among women aged 15-44. Alcohol abuse was the most common substance-specific diagnosis. The rate of hospitalization with a diagnosis of cocaine abuse decreased 22%; for a diagnosis of cannabis abuse, the rate increased 35%. The rate of hospitalization with a diagnosis of amphetamine abuse doubled from 1998-2003. Among women aged 15-24, the rate of hospitalization with a diagnosis of substance abuse increased 23%.
Although we did not observe a change in the overall rate of substance-abuse hospitalization among reproductive-age women, there were dramatic changes in the rate of substance-specific diagnoses. These data may be used to quantify emerging trends in substance abuse and promote the use of hospital-based interventions.
