Lamivudine is a novel 2',3'-dideoxy cytosine analogue that has potent inhibitory effects on hepatitis B virus replication in vitro and in vivo. We performed a single-blind, placebo-controlled study to assess its effectiveness and safety in Chinese hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) carriers. Forty-two Chinese HBsAg carriers were randomized to receive placebo (6 patients) or lamivudine orally in dosages of 25 mg, 100 mg, or 300 mg daily (12 patients for each dosage). The drug was given for 4 weeks. The patients were closely monitored clinically, biochemically, and serologically up to 4 weeks after drug treatment. All 36 patients receiving lamivudine had a decrease in hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA values of >90% (P < .001 compared with placebo). Although 25 mg of lamivudine was slightly less effective than 100 mg (P = .011) and 300 mg (P = .005), it still induced 94% suppression of HBV DNA after the fourth week of therapy. HBV DNA values returned to pretreatment levels within 4 weeks of cessation of therapy. There was no change in the hepatitis B e antigen status or in aminotransferase levels. No serious adverse events were observed. In conclusion, a 4-week course of lamivudine was safe and effective in suppression of HBV DNA in Chinese HBsAg carriers. The suppression was >90% but reversible. Studies with long-term lamivudine administration should be performed to determine if prolonged suppression of HBV DNA can be achieved.
Previously we reported the malignant progression of QR-32, a regressor-type tumor clone, following co-implantation with foreign bodies (gelatin sponge or plastic plate) in normal syngeneic C57BL/6 mice. We also reported that the progression of QR-32 cells by a gelatin sponge was significantly inhibited in the mice administered polysaccharide K (PSK) and that PSK induced an increase of radical scavengers, especially manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), locally at the site of tumor tissues. In this study, to reveal the possible mechanism by which PSK induced Mn-SOD in the tumor tissues, we examined the mRNA expression and protein levels of inflammatory cytokines in the tissues. We found that mRNAs of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha) were considerably expressed in both PSK-treated and phosphate-buffered-saline-treated tumors, and that the mRNA expression and protein level of interferon gamma (IFNgamma) increased in the tumor tissues treated with PSK. In vitro treatment of QR-32 cells with IFNgamma did not significantly increase the production of Mn-SOD; however, the combination of IFNgamma with TNFalpha increased the Mn-SOD production more effectively than did any of the cytokines used singly. Furthermore, we observed the down-regulation of the mRNA expression and protein level of transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) in the tumor tissues treated with PSK, and that in vitro treatment of QR-32 cells with TGFbeta decreased the production of Mn-SOD. These results suggest that PSK suppresses the progression of QR-32 cells by increasing Mn-SOD via the modulation of inflammatory cytokines; that is, by decreasing TGF-beta and increasing IFN-gamma.
Retinol and other vitamin A derivatives affect the differentiation and growth of many tissues and have anti-tumour properties.
To investigate serum retinol levels in patients with liver disease and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and to assess its importance as a risk factor for the development of HCC.
Serum retinol levels were measured in healthy volunteers and 175 patients (34 with chronic hepatitis C, 117 with cirrhosis, and 24 with HCC.
The serum retinol levels (mean +/- s.e.) in ng/mL, were 972.1 +/- 37.7 in the control group and 647 +/- 41.1 in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Serum retinol levels in patients with cirrhosis and HCC were lower than in patients with cirrhosis alone (365.8 +/- 43.1 vs. 438.9 +/- 22.1, P < 0.04). In particular, there was a more significant difference in serum retinol levels between Child-Pugh grade A patients with cirrhosis and Child-Pugh grade A patients with cirrhosis/HCC (serum retinol levels 532.4 +/- 26.7 vs. 366.1 +/- 86.4, P < 0.03). There was a significant difference in serum retinol levels between normal controls and all patients' groups (P < 0.001). There were significantly lower serum retinol levels in cholestatic Child-Pugh grade A patients with cirrhosis compared with noncholestatic Child-Pugh grade A patients with cirrhosis/HCC (411.5 +/- 30.3 vs. 579.7 +/- 32.7, P < 0.0004). Sixty percent of patients with Child-Pugh grade A cirrhosis/HCC had serum retinol levels below 350 ng/mL compared with only 18.4% of cirrhotics without HCC (chi 2-test, P=0.01). No correlation was found between serum retinol levels and alpha FP or any other liver function tests, apart from serum albumin, which showed a positive correlation (r=0.61 P < 0.018).
There was a progressive reduction in serum retinol levels from controls to patients with liver cirrhosis. Those patients with cirrhosis and HCC had significantly lower values than patients with cirrhosis alone. Serum retinol levels may be a risk factor for the development of HCC.
This study evaluates the degree of kidney damage during cisplatin/ifosfamide-based combination chemotherapy and its possible prevention by amifostine. Thirty-one patients with solid tumors stratified according to pretreatment were randomized to receive cisplatin/ifosfamide-based chemotherapy with or without amifostine (1000 mg absolute) given as a short infusion prior to cisplatin. Chemotherapy consisted of cisplatin (50 mg/m2), ifosfamide (4 g/m2) and either etoposide (500 mg/m2) (VIP regimen) or paclitaxel (175 mg/m2) (TIP regimen) repeated at 3 weekly intervals. For all patients the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) measured by creatinine clearance, serum creatinine, electrolytes and differential urinary protein excretion were determined prior to, during and after each treatment cycle. A total of 62 cycles of chemotherapy were evaluable. In the amifostine arm the GFR was almost completely maintained after application of two cycles of chemotherapy (121 to 108 ml/min), whereas in the control group a 30% reduction of the GFR (105 to 80 ml/min) was observed. In both groups marked increases of glomerular and tubular marker profiles peaking at day 3 after chemotherapy were found with a nearly complete reversibility of these changes prior to the next chemotherapy cycle. Patients receiving amifostine had a lower degree of hypomagnesemia, as well as a lower urinary excretion of N-acetyl-glucosaminidase and albumin, indicating less tubular damage compared to the control patients. Treatment with 1000 mg amifostine resulted in an almost complete preservation of GFR. This corresponded to a slightly reduced excretion of tubular marker proteins and a lower incidence of hypomagnesemia during chemotherapy in amifostine patients compared to controls. This dose of amifostine may be sufficient for nephroprotection in patients without pre-existing risk factors for renal damage who undergo a restricted number of chemotherapy cycles.
These studies were undertaken to 1) determine whether repeated dosing with the peripheral benzodiazepine antagonist PK 11195 alters its ability to precipitate withdrawal abstinence in diazepam-dependent rats; 2) whether the administration of PK 11195 and the central benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil, 3 days apart to the same rat produces an ordering effect in the intensity of withdrawal abstinence; 3) whether there are gender differences in these effects. Age-matched male and female Sprague Dawley rats had capsules implanted weekly that contained approximately equal (mg/kg) doses of diazepam (120 and 90 mg, respectively) or empty capsules (controls). After 5 implants, the maximum precipitated withdrawal score (PAS(MAX)) induced by PK 11195 and/or flumazenil (10 mg/kg/IV, respectively) was measured. Repeated administration of PK 11195 (1x/day for 5 days) induced tolerance with regard to the intensity of the PAS(MAX) and with gender-related differences. When PK 11195 was administered weekly (5 weeks), rather than daily, tolerance did not develop in either sex. The PK 11195- and flumazenil-induced PAS(MAX) was not changed by the order in which they were administered. There were gender differences in that females had a higher PAS(MAX) after flumazenil than after PK 11195 and vocalized more after all treatments than males.
To study the relationship between the dynamic changes of caveolin-1 with the degrees of liver fibrosis and portal venous pressure (PVP) in the process of rat liver cirrhosis formation induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN); also to investigate the mechanisms of caveolin-1 in the regulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS).
Liver cirrhosis was induced in rats by DMN. The degrees of liver fibrosis and PVP were measured. NOS activity was assessed by citrulline generation. Protein expressions of caveolin-1, eNOS and caveolin-1-eNOS interactions were examined by Western blot and immunoprecipitation, respectively.
Four weeks after DMN administration, liver fibrosis was at its peak and then decreased gradually. Immunoprecipitation and Western blot demonstrated that there was enhanced binding of caveolin-1 with eNOS in the process of rat liver cirrhosis. An increase in caveolin-1 expression was detected but the expression of eNOS was lower in cirrhotic tissues than in normal liver tissues. Caveolin-1 protein levels were positively correlated with the degrees of liver fibrosis and the levels of PVP (r=0.967, P < 0.01; r=0.922, P < 0.01, respectively), while NOS catalytic activity was negatively correlated with the degrees of liver fibrosis and levels of PVP (r= 0.973, P < 0.01; r=-0.947, P < 0.01) respectively.
Caveolin-1 upregulation is associated with the development of portal hypertension in liver cirrhosis. Over-expression of caveolin-1 in perisinusoidal cells may promote caveolin-1-eNOS binding and reduce the activity of eNOS.
Standard treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection based on interferon is not an option in renal transplant recipients due to the high risk of acute allograft rejection.
To assess efficacy and tolerability of combined treatment with ribavirin and amantadine regarding viral clearance, normalization of liver enzymes, and improvement of HCV-related hepatopathy and graft nephropathy in HCV-RNA-positive renal transplant patients.
Prospective randomized controlled study comparing ribavirin, 1000 mg daily (n=7), versus ribavirin, 1000 mg, in combination with amantadine, 200 mg daily (n=8), for 12 months, versus no therapy (controls, n=26). Results were evaluated by intention-to-treat analysis.
No relevant differences among treatment groups were found regarding liver enzymes, HCV viremia, liver histology and renal parameters. However, antiviral treatment was limited by anemia, resulting in premature withdrawal from therapy and requiring substitution with recombinant erythropoietin in most patients. The best predictor for tolerability of active treatment was a creatinine clearance rate>50 ml/min.
Addition of amantadine to ribavirin seems not to be superior to ribavirin monotherapy in renal transplant patients with chronic replicating HCV infection. However, this may be explained in part by the poor tolerability of both ribavirin and amantadine in patients with impaired renal function, resulting in drop-outs and subtherapeutic drug dosage.
Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is a hereditary disease characterized by ischemic stroke, cognitive impairment, migraine and neuropsychological deficit. Although intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) has been described in patients with CADASIL, the cause of such ICH is still unknown. We present a 39-year-old man with CADASIL who had two years history of untreated hypertension. In this patient, acute ICH developed only two weeks after the initiation of aspirin. Brain images demonstrated a 3cmx3cm hyperacute ICH in the left temporal lobe at the site of previous old hemorrhage. The presence of cerebral microbleed and use of antithrombotics may be associated with development of ICH in patients with CADASIL.
In this study, we show that the environmental pollutant, 3-nitrofluoranthene (3-NF) but not its amine form, 3-aminofluoranthene (3-AF), induces apoptosis as well as regulated necrosis with necroptotic features in Hepa1c1c7 cells. Upon exposure to 3-NF, both typical apoptotic and necrotic cells were observed. A large number of the cells exhibited a characteristic partial nuclear chromatin condensation. Cycloheximide completely attenuated 3-NF-induced cell death. Activation of caspase-8, -9, and -3 were observed. Moreover, Z-VAD-FMK decreased the apoptotic cells, whereas the number of propidium iodide (PI)-positive cells with partial chromatin condensation was reduced by Nec-1, an inhibitor of receptor interacting protein (RIP-1). Cyp1a1, but not nitric oxide synthase (NOS), appears to be involved in activation of 3-NF to reactive metabolites. Increase in the number as well as size of lysosomes, myelinosomes, and activation of autophagy were also observed. 3-NF induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2, JNK and p38 MAPKs. Interestingly, while inhibitors of ERK1/2 and JNK reduced apoptotic as well as necrotic cell death, the p38 inhibitor, SB202190 reduced only the necrotic cell death. Taken together, 3-NF elicits both apoptosis and a caspase-independent programmed cell death (PCD) with autophagic characteristics. Conversely, with 3-AF, no apparent cytotoxic effects besides a reduction in cell proliferation was observed.
The rubber accelerator, 2-mercaptobenzothiazole (MBT), has been reported to cause allergic contact dermatitis from gloves and other rubber products, but its chemical fate when exposed to occupational oxidants and the mechanism of its pathogenesis are not known. It was hypothesized that the thiol group is critical to MBT's (its oxidation products or metabolites) covalent binding and/or haptenation to nucleophilic protein residues. Oxidative transformation of MBT to the disulfide 2,2'-dithiobis(benzothiazole) (MBTS) was observed within the glove matrix when hypochlorous acid, iodine, and hydrogen peroxide were used as oxidants. Cysteine reduced MBTS to MBT with subsequent formation of the mixed disulfide 2-amino-3-(benzothiazol-2-yl disulfanyl)propionic acid which was identified and characterized. Spectrophotometry and mass spectrometry experiments demonstrated the simultaneous reduction of MBTS and disulfide formation with Cys34 on bovine serum albumin, suggesting a potential route of protein haptenation through covalent bonding between protein cysteinyl residues and the MBT/MBTS thiol moiety. Metabolism of MBT using isoniazid and dexamethasone-induced rat liver microsomes, to give a protein reactive epoxide intermediate and provide an alternative protein haptenation mechanism, was not observed. The data suggest that the critical functional group on MBT is the thiol, and haptenation is via the formation of mixed disulfides between the thiol group on MBT and a protein sulfhydryl group.
To estimate the prevalence of important side effects in patients with malignant disease who were receiving high doses of morphine as part of their palliative treatment.
Data on patients were collected over 12 months.
Two palliative care units in Western Australia.
19 Patients with malignant disease who were receiving morphine either subcutaneously or orally as the main analgesic. 10 Patients receiving a total daily dose of morphine of at least 500 mg orally or 250 mg parenterally were enrolled in the study. The other 9 patients were enrolled after an important problem thought to be related to the morphine had been identified. All of the patients were taking drugs to supplement the treatment.
The dose of morphine or route of administration, or both, was changed in three patients.
Determination of the prevalence of side effects in the patients. Assessment of the relation of any side effects with the supplemental drugs taken by the patients.
Plasma morphine and electrolyte concentrations were measured and a full history taken for each patient. Thirteen of the 19 patients had an important side effect; 12 of them had myoclonus and one had hyperalgesia of the skin. Plasma morphine concentrations were similar in patients with and without myoclonus, ranging from 158 to 3465 nmol/l and 39 to 2821 nmol/l respectively. Eight of the patients with side effects were taking an antipsychotic drug concurrently compared with none of those without side effects. A greater proportion of patients with side effects were taking the antinauseant drug thiethylperazine (6/13 v 2/6) and at least one non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (10/13 v 2/6), whereas a smaller proportion were taking a glucocorticosteroid (3/13 v 4/6). The estimated prevalence of important side effects in the total population of patients receiving palliative treatment in the two units was 2.7-3.6%.
Myoclonus as a side effect of treatment with morphine is more likely to occur in patients taking antidepressant or antipsychotic drugs as antiemetics or as adjuvant agents or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for additional analgesia. If a patient develops myoclonus the best approach may be to change the supplemental treatment.
Doxorubicin (Adriamycin; Adria Laboratories, Columbus, OH) is one of the most effective chemotherapeutic agents used in the management of pediatric neoplastic disorders during the past 20 years. However, its use has been limited by well-characterized, dose-related cardiac toxicity. Recently, cardiac dysfunction has been noted in pediatric patients who had received doxorubicin years before. This article summarizes current information regarding the pathophysiology and risk factors associated with cardiotoxicity and reviews detection methods and treatments of this condition.
Evidence from the literature indicates that mitochondrial dysfunction occurs in schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders. To produce an animal model that simulates psychotic symptoms analogous to those seen in schizophrenic patients, sub-anesthetic doses of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists (such as ketamine) have been used. The aim of this study was to evaluate behavioral changes and mitochondrial dysfunction in rats administered ketamine for 7 consecutive days. Behavioral evaluation was performed using an activity monitor 1, 3 and 6 h after the last injection. The activities of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes I, II, I-III and IV in multiple brain regions (prefrontal cortex, striatum and hippocampus) were also evaluated. Our results showed that hyperlocomotion occurred in the ketamine group 1 and 3 h after the last injection. Stereotypic movements were elevated only when animals were evaluated 1 h after receiving ketamine. In addition, we found that ketamine administration affects the respiratory chain, altering the activity of respiratory chain complexes in the striatum and hippocampus after 1 h, those in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus after 3 h and those in the prefrontal cortex and striatum 6 h after the last administration of ketamine. These findings suggest that ketamine alters the behavior of rats and changes the activity of respiratory chain complexes in multiple brain regions at different time points.
The pathophysiology and optimal therapy of patients who develop unstable angina in spite of long-term aspirin intake ("aspirin failure") have not been well defined. As part of a prospective study of thrombolytic therapy, 19 consecutive patients were identified who were admitted with unstable angina despite long-term aspirin therapy, and they were compared with 12 patients with unstable angina without previous aspirin use. Both groups received urokinase (3.0 million units over 30 minutes intravenously), maximal antianginal therapy, and intravenous heparin. Fibrinolytic system effects were characterized with serial measurements of fibrinogen, d-dimer, and fibrinogen degradation products (FDPs) at baseline and over the 24 hours following therapy. In comparison with those without previous aspirin use, the aspirin failure patients demonstrated greater d-dimer production after treatment at all points, the values becoming highly significant at 24 hours (1337 +/- 671 versus 709 +/- 620 ng/dl, p less than 0.02), as well as significantly greater FDPs at all points in the first 24 hours after treatment. Post-treatment arteriography (at 24 to 72 hours) indicated more extensive coronary artery disease in the aspirin failure patients (2.56 +/- 8.3 versus 1.63 +/- 1.06 vessels with greater than 50% stenosis, p less than 0.01) and more severe stenoses of the culprit artery (92.7 +/- 22.9% versus 77.3 +/- 36.9% diameter reduction, p = 0.09). By 7 days, both groups had equally low rates of new ischemic events or infarction (3 of 12 for no aspirin versus 4 of 19 for aspirin failure patients). Despite more extensive underlying coronary disease, unstable angina after long-term aspirin therapy appears to respond equally well to thrombolytic therapy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Deoxynivalenol (DON) is the most common fungi toxin contaminating cereals and cereal-derived products. High consumption of DON is implicated in mycotoxicoses and causes a set of symptoms including diarrhea, vomiting, reduced weight gain or immunologic effects. However, such clinical intoxications are rare in humans, who are most frequently, exposed to low DON doses without developing acute symptoms. The adverse effect of chronically consumed low DON doses can not be totally excluded. Using a mouse model, we evaluated the impact on inflammatory status of subchronic administration of DON given at doses comparable to the daily human consumption.
The inflammatory status was evaluated in mice receiving 1, 2.5 or 25μg/kg bw/day DON during a 10 or 30 days period. The systemic interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) concentrations were evaluated by Elisa and inflammatory biomarker mRNA expressions were quantified by qPCR within brain structures and peripheral organs. While DON intake failed to modify physiological markers, we observed a systemic IL-1β increase and a modulation of pro-inflammatory gene expression in brain structures, liver, duodenum and adipose tissue.
We bring here the first evidence that subchronic DON intake, at doses that match daily human intake, induces, in a murine model, a central and peripheral low grade inflammation.
To explore the role of early growth response factor-1 (Egr-1) signal pathway in acute intrahepatic cholestatic liver injury in rats.
A single dose (50 mg/kg) of alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) was administered by gavage to each experimental rat to induce intrahepatic cholestasis. Liver tissue and serum specimens were collected from rats at 24, 48 and 72 h after the intoxication. The values of Egr-1, cytokine induced neutrophil chemoattractant 1(CINC-1), macrophage inflammatory protein-2 (MIP-2) mRNA, the protein expression of inducible nitricoxide synthase (iNOS) and the values of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) were assayed by real-time PCR, immunohistochemistry, and ELISA, respectively. The levels of MDA, SOD, NO and MPO were assayed by thiobarbituric acid method, xanthine oxidase method, nitric acid deoxidizing assay, and colorimetric method, respectively.
In the model group at 24, 48, 72 h after intoxication, the values of CINC-1 and MIP-2 mRNA were higher than those of the controls (P < 0.05). In the model group at 24, 48 h after intoxication, the value of Egr-1 mRNA was higher than that of the controls (P < 0.05), but there was no significant difference at 72 h (P < 0.05). Of the model group, the absorbance value of iNOS was lower than that of the controls at 24, 48 and 72 h (P < 0.05). Of the model group at 24, 48, 72 h after intoxication, the values of TNF alpha, IL-6, MPO and MDA were higher than those of the controls (P < 0.05), but the values of NO and SOD were lower than those of the controls (P < 0.05).
Egr-1 signal pathway is involved in acute intrahepatic cholestatic liver injury induced by ANIT. After Egr-1 was activated, CINC-1 and MIP-2 are activated consequently and attract neutrophils into the liver. TNF alpha and IL-6 are activated at the same time, so neutrophils are activated and the resulting lipid peroxidation and MDA increased, injuring the liver. iNOS and NO may play a protective role in acute intrahepatic cholestatic liver injury induced by ANIT.
The authors report a case of hypersensitivity to carbamazepine presenting as an acute eosinophilic pneumonia and a probable hypersensitivity myopericarditis in a 54-year-old patient treated with carbamazepine for three weeks. Treatment consisted of stopping the carbamazepine and in prolonged corticosteroid therapy. The features of the hypersensitivity syndrome to carbamazepine are mentioned as well as the different pulmonary disorders attributable to carbamazepine.
Light to moderate drinking confers cardioprotection although it remains unclear with regards to the role of moderate drinking on cardiac function in obesity. This study was designed to examine the impact of moderate ethanol intake on myocardial function in high fat diet intake-induced obesity and the mechanism(s) involved with a focus on mitochondrial integrity. C57BL/6 mice were fed low or high fat diet for 16 weeks prior to ethanol challenge (1g/kg/d for 3 days). Cardiac contractile function, intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis, myocardial histology, and mitochondrial integrity [aconitase activity and the mitochondrial proteins SOD1, UCP-2 and PPARγ coactivator 1α (PGC-1α)] were assessed 24h after the final ethanol challenge. Fat diet intake compromised cardiomyocyte contractile and intracellular Ca(2+) properties (depressed peak shortening and maximal velocities of shortening/relengthening, prolonged duration of relengthening, dampened intracellular Ca(2+) rise and clearance without affecting duration of shortening). Although moderate ethanol challenge failed to alter cardiomyocyte mechanical property under low fat diet intake, it accentuated high fat diet intake-induced changes in cardiomyocyte contractile function and intracellular Ca(2+) handling. Moderate ethanol challenge failed to affect fat diet intake-induced cardiac hypertrophy as evidenced by H&E staining. High fat diet intake reduced myocardial aconitase activity, downregulated levels of mitochondrial protein UCP-2, PGC-1α, SOD1 and interrupted intracellular Ca(2+) regulatory proteins, the effect of which was augmented by moderate ethanol challenge. Neither high fat diet intake nor moderate ethanol challenge affected protein or mRNA levels as well as phosphorylation of Akt and GSK3β in mouse hearts. Taken together, our data revealed that moderate ethanol challenge accentuated high fat diet-induced cardiac contractile and intracellular Ca(2+) anomalies as well as mitochondrial injury.
The bronchodilator and cardiac effects produced by aerosols of 0.5% isoprenaline and of 0.25, 0.5, and 1% salbutamol administered in 40% oxygen by intermittent positive-pressure ventilation were compared in 24 asthmatic patients. Isoprenaline and salbutamol in concentrations of 0.5% were equipotent in peak bronchodilator effect; salbutamol was superior in total bronchodilator effect and duration of average effect, but the peak bronchodilator effect occurred earlier after isoprenaline. Significantly greater tachycardia was produced by 0.5% isoprenaline than by the same concentration of salbutamol. The 0.25, 0.5, and 1% concentrations of salbutamol had about the same peak bronchodilator effect, but there was a stepwise increase in total effect and duration of average effect in relation to the concentration used. A similar stepwise increase in heart rate was also noted, but with all concentrations this was significantly less than with 0.5% isoprenaline. It was concluded that a 0.5% solution of salbutamol, which provided maximal bronchodilatation without important tachycardia, was therapeutically superior to the other three treatments.
Hemorrhagic cystitis is a common side effect of cyclophosphamide therapy not observed with other alkylating agents. In five patients receiving cyclophosphamide by mouth for prolonged periods with large cumulative dosage urinary-bladder tumors fatal to four and requiring cystectomy in the lone survivor developed. These observations strongly suggest chemical carcinogenicity of this drug in the production of these tumors. Increasingly, cyclophosphamide is being used for non-neoplastic disease. These circumstances suggest careful follow-up observation of patients in whom hemorrhagic cystitis from this drug develops for evidence of bladder cancer, as well as restraint in use of cyclophosphamide for non-neoplastic diseases if alternative therapy is available.
Fluphenazine enanthate parenterally was compared to an antipsychotic drug (haloperidol) given orally for the "crisis intervention" treatment of elderly outpatients with late paraphrenia. In the fluphenazine group, 11 of 13 patients improved, compared to only 3 of 13 in the oral drug group (p less than 0.01). The superiority of fluphenazine probably was attributable to improved compliance with the prescribed regimen by patients receiving parenteral depot medication. Despite the advanced age of the subjects, significant adverse drug effects were uncommon.
Our previous studies have indicated that the thalamic nucleus submedius (Sm) is involved in modulation of nociception and plays an important role in an endogenous analgesic system (a feedback loop) consisting of spinal cord-Sm-ventrolateral orbital cortex-periaqueductal gray-spinal cord. To investigate whether opioids are involved in this antinociception pathway, the effects of microinjection of morphine and naloxone into the Sm on the nociceptive behavior (agitation) evoked in the formalin test were investigated in the awake rat using an automated movement detection system. The results indicate that a unilateral microinjection of morphine (5 micro g, 0.5 microl) into the Sm suppresses the formalin-induced agitation response, but does not influence spontaneous motor activity, and that the morphine-induced depression can be reversed by microinjection of the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (1.0 micro g, 0.5 microl) into the same Sm site. The results suggest that opioid receptors in the Sm may be involved in the Sm-mediated depression of persistent inflammatory pain.
A male in his sixties with no history of cardiac chest pain awoke with chest pain following an afternoon sleep. The patient did not self medicate. The patient's observations were within normal limits, he was administered oxygen via a face mask and glyceryl trinitrate (GTN). Several minutes after the GTN the patient experienced a sudden drop in blood pressure and heart rate, this was rectified by atropine sulphate and a fluid challenge. There was no further deterioration in the patient's condition during transport to hospital. There are very few documented case like this in the prehospital scientific literature. The cause appears to be the Bezold-Jarish reflex, stimulation of the ventricular walls which in turn decreases sympathetic outflow from the vasomotor centre. Prehospital care providers who are managing any patient with a syncopal episode that fails to recover within a reasonable time frame should consider the Bezold-Jarisch reflex as the cause and manage the patient accordingly.
A new case of pneumococcal meningitis in a child successfully treated with imipenem-cilastatin after failure of standard antibiotics is presented. Seizures, as the major adverse effect, were easily treated and no sequelae were later observed. The difficulty in distinguishing between seizures due to meningitis and those due to imipenem is discussed. We conclude that imipenem-cilastatin is a good alternative therapy in children's meningitis caused by pneumococcus resistant to standard antibiotics.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats were given an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (benazepril or quinapril) or hydralazine and were left for up to 6 hr. To examine whether administration of antihypertensive agents affects expression of immediate early genes in left ventricular myocardium, groups of rats were sacrificed at 1, 3, and 6 hr after dosing; total RNA was extracted from left ventricular tissue and analyzed by blot hybridization technique using labeled probes for c-myc, c-fos, and GAPDH mRNA. All three antihypertensive agents reduced pressure similarly, and treatment with the two ACE inhibitors increased c-fos and c-myc mRNA expression in left ventriculum. By contrast, hydralazine did not increase steady-state mRNA expression of either proto-oncogene. Thus, in parallel with the pressure fall, acute administration of the ACE inhibitors induced expression of c-fos and c-myc mRNAs in the left ventricle. Since the equidepressor dose of hydralazine did not affect expression of these proto-oncogenes, this effect of ACE inhibitors is independent of their hemodynamic action.
The recent upsurge of research on adolescent rats raises the issue of the extent to which different methods of rodent procurement might affect results. Here, we examined the effects of acute and repeated dosing with two antipsychotics, haloperidol and clozapine, and Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol [Experiments 1 and 2, respectively] in adolescent rats of both sexes that differed in shipping status (i.e., shipped from a commercial breeder at weaning or bred in-house). In each experiment, test drugs produced effects that were characteristic for their respective classes in previous studies with adult rodents. Both haloperidol and clozapine produced catalepsy and haloperidol decreased locomotion in shipped and bred rats of both sexes, with sensitization to haloperidol-induced catalepsy developing with repeated dosing. The most prominent between-status difference in this experiment was greater sensitivity of the shipped rats to haloperidol-induced changes in locomotor activity over a wider dose range, an effect that was especially evident in females. In Experiment 2, vehicle levels of motor activity were decreased in bred rats (which did not occur in Experiment 1), resulting in flattening of the Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol dose-effect curve for this measure in bred rats of each sex. Acutely, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol produced antinociception, hypothermia and catalepsy in both groups of rats, with tolerance developing after repeated dosing. Status-related differences were sex-dependent. Whereas bred female rats were more sensitive to Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol's antinociceptive effects, shipped male rats were more sensitive to its antinociceptive effects as well as to its hypothermic and cataleptic effects. Together, the results of these descriptive experiments suggest that between-status differences tend to be quantitative rather than qualitative. Further, these results suggest that careful attention to issues related to rodent procurement during adolescence is warranted and may help to account for divergent findings in different labs.
Theophylline-induced seizures have significant morbidity and mortality and are difficult to treat. Theophylline therapy for asthma has been observed to depress plasma pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) levels which may decrease gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) synthesis and thereby contribute to seizures. We hypothesized that treatment with pyridoxine might prove beneficial in theophylline-induced seizures. One hundred thirty-nine mice were injected with 250 mg theophylline/kg ip and 89 mice were injected with 250-750 mg pyridoxine/kg ip as treatment. Decreased rates of seizure (42 vs 70%, p < 0.002) and death (29 vs 56%, p < 0.002) were observed. Six New Zealand White rabbits were given 115 mg theophylline/kg iv over 50 min followed by treatment with an iv bolus of 115 mg pyridoxine/kg, with subsequent continuous drip infusion of 230 mg/kg over 50 min. Serum theophylline levels and plasma PLP levels showed significant negative correlation prior to pyridoxine infusion with a mean peak theophylline level of 182 micrograms/ml and a mean low PLP level of 64 nM/L. Electroencephalogram (EEG) tracings were obtained before infusions, during theophylline infusion and during pyridoxine infusion. All 6 rabbits developed abnormal EEGs during theophylline infusion and all 6 rabbit EEG patterns returned to baseline during treatment with pyridoxine. These findings suggest that pyridoxine may partially reverse theophylline-induced central nervous system toxicity.
To evaluate the incidence, severity, and course of ketoconazole-associated hepatic injury, 211 patients with onychomycosis were randomized by a ratio of 2:1 to receive either ketoconazole (137 patients) or griseofulvin (74 patients). All of them were seronegative for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV) and had no biochemical abnormality before therapy. The two groups were comparable in age, sex, and pretherapy liver biochemical tests. Liver biochemical tests were followed up biweekly for 3 months, and then at monthly intervals during the remaining course of therapy. No biochemical abnormality or hepatic injury was found in patients during griseofulvin treatment. Of the patients treated with ketoconazole, 24 (17.5%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 11.1% to 23.9%) showed asymptomatic transaminase elevation. Ketoconazole was discontinued immediately after overt hepatitis developed in another 4 patients (2.9%; 95% CI, 0.1% to 5.7%) who did not succumb to hepatic decompensation. The abnormal biochemical changes in patients with overt hepatitis returned to normal after discontinuing ketoconazole. Elderly patients were more prone to develop overt hepatitis. In patients with asymptomatic liver injury, the abnormal biochemical changes gradually returned to normal despite continuing ketoconazole therapy. The results of this cohort study suggest that ketoconazole-induced overt hepatitis is more common than previously believed and that transient subclinical injury is much more common than overt hepatitis. Therapy with ketoconazole may be continued with caution in the absence of symptoms and/or hyperbilirubinemia, but should be discontinued if overt hepatitis occurs.
