It has been shown that small doses of ethanol (<or= 1.0 g/kg) may antagonize the discriminative stimulus properties of nicotine. The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether ethanol could antagonize nicotine's rewarding effects in the conditioned place preference procedure. For comparison, effects of ethanol on nicotine-induced seizures were assessed. Male C57BL/6J mice were used in all experiments. Lower doses of nicotine (0.3 and 0.6 mg/kg, s.c.) induced significant conditioned place preference, while higher doses (0.9 and 1.2 mg/kg) induced neither conditioned place preference nor conditioned place aversion. In the following experiments, ethanol (0.5 or 1.0 g/kg, i.p.) was administered 5 min before 0.3 mg/kg nicotine. Ethanol did not antagonize nicotine-induced conditioned place preference. Contrary to our hypothesis, a non-significant (p = 0.07) enhancement of nicotine-induced place preference conditioning was observed in mice pre-treated with 1.0 g/kg ethanol. Both doses of ethanol (0.5 and 1.0 g/kg) suppressed seizures elicited by a high dose of nicotine (6.0 mg/kg). Ethanol totally eliminated clonic-tonic component of nicotine-induced seizures. Maximal blood ethanol levels after i.p. administration of 0.5 or 1.0 g/kg ethanol exceeded 60 and 115 mg%, respectively. The present results may indicate that the rewarding and seizure-inducing effects of nicotine are differentially modulated by clinically relevant concentrations of ethanol in mice.
We present a 68-year-old patient with essential tremor who was treated with propranolol hydrochloride (80 mg daily) and gabapentin (900 mg daily) after a history of mild success of gabapentin alone in relieving his symptoms. The patient had several daily episodes of paroxysmal dystonic movements in both hands. After reducing the propranolol dose to 40 mg daily, the dystonic movements resolved. This case suggests a synergistic effect between propranolol and gabapentin.
A single oral dose of 0.15 mg/m2 of clonidine was given to twenty children and adolescents (range 1.6 to 17.4 years) with short stature (height standard deviation score -3.3 +/- 1.1). In 18 (90%) tests the plasma growth hormone response was positive (13.5 +/- 7 ng/ml) without false-negatives. 16 (80%) were drowsy, lasting for 3-4 hours. The systolic blood pressure decreased from 99.6 +/- 13 mmHg (basal) to 81 +/- 13.9 and 85.8 +/- 11.8 (p less than 0.05), after 180 and 240 minutes of clonidine administration. The cardiac frequency decreased from 92 +/- 18 to 74 +/- 14 beat/minute (p less than 0.05). A positive linear correlation (p less than 0.05) was found between peak serum growth hormone concentration and peak systolic hypotension (r = 0.707). The great sensitivity of the clonidine test is confirmed. The side-effects observed suggest that it is necessary to control blood pressure during the 5 hours following the oral administration of clonidine.
A 6-week, randomised, double-blind, multicentre study in 256 patients with a DSM-III-R diagnosis of major depression was carried out to compare the selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (NARI), reboxetine, with the reference standard tricyclic antidepressant, imipramine. The efficacy of reboxetine, as measured by the extent of improvement of Hamilton Depression Rating Scale. Montgomery and Asberg Depression Rating Scale and the Clinical Global Impression Scale, was similar to that of imipramine. The improvement was observed in the overall population and in severely depressed and melancholic patients. Reboxetine tolerability compared favourably with that of imipramine. Frequency of discontinuation due to adverse events was lower in the reboxetine-treated group (10.0%) than in the imipramine-treated group (14.3%), and the cumulative risk of development (Kaplan-Meier analysis) of dry mouth, hypotension and/or related symptoms and tremor was significantly higher on imipramine than on reboxetine.
Unilateral visual loss following periocular corticosteroid injection is a reported complication of injections of tonsillar, nasal, scalp, and retrobulbar sites. This is the first reported case, to our knowledge, of intralesional corticosteroid injection of a chalazion producing ipsilateral microembolization and infarction of retinal and choroidal vasculature. An eight-year-old boy underwent reexcision of an upper lid chalazion under general anesthesia. Intraoperatively, 0.5 ml of depot-steroid preparation was injected into the excision site. Postoperatively, vision was unilaterally reduced to light perception only. Examination revealed an afferent pupillary defect, retinal and choroidal emboli, retinal edema, and a macular "cherry red spot". Anterior chamber paracentesis, carbon dioxide rebreathing, carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and ocular massage failed to change the embolic pattern. No visual recovery resulted. Fundus photography and fluorescein angiography demonstrated occlusion of the retinal and choroidal vasculature. Extreme care should be exercised during and immediately following intralesional corticosteroid injection of chalazia.
Selective inhibitors of cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) are generally tolerated by patients sensitive to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that inhibit COX-1. Valdecoxib is a new sulfonamide-containing COX-2-specific inhibitor indicated for the treatment of acute pain, osteoarthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis.
To compare the clinical tolerance to rofecoxib and valdecoxib in patients who previously developed urticaria and angioedema while taking classic NSAIDs.
Patients with challenge-proven NSAID cutaneous sensitivity were submitted to single-blinded controlled oral challenges with rofecoxib, 50 mg, and valdecoxib, 40 mg.
Twenty-eight patients (19 females and 9 males; mean +/- SD age, 28.6 +/- 15.0 years; age range, 10-61 years) participated in this study. Twenty-two (85%) of 26 patients who underwent skin tests were atopic, as demonstrated by a clinical history of rhinitis and/or asthma plus positive immediate-type skin hypersensitivity test results. A previous exclusive cutaneous reaction pattern (urticaria and/or angioedema) had occurred in 10 patients (36%), whereas a mixed pattern of skin and respiratory symptoms had occurred in 18 patients (64%). Twenty patients (71%) were multiple reactors, and 8 patients (28%) were single reactors. In this current study, 2 patients (7%) taking rofecoxib experienced angioedema, and 1 patient (4%) taking valdecoxib experienced urticaria.
Rofecoxib and valdecoxib can be safely used by most NSAID-sensitive patients with cutaneous reactions. Our findings suggest that isolated cross-reactions may occur in these patients, and for this reason, controlled oral provocation may be prudent when prescribing valdecoxib or rofecoxib for patients who have previously had urticaria or angioedema triggered by NSAIDs.
To evaluate the effect of midazolam on the global perioperative experience, including patient satisfaction, postoperative nausea and vomiting, postoperative pain, and perioperative anxiety and amnesia.
Prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled study.
Ambulatory surgical center affiliated with a tertiary-care hospital.
88 ASA physical status I, II, and III patients scheduled for outpatient surgery.
Patients were randomized into two groups to receive either 0.04 mg/kg of midazolam or placebo intravenously (IV) 20 minutes preoperatively.
Perioperative measurements included blood pressure, heart rate, and oxygen saturation and the patient's level of anxiety; type of anesthetic administered; the anesthesiologist's guess at the treatment arm; perioperative dosages of fentanyl, morphine, and ondansetron; recovery room length of stay; frequency of nausea and vomiting, and level of postoperative pain in the 24 hours after surgery; the patient's overall satisfaction with the anesthetic, and whether the patient would recommend the premedication to a friend.
Patient demographics, type of surgery/anesthesia, vital signs, case duration, recovery duration, and postoperative pain were all similar between the midazolam and placebo groups. As expected, IV midazolam was an effective anxiolytic. There was no evidence of retrograde amnesia. Fewer patients in the midazolam group suffered from postoperative nausea than did those in the placebo group (25%vs. 50%;p = 0.03), despite receiving similar perioperative antiemetic and opioid administration. Similarly, fewer patients in the midazolam group experienced postoperative vomiting than placebo group patients (8%vs. 21%), although this difference did not reach statistical significance. Only 42% of patients in the placebo group would recommend their premedication to a friend, compared with 85% of patients in the midazolam group (p < 0.001).
In addition to the known anxiolytic effects of midazolam, midazolam premedication is an effective way to reduce the frequency of postoperative nausea, and perhaps vomiting, and increase patient satisfaction.
To evaluate the effect of induced hypotension with isoflurane or prostaglandin E(1) (PGE(1)) on cytokine responses to surgery.
Prospective, randomized study.
University hospital.
24 ASA physical status I and II patients undergoing elective oral and maxillofacial surgery.
Patients were randomly allocated to three groups be anesthetized in the normotension (Control group), isoflurane-induced hypotension (Isoflurane-H group), and PGE(1)-induced hypotension (PGE(1)-H group). Mean arterial pressure during hypotension was maintained at approximately 80% of baseline values.
Blood samples were taken before induction of anesthesia and during and after hypotension. Plasma tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-10 (IL-10) levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. There were no differences in TNF-alpha or IL-10 levels among the groups. However, the elevation of the plasma IL-6 level in the PGE(1)-H group was found during hypotension, compared with the control group (p < 0.05).
PGE(1)-induced hypotension has an effect on IL-6 response to oral and maxillofacial surgery.
Hyperglycaemia is associated with adverse outcomes in some studies of acute ischaemic stroke.
We hypothesised that in thrombolytic-treated stroke patients, hyperglycaemia would be independently associated with haemorrhagic transformation and unfavourable outcome.
Consecutive rt-PA-treated acute ischaemic stroke patients presenting to four emergency departments were analysed. Associations of initial blood glucose and survival to hospital discharge, symptomatic intracerebral haemorrhage, any form of intracerebral haemorrhage, and disability at hospital discharge were determined. Potentially confounding factors of age, National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, and smoking were analysed by univariate logistic regression and those with P<0.3 included in the multivariate model.
In 268 patients, initial glucose values ranged from 62 to 507 mg/dl (mean 131). Elevated glucose at arrival was not significantly associated with any adverse clinical outcomes. A trend towards higher mortality in hyperglycaemic patients (odds ratio 1.71 per 100 mg/dl increase in glucose, 95% confidence interval 0.92-3.13, P=0.08) was seen, but is of unclear significance, and was not corroborated by effects on discharge disability, symptomatic intracerebral haemorrhage or intracerebral haemorrhage.
Thrombolytic-treated stroke patients with hyperglycaemia at presentation did not have significantly worse outcomes than others in this cohort. These data fail to confirm previously described associations seen in similarly sized studies. Further study of these associations and their magnitude are necessary to better define the relationship between serum glucose and outcome in thrombolytic-treated acute ischaemic stroke.
This paper presents the clinical and metabolic findings in two young boys with long-standing Kearns-Sayre syndrome. Following short exposure to oral prednisone, both boys developed lethargy, increasing somnolence, polydipsia, polyphagia, and polyuria. Both presented in the emergency room with profound coma, hypotension, severe hyperglycemia, and acidosis. Nonketotic lactic acidosis was present in one and ketosis without a known serum lactate level was present in the other. Respiratory failure rapidly ensued and both patients expired in spite of efforts at resuscitation. We believe these two cases represent a newly described and catastrophic metabolic-endocrine failure in the Kearns-Sayre syndrome.
Endothelin (ET)-1, a potent endothelium-derived vasoconstrictor peptide, has a potential pathophysiologic role in pulmonary hypertension. Bosentan, a dual ET receptor (ET(A)/ET(B)) antagonist, is efficacious in treatment of pulmonary hypertension. The objectives of this study were to investigate the expression of ET-1 and ET receptor A (ERA) genes and to evaluate the effect of bosentan in monocrotaline (MCT)-induced pulmonary hypertension.
Four-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated as follows: control (n=36), subcutaneous (sc) injection of saline; MCT (n=36), sc injection of MCT (60 mg/kg); and bosentan (n=36), sc injection of MCT (60 mg/kg) plus 25 mg/kg/day bosentan orally.
Serum ET-1 concentrations in the MCT group were higher than the control group on day 28 and 42. Quantitative analysis of peripheral pulmonary arteries revealed that the increase in medial wall thickness after MCT injection was significantly attenuated in the bosentan group on day 28 and 42. In addition, the increase in the number of intra-acinar muscular arteries after MCT injection was reduced by bosentan on day 14, 28 and 42. The levels of ET-1 and ERA gene expression were significantly increased in the MCT group compared with control group on day 5, and bosentan decreased the expression of ET-1 on day 5.
ET-1 contributes to the progression of cardiopulmonary pathology in rats with MCT-induced pulmonary hypertension. Administration of bosentan reduced ET-1 gene expression in MCT-induced pulmonary hypertension in rats.
Acetaminophen overdose causes massive hepatic failure via mechanisms involving glutathione depletion, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction. The ultimate target of acetaminophen causing cell death remains uncertain, and the role of apoptosis in acetaminophen-induced cell killing is still controversial. Our aim was to evaluate the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) as a key factor in acetaminophen-induced necrotic and apoptotic killing of primary cultured mouse hepatocytes. After administration of 10 mmol/L acetaminophen, necrotic killing increased to more than 49% and 74%, respectively, after 6 and 16 hours. MPT inhibitors, cyclosporin A (CsA), and NIM811 temporarily decreased necrotic killing after 6 hours to 26%, but cytoprotection was lost after 16 hours. Confocal microscopy revealed mitochondrial depolarization and inner membrane permeabilization approximately 4.5 hours after acetaminophen administration. CsA delayed these changes, indicative of the MPT, to approximately 11 hours after acetaminophen administration. Apoptosis indicated by nuclear changes, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling, and caspase-3 activation also increased after acetaminophen administration. Fructose (20 mmol/L, an adenosine triphosphate-generating glycolytic substrate) plus glycine (5 mmol/L, a membrane stabilizing amino acid) prevented nearly all necrotic cell killing but paradoxically increased apoptosis from 37% to 59% after 16 hours. In the presence of fructose plus glycine, CsA decreased apoptosis and delayed but did not prevent the MPT. In conclusion, after acetaminophen a CsA-sensitive MPT occurred after 3 to 6 hours followed by a CsA-insensitive MPT 9 to 16 hours after acetaminophen. The MPT then induces ATP depletion-dependent necrosis or caspase-dependent apoptosis as determined, in part, by ATP availability from glycolysis.
The present study has utilized a clinical model to compare the pharmacokinetics of four currently available amide local anaesthetic agents in theoretically equipotent concentrations. In addition to providing comparative data concerning the onset and duration of analgesia, anaesthesia, paresis, and paralysis, it has provided definitive confirmation of the clinical impression that under certain circumstances following the performance of a nerve block, motor blockade may actually precede sensory blockade, and an explanation for this seeming violation of established neurophysiological principles has been postulated. The study has also raised questions concerning the sequence of recovery from motor and sensory blockade which still await explanation.
To describe the incidence of atrial fibrillation induced by dobutamine stress echocardiography and characterize patients at risk of developing atrial fibrillation, by constructing a simple validated risk score index.
An observational study using prospectively collected data.
3800 consecutive patients in sinus rhythm undergoing dobutamine stress echocardiography were randomly divided to a case (2/3) and test group (1/3). Associations of predetermined demographic, clinical, electrocardiographic and echocardiographic variables were calculated in patients with and without atrial fibrillation induced by dobutamine stress echocardiography in the case group. Logistic regression analysis determined significant independent risk predictors, a scoring index was constructed and validated on the test group.
There was a 2% incidence of dobutamine stress echocardiography-induced atrial fibrillation in the study population. Risk predictors of atrial fibrillation included: a history of atrial fibrillation (2 points), increased left atrial diameter, right bundle branch block, decreased rest heart rate and hypertension (1 point each). The case subgroup low-risk patients (score 0-2) had a 1% risk, moderate-risk patients (score 3) a 2.7% and high-risk patients (score 4-6) a 14.5% risk of developing atrial fibrillation during dobutamine stress echocardiography. The rates in the test subgroup were 1%, 3.8% and 15.3%, respectively.
Atrial fibrillation during dobutamine stress echocardiography is not common, the risk of developing atrial fibrillation during dobutamine stress echocardiography can be predicted by using a simple risk score system comprised of clinical, electrocardiographic and rest echocardiographic variables, which may be of help when planning a dobutamine stress echocardiography test in selected cases.
Myricetin is a natural flavonoid used in various health management systems. In this present study myricetin tested to evaluate the effect on lipids and lipid metabolism enzymes in normal and streptozotocin (STZ) with cadmium (Cd) induced diabetic nephrotoxic rats. Diabetic nephrotoxic rats were significantly (P<0.05) increased the levels of urinary albumin and lipid profiles: total cholesterol (TC), triglycerides (TGs), free fatty acids (FFAs), phospholipids (PLs), low density lipoprotein (LDL), very low-density lipoproteins (VLDL), and decreased in the levels of high-density lipoproteins (HDL). In addition, the activity of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) and lecithin cholesterol acyl transferase (LCAT) were decreased significantly, whereas the 3-hydroxy 3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HmgCoA) reductase activity was increased. The upregulation of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1a (SREBP-1a), SREBP-1c, SREBP-2, transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and downregulation peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-α) proteins expression levels were noticed. An administration of myricetin (1.0 mg/kg body weight (b/w)) for 12 weeks was brought the above parameters towards normal level. Histopathological study of kidney samples showed that extracellular mesangial matrix expansion, glomerulosclerosis and interstitial fibrosis in diabetic nephrotoxic rats was suppressed by myricetin treatment. Further our results indicate that administration of myricetin afforded remarkable protection against STZ-Cd induced alterations in lipid metabolism and thereby reduced the diabetic nephropathy in experimental rats.
In this study, capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia was assessed as a marker of abnormal nociceptive processing in patients with fibromyalgia (FM). The area of mechanical secondary hyperalgesia induced by a standard solution of capsaicin placed on the volar forearm was measured in ten patients with FM and the results compared to those obtained in ten patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and ten normal subjects. The area of secondary hyperalgesia was found to be substantially increased in both the FM and RA groups compared with controls. In the FM group the area of hyperalgesia correlated with the overall pain score and with the joint tenderness score. The results suggest that in FM there is enhanced sensitivity of nociceptive neurones at a spinal level, thereby supporting the concept of a generalised disturbance of pain modulation in this disorder.
ST-segment elevation during dobutamine stress echocardiography is a serious complication usually related to severe coronary artery disease. However, it can occur in absence of significant coronary artery disease supposedly as a consequence of an occlusive dobutamine-induced coronary artery spasm. We report the case of a 56-year-old man without cardiovascular history who presented during a dobutamine stress echocardiography an intense precordial pain along with an impressive 10-mm ST elevation and in whom urgent catheterization documented the absence of significant coronary artery stenoses.
An antimicrobial agent, kanamycin, has been shown to produce as an untoward effect, ototoxicity. The purpose of this study was to investigate differential effects of kanamycin ototoxicity as a function of Rx timing with regard to circadian rhythms. Four groups of comparable weight Sprague-Dawley rats received a daily subcutaneous dosage of 225 mg/kg kanamycin sulfate with each receiving the antibiotic at a different time: 8 AM (8A), 2 PM (2P), 8 PM (8P), and 2 AM (2A). The rats were housed in separate cages, in a room on a light-dark (12:12) illumination cycle with light between 6 AM and 6 PM. Hearing loss was assessed with the auditory brainstem response (ABR) using pure tone stimuli at 8, 16, 24, and 32 kHz. ABR measures were obtained before dosing began and 2, 4, and 6 weeks after the initial dosing. Kanamycin produced a hearing loss which reflected the total dosage given to each group. Significant differences in physiologic thresholds were observed for both timing of the daily dosage (p less than 0.05), and the 2, 4 and 6 week testings (p less than 0.001). After 2 weeks, the 8A group showed an average hearing loss of 11.5 dB at 32 kHz, with the other timed treatment groups exhibiting minimal effects (3.0-6.5 dB). For the 8A group at this frequency, the loss progressed at 4 (19.5 dB) and 6 (22.5 dB) weeks. The 2P group after 4 weeks exhibited similar losses as the 8A group for this frequency, with the loss at 6 weeks being even greater (34.0 dB). The 8P and 2A groups exhibited only slight losses over all frequencies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Although rare, bradycardia and other cardiac arrhythmias have been associated with the use of H2-receptor antagonists. Ranitidine is among the most frequently prescribed drugs. In this article, the authors observed a ranitidine-mediated sinus bradycardia in a man with dextrocardia (situs inversus) who had acute bleeding from a duodenal ulcer. The bradycardia was resolved after ranitidine was discontinued.
The embryos of teleost fish are exquisitely sensitive to the toxic effects of exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). However, several lines of evidence suggest that adults are less sensitive to TCDD. To better understand and characterize this difference between early life stage and adults, we exposed zebrafish (Danio rerio) to graded TCDD concentrations at different ages. The LD(50) for embryos exposed at 1 day post-fertilization (dpf) was more than an order of magnitude lower than it was for juveniles exposed at 30 dpf. The latency between exposure and response also increased with age. Embryo toxicity was characterized by marked cardiovascular collapse and heart malformation, whereas juveniles exposed at 30 dpf had no detectable cardiovascular toxicity. In juveniles, the effects of TCDD exposure included stunted growth, altered pigmentation, and skeletal malformations. Furthermore, the transcriptional profile produced in hearts exposed to TCDD as embryos had very little overlap with the transcriptional changes induced by TCDD at 30 dpf. The early cardiotoxic response was associated with fish exposed prior to metamorphosis from the larval to the adult body plan at approximately 14 dpf. Our results show conclusively that the developmental stage at the time of exposure controls the toxic response to TCDD.
Excitotoxicity is a paradigm used to explain the biochemical events in both acute neuronal damage and in slowly progressive, neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we show in a longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging study that Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC), the main active compound in marijuana, reduces neuronal injury in neonatal rats injected intracerebrally with the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor ouabain to elicit excitotoxicity. In the acute phase Delta(9)-THC reduced the volume of cytotoxic edema by 22%. After 7 d, 36% less neuronal damage was observed in treated rats compared with control animals. Coadministration of the CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716 prevented the neuroprotective actions of Delta(9)-THC, indicating that Delta(9)-THC afforded protection to neurons via the CB(1) receptor. In Delta(9)-THC-treated rats the volume of astrogliotic tissue was 36% smaller. The CB(1) receptor antagonist did not block this effect. These results provide evidence that the cannabinoid system can serve to protect the brain against neurodegeneration.
Over the last two decades, there has been an increasing awareness regarding the potential impact of indoor air pollution on human health. People working in an indoor environment often experience symptoms such as eye, nose, and throat irritation. Investigations into these complaints have ascribed the effects, in part, to compounds emitted from building materials, cleaning/consumer products, and indoor chemistry. One suspect indoor air contaminant that has been identified is the dicarbonyl 4-oxopentanal (4-OPA). 4-OPA is generated through the ozonolysis of squalene and several high-volume production compounds that are commonly found indoors. Following preliminary workplace sampling that identified the presence of 4-OPA, these studies examined the inflammatory and allergic responses to 4-OPA following both dermal and pulmonary exposure using a murine model. 4-OPA was tested in a combined local lymph node assay and identified to be an irritant and sensitizer. A Th1-mediated hypersensitivity response was supported by a positive response in the mouse ear swelling test. Pulmonary exposure to 4-OPA caused a significant elevation in nonspecific airway hyperreactivity, increased numbers of lung-associated lymphocytes and neutrophils, and increased interferon-γ production by lung-associated lymph nodes. These results suggest that both dermal and pulmonary exposure to 4-OPA may elicit irritant and allergic responses and may help to explain some of the adverse health effects associated with poor indoor air quality.
Chronic inflammatory pain, when not effectively treated, is a costly health problem and has a harmful effect on all aspects of health-related quality of life. Despite the availability of pharmacologic treatments, chronic inflammatory pain remains inadequately treated. Understanding the nociceptive signaling pathways of such pain is therefore important in developing long-acting treatments with limited side effects. High local proton concentrations (tissue acidosis) causing direct excitation or modulation of nociceptive sensory neurons by proton-sensing receptors are responsible for pain in some inflammatory pain conditions. We previously found that all four proton-sensing G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are expressed in pain-relevant loci (dorsal root ganglia, DRG), which suggests their possible involvement in nociception, but their functions in pain remain unclear.
In this study, we first demonstrated differential change in expression of proton-sensing GPCRs in peripheral inflammation induced by the inflammatory agents capsaicin, carrageenan, and complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). In particular, the expression of TDAG8, one proton-sensing GPCR, was increased 24 hours after CFA injection because of increased number of DRG neurons expressing TDAG8. The number of DRG neurons expressing both TDAG8 and transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) was increased as well. Further studies revealed that TDAG8 activation sensitized the TRPV1 response to capsaicin, suggesting that TDAG8 could be involved in CFA-induced chronic inflammatory pain through regulation of TRPV1 function.
Each subtype of the OGR1 family was expressed differently, which may reflect differences between models in duration and magnitude of hyperalgesia. Given that TDAG8 and TRPV1 expression increased after CFA-induced inflammation and that TDAG8 activation can lead to TRPV1 sensitization, it suggests that high concentrations of protons after inflammation may not only directly activate proton-sensing ion channels (such as TRPV1) to cause pain but also act on proton-sensing GPCRs to regulate the development of hyperalgesia.
The mycotoxin and food contaminant ochratoxin A (OTA) is a potent renal carcinogen in rodents, but its mode of action (MoA) is still poorly defined. In 2006, the European Food Safety Authority concluded that there is a "lack of evidence for the existence of OTA-DNA adducts" and thus insufficient evidence to establish DNA reactivity as a MoA for tumor formation by OTA. In reviewing the available database on OTA toxicity, a MoA for renal carcinogenicity of OTA is developed that involves a combination of genetic instability and increased proliferative drive as consequences of OTA-mediated disruption of mitosis, whereby the organ- and site-specificity of tumor formation by OTA is determined by selective renal uptake of OTA into the proximal tubule epithelium. The proposed MoA is critically assessed with respect to concordance of dose-response of the suggested key events and tumor formation, their temporal association, consistency, and biological plausibility. Uncertainties, data gaps and needs for further research are highlighted.
A case of a young muscular male presenting in anuric acute renal failure after cocaine use with a distal obstructive nephropathy by myoglobin casts is presented. Insights into cocaine metabolism, adverse effects, and interaction with alcohol, diagnostic considerations, and mechanisms involved in renal damage are addressed.
Two schizophrenic patients developed muscular rigidity, stupor, and hyperpyrexia consistent with neuroleptic malignant syndrome, 8 to 10 days after starting haloperidol therapy. Muscle rigidity was not affected by etybenzatropine or diazepam, but dantrolene, a direct-acting skeletal muscle relaxant, provided muscle relaxation with a concomitant decrease of fever and serum creatine kinase. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome and malignant hyperthermia are clinically similar, and dantrolene is effective in both; suggesting a muscular origin of fever in these two diseases.
A case is reported of a 56 year old woman admitted for status asthmaticus. She had no known history of cardiovascular disease. During the infusion of salbutamol, there appeared signs of myocardial infarction on the ECG trace. The patient did not complain of any symptoms suggestive of myocardial infarction. Closer cardiac examination and ultrasound revealed features of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The first ECG carried out on admission was in fact in favour of this diagnosis. The pathogenesis of this myocardial infarction is discussed: the long lasting hypoxaemia and the tachycardia induced by the salbutamol simulated hard exercise, poorly tolerated by patients suffering from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Also, this type of cardiomyopathy is known to be associated with impaired myocardial vasodilator reserve and small vessel coronary artery disease.
