Fungal infections are an important cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with malignancies. Therefore, the use of amphotericin B (AmB) is essential for these patients. Results from the literature to date show that renal toxicity is the most serious adverse effect of AmB. Renal impairment manifests as a decrease in glomerular filtration and damage to tubular function. Currently, there is no reliable method of preventing nephrotoxicity. We have observed that sodium supplementation alone may not prevent nephrotoxicity. We noted that a large decrease in serum potassium and magnesium was followed by a significant reduction in creatinine clearance and an increase in both serum urea and creatinine. Therefore, we surmised that potassium and magnesium supplements corresponding to the amounts lost by the kidneys, as well as sufficient hydration, are necessary to prevent renal function damage. We decided to test our hypothesis in 32 cancer patients. During AmB therapy, serum electrolyte concentrations and biochemical parameters of renal function and fluid balance were monitored frequently. The daily ion supplementation corresponded to the amount lost through the kidneys. The total duration of administration ranged from 4 to 39 days, with a mean of 13.7 days (median 11.0 days). The mean daily AmB dose was 0.89 mg/kg (median 0.88 mg/kg). The average diuresis was 3863 ml/day, and the median 4000 ml/day. The daily mean i.v.-administered sodium dose was 195.9 mmol, the daily mean dose of i.v. potassium was 103.7 mmol, and the daily mean dose of i.v. magnesium was 9.0 mmol. The frequency of infusion-related side-effects was only 10.0%. These reactions were treated with hydrocortisone. We observed a significant increase in potassium and magnesium lost through the kidneys, and a significant increase in fractional sodium and potassium excretion through the renal tubuli. We did not observe a significant increase in serum creatinine and ion imbalances. Interestingly, the average creatinine clearance did not decrease, but actually increased slightly, though to a statistically insignificant degree, from 1.425 ml/s at the beginning of treatment to 1.589 ml/s on the 20th day of AmB use. Sufficient hydration of patients and ion supplementation corresponding to the amount lost by the kidneys is an effective prophylaxis for prevention of AmB-induced decrease in renal function and for countering imbalances of serum electrolyte concentrations during use of AmB. The frequency of infusion-related side-effects is minimal relative to other reports.
I sought to describe and analyze the treatment of a large representative sample of adult US emergency department patients with isolated primary headache.
Information on adult patients with an isolated diagnosis of migraine headache or unspecified headache was extracted from the 100.4 million ED visits represented by the 1998 National Hospital Ambulatory Medical Care Survey. Demographic and clinical information are presented with descriptive statistics. The treatment of migraine headache was assessed in light of Canadian and US practice parameters.
The migraine headache and unspecified headache cohorts included 811,419 and 604,977 participants, respectively. The majority of patients were young, white, and female. Patients received a mean of 1.8 medications from a pharmacopoeia of 36 drugs. Most patients (84.8%) given a diagnosis of migraine headache received a parenteral agent. The most commonly used medications were meperidine (30.0%), ketorolac (21.4%), and prochlorperazine (16.7%). Adjunct antiemetics were commonly administered with parenteral opioids (89.8%). Promethazine and hydroxyzine, antiemetics without anti-headache effects, were used 6 times more commonly as adjuncts than the dopamine antagonists that have established anti-headache effects (ie, prochlorperazine, metoclopramide, droperidol; 78.0% versus 11.8%). The US and Canadian recommendations for the use of nonopioid abortive medications (dopamine-antagonist antiemetics, dihydroergotamine, and 5-hydroxytrypamine(1) [5-HT(1)] receptor agonists) are supported by strong evidence. However, parenterally treated patients with migraines received opioids as their only anti-headache medication more commonly than they received any of the aforementioned non-opioids in their regimen (45.7% versus 26.0%). Of all the opioid recipients, most (77%) did not receive any nonopioid abortive headache medication. Meperidine was the most commonly administered opioid (70%).
Polypharmacy and a broad pharmacopoeia characterize the US ED treatment of isolated benign headache. Opioid use, particularly meperidine, exceeds that of recommended nonopioid abortive migraine medications.
The effect of four commonly used topical antimicrobial agents on the rate of reepithelialization of clean wounds was evaluated in white domestic pigs. Neosporin Ointment was found to significantly increase the rate of reepithelialization by 25%, while Furacin significantly retarded the healing rate by 24%. Pharmadine, a preparation containing povidone-iodine, did not affect the rate of healing. Both Silvadene and its vehicle significantly increased the rate of reepithelialization by 28% and 21%, respectively. The effects of these agents cannot be explained on the basis of their antimicrobial activity.
The question of whether influxes of ionic Ca+2 into cerebral endothelium plays an important role in increased vascular permeability consequent to an acute hypertension is not accurately resolved. We tested the effect of nifedipine, a calcium entry blocker, on the cerebrovascular permeability for proteins in adrenalin-induced acute hypertension. The experiments were carried out on male Wistar rats. The experimental groups consisted of normotensive saline controls, adrenaline-induced hypertensive rats, and adrenalin-induced hypertensive rats as pre-treated or post-treated with a bolus of nifedipine. Brains of hypertensive rats showed increased permeability to Evans Blue-Albumin complex, when blood pressure elevated rapidly to more than 170 mmHg. The number and size of areas of Evans-Blue extravasation were smaller if an increase in blood pressure was prevented. The short lasting elevation of blood pressure did not result in protein extravasation in brains of hypertensive rats. The results suggest that nifedipine can modify the permeability disruptions observed in acutely hypertensive rats. The data also support the hypothesis that Ca+2 may be responsible for the changes in permeability of BBB in hypertension by mediating the contraction of vascular muscles.
The effects of ginsenosides Rg3(R), Rg3(S) and Rg5/Rk1 (a mixture of Rg5 and Rk1, 1:1, w/w), which are components isolated from processed Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer (Araliaceae), on memory dysfunction were examined in mice using a passive avoidance test. The ginsenosides Rg3(R), Rg3(S) or Rg5/Rk1, when orally administered for 4 days, significantly ameliorated the memory impairment induced by the single oral administration of ethanol. The memory impairment induced by the intraperitoneal injection of scopolamine was also significantly recovered by ginsenosides Rg3(S) and Rg5/Rk1. Among the three ginsenosides tested in this study, Rg5/Rk1 enhanced the memory function of mice most effectively in both the ethanoland scopolamine-induced amnesia models. Moreover, the latency period of the Rg5/Rk1-treated mice was 1.2 times longer than that of the control (no amnesia) group in both models, implying that Rg5/Rk1 may also exert beneficial effects in the normal brain. We also evaluated the effects of these ginsenosides on the excitotoxic and oxidative stress-induced neuronal cell damage in primary cultured rat cortical cells. The excitotoxicity induced by glutamate or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) was dramatically inhibited by the three ginsenosides. Rg3(S) and Rg5/Rk1 exhibited a more potent inhibition of excitotoxicity than did Rg3(R). In contrast, these ginsenosides were all ineffective against the H2O2- or xanthine/xanthine oxidase-induced oxidative neuronal damage. Taken together, these results indicate that ginsenosides Rg3(S) and Rg5/Rk1 significantly reversed the memory dysfunction induced by ethanol or scopolamine, and their neuroprotective actions against excitotoxicity may be attributed to their memory enhancing effects.
Paracetamol overdose causes acute liver damage which leads to severe centrilobular hepatic necrosis. The hepatotoxic effect is caused by reactive metabolites and oxidative stress. Since extracellular superoxide dismutase (EC-SOD) protects tissues against the harmful effects of superoxide anion, the hypothesis that systemic adenovirus-mediated EC-SOD gene transfer could reduce liver damage was tested.
Mice were given paracetamol (600 mg/kg) enterally 2 days after adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of EC-SOD (2 x 10(9) pfu). Five days after gene transfer, plasma and tissue samples were collected for clinical chemistry analyses and tissue pathology evaluation.
EC-SOD was expressed in a dose-dependent manner with the highest enzyme activity occurring 3 days after the gene transfer. Clinical chemistry and tissue pathology analyses showed that adenoviral EC-SOD gene transfer significantly attenuated release of liver enzymes and inhibited necrosis and apoptosis caused by paracetamol overdose.
The results indicate the involvement of superoxide anion in paracetamol-mediated liver damage and suggest a possible protective role for EC-SOD gene transfer in paracetamol-induced liver damage.
Neuropsychological function was assessed before and after carbamazepine monotherapy in children with newly diagnosed complex partial epilepsy. Simultaneous video-electroencephalographic monitoring examined the influence of subclinical abnormal electrical discharges on performance. Total and unbound plasma carbamazepine concentrations were examined in relation to changes in performance at low (carbamazepine level, less than or equal to 32 mumol/L [less than or equal to 7.5 mg/L]) and moderate (carbamazepine level, greater than 34 mumol/L [greater than 8.0 mg/L]) drug levels. The data suggest a mild beneficial effect of carbamazepine on speeded eye-hand coordination and, at low drug levels, more rapid processing of items in memory. Efficiency of learning new information and memory-scanning rate displayed a concentration-dependent relationship with carbamazepine level, with poor performance significantly associated with higher carbamazepine plasma concentrations. Carbamazepine free levels were equivalent to total levels in predicting cognitive side effects.
Susceptibility to enoxacin (80 mg/kg, p.o.)-induced convulsions was examined in mice coadministered with fenbufen (100 mg/kg, p.o.) over 24 hr at 3-hr intervals (light 7:00-19:00 hr). There was a marked circadian variation in the incidence of clonic and tonic convulsions and mortality. The susceptibility to enoxacin was higher around 15:00-18:00 hr and lower around 3:00-9:00 hr; the 50% clonic convulsive dose (CD50) at 9:00 and 15:00 hr was 95.0 and 56.5 mg/kg, respectively, its ratio being 1.64. Under these conditions, brain enoxacin level at 15:00 hr was increased 2.43-fold over that at 9:00 hr 30 min after enoxacin administration. Thus, the change of brain enoxacin may contribute to one of the causes of the above circadian variation.
C57BL/6ByJ (6ByJ) and C57BL/6J (6J) mice differ in their sensitivity to cocaine-induced convulsions, with CD(50) values being 100 and 70 mg/kg, respectively. This genetic sensitivity to cocaine-induced convulsions is probably related to 5-HT(2) receptors, since the density of these sites and the concentration of 5-HT(2) antagonists required to block cocaine-induced convulsions is lower in 6J mice relative to 6ByJ mice.
Although 5-HT(2) receptors appear to play a role in mediating genetic sensitivity to cocaine-induced convulsions, the role of 5-HT(2) receptor subtypes in this effect of cocaine has not been examined.
The present study compared the effects of the preferential 5-HT(2C) agonists m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) and 6-chloro-2-(1-piperazinyl)pyrazine (MK212) on cocaine-induced convulsions in 6ByJ and 6J mice. General activity was also measured following pretreatment with mCPP and MK212.
Both mCPP and MK212 potentiated cocaine-induced convulsions and the effect of these agonists was more robust in 6ByJ mice relative to 6J mice.
The findings from this study support previous research suggesting that 5-HT(2) receptors play a role in mediating cocaine-induced convulsions, and extend previous research by suggesting that the 5-HT(2C) receptor subtype mediates cocaine-induced convulsions and genetic sensitivity to this toxic effect of cocaine.
6-Aminonicotinamide (6-AN) is a niacin antagonist, which leads to degeneration of gray-matter astrocytes followed by a vigorous inflammatory response. Macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) is important during inflammation, and in order to further clarify the roles for M-CSF in neurodegeneration and brain cell death, we have examined the effect of 6-AN on osteopetrotic mice with genetic M-CSF deficiency (op/op mice). The 6-AN-induced degeneration of gray-matter areas was comparable in control and op/op mice, but the numbers of reactive astrocytes, macrophages, and lymphocytes in the damaged areas were significantly decreased in op/op mice relative to controls. The levels of oxidative stress (as determined by using immunoreactivity for inducible nitric oxide synthase, nitrotyrosine, and malondialdehyde) and apoptotic cell death (as determined by using TUNEL and immunoreactivity for caspases and cytochrome c) were significantly increased in 6-AN-injected op/op mice relative to controls. From a number of antioxidant factors assayed, only metallothioneins I and II (MT-I+II) were decreased in op/op mice in comparison to controls. Thus, the present results indicate that M-CSF is an important growth factor for coping with 6-AN-induced central nervous system damage and suggest that MT-I+II are likely to have a significant role.
While many studies have demonstrated a nephrogenic diabetes insipidus syndrome (NDI) with prolonged lithium (Li) treatment, experiments in the isolated rat papillary collecting duct have suggested that the defect may be due to a circulating factor that inhibits the action of arginine vasopressin (AVP). Since Li-treatment can produce a form of hyperparathyroidism and parathyroid hormone (PTH) can act as a partial agonist to AVP, in vivo and in vitro studies were performed on rats made polyuric by daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) Li (4 mmol/kg) treatment. Li-treatment for three weeks produced an increase in PTH (194 +/- 20 compared with 118 +/- 18 pg/ml in control rats; P < 0.01) as well as an increase in the plasma calcium concentration (2.38 +/- 0.05 compared with 2.25 +/- 0.04 mmol/liter; P < 0.05). Clearance studies were performed on water loaded Li-treated and control rats, and the defect in urine concentration was only observed with a low physiological concentration of AVP (10 mU/kg body wt over 5 min). Maximal urine osmolality was 328 +/- 31 compared with 613 +/- 81 mOsm/kg (P < 0.05) in controls. There was no detectable difference with a prolonged maximal physiological AVP concentration (10 mU bolus and 50 mU/kg body wt per hr) and papillary solute concentrations were unchanged. When Li-treated rats had been parathyroidectomized (PTX), a significant difference in urine concentration with the low AVP concentration could not be demonstrated when compared to non-PTX control rats. In the isolated papillary collecting duct preparation a medium was used that contained fresh plasma from Li-treated or control rats, both intact and PTX. Experiments using plasma from Li-treated intact rats produced only a 25.4 +/- 5.1% increase in diffusional water permeability with the addition of AVP (200 microU/ml) compared to 52.6 +/- 9.0% in control rats (P < 0.01). However, when plasma from Li-treated PTX rats was used, the AVP induced increase in water permeability (54.7 +/- 11.2%) was not significantly different from that observed in PTX control rats. These studies show that the NDI-like defect in Li-treatment is small and easily overcome by higher concentrations of AVP and suggests that the concentration defect is at least in part due to increased circulating levels of PTH acting as a partial agonist to AVP and thereby inhibiting its hydroosmotic action.
An increasing number of patients with advanced pancreatic or biliary tract cancer who progress after a gemcitabine-containing regimen are candidates for further chemotherapy. We therefore evaluated a fully oral regimen of capecitabine and celecoxib (CapCel) as second-line treatment in these patients.
Thirty-five patients with documented progressive disease after first-line treatment were enrolled. Capecitabine was administered at a dose of 1,000 mg/m(2) b.i.d. for 2 consecutive weeks followed by 1 week of rest; celecoxib was given continuously at 200 mg b.i.d. Progression-free survival at 3 months was the primary study endpoint.
The CapCel combination was associated with an overall response rate of 9% and median survival duration of 19 weeks. Sixty percent of patients were free from progression 3 months after the start of treatment. Multivariate analysis identified a positive clinical benefit response and a decline in CA 19.9 serum levels >25% compared with baseline levels as independent predictors of prolonged survival. The treatment protocol was well tolerated with negligible hematological toxicity. The most common grade 3 non-hematological toxicities were hypertransaminasemia, diarrhea and asthenia.
The CapCel combination is a safe treatment option with moderate activity in patients with pancreatic/biliary tract cancer after failure of a previous gemcitabine-containing regimen.
Proteolytic degradation of the extracellular matrix and tumor metastasis correlate with the expression of endopeptidases known as matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). The expression of MMPs is regulated by cytokines and signal transduction pathways, including those activated by phorbol myristate acetate (PMA). We found that resveratrol, a phytoalexin present in grapes, significantly inhibits the PMA-induced increase in MMP-9 expression and activity. These effects of resveratrol are dose dependent and correlate with the suppression of MMP-9 mRNA expression levels. PMA caused about a 23-fold increase in MMP-9 promoter activity, which was suppressed by resveratrol. Transient transfection utilizing MMP-9 constructs, in which specific transcriptional factors were mutagenized, indicated that the effects of PMA and resveratrol were mediated via an activator protein-1 and nuclear factor-kappaB response element. Resveratrol inhibited PMA-mediated activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and protein kinase C (PKC)-delta activation. Therefore, we conclude that the MMP-9 inhibition activity of resveratrol and its inhibition of JNK and PKC-delta may have a therapeutic potential, given that a novel means of controlling growth and invasiveness of tumors.
Intrathecal morphine is often used for postoperative analgesia after surgery. We performed a meta-analysis to obtain more detailed information on the frequency of side-effects in patients receiving intrathecal morphine in combination with spinal anaesthesia compared with placebo treated patients. We clustered the analysis to patients receiving placebo, less than morphine 0.3 mg (M < 0.3), or equal to or more than morphine 0.3 mg (M > or = 0.3) and calculated the risk ratios of morphine vs placebo. Twenty-eight studies investigating 46 morphine groups vs placebo were included. A total of 790 patients with intrathecal morphine and 524 patients who received placebo were analysed. Compared with placebo the lower dose of morphine resulted in an increase of nausea (RR 1.4, 95% CI 1.1-1.7), vomiting (RR 3.1, 95% CI 1.5-6.4) and pruritus (RR 1.8, 95% CI 1.4-2.2). The higher dose resulted in an increased risk ratio for pruritus (RR 5.0, 95% CI 2.9-8.6), but not nausea (RR 1.2, 95% CI 0.9-1.6) or vomiting (RR 1.3, 95% CI 0.9-1.9). Overall, intrathecal morphine did not increase respiratory depression. However, the higher dose of intrathecal morphine was associated with more episodes of respiratory depression (7/80) compared with the lower dose (2/247). Intrathecal morphine is associated with a mild increase in side-effects. With a dose < 0.3 mg we found there were no more episodes of respiratory depression than in placebo patients who received systemic opioid analgesia.
Ribonucleotide reductase is emerging as an important determinant of gemcitabine chemoresistance in human cancers. Activity of this enzyme, which catalyses conversion of ribonucleotide 5'-diphosphates to their 2'-deoxynucleotides, is modulated by levels of its M2 subunit (RRM2). Here we show that RRM2 overexpression is associated with gemcitabine chemoresistance in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells, and that suppression of RRM2 expression using RNA interference mediated by small interfering RNA (siRNA) enhances gemcitabine-induced cytotoxicity in vitro. We demonstrate the ability of systemically administered RRM2 siRNA to suppress tumoral RRM2 expression in an orthotopic xenograft model of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Synergism between RRM2 siRNA and gemcitabine results in markedly suppressed tumor growth, increased tumor apoptosis and inhibition of metastasis. Our findings confirm the importance of RRM2 in pancreatic adenocarcinoma gemcitabine chemoresistance. This is the first demonstration that systemic delivery of siRNA-based therapy can enhance the efficacy of an anticancer nucleoside analog.
Streptococcus pneumoniae strains have exhibited decreasing susceptibility to penicillins and macrolides during the past several years. We reviewed the medical charts of all patients with pneumococcal bacteremia who were admitted to a university hospital over a period of 1 year, to identify failures of outpatient therapy. Of 41 patients admitted with pneumococcal bacteremia, 4 had previously taken either azithromycin or clarithromycin for 3-5 days. All 4 had pneumococcal strains that exhibited low-level resistance to macrolide antibiotics. Among pneumococci, low-level resistance to macrolides can lead to clinical failure, and resistance to macrolides should be considered during the selection of empiric therapy for patients with presumed pneumococcal infections.
Hyperglycemia-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation contributes to development of diabetic cardiomyopathy. Nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a redox-sensing transcription factor, induces the antioxidant enzyme expressions. Diallyl trisulfide (DATS) is the most powerful antioxidant among the sulfur-containing compounds in garlic oil. We investigated whether DATS inhibits hyperglycemia-induced ROS production via Nrf2-mediated activation of antioxidant enzymes in cardiac cells exposed to high glucose (HG).
Treatment of H9c2 cells with HG resulted in an increase in intracellular ROS level and caspase-3 activity, which were markedly reduced by the administration of DATS (10 μM). DATS treatment significantly increased Nrf2 protein stability and nuclear translocation, upregulated downstream gene HO-1, and suppressed its repressor Keap1. However, apoptosis was not inhibited by DATS in cells transfected with Nrf2-specific siRNA. Inhibition of PI3K/Akt signaling by LY294002 (PI3K inhibitor) or PI3K-specific siRNA not only decreased the level of DATS-induced Nrf2-mediated HO-1 expression, but also diminished the protective effects of DATS. Similar results were also observed in high glucose-exposed neonatal primary cardiomyocytes and streptozotocin-treated diabetic rats fed DATS at a dose of 40 mg/kg BW.
Our findings indicate that DATS protects against hyperglycemia-induced ROS-mediated apoptosis by upregulating the PI3K/Akt/Nrf2 pathway, which further activates Nrf2-regulated antioxidant enzymes in cardiomyocytes exposed to HG.
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a serious neurological syndrome associated with long-term administration of neuroleptics to humans and experimental animals. The pathophysiology of this disabling and commonly irreversible movement disorder is still obscure. It may be caused by a loss of dopaminergic cells or may be due to free radicals as a product of high synaptic dopamine levels. Quercetin is a bioflavonoid with strong antioxidant properties. Repeated treatment with reserpine (1.0 mg/kg) on each other day for a period of 5 days (days 1, 3 and 5) significantly induced vacuous chewing movements (VCMs) and tongue protrusions (TPs) in rats. Chronic treatment with quercetin for a period of 4 weeks to reserpine-treated animals significantly and dose dependently (50 and 100 mg/kg) reduced the reserpine-induced VCMs and TPs. Reserpine-treated animals also showed poor retention of memory in elevated plus-maze task paradigm. Chronic quercetin administration significantly reversed reserpine-induced retention deficits. Biochemical analysis revealed that chronic reserpine treatment significantly induced lipid peroxidation and decreased the glutathione (GSH) levels in the brains of rats. Chronic reserpine-treated rats showed decreased levels of antioxidant defense enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase. Chronic administration of quercetin dose dependently (50-100 mg/kg) and significantly reduced the lipid peroxidation and restored the decreased GSH levels by chronic reserpine treatment. It also significantly reversed the reserpine-induced decrease in brain SOD and catalase levels in rats. The results of the present study clearly indicated that quercetin has a protective role against reserpine-induced orofacial dyskinesia and memory impairment. Consequently, the use of quercetin as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of TD should be considered.
To achieve reperfusion early, an intravenous bolus of 2 million units of urokinase was administered in 50 patients with transmural acute myocardial infarction (AMI) 1.8 +/- 2.5 hours after the onset of symptoms. Coronary angiography performed 1.1 +/- 0.6 hours after urokinase therapy revealed patent coronary arteries in 30 patients (60%), with no significant difference between those with anterior and those with inferior AMI. Reocclusion occurred in only 1 of 24 patients restudied. Failure to achieve reperfusion was not related to the degree of systemic fibrinolytic activity, which was equally high in patients who did and those who did not achieve reperfusion, as evident from serially obtained fibrinogen measurements (77 +/- 52 vs 84 +/- 24 mg/dl, difference not significant). Plasmin activity, measured serially from 15 minutes to 24 hours after urokinase in 7 patients, was maximal at 15 minutes and undetectable after 3 hours. Wall motion at the infarct site measured from contrast ventriculograms was significantly better at follow-up only in patients in whom reperfusion was achieved and who received urokinase within 2 hours after the onset of symptoms as compared with patients in whom reperfusion was not achieved (-1.2 +/- 1.4 vs -2.4 +/- 0.9 standard deviations from normal, p less than 0.05). Peak serum creatine kinase level was significantly lower in patients in whom reperfusion was achieved than in those in whom it was not or those who had rethrombosis (802 +/- 763 vs 1,973 +/- 1,071 U/liter, p less than 0.005).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cutaneous necrosis is an infrequent complication of coumarin therapy. Skin necrosis has usually been reported in patients with congenital protein C deficiency or, less commonly, protein S deficiency. However, this complication may also occur with acquired and transient protein C and/or S deficiency. In coumarin therapy there is a relatively hypercoagulable state at the start of treatment, and most lesions appear between the third and sixth days. We describe a 75-year-old man receiving coumarin therapy (acenocumarol) for 7 years who was given a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (diclofenac) for a pain in his knee. Two days later, his renal function deteriorated and skin necrosis became evident. Biopsy showed histological changes consistent with coumarin-induced necrosis. Protein C and S levels were normal. We concluded that in our patient acute renal insufficiency aggravated by diclofenac treatment probably associated with an inadvertent withdrawal could have been the precipitating factor for transient protein C deficiency.
The mouse cytomegalovirus (MCMV) resistome is the set of host genes with nonredundant functions in resistance to MCMV infection. By screening 3,500 G(3) germline mutant mice ( approximately 1,750 gamete equivalents), we have identified eight transmissible mutations that create MCMV susceptibility in C57BL/6 mice. Among these, a mutation called Domino was noted to cause macrophage susceptibility to vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) in vitro. This accessory phenotype was not corrected by type I interferon (IFN), which suggested a defect of the type I IFN pathway. Domino corresponds to a point mutation that alters the DNA binding domain of STAT1, leading to a defect of STAT1 activation. Identification of the Domino mutation demonstrates that an in vivo MCMV susceptibility screen is feasible and illustrates how it can provide insight into the resistome. Moreover, some mutations are far more deleterious than Domino in MCMV-infected mice, consistent with the interpretation that certain protein(s) unrelated to IFN production or signaling are more important than IFNs with regard to their net antiviral effects.
The H(2) receptor antagonist roxatidine is routinely used as an oral pre-anesthetic medication in surgical patients at night and 2 h before surgery. In the present study, we have compared the effects of roxatidine, rabeprazole and lansoprazole given singly at night as an alternative to the standard double roxatidine medication.
120 adult patients undergoing urological surgery were randomly assigned to three groups: roxatidine, rabeprazole and lansoprazole (n = 40 each). Following induction of anesthesia, gastric fluid was obtained by aspiration using a syringe to measure pH and volume of gastric contents.
Gastric volume (14.1 +/- 1.9 mL) in the lansoprazole group was significantly larger than that in roxatidine (8.6 +/- 1.7 mL) and rabeprazole (7.5 +/- 1.1 mL) groups (P < 0.05). Gastric pH in lansoprazole group (4.10 +/- 0.38) was also significantly lower than that in the roxatidine group (5.41 +/- 0.31, P < 0.05). The numbers of patients with critical factors for acid aspiration pneumonia (gastric pH < 2.5 or volume > 25 mL) in the lansoprazole group was significantly higher than in the roxatidine group (P < 0.05). Gastric pH and volume in all groups were constant even in the afternoon.
Single rabeprazole (but not lansoperazole) medication may be a suitable alternative to standard roxatidine for prophylaxis of acid aspiration pneumonia.
Levosimendan, a novel calcium sensitizer, enhances cardiac contractility by increasing myocyte sensitivity to calcium, and induces vasodilation. In this prospective observational study the haemodynamic effects of levosimendan in postoperative critically ill patients are reported. Twelve patients with the need for inotropic support were studied. One dose of levosimendan (12.5 mg) was administered at a rate of 0.1-0.2 microg kg(-1).min(-1), either alone or in addition to pre-existing inotropic therapy. Haemodynamic measurements were obtained at baseline, and at 3 h, 6 h, 12 h, and 24 h after the start of the levosimendan infusion. Levosimendan significantly increased cardiac output from (mean+/-SD) 4.3+/-0.91.min(-1) to 5.2+/-1.51 min(-1) after 24h (P=0.013), by increases in stroke volume (baseline 47+/-15 ml, after 24h 57+/-25 ml, P=0.05), as heart rate remained unchanged. Systemic vascular resistance decreased from 1239+/-430 dyn.sec.cm(-5) at baseline to 963+/-322 dyn.sec. cm(-5) at 24h (P<0.001). Pre-existing inotropic therapy present in ten patients remained unchanged or was reduced. In postoperative critically ill patients, infusion of levosimendan exerted favourable haemodynamic responses. Levosimendan increased cardiac output by increasing stroke volume, which might be attributed primarily to its inotropic properties. Due to its cyclic adenosine monophosphate independent positive inotropic effects, levosimendan may be of value as adjunctive therapy to other inotropic drugs in critically ill patients.
A 66-year-old male was admitted to hospital due to painless jaundice. Because of ischemic cardiomyopathy with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation as well as recurrent ventricular tachycardias and fibrillation he was treated with phenprocoumon and amiodarone (200 mg per day) for 2 years. Laboratory tests revealed significant elevation of the parameters of cholestasis and aminotransferase activity. Serological tests excluded infectious, autoimmune or metabolic liver diseases. Abdominal ultrasound and ERCP showed no mechanic cholestasis nor tumor of the pancreas. Cardiac congestive disease was also excluded. Severe intrahepatic cholestasis, consistent with drug-induced hepatotoxic damage, was diagnosed histologically. After discontinuing phenprocoumon the liver enzymes further increased. When amiodarone was stopped, however, laboratory parameters showed a continuous downward tendency. For prevention of malignant cardiac arrhythmia the patient received an atrioventricular defibrillator. Intrahepatic cholestasis is a rare presentation of amiodarone-induced hepatic toxicity. Liver damage can even occur after the drug has been taken for prolonged periods without any problems.
Currently available local anesthetics have relatively limited duration of action and some may cause severe systemic toxicity. An ultralong lasting local anesthetic would be useful to produce prolonged intraoperative anesthesia and extended postoperative analgesia. The goal of this study was to synthesize a sustained release local anesthetic formulation that would produce prolonged sensory block and decrease the possibility of systemic toxicity.
The effect of liposomes containing 1.1% bupivacaine on duration of sensory block of the mouse tail was compared with equivalent concentrations of bupivacaine with and without epinephrine. Analgesia was assessed using the tail flick test. Systemic toxicity (LD50) was assessed after intraperitoneal injection and in vitro release rates were compared by dialysis technique for liposomal and plain bupivacaine.
Sensory block was significantly prolonged with liposomal bupivacaine (130 +/- 38 minutes) compared to plain bupivacaine (46 +/- 11 minutes, P < .01) or bupivacaine with epinephrine (81 +/- 28 minutes, P < .05). The LD50 was significantly lower for plain bupivacaine (61 mg/kg, 95% confidence intervals 47-79) than for liposomal bupivacaine (291 mg/kg, 95% confidence intervals 201-422). The time to 50% in vitro release through a dialysis membrane for liposomal bupivacaine (28 +/- 9 minutes) was markedly prolonged compared to plain bupivacaine (7 +/- 1 minutes).
This study shows that liposomal encapsulation of bupivacaine significantly prolongs duration of action and greatly decreases systemic toxicity of the drug. These findings may be promising for the future production of formulations of ultralong lasting local anesthetics with enhanced efficacy and safety.
