To determine the cytological and molecular effects of peroxisome proliferation-activated receptor (PPAR)-gamma and PPAR-gamma agonists on stomach cancer cells.
To determine the proliferation-suppressive effects of troglitazone and ciglitazone, SNU-216 and SNU-668 stomach cancer cells were plated in media containing 40 micromol/L troglitazone and ciglitazone at a density of 1 multiply 10(4) cells/well. After 3, 5 and 7 d, the cells were counted with a hemocytometer. To assess the appearance of PPAR-gamma, a reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis was performed. On day 7, Western blotting was used to determine the effects of troglitazone and ciglitazone on the expression of p21 and phosphorylated-ERK (pERK) genes. Flow cytometry analysis was used to determine which portion of the cell cycle was delayed when troglitazone was used to suppress cell proliferation. In order to clarify the mechanism underlying the activity of troglitazone, microarray analysis was conducted.
PPAR-gamma was manifested in both SNU-216 and SNU-668 cells. Ciglitazone and troglitazone suppressed cell growth, and troglitazone was a stronger suppressor of stomach cancer cells than ciglitazone, an inducer of cell cycle arrest in the G1 phase. SNU-668 cells were also determined to be more sensitive to ciglitazone and troglitazone than SNU-216 cells. When troglitazone and ciglitazone were administered to stomach cancer cells, levels of p21 expression were increased, but ERK phosphorylation levels were reduced. When GW9662, an antagonist of PPAR-gamma, was applied in conjunction with ciglitazone and troglitazone, the cell growth suppression effect was unaffected. The gene transcription program revealed a variety of alterations as the consequence of troglitazone treatment, and multiple troglitazone-associated pathways were detected. The genes whose expression was increased by troglitazone treatment were associated with cell development, differentiation, signal transmission between cells, and cell adhesion, and were also associated with reductions in cell proliferation, the cell cycle, nuclear metabolism, and phosphorylation.
Troglitazone and ciglitazone suppress the proliferation of stomach cancer cells via a PPAR-gamma-independent pathway.
Intrathecal application of chemotherapeutics has been the mainstay of central nervous system prophylaxis in acute lymphoblastic leukemia treatment. We describe a patient who developed acute cerebellar syndrome after prophylactic intrathecal methotrexate administration and recovered spontaneously. To our knowledge, this is the first case of methotrexate-related acute cerebellar syndrome.
Five patients with humoral intolerance to heparin developed acute thromboses, with a fatal outcome in two cases from failure to establish the diagnosis, marked sequelae in one case, and recovery without complications in the other two. Accidents of this type may occur in 0.6 p. cent of patients on heparin therapy and are almost always fatal if administration is not discontinued. They result from a severe immunoallergic. Thrombocytopenia which may lead to the formation of arterial clots. Arterial thrombosis during heparin therapy is suggestive of the diagnosis and tests for diminished platelet counts are necessary. Apart from surgery, treatment involves the immediate cessation of heparin therapy.
To study the action of aminoguanidine on pancreatic cancer xenografts in relation to cell proliferation, apoptosis, redox status and vascularization.
Xenografts of PANC-1 cells were developed in nude mice. The animals were separated into two groups: control and aminoguanidine treated. Tumor growth, survival and appearance of metastases were determined in vivo in both groups. Tumors were excised and ex vivo histochemical studies were performed. Cell growth was assessed by Ki-67 expression. Apoptosis was studied by intratumoral expression of B cell lymphoma-2 protein (Bcl-2) family proteins and Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase biotin-dUTP Nick End Labeling (Tunel). Redox status was evaluated by the expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), catalase, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD), manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx). Finally, vascularization was determined by Massons trichromic staining, and by VEGF and CD34 expression.
Tumor volumes after 32 d of treatment by aminoguanidine (AG) were significantly lower than in control mice (P < 0.01). Median survival of AG mice was significantly greater than control animals (P < 0.01). The appearance of both homolateral and contralateral palpable metastases was significantly delayed in AG group. Apoptotic cells, intratumoral vascularization (trichromic stain) and the expression of Ki-67, Bax, eNOS, CD34, VEGF, catalase, CuZnSOD and MnSOD were diminished in AG treated mice (P < 0.01), while the expression of Bcl-2 and GPx did not change.
The antitumoral action of aminoguanidine is associated with decreased cell proliferation, reduced angiogenesis, and reduced expression of antioxidant enzymes.
Sulfur mustard (SM) is a strong vesicant agent which has been used in several military conflicts. Large stockpiles still exist to the present day. SM is believed to be a major threat to civilian populations because of the persistent asymmetric threat by non-state actors, such as terrorist groups, its easy synthesis and handling and the risk of theft from stockpiles. Following an asymptomatic interval of several hours, acute SM exposure produces subepidermal skin blisters, respiratory tract damage, eye lesions and bone marrow depression. Iranian victims of SM exposure during the Iran-Iraq (1984-1988) war were treated at intensive care units of 3 Munich hospitals. All 12 patients were injured following aerial attacks with SM filled bombs, which exploded in a distance between 5 and 30m. All patients soon noted an offensive smell of garlic, addle eggs or oil roasted vegetables. No individual protective equipment was used. Eye itching and skin blistering started 2h after SM exposure. Some patients complained of nausea, dizziness and hoarseness. 4h after exposure, most patients started vomiting. Eye symptoms worsened and most patients suffered from temporary blindness due to blepharospasm and lid oedema. Additionally, pulmonary symptoms such as productive cough occurred. Patients were transferred to Munich 4-17 days after SM exposure. On admission all patients showed significant skin blistering and pigmentation. Conjunctivitis and photophobia were the major eye symptoms. Pulmonary symptoms, including productive cough were persistent. Bronchoscopy revealed massive inflammation of the trachea with signs of necrosis. 3 patients needed tracheotomy. Chest X-ray did not yield abnormal observations. This presentation summarizes the experience of treating SM victims in Munich and discusses therapeutic implications.
Exposure to arsenic (As)-contaminated drinking water affects millions of people worldwide. Arsenic exposure is associated with skin lesions, skin, lung, kidney and liver cancers, neurologic and cardiovascular effects. Past studies involving biomarkers of As exposure have typically examined urinary As (UAs) (adjusted for urinary creatinine), hair or toenail As, but not blood As (BAs) since blood concentrations are exceedingly low and are not detectable by conventional atomic absorption spectrophotometric techniques. In a case-cohort analysis of 303 newly diagnosed cases of skin lesions, and 849 subcohort members randomly selected from 8092 participants in the health effects of as longitudinal study (HEALS) in Araihazar, Bangladesh, we measured blood, urine and water As concentrations, and examined their associations with each other, and with the risk for skin lesions. BAs concentrations were highly correlated with creatinine-adjusted UAs concentrations (r=0.85) and with water As (WAs) (r=0.75). We observed consistent dose-response relationships between the risk of skin lesions and all the measures of As exposure. Rate ratios (RRs) for skin lesions by quintile of As exposure, adjusted for age and gender, revealed that the two highest quintiles were significantly related to an increased risk of skin lesions for each measure of exposure: BAs, UAs, WAs and a time-weighted water As variable. This prospective study confirms the increased risk of skin lesions in relation to As concentrations in blood, urine and water and also establishes that BAs is a useful biomarker of As exposure in this study population.
The effect of enalapril and low prednisone doses on the urinary protein electrophoretic pattern was studied in 13 pediatric patients with glomerular diseases and steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome. Enalapril was administered at doses of 0.2-0.6 mg/kg per day for 24-84 months, and prednisone was introduced 2 months later in 11 patients at doses of 30 mg/m2 on alternate days. The urine protein electrophoretic pattern showed a reduction of 80% and 70% in the total protein and albumin, respectively, after enalapril. Total urinary protein decreased from 5.46 to 1.1 g/m2 per day (P<0.001). A marked change from a pattern of non-selective urinary protein loss to an albumin-selective proteinuria was observed. Mean total plasma proteins increased from 4.7 to 5.43 g/dl (P<0.001). Four patients became free of proteinuria 24 months after enalapril was started, but only 2 remained free of proteinuria at 48 months of follow-up. The other 11 patients had persistent albuminuria of between 0.5 and 2.6 g/m2 per day with a selective urinary electrophoretic pattern. No additional decrease was observed after steroids were introduced. A clinical improvement in edema was observed in all children. Three patients developed transient acute renal failure, during the course of an infectious disease; 2 developed peritonitis and 1 pneumopathy. In these patients withdrawal of enalapril was necessary until a complete recovery of renal function was observed. Four patients were hypertensive on admission, achieving normal blood pressure 1 month after enalapril was started. No episodes of systemic arterial hypotension were seen. Creatinine clearance and serum potassium showed no statistically significant change.
An end-stage renal failure patient with lupus nephritis was treated with low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and aspirin for cardiac ischemia. She was then subjected to surgery to recreate a new arteriovenous fistula for dialysis 1 day after discontinuing LMWH and aspirin. Severe postsurgical bleeding required wound reexploration and multiple transfusions of blood products, which nevertheless, failed to arrest bleeding. Recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) as a bolus dose of 120 microg/kg successfully secured hemostasis. Bleeding in this patient was attributed to the accumulation of low molecular weight heparin activity from poor renal clearance as well as the antiplatelet activity of aspirin. The potential of rFVIIa in securing hemostasis for excessive bleeding after use of these agents is promising.
To determine the magnitude and determinants of weight loss in humans exposed to betahistine, a centrally acting histamine-1 (H-1) agonist and partial histamine-3 (H-3) antagonist.
A multicenter randomized, placebo-controlled dose-ranging weight loss trial with a 12-week treatment period.
Two hundred and eighty-one obese but otherwise healthy participants.
Weight and obesity-related comorbidities at baseline and at the end of the intervention.
Betahistine, at the doses tested, did not induce significant weight loss. With the exception of headache, no difference in adverse effect profile was noted between placebo and treatment groups. Subgroup analysis revealed that age below 50 years, ethnicity (non-Hispanics) and gender (women) were the strongest predictors of weight loss in this population. When these three factors were combined together, the betahistine 48 mg group (n=23) lost -4.24+/-3.87 kg, whereas the placebo group (n=25) lost -1.65+/-2.96 kg during this time period (P=0.005).
Betahistine, at the doses tested, induced significant weight loss with minimal adverse events only in women below 50 years.
All nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit cyclooxygenase, and consequently renal functions dependent upon prostaglandin synthesis can be affected. Fortunately, renal function in normal individuals is relatively independent of the PG system, and thus the NSAIDs don't usually produce any renal dysfunction. However, in some circumstances, inhibition of PG dependent renal functions can produce clinically significant effects. When the kidney is in a salt retaining state or when there is renal vascular damage, NSAIDs can reduce renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate producing acute renal failure that is reversible upon discontinuation of the drug. NSAIDs can also: 1) reduce sodium excretion and blunt the diuretic effect of loop diuretics, thus producing or exacerbating edema, 2) inhibit PG dependent renin secretion occasionally resulting in hyperkalemia, 3) enhance the antidiuretic effects of vasopressin and 4) reduce the antihypertensive efficacy of several drugs. Evidence that any NSAID "spares" renal cyclooxygenase is controversial, and no NSAID is devoid of clinical problems. Syndromes that are less obviously related to inhibition of renal PG synthesis are acute interstitial nephritis with or without the nephrotic syndrome, renal papillary necrosis, and chronic interstitial nephritis. Recently a unique syndrome of flank pain and mild reversible renal dysfunction has been described in healthy individuals receiving suprofen, a uricosuric NSAID. This syndrome may be due to uric acid crystal deposition in the renal tubules and has resulted in the removal of suprofen from the US market.
This study examined the differential efficacy and relative costs of two intensities of adjunctive psychosocial services--a day treatment program and enhanced standard care--for the treatment of opioid-dependent patients maintained on methadone hydrochloride.
A 12-week randomized clinical trial with 6-month follow-up was conducted in a community-based methadone maintenance program. Of the 308 patients who met inclusion criteria, 291 began treatment (day treatment program: N=145; enhanced standard care: N=146), and 237 completed treatment (82% of those assigned to the day treatment program and 81% of those receiving enhanced standard care). Two hundred twenty of the patients participated in the 6-month follow-up (75% of those in the day treatment program and 73% of those in enhanced standard care provided a follow-up urine sample for screening). Both interventions were 12 weeks in duration, manual-guided, and provided by master's-level clinicians. The day treatment was an intensive, 25-hour-per-week program. The enhanced standard care was standard methadone maintenance plus a weekly skills training group and referral to on- and off-site services. Outcome measures included twice weekly urine toxicology screens, severity of addiction-related problems, prevalence of HIV risk behaviors, and program costs.
Although the cost of the day treatment program was significantly higher, there was no significant difference in the two groups' use of either opiates or cocaine. Over the course of treatment, drug use, drug-related problems, and HIV risk behaviors decreased significantly for patients assigned to both treatment intensities. Improvements were maintained at follow-up.
Providing an intensive day treatment program to unemployed, inner-city methadone patients was not cost-effective relative to a program of enhanced methadone maintenance services, which produced comparable outcomes at less than half the cost.
The renal clearance of endogenous creatinine, inulin and para-aminohippurate was measured in 10 healthy human volunteers taking aspirin during severe dietary sodium restriction (10 meq/d) to clarify the clinical significance and pathophysiology of aspirin-induced changes in renal function. Sodium restriction alone had no effect on renal clearances but did increase plasma renin activity and urinary prostaglandin E excretion. The addition of aspirin decreased the urinary clearance of prostaglandin E but not plasma renin activity, and caused a significant fall in both endogenous creatinine (from 92.3 +/- 4.1 SE ml/min . 1.73 m2 body surface area to 80.8 +/- 4.4 mL/min . 1.73 m2, p = 0.02) and inulin (from 95.3 +/- 7.0 mL/min . 1.73 m2 to 80.9 +/- 7.0 mL/min . 1.73 m2, p less than 0.001). The fall in inulin clearance was directly related to the salicylate level. The clearance of para-aminohippurate showed only a slight, statistically insignificant decline with aspirin. The results of this study suggest that aspirin-induced depression of glomerular filtration rate may be independent of total renal plasma flow. Aspirin should be used cautiously, with careful attention to dosage, in sodium-restricted patients whose glomerular filtration rate may, in part, be under the homeostatic control of renal prostaglandins.
Since signals for cocaine induce limbic brain activation in animals and cocaine craving in humans, the objective of this study was to test whether limbic activation occurs during cue-induced craving in humans.
Using positron emission tomography, the researchers measured relative regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) in limbic and comparison brain regions of 14 detoxified male cocaine users and six cocaine-naive comparison subjects during exposure to both non-drug-related and cocaine-related videos and during resting baseline conditions.
During the cocaine video, the cocaine users experienced craving and showed a pattern of increases in limbic (amygdala and anterior cingulate) CBF and decreases in basal ganglia CBF relative to their responses to the non-drug video. This pattern did not occur in the cocaine-naive comparison subjects, and the two groups did not differ in their responses in the comparison regions (i.e., the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, cerebellum, thalamus, and visual cortex).
These findings indicate that limbic activation is one component of cue-induced cocaine craving. Limbic activation may be similarly involved in appetitive craving for other drugs and for natural rewards.
2,8-Dihydroxyadenine urolithiasis associated with partial deficiencies of adenine phosphoribosyltransferase (APRT) has been found only among Japanese families. All Caucasian patients with the same lithiasis are completely deficient in this enzyme. Partially purified APRT from one of the Japanese families with the lithiasis associated with a partial deficiency of APRT had a reduced affinity for 5-phosphoribosyl-1-pyrophosphate (PRPP). In the present investigations, we have shown that this characteristic is common in mutant enzymes from all the four separate Japanese urolithiasis families associated with partial APRT deficiencies so far tested. The mutant enzymes also had several other characteristics in common including increased resistance to heat in the absence of PRPP and reduced sensitivity to the stabilizing effect of PRPP. These data suggest that these families have a common mutant allele (APRT*J) at the APRT gene locus.
At least 11 complementation groups (CGs) have been identified for the peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) such as Zellweger syndrome, for which seven pathogenic genes have been elucidated. We have isolated a human PEX19 cDNA (HsPEX19) by functional complementation of peroxisome deficiency of a mutant Chinese hamster ovary cell line, ZP119, defective in import of both matrix and membrane proteins. This cDNA encodes a hydrophilic protein (Pex19p) comprising 299 amino acids, with a prenylation motif, CAAX box, at the C terminus. Farnesylated Pex19p is partly, if not all, anchored in the peroxisomal membrane, exposing its N-terminal part to the cytosol. A stable transformant of ZP119 with HsPEX19 was morphologically and biochemically restored for peroxisome biogenesis. HsPEX19 expression also restored peroxisomal protein import in fibroblasts from a patient (PBDJ-01) with Zellweger syndrome of CG-J. This patient (PBDJ-01) possessed a homozygous, inactivating mutation: a 1-base insertion, A764, in a codon for Met255, resulted in a frameshift, inducing a 24-aa sequence entirely distinct from normal Pex19p. These results demonstrate that PEX19 is the causative gene for CG-J PBD and suggest that the C-terminal part, including the CAAX homology box, is required for the biological function of Pex19p. Moreover, Pex19p is apparently involved at the initial stage in peroxisome membrane assembly, before the import of matrix protein.
To our best knowledge, Panton-Valentine leucocidin (PVL)-positive methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) has not been described yet as cause for severe pyomyositis.
We present a 23-year-old apparently healthy male patient without any typical predisposing findings who developed severe pyomyositis secondary to an operated pilonidal cyst. In the follow-up, the patient showed signs of immunocompromisation. The causative agent for purulent infection of multiple muscles was a MSSA strain harbouring PVL toxin.
In the reported case, aggressive antibiotic and surgical treatment with additional application of immunoglobulins has lead to recovery from the disease without relapse.
PVL-positive S. aureus are associated with skin diseases, multiple abscesses and often complicated by severe sepsis and necrotising pneumonia. Under such circumstances, the mortality rate can reach up to 75%. In addition, the PVL toxin can cause immunocompromisation and might be therefore involved in the aetiology of pyomyositis. Aggressive antibiotic and surgical treatment with additional application of immunoglobulins is recommended for treatment.
Capecitabine is a chemotherapeutic drug for use in cancers. Hand-foot syndrome (HFS) is side effect of capecitabine which can lead the cessation of the therapy or dose reduction. Henna (Lawsonia inermis) is a traditionally used plant of Middle-East that is applied on hands and feet. Some of cancer patients in capecitabine treatment who developed HFS, we recommended to apply henna. In these patients, six patients were grade 3 HFS and four were grade 2 HFS. Complete response (CR) were seen in four of grade 3 HFS and all of grade 2; two grade 3 HFS improved to grade 1. So far, in the chemotherapy, there was no need of dose reduction and also no side effect of henna seen. Clinical improvement in these patients may relate to anti-inflammatory, antipyretic and analgesic effects of henna. Prospective studies are needed to show this therapeutic effect of henna.
To determine the effects of 4-aminopyridine and Bay K 8644 on mean arterial pressure and heart rate in an anesthetized rat model of verapamil toxicity.
The study was a randomized, controlled animal study. Rats were anesthetized and the carotid artery was cannulated for mean arterial pressure and heart rate measurements while both jugular veins were cannulated for drug administration. All animals were infused with verapamil (15 mg/kg/h i.v.) until 45-60% reduction of mean arterial pressure and 30% reduction of heart rate were observed. After verapamil, control animals were given normal saline solution and the other groups received 4-aminopyridine (1 and 2 mg/kg/h) or Bay K 8644 (0.3 and 0.6 mg/kg/h) for 60 minutes.
While 4-aminopyridine (1 mg/kg/h i.v.) did not significantly increase mean arterial pressure (75.9 +/- 5.5%) when compared with the control group (64.3 +/- 5.1%, p > 0.05), 2 mg/kg/h i.v. of 4-aminopyridine improved mean arterial pressure within 40 minutes (87.4 +/- 6.6%, p < 0.05, 95% CI 66.4-108.6%). Because the 2 mg/kg/h 4-aminopyridine produced side effects including seizures, secretions, and fasciculations at 35 +/- 5 minutes, the infusion was stopped at that time. Only the 2 mg/kg/h 4-aminopyridine infusion increased the heart rate at 10 and 20 minutes compared with the control group (p < 0.05, 95% CI 283.2-364.4). Bay K 8644 (0.3 and 0.6 mg/kg/h i.v.) significantly enhanced mean arterial pressure within 5 minutes (68.0 +/- 4.1% and 73.0 +/- 2.9%, respectively, p < 0.05), (95% CI 56.8-78.0% and 95% CI 64.9-81.1%, respectively) but no significant changes in mean arterial pressure were observed after 5 minutes. The 4-aminopyridine (2 mg/kg/h) increased the heart rate at 10 and 20 minutes compared with the control group (p < 0.05, 95% CI 311.3-358.7). Bay K 8644 did not produce a significant effect on heart rate (p > 0.05).
4-Aminopyridine improved mean arterial pressure and heart rate in a dose-dependent fashion; however, the higher infusion rate (2 mg/kg/h) necessary to improve mean arterial pressure and heart rate resulted in convulsions and excessive secretions. The reversal effects of Bay K 8644 on mean arterial pressure were transient and did not affect heart rate.
Anthracycline-based chemotherapy, which improves survival for patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, is often withheld from elderly patients because of its cardiotoxicity. We studied the cardiac effects of doxorubicin in a population-based sample of older patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).
Among patients age > or = 65 years diagnosed with DLBCL from 1991 to 2002 in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare database, we developed logistic regression models of the associations of doxorubicin with demographic, clinical, and cardiac variables. We then developed Cox proportional hazards models of the association between doxorubicin and subsequent congestive heart failure (CHF), taking predictors of CHF into account.
Of 9,438 patients with DLBCL, 3,164 (42%) received doxorubicin-based chemotherapy. Any doxorubicin use was associated with a 29% increase in risk of CHF (95% CI, 1.02 to 1.62); CHF risk increased with number of doxorubicin claims, increasing age, prior heart disease, comorbidities, diabetes, and hypertension; hypertension intensified the effect of doxorubicin on risk of CHF (hazard ratio = 1.8; P < .01). In the 8 years after diagnosis, the adjusted CHF-free survival rate was 74% in doxorubicin-treated patients versus 79% in patients not treated with doxorubicin.
Among patients receiving chemotherapy for DLBCL, those with prior heart disease were less likely than others to be treated with doxorubicin, and those who received doxorubicin were more likely than others to develop CHF. Various cardiac risk factors increased CHF risk, but only hypertension was synergistic with doxorubicin. Doxorubicin has dramatically improved survival of DLBCL patients; nonetheless, some subgroups may benefit from efforts to reduce doxorubicin-related CHF risk.
Centrally acting cholinergic agents are currently reported to increase blood pressure in various species through the stimulation of muscarinic cholinoceptors. Moreover, several cardiovascular adverse effects have been reported from clinical studies. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of tacrine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor which has been reported to have therapeutic potential in Alzheimer's disease, on blood pressure and two vasopressor systems (sympathetic and vasopressinergic) in Beagle dogs. Intravenous (i.v.) tacrine (2 mg kg(-1)) induced, in conscious and anesthetized dogs, an increase in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, accompanied by bradycardia. This increase was dose-dependent with a peak effect at 1.5 min following administration. Tacrine also induced an increase in noradrenaline, adrenaline and vasopressin plasma levels. Pretreatment with the muscarinic receptor antagonist, atropine (2 mg kg(-1), i.v.), abolished the pressor response to i.v. injection of tacrine while pretreatment with the peripheral muscarinic receptor antagonist, methylscopolamine (0.2 mg kg(-1), i.v.), did not alter the increase in blood pressure. Similarly, noradrenaline and adrenaline changes in plasma levels were not modified by methylscopolamine but were abolished by atropine pretreatment. A similar tendency although not significant was observed for vasopressin plasma levels. The present results demonstrate that in dogs, tacrine (2 mg kg(-1), i.v.) stimulates central muscarinic cholinoceptors to increase blood pressure through activation of the two components of the sympathetic nervous system (i.e., neuroneuronal noradrenergic and the neurohormonal adrenergic pathways) as well as through increasing noradrenaline, adrenaline and vasopressin plasma levels.
Mild persistent asthma is most effectively controlled with inhaled corticosteroids. Leukotriene receptor antagonists have complementary effects to corticosteroids on inflammation control. The additional effect of a leukotriene receptor antagonist, zafirlukast, was investigated in stable asthma patients under control with inhaled budesonide. We conducted a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single center trial to investigate the effects of add-on zafirlukast treatment to budesonide, on symptom score, pulmonary function, bronchial responsiveness, and serum levels of eosinophilic cationic protein (ECP) and antioxidant capacity in stable asthmatic patients under control with inhaled budesonide. The present study included 21 mild or moderate asthmatic patients (8 males and 13 females), who were stable at least for 6 weeks with inhaled budesonide (400 microg/day). Serum total antioxidant capacity (TAC) and ECP levels were measured, and symptom scoring, spirometry, and bronchial provocation with methacholine were performed. Then, the patients were randomised to use either placebo or oral zafirlukast (40 mg/day) in addition to budesonide for 6 weeks. At the 6th week, symptom scoring, spirometry, and bronchial provocation tests were repeated and serum TAC and ECP levels were measured again. After add-on zafirlukast treatment to budesonide, forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV(1)), TAC and ECP values did not change significantly (p > 0.05) but bronchial hyperresponsiveness and symptom score decreased significantly (p = 0.022) compared to baseline. Thus, in stable asthmatic patients, add-on zafirlukast treatment to budesonide improves symptoms and decreases bronchial hyperresponsiveness.
Expressed in liver, aquaglyceroporin-9 (AQP9) is permeated by glycerol, arsenite, and other small, neutral solutes. To evaluate a possible protective role, AQP9-null mice were evaluated for in vivo arsenic toxicity. After injection with NaAsO(2), AQP9-null mice suffer reduced survival rates (LD(50), 12 mg/kg) compared with WT mice (LD(50), 15 mg/kg). The highest tissue level of arsenic is in heart, with AQP9-null mice accumulating 10-20 times more arsenic than WT mice. Within hours after NaAsO(2) injection, AQP9-null mice sustain profound bradycardia, despite normal serum electrolytes. Increased arsenic levels are also present in liver, lung, spleen, and testis of AQP9-null mice. Arsenic levels in the feces and urine of AQP9-null mice are only approximately 10% of the WT levels, and reduced clearance of multiple arsenic species by the AQP9-null mice suggests that AQP9 is involved in the export of multiple forms of arsenic. Immunohistochemical staining of liver sections revealed that AQP9 is most abundant in basolateral membrane of hepatocytes adjacent to the sinusoids. AQP9 is not detected in heart or kidney by PCR or immunohistochemistry. We propose that AQP9 provides a route for excretion of arsenic by the liver, thereby providing partial protection of the whole animal from arsenic toxicity.
This is the first report on generalised dystonia beneficially treated by olanzapine. A 63-year-old Taiwanese man with intractable general dystonia was treated with olanzapine starting at a dose of 2.5 mg/day to the maximal dose of 15 mg/day. Clinically, there was slow, but steady, improvement in his dystonia and disability after olanzapine treatment. Evaluation of his dystonia 3 months later revealed 70% improvement on dystonic movement and 60% on disability on the Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Scale. The result suggests that treatment with olanzapine can be an alternative therapy for patients with generalised dystonia.
