We present a case of renal impairment in an emaciated HIV-infected male that initially went unrecognized because of reliance on serum creatinine and estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). Inaccurate vancomycin dosing led to toxic drug levels (66 mg/l), associated with acute and severe worsening of kidney function. This occurred in the context of escalating doses of vancomycin given in the presence of changing kidney function, albeit kidney function that always remained well within the normal range (serum creatinine 29 - 42 mumol/l). In the absence of other plausible explanations, a presumptive diagnosis of vancomycin nephrotoxicity was made. Given the rarity of this diagnosis in the current era, we discuss the pathophysiology of vancomycin nephrotoxicity. We also explore the potential reasons for inaccuracy of GFR prediction equations in the HIV population, and discuss the potential pitfalls associated with application of eGFR or even serum creatinine without appropriate understanding of their limitations. We believe our case highlights a number of important teaching points: Vancomycin nephrotoxitiy is rare but can occur in the setting of kidney dysfunction. Current assessment of kidney function using creatinine and eGFR requires awareness of the clinical caveats in which these measures may be misleading. Acute changes in kidney function, irrespective of the test used, should be contextualized to the individual situation. Persons with HIV and low muscle mass constitute a specific subgroup in whom assessment of kidney function may be problematic using creatinine. We support ongoing efforts to develop or refine equations for specific unique and easily identifiable populations.
Dopamine and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) inhibit POMC peptide release from the pituitary intermediate lobe, via interaction with D2 or GABA-A/benzodiazepine receptors. Here, we examined the effects of an antianxiety triazolobenzodiazepine, adinazolam, on corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-stimulated POMC peptide secretion from the rat neurointermediate pituitary. Neurointermediate lobes (NILS) were incubated with CRF (10(-7) M), then adinazolam (10(-8) or (10(-9) M) was added, with CRF remaining in the medium. Aliquots were removed at 15-min intervals and frozen for radioimmunoassay of beta-endorphin. Adinazolam alone did not significantly affect secretion as compared to controls or CRF alone. Adinazolam incubated with CRF led to significant inhibition of beta-endorphin secretion, as compared to CRF alone. In addition, adinazolam was as effective as dopamine or the CRF antagonist, alpha-helical CRF, in preventing CRF-induced beta-endorphin release. Adinazolam appears to act directly on the pituitary to suppress hormone release induced by a stress-related hypothalamic peptide.
We report a case of a 31 year-old man who presented a bilateral ischemic optic neuropathy associated with headaches and severe systemic hypertension. This episode appeared after administration of ergotamine tartrate and macrolides. This medication probably led to a vasospasm which occurs in patients with hypertension. The cardiovascular and serum lipid evaluations were normal. A migraine optic neuropathy can be evoked.
Axonal neuropathy occurs due to occupational ethylene oxide (EtO) exposure. The experimental model of human EtO neuropathy was established. In addition, the neurotoxic effects of propylene oxide (PpO) and butylene oxide (BtO) were demonstrated in rats. Although no human neuropathy due to PpO or BtO is reported, both chemicals must be considered to be neurotoxic, based on this study.
The effects of the diterpene sclareol glycol (SG) of the labdane family on convulsive seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole (PTZ), picrotoxin and bicuculline in mice were studied. Sclareol glycol potentiated convulsive seizures induced by PTZ (60 and 80 mg/kg) and antagonized the anticonvulsant effect of diazepam. At low doses, SG gave a protective effect against convulsions induced by picrotoxin and bicuculline, and prolonged the latency to convulsions. At larger doses, SG increased the intensity of convulsive seizures. Forskolin, a diterpene of the same family, evoked a protective effect against convulsions induced by bicuculline and prolonged the latency.
Ataxia with isolated vitamin E deficiency is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease due to mutations in the alpha-tocopherol transfer protein gene. In ataxia with isolated vitamin E deficiency, the biochemical hallmark is the low plasmatic levels of vitamin E and, in most of the patients, vitamin E supplementation allows a stabilization of the neurologic conditions. We have investigated the genetic cause of ataxia and reduced levels of vitamin E, and apolipoproteins A1 and B in a 16-y-old patient. Results revealed that our propositus is a compound heterozygote for the c.227_229delinsATT/c.744delA mutations in the alpha-tocopherol transfer protein gene, each inherited from one of the two parents. His sister is also a compound heterozygote for both mutations, and she presents a biochemical pattern similar to that of his brother. After receiving the vitamin E supplementation, plasmatic levels of vitamin E and apolipoprotein A1 have been normalized in the propositus. The detected mutations would justify the undetectable levels of vitamin E, but would not explain the also decreased levels of the apolipoproteins, as neither that after treatment with vitamin E, the levels of apolipoprotein B do not become normal. These findings suggest that other genes may play a role in producing this atypical biochemical profile.
Intravascular hemolysis is most often secondary to exposure to a variety of drugs or infections, and usually occurs in patients who are deficient in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) enzyme. Aluminium phosphide, a fumigant widely used in India, has been reported to produce intravascular hemolysis in only one patient who also had concomitant G-6-PD deficiency. This report describes the occurrence of intravascular hemolysis with aluminium phosphide poisoning in a patient with normal G-6-PD levels. This is of significance as jaundice in patients with this poisoning is often attributed to hepatic damage alone.
A treatment for epilepsy is proposed based on analogues of 3-aminopropionic acid (beta-alanine), a putative neurotransmitter in the central nervous system (CNS). A model three point pharmacophore was proposed based on modelling data obtained from the study of antagonists for both the glial gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-uptake site and the glycine co-agonist site of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. Three series of 3-aminopropionic acids containing, N-, alpha-, and beta-substituents, were designed and synthesized to probe the position and the size of a lipophilic binding pocket within the proposed pharmacophore. These analogues were tested in vivo for both their antiseizure activities and their neurologic toxicities. Among the fourteen novel 3-aminopropionic acids synthesized, eight were found to have promising antiseizure activity. This study shows that substitution on the N-terminus confers the greatest antiseizure activity, particularly against pilocarpine-induced seizures.
To investigate a possible antinociceptive role of serotonin receptor subtype 3 (5-HT(3)), we evaluated the effects of a coadministration of ondansetron, a 5-HT(3) selective antagonist, and tramadol, a central analgesic dependent on enhanced serotonergic transmission. Fifty-nine patients undergoing ear, throat, and nose surgery, using tramadol for 24-h postoperative patient-controlled analgesia (bolus = 30 mg; lockout interval = 10 min) were randomly allocated either to a group receiving ondansetron continuous infusion (1 mg. mL(-1). h(-1)) for postoperative nausea and vomiting (Group O) or to a control group receiving saline (Group T). Pain and vomiting scores and tramadol consumption were evaluated at 4, 8, 12, and 24 h. Pain scores were never >4, according to a 0-10 numerical rating scale, in both groups. Group O required significantly larger doses of tramadol at 4 h (213 versus 71 mg, P < 0.001), 8 h (285 versus 128 mg, P < 0.002), and 12 h (406 versus 190 mg, P < 0.002). Vomiting scores were higher in Group O at 4 h (P < 0.05) and 8 h (P = 0.05). We conclude that ondansetron reduced the overall analgesic effect of tramadol, probably blocking spinal 5-HT(3) receptors.
Serotonin is an important neurotransmitter of the descending pathways that down-modulate spinal nociception. In postoperative pain, ondansetron, a selective 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist, increased the analgesic dose of tramadol. We suggest that, when antagonized for antiemetic purpose, 5-HT(3) receptors foster nociception, because of their site-dependent action.
Past studies reported evidence of associations between air pollution and respiratory symptoms and morbidity for children. Few studies examined associations between air pollution and emergency room (ER) visits for wheezing, and even fewer for gastroenteric illness. We conducted a multicity analysis of the relationship between air pollution and ER visits for wheezing and gastroenteric disorder in children 0-2 years of age.
We obtained ER visit records for wheezing and gastroenteric disorder from six Italian cities. A city-specific case-crossover analysis was applied to estimate effects of particulate matter (PM), nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, ozone, and carbon monoxide, adjusting for immediate and delayed effects of temperature. Lagged effects of air pollutants up to 6 prior days were examined. The city-specific results were combined using a random-effect meta-analysis.
CO and SO(2) were most strongly associated with wheezing, with a 2.7% increase [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.5-4.9] for a 1.04-microg/m(3) increase in 7-day average CO and a 3.4% (95% CI, 1.5-5.3) increase for an 8.0-microg/m(3) increase in SO(2). Positive associations were also found for PM with aerodynamic diameter < or = 10 microg and NO(2). We found a significant association between the 3-day moving average CO and gastroenteric disorders [3.8% increase (95% CI, 1.0-6.8)]. When data were stratified by season, the associations were stronger in summer for wheezing and in winter for gastroenteric disorders.
Air pollution is associated with triggering of wheezing and gastroenteric disorders in children 0-2 years of age; more work is needed to understand the mechanisms to help prevent wheezing in children.
In a myasthenic syndrome associated with fatigable generalized weakness and recurrent attacks of respiratory and bulbar paralysis since birth, nerve stimulation at physiologic rates rapidly decremented the compound muscle action potential. Intercostal muscle studies revealed no abnormality of the resting membrane potential, evoked quantal release, synaptic potentials, acetylcholine receptor channel kinetics, or endplate ultrastructure, but endplate potentials depolarizing the resting potential to -40 mV failed to excite action potentials. Pursuing this clue, we sequenced SCN4A encoding the skeletal muscle sodium channel (Nav1.4) and detected two heteroallelic mutations involving conserved residues not present in 400 normal alleles: S246L in the S4/S5 cytoplasmic linker in domain I, and V1442E in the S3/S4 extracellular linker in domain IV. The genetically engineered V1442E-Na channel expressed in HEK cells shows marked enhancement of fast inactivation close to the resting potential, and enhanced use-dependent inactivation on high-frequency stimulation; S246L is likely a benign polymorphism. The V1442E mutation in SCN4A defines a novel disease mechanism and a novel phenotype with myasthenic features.
Preeclampsia is a major complication of pregnancy that can lead to substantial maternal and perinatal morbidity, mortality, and preterm birth. Increasing evidence suggests that air pollution adversely affects pregnancy outcomes. Yet few studies have examined how local traffic-generated emissions affect preeclampsia in addition to preterm birth.
We examined effects of residential exposure to local traffic-generated air pollution on preeclampsia and preterm delivery (PTD).
We identified 81,186 singleton birth records from four hospitals (1997-2006) in Los Angeles and Orange Counties, California (USA). We used a line-source dispersion model (CALINE4) to estimate individual exposure to local traffic-generated nitrogen oxides (NO(x)) and particulate matter < 2.5 mum in aerodynamic diameter (PM(2.5)) across the entire pregnancy. We used logistic regression to estimate effects of air pollution exposures on preeclampsia, PTD (gestational age < 37 weeks), moderate PTD (MPTD; gestational age < 35 weeks), and very PTD (VPTD; gestational age < 30 weeks).
We observed elevated risks for preeclampsia and preterm birth from maternal exposure to local traffic-generated NO(x) and PM(2.5). The risk of preeclampsia increased 33% [odds ratio (OR) = 1.33; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.18-1.49] and 42% (OR = 1.42; 95% CI, 1.26-1.59) for the highest NO(x) and PM(2.5) exposure quartiles, respectively. The risk of VPTD increased 128% (OR = 2.28; 95% CI, 2.15-2.42) and 81% (OR = 1.81; 95% CI, 1.71-1.92) for women in the highest NO(x) and PM(2.5) exposure quartiles, respectively.
Exposure to local traffic-generated air pollution during pregnancy increases the risk of preeclampsia and preterm birth in Southern California women. These results provide further evidence that air pollution is associated with adverse reproductive outcomes.
A study was carried out to assess the field efficacy of moxidectin (MOX) against Parascaris equorum in foals. A total of 70 foals from 2 Italian thoroughbred (Farms 1 and 2) stud farms and one trotter stud farm (Farm 3), aged 3-5 months and with faecal egg counts (FEC) f>or=300 eggs per gram (EPG) were included in the study. On each farm, foals were divided into 2 groups (of 10, 8 and 10 foals, respectively) and treated with either moxidectin (MOX, 400 mcg/kg b.w.) or ivermectin (IVM, 200 mcg/kg b.w.) on day 0 and examined for faecal count reduction (FECR) on day 14. Five, 4 and 5 foals, respectively, were kept as untreated controls. An individually based estimation of efficacy was assessed by a bootstrap simulation to evaluate the percent reduction of FECRs. Two thousand bootstrap resamples were constructed from individual FECRs and the parasite population was considered susceptible for FECs>or=90% and 95% lower confidence limit (CL)>90%, suspected resistant for FECRs>or=90% and 95% LCL<90% and resistant when FECR<90% and 95% LCL<90%. On day 14, foals with FECRs categorized as resistant or suspected resistant were treated with pyrantel pamoate (PYR, 13.2mg/kg b.w.) and examined for FECR on days 28 and 35. On day 14, MOX and IVM treatments were ineffective in all foals from both thoroughbred farms, while MOX ad IVM were effective (FECRs>90%) in 7 and 5 trotter foals, respectively, and remained >90% until day 35. PYR treatment given on day 14 to remaining 8 foals (3 MOX-treated and 5 IVM-treated) was fully efficacious at faecal examinations carried out on days 28 and 35.
Fifty-two patients were each given a constant infusion of 1.5 g of epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) per hour after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) from an intracranial aneurysm. Each patient's available plasminogen activity (APA), a measure of plasma fibrinolytic activity, was determined by fluorometric assay before and during EACA treatment. Five categories of potential EACA complications were identified: rebleeding, cerebral vasospasm, hydrocephalus, thrombosis, and miscellaneous (bleeding time prolongation, thrombocytopenia). The APA of the 37 patients with complications was significantly higher than that of the 15 without complications. Four patients suffered rebleeding episodes and had significantly higher APA levels during EACA therapy when compared to all other patients, i.e., those with and without other complications. Patients with vasospasm, hydrocephalus, and thrombotic complications also had significantly higher APA levels during EACA therapy compared to patients without complications. The latter may be simply a reflection of the activation of fibrinolytic activity that occurs after SAH. It is apparent from these studies that, after the initiation of EACA treatment, a maximal steady state inhibition of fibrinolytic activity is not achieved for 2 days and, after the cessation of EACA therapy, normal fibrinolytic activity is not restored for a period of 3 to 4 days. In addition, patients with thrombotic events may show persistently low serum plasminogen activity after discontinuance of EACA therapy, probably due to continuing thrombosis and consumption of plasminogen. These results indicate that patients with recurrent preoperative aneurysmal hemorrhage while on EACA therapy may have inadequate fibrinolytic inactivation, and this may be an important factor contributing to rebleeding episodes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Molecular classification of breast cancer has been proposed based on gene expression profiles of human tumors. Luminal, basal-like, normal-like, and erbB2+ subgroups were identified and were shown to have different prognoses. The goal of this research was to determine if these different molecular subtypes of breast cancer also respond differently to preoperative chemotherapy.
Fine needle aspirations of 82 breast cancers were obtained before starting preoperative paclitaxel followed by 5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide chemotherapy. Gene expression profiling was done with Affymetrix U133A microarrays and the previously reported "breast intrinsic" gene set was used for hierarchical clustering and multidimensional scaling to assign molecular class.
The basal-like and erbB2+ subgroups were associated with the highest rates of pathologic complete response (CR), 45% [95% confidence interval (95% CI), 24-68] and 45% (95% CI, 23-68), respectively, whereas the luminal tumors had a pathologic CR rate of 6% (95% CI, 1-21). No pathologic CR was observed among the normal-like cancers (95% CI, 0-31). Molecular class was not independent of conventional cliniocopathologic predictors of response such as estrogen receptor status and nuclear grade. None of the 61 genes associated with pathologic CR in the basal-like group were associated with pathologic CR in the erbB2+ group, suggesting that the molecular mechanisms of chemotherapy sensitivity may vary between these two estrogen receptor-negative subtypes.
The basal-like and erbB2+ subtypes of breast cancer are more sensitive to paclitaxel- and doxorubicin-containing preoperative chemotherapy than the luminal and normal-like cancers.
The authors investigated a group of 57 patients with acute leukaemia and 30 patients with malignant lymphomas, who were treated by combinations of cytostatics containing the anthracycline antibiotics daunorubicin and adriamycin. Using examination methods which are widely available they tried to find indicators which detect early manifestations of cardiac damage during this treatment. The most valuable indicators of incipient anthracycline cardiomyopathy were the heart rate at rest and the QTc interval on the ECG tracing. The validity of polygraphy and echocardiography could not be assessed in the present work. The authors suggest a procedure of routine monitoring of patients treated with anthracycline cytostatics and methods of supportive therapy to ensure safe treatment.
The aim of the study was to investigate the influence of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene expression levels and MTHFR polymorphism C677T on the outcome of patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). Furthermore, we wanted to evaluate the interaction between MTHFR and thymidylate synthase (TS) and folylpolyglutamate synthase (FPGS) and to investigate the impact of folate concentration on patients with CRC with different MTHFR genotypes.
The frequency of MTHFR polymorphism C677T was determined (n = 147), and gene expression levels of MTHFR, TS, and FPGS were quantified with real-time polymerase chain reaction (n = 157). Reduced folates in tissue were measured with a binding assay (n = 40).
We observed a significantly lower concentration of tetrahydrofolate (THF) in patients with CT or TT genotypes compared with patients having the CC genotype. Twenty-six patients with Dukes A to C tumors who had not been subjected to chemotherapy relapsed. Out of these, 18 had CT or TT genotypes, and only 8 had the CC genotype (P = 0.045). Furthermore, 75 patients did not relapse, and out of these, 35 had CT or TT genotypes, and 40 had the CC genotype. The relative gene expression level of MTHFR in patients subgrouped by CC and CT or TT genotypes was significantly lower in carcinomas compared with adjacent mucosa (P < 0.0001 and P < 0.0001, respectively). A significant difference in MTHFR expression level was also observed according to MTHFR genotype in the tumor but not in adjacent mucosa. The MTHFR gene expression level in mucosa was a prognostic parameter independent of the clinicopathologic factors with regard to survival for patients with MTHFR C677T mutation.
Our results showed that it is possible to identify patients with CRC with a higher risk for relapse. Furthermore, patients with a mutant genotype in combination with low MTHFR expression have a poor clinical outcome.
Two cases of severe hepatitis in young women using Atrium and paroxetine are presented. Both patients presented jaundice, marked increase in aminotransferases activities, and pronounced prolongation in prothrombin time. In both cases, liver biopsy specimen examination revealed lesions compatible with drug-related injury. Other causes of hepatic injury were reasonably ruled out by complete careful screening. Outcome was marked by rapid complete recovery in one case and by slow recovery in the other. We suggest that simultaneous treatment with Atrium and paroxetine could increase each of these drugs' hepatotoxicity.
Reduced brain gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) participates in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia. GABA scarcely penetrates the brain. We evaluated the pharmacological properties of BL-1020, a novel GABA ester of perphenazine. Oral BL-1020 or perphenazine were assessed in acute and subchronic schizophrenia rat models. Catalepsy, serum prolactin, receptor binding profile and cortical (PFC), hippocampal (Hip) and dopamine (DA) levels were determined. Radioactive [14C] labeled BL-1020 was used for pharmacokinetics (PK). Acute and subchronic treatment with BL-1020 antagonized amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, with significantly lower catalepsy and sedation compared to equimolar perphenazine. At the same time, BL-1020 increased DA release in the PFC and Hip. BL-1020 and perphenazine stimulated prolactin secretion equally. BL-1020 displayed strong DA and serotonin (5HT) receptor inhibition (D(2L)K(iz)=0.066 nM, D(2S)K(i)=0.062 nM, 5-HT(2A)K(i)=0.21 nM). PK data revealed that BL-1020 penetrated the brain.
The advantages of BL-1020 for treatment of schizophrenia stem from its being a DA/5HT antagonist and a GABAergic agonist that releases cortical DA and antagonizes amphetamine-induced hyperactivity with reduced catalepsy and sedation.
The highly lipid-soluble opioids, fentanyl and sufentanil, frequently are used in combination with local anesthetic agents and/or epinephrine to provide postoperative epidural analgesia. The authors compared the incidence of side effects and patient satisfaction during prolonged epidural patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) infusions of these opioids in combination with bupivacaine and epinephrine.
Using a double-blind study design, 250 patients scheduled for elective cesarean delivery were, on arrival in the postanesthesia care unit, randomized into two epidural PCA infusion groups: group I (n = 125) received fentanyl 2 micrograms/ml with bupivacaine 0.01% and epinephrine 0.5 micrograms/ml and group II (n = 125) received sufentanil 0.8 micrograms/ml with bupivacaine 0.01% and epinephrine 0.5 microgram/ml. The initial infusion rate was 16 ml/h with self-administered 3-ml boluses every 15 min by PCA as desired. At intervals after discontinuation of the infusion, plasma samples were obtained to determine opioid concentrations.
The median overall satisfaction scores were 9.0 for group I and 10.0 for group II (difference not significant). Pain relief was satisfactory and comparable in both groups, and all patients could ambulate easily. The total number of times PCA requests were made was greater (P < 0.05, by Wilcoxon rank-sum test) for group I than for group II (106.7 +/- 312 vs. 70.8 +/- 138). There were no differences between the groups with respect to incidence of pruritus, sedation, and nausea; however, vomiting occurred more frequently with sufentanil than with fentanyl (12% vs. 4.8%, respectively; P < 0.05). At approximately 1-2 h after discontinuation of the infusion, 1 patient receiving fentanyl and 42 patients receiving sufentanil complained of lightheadedness and dizziness (P < 0.0001).
Epidural PCA in both groups had no serious side effects and achieved a high level of patient satisfaction. Those receiving sufentanil made fewer PCA requests but had a significantly greater incidence of vomiting during the infusion and dizziness after the termination of the infusion. Epidural sufentanil offered no advantages over epidural fentanyl.
An episode of supraventricular tachycardia occurred in an infant born at 31 weeks' gestation after three days of therapy with theophylline 3.5 mg/kg every six hours. The infant had a plasma theophylline half-life of 24.7 hours and a low plasma theophylline clearance of 12.7 ml/kg/hour. The plasma theophylline concentration at the time of the arrhythmia was about 42 mg/l. The extent of drug accumulation with these kinetic characteristics is emphasized. Serious adverse effects due to theophylline may occur with few signs of symptoms of impending toxicity. Plasma theophylline concentration measurements are valuable in avoiding such toxicity.
NRA0160, 5 - [2- ( 4- ( 3 - fluorobenzylidene) piperidin-1-yl) ethyl] - 4 -(4-fluorophenyl) thiazole-2-carboxamide, has a high affinity for human cloned dopamine D4.2, D4.4 and D4.7 receptors, with Ki values of 0.5, 0.9 and 2.7 nM, respectively. NRA0160 is over 20,000fold more potent at the dopamine D4.2 receptor compared with the human cloned dopamine D2L receptor. NRA0160 has negligible affinity for the human cloned dopamine D3 receptor (Ki=39 nM), rat serotonin (5-HT)2A receptors (Ki=180 nM) and rat alpha1 adrenoceptor (Ki=237 nM). NRA0160 and clozapine antagonized locomotor hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine (MAP) in mice. NRA0160 and clozapine antagonized MAP-induced stereotyped behavior in mice, although their effects did not exceed 50% inhibition, even at the highest dose given. NRA0160 and clozapine significantly induced catalepsy in rats, although their effects did not exceed 50% induction even at the highest dose given. NRA0160 and clozapine significantly reversed the disruption of prepulse inhibition (PPI) in rats produced by apomorphine. NRA0160 and clozapine significantly shortened the phencyclidine (PCP)-induced prolonged swimming latency in rats in a water maze task. These findings suggest that NRA0160 may have unique antipsychotic activities without the liability of motor side effects typical of classical antipsychotics.
This report describes two patients with the clinical syndrome of reversible renal failure and nephrotic syndrome caused by the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent, zomepirac sodium. What is unique about this report are the pathologic findings on renal biopsy which showed fusion of foot processes consistent with minimal change disease without evidence of an interstitial infiltrate. A cause-and-effect relationship of the disease to zomepirac administration is strongly suggested by the resolution of the renal dysfunction when the drug was stopped and by more than eighteen months of follow-up without evidence of any impairment in renal function.
In a search for novel analogues of beta(3)-adrenoceptor (AR) agonists relaxing the bladder for treatment of urinary dysfunction, 2-[4-(2-[[(1S,2R)-2-hydroxy-2-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-1-methylethyl]amino]ethyl)phenoxy]-2-methylpropionic acids (1a-e), into which a fibrate-like structure had been incorporated, were synthesised. Compound 1a was found to be a selective beta(3)-AR agonist in functional assays using the ferret detrusor (beta(3)-AR), rat uterus (beta(2)-AR), and rat atrium (beta(1)-AR); beta(3): EC(50)=7.8 nM, beta(2): IC(50)=7,300 nM, beta(1): EC(20)=23,000 nM. The introduction of a chlorine atom or methyl substituent at the ortho-position on the phenyl ring of 1a further improved beta(3)-AR selectivity. In an in vivo study, 1a lowered intrabladder pressure (ED(50)=31 microg/kg) in rats, without increasing heart rate, in keeping with the in vitro results. Consequently, it is proposed that 1a and its analogues (1b-e), possess beta(3)-AR agonistic activity in the absence of undesirable beta(1)- or beta(2)-AR mediated actions, and may be useful for clinical treatment and pharmacological studies.
Free oxygen radicals and lipid peroxidation are responsible for adriamycin-induced cardiotoxicity. Amifostine is a scavenger of free radicals and may function as a selective cytoprotective agent. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of amifostine on adriamycin-induced lipid peroxidation and the levels of protective enzymes in the heart. Male Wistar rats were randomly allocated to three groups: pretreated, untreated, and control (n=10 in each group). Rats were pretreated with an intraperitoneal injection of amifostine (200 mg/kg) 30 min before the injection of adriamycin. The pretreated rats were given an intraperitoneal injection of adriamycin (10 mg/kg) and were sacrificed after 72 h. Likewise, rats received intraperitoneal injection of adriamycin (untreated) or saline (control). The hearts were removed for the analyses of malondialdehyde (MDA), reduced glutathione (GSH) and catalase. MDA levels were increased (p<0.005) in the heart tissues of untreated rats compared to control, while GSH and catalase levels were decreased (p<0.05 and p<0.001, respectively) in untreated animals. In amifostine-preatreated group, MDA levels were lower (p<0.01), and GSH and catalase levels were higher (p<0.05 for both) than the untreated group. GSH levels were even higher in the amifostine-pretreated group compared to control (p<0.01), although catalase levels were significantly lower in the pretreated group (p<0.05). These results indicate that amifostine decreases adriamycin-induced lipid peroxidation and increases the levels of the protective enzymes in the heart tissue. Therefore, amifostine may ameliorate the adriamycin-induced acute cardiotoxicity.
In 12 male patients with angiographically confirmed coronary heart disease and stable angina the antianginal effects of 50 mg Gallopamil have been studied in comparison with 10 mg Nifedipine and placebo. The study has been carried out using a double-blind cross-over protocol with standardized exercise stress tests. Patients underwent 5 exercise step tests, without any medication and 120 minutes after randomized drug administration (placebo, placebo, Gallopamil, Nifedipine). Both Gallopamil and Nifedipine had good antianginal effects. Following 50 mg Gallopamil, ischemic ST-depression was reduced by 45% compared to placebo and by 50% compared to ergometry without any medication. The reduction of ST-depression after 10 mg Nifedipine was 26% compared to placebo and 31% compared to a drug-free exercise test. Due to the negative chronotropic effects, Gallopamil led to a slight but significant reduction of heart rate at rest and during exercise of about 5%. In contrast, after Nifedipine administration, a reflex-mediated increase in heart rate could be seen. In normotensive patients both channel-blocking agents showed a slight reduction of arterial blood pressure.
The results indicate a considerable antianginal effect of a single oral dose of 50 mg Gallopamil. In comparison to 10 mg Nifedipine this effect is more pronounced.
Individuals with essential hypertension have been characterized by increased renal sympathetic vascular tone with decreased plasma volume and normal cardiac output compared with normotensive individuals. We used a servo-controlled intrarenal infusion system to evaluate the hemodynamic, renal excretory, and plasma hormonal responses to 28-day, low-level elevations in the intrarenal adrenergic neurotransmitter norepinephrine. In uninephrectomized dogs (n = 6), servo-controlled norepinephrine infusion increased mean arterial pressure from 95.6 +/- 3.1 to 115.7 +/- 4.9 mm Hg on day 1 without concomitant reductions in renal blood flow. Arterial hypertension was sustained and renal vascular resistance increased during the 28 days of servo-controlled norepinephrine infusion despite significant decreases in the daily dose of intrarenal norepinephrine (1.49 +/- 0.23 to 0.47 +/- 0.25 mg/d) necessary to maintain renal blood flow constant. Arterial pressure returned to control values with the cessation of servo-controlled norepinephrine, whereas renal blood flow and renal vascular resistance remained slightly decreased and increased, respectively. Cumulative sodium balance exhibited a net 177 +/- 37 mmol sodium loss over the 28 days of norepinephrine infusion, indicating that the hypertension did not result from sodium retention or expansion of extracellular fluid volume. Intrarenal norepinephrine did not change plasma epinephrine, norepinephrine, or vasopressin concentrations. Atrial natriuretic factor, however, increased at 7 and 14 days of servo-controlled norepinephrine, and plasma renin activity increased on day 14 of norepinephrine infusion. We conclude that low-level elevation of intrarenal adrenergic neurotransmitter produces sustained arterial hypertension that is independent of expansion in extracellular fluid volume, increases in circulating catecholamines or plasma renin activity, or reductions in renal blood flow. This hypertension may be associated with increased renal vascular sensitivity to norepinephrine and/or other renal vasoactive factors.
Single-nucleotide polymorphisms in genes related to DNA repair capacity and ultraviolet exposure have not been well investigated in relation to skin lesions associated with arsenic exposure. This population based case-control study, of 600 cases and 600 controls, frequency matched on age and gender in Pabna, Bangladesh, in 2001-2002, investigated the association and potential effect modification between polymorphisms in Xeroderma Pigmentosum complementation group D (XPD) (Lys751Gln and Asp312Asn) genes, tendency to sunburn and arsenic-related skin lesions.
Unconditional logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
No significant association was observed between skin lesions and the XPD 312 Asp/Asn (adjusted OR = 0.87, 95% CI = 0.65-1.15) Asn/Asn (adjusted OR = 0.76, 95% CI = 0.50-1.15) (referent Asp/Asp); XPD 751 Lys/Gln (adjusted OR = 0.92, 95% CI = 0.69-1.23) Gln/Gln (adjusted OR = 0.98, 95% CI = 0.66-1.45) (referent Lys/Lys). While we did not observe any evidence of effect modification of these polymorphisms on the association between well arsenic concentration and skin lesions, we did observe effect modification between these polymorphisms and sunburn tendency and arsenic-related skin lesions. Individuals with the heterozygote or homozygote variant forms (Asp/Asn or Asn/Asn) had half the risk of skin lesions (OR = 0.45, 95% CI = 0.29-0.68) compared with those with the wild-type XPDAsp312Asn genotype (Asp/Asp) and individuals with heterozygote or homozygote variant forms (Lys/Gln or Gln/Gln) had half the risk of skin lesions (OR = 0.47, 95% CI = 0.31-0.72) compared with those with the wild-type XPDLys751Gln genotype (Lys/Lys), within the least sensitive strata of sunburn severity. We observed effect modification on the multiplicative scale for XPD 751 and XPD 312.
XPD polymorphisms modified the relationship between tendency to sunburn and skin lesions in an arsenic exposed population. Further study is necessary to explore the effect of XPD polymorphisms and sun exposure on risk of arsenic-related skin lesions.
