Prochlorperazine (Compazine, PCZ) is a frequently used medication in the emergency department (ED). Akathisia and dystonia are known adverse reactions to the use of this medication, but their incidence in the ED has not been well studied. We conducted a prospective, descriptive study to evaluate the frequency of akathisia and dystonia in the ED from the use of IV or IM PCZ in patients with nausea/vomiting or headache. Two hundred-twenty nine patients (> or =18 years old) were enrolled and contacted within 2 weeks of ED discharge to access the incidence of these adverse reactions. After the use of PCZ in the ED, 16% of patients developed akathisia and 4% developed dystonia. Emergency physicians and our patients need to be aware of these potential adverse reactions to the use of PCZ in the ED.
The Intercontinental Schizophrenia Outpatient Health Outcomes (IC-SOHO) study was designed to provide information regarding use and outcome of antipsychotic treatments in a large, diverse population in real practice settings.
Outpatients with schizophrenia (ICD-10 or DSM-IV) who initiated or changed to a new antipsychotic entered this 3-year, naturalistic, prospective observational study. Four monotherapy treatment groups were defined according to the antipsychotic prescribed at baseline, namely olanzapine, risperidone, quetiapine, and haloperidol. Efficacy was assessed using the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness rating scale (CGI-S), inclusive of subscales for positive, negative, depressive, and cognitive symptoms. Tolerability was assessed by adverse event questionnaires and weight measurements. Six-month findings are described.
At baseline, 5833 participants were prescribed monotherapy and the mean severity of illness was moderate to marked (CGI-S). At 6 months, olanzapine resulted in significantly greater improvements in overall, positive, negative, depressive, and cognitive symptoms compared with quetiapine, risperidone or haloperidol (p <.001). Improvements in overall, negative, and cognitive symptoms were significantly higher for risperidone compared with haloperidol (p <.001), whereas improvements across all symptoms were comparable for quetiapine and haloperidol. Extra-pyramidal symptoms and tardive dyskinesia decreased compared with baseline in the olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone groups but increased in the haloperidol group (p <.001, likelihood of extrapyramidal symptoms with haloperidol compared with olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone). Sexual function adverse events were most prominent in the haloperidol and risperidone treatment groups. Weight change was significantly greater for olanzapine compared with the other antipsychotics (p <.001).
Our results support the previously reported positive impact of atypical antipsychotics, particularly olanzapine, in patients with schizophrenia.
We report of a case of a 56 years old female patient who died of severe haemolytic anaemia induced by an injection of a single dose of diclofenac. We suppose that an immune complex reaction caused the haemolytic crisis.
This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of cervico-thoracic epidural anaesthesia upon pancuronium-induced tachycardia in surgical patients. In the control (no blockade) group (n = 8) and the lumbar epidural group (n = 8), pancuronium produced significant increases in heart rate (P < 0.01 and P < 0.01, respectively) and no significant changes in mean arterial pressure. In the cervico-thoracic epidural group (n = 8), no increase in heart rate and a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure were seen following pancuronium. The lack of an increase in heart rate following pancuronium with cervico-thoracic epidural anaesthesia might be due to cardiac sympathetic denervation. The authors concluded that tachycardia after pancuronium administration was attenuated by cervico-thoracic epidural anaesthesia in humans and that the pancuronium-induced tachycardia seemed to be a cardiac sympathomimetic effect.
Although the efficacy of hepatitis B vaccine is well documented, the duration of immunity of healthy infants after vaccination is unknown. 99 infants born to hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-carrier mothers were studied and found to have positive anti-HBs (titer: greater than or equal to 10 mIU/mL) after a first injection of vaccine at the ages of 1 to 6 years. The infants were randomly divided into four groups of recipients treated with the vaccine of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), U.S.A. or that of the Beijing Biological Products Research Institute (BBPRI), BBPRI vaccine in combination with hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and placebo. The results showed that the protective efficacy dropped considerably after 5 years with NIAID vaccine, after 3 years with BBPRI vaccine and after 4 years with BBPRI vaccine plus HBIG. This suggests that a booster injection is needed 5 years after the first injection of NIAID vaccine, 3 years after BBPRI vaccine, and 4 years after BBPRI vaccine plus HBIG.
Results are presented from a study conducted in twelve male patients with hypertension who were treated during alternating one-month periods with a calcium channel blocker, a beta blocker, or a combination of both drugs. After one month of placebo therapy, the patients received 10 mg of nifedipine three times daily, 100 mg of metoprolol twice daily plus 10 mg of nifedipine three times daily, or 100 mg of metoprolol twice daily during successive periods. Nifedipine monotherapy resulted in a significant decrease in both systolic and diastolic blood pressures at rest and in systolic blood pressure during exercise. Monotherapy with metoprolol also significantly reduced systolic blood pressure during exercise. Combination therapy with the calcium channel blocker and the beta blocker produced a significantly greater decrease in both resting and exercise blood pressures than with either drug alone, with achievement of adequate blood pressure control in all patients.
We report a 16-year-old male who developed nephrotic syndrome related to membranous glomerulopathy with clinical and serological evidence of systemic lupus erythematosus after treatment with griseofulvin. To our knowledge, this is the first case of griseofulvin-exacerbated lupus in which nephrotic syndrome has been observed.
In a two-year study of rats fed trans-anethole--a flavouring that is Generally Recognized As Safe by the US Food and Drug Administration--a slight increase in proliferative lesions of the liver was observed. These results were reviewed by a Pathology Working Group (PWG) and their findings are detailed here. The increased incidence of non-neoplastic lesions in male and female rats fed 0.25, 0.5 or 1.0% trans-anethole was considered by the PWG to be treatment related. Male and female rats fed 0.25% trans-anethole in their diet (25 to 29 times the postulated maximum human intake) had no significant treatment-related microscopic lesions in the liver, although there was a slight increase in parenchymal cell hyperplasia. Rats fed 0.5% trans-anethole had hepatic changes consistent with those caused by chronic exposure of rodents to compounds with enzyme-inducing activity. Male and female rats fed 1.0% trans-anethole revealed increased incidence and severity of hepatic changes as seen in the mid-dose rats, and a low incidence of hepatocellular neoplasms. These neoplasms were not increased in male rats in any dietary group or in female rats of the low- (0.25%) and mid-dose (0.5%) groups. The slightly increased incidence of hepatocellular neoplasms in the high-dose females is not considered to be of significance to human safety and it is concluded that trans-anethole does not constitute a carcinogenic risk for man. The slightly increased tumour incidence was seen only in the highest dose group of one sex; it has not been observed in studies of mice fed trans-anethole--the metabolism of trans-anethole in the mouse is similar to that in man. The extremely high exposure was associated with other liver changes which may have contributed to the findings.
To determine if neurally adjusted ventilatory assist (NAVA) that delivers pressure in proportion to diaphragm electrical activity is as protective to acutely injured lungs (ALI) and non-pulmonary organs as volume controlled (VC), low tidal volume (Vt), high positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) ventilation.
Prospective, randomized, laboratory animal study.
Twenty-seven male New Zealand white rabbits.
Anesthetized rabbits with hydrochloric acid-induced ALI were randomized (n = 9 per group) to 5.5 h NAVA (non-paralyzed), VC (paralyzed; Vt 6-ml/kg), or VC (paralyzed; Vt 15-ml/kg). PEEP was adjusted to hemodynamic goals in NAVA and VC6-ml/kg, and was 1 cmH2O in VC15-ml/kg.
PaO2/FiO2; lung wet-to-dry ratio; lung histology; interleukin-8 (IL-8) concentrations in broncho-alveolar-lavage (BAL) fluid, plasma, and non-pulmonary organs; plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 and tissue factor in BAL fluid and plasma; non-pulmonary organ apoptosis rate; creatinine clearance; echocardiography. PEEP was similar in NAVA and VC6-ml/kg. During NAVA, Vt was lower (3.1 +/- 0.9 ml/kg), whereas PaO2/ FiO2, respiratory rate, and PaCO2 were higher compared to VC6-ml/kg (p<0.05 for all). Variables assessing ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI), IL-8 levels, non-pulmonary organ apoptosis rate, and kidney as well as cardiac performance were similar in NAVA compared to VC6-ml/kg. VILI and non-pulmonary organ dysfunction was attenuated in both groups compared to VC15-ml/kg.
In anesthetized rabbits with early experimental ALI, NAVA is as effective as VC6-ml/kg in preventing VILI, in attenuating excessive systemic and remote organ inflammation, and in preserving cardiac and kidney function.
The cardiovascular effects of intrathecal administration of clonidine were examined after depletion of spinal cord noradrenaline or 5-hydroxytryptamine by pretreatment with 6-hydroxydopamine or 5,6-dihydroxytryptamine. Despite marked reduction in spinal noradrenaline or 5-hydroxytryptamine levels, resting blood pressure and heart rate were unchanged and the clonidine-induced hypotension and bradycardia were unimpaired. The results suggest that intrathecal clonidine acts via inhibitory spinal alpha-adrenoceptors located postsynaptically on the preganglionic nerve cell bodies.
With the aim of identifying novel agents with antigrowth and pro-apoptotic activity on prostate cancer cells, we assayed the effect of ergosterol peroxide and (22E)-ergosta-7,22-dien-5alpha-hydroxy-3,6-dione, a semisynthetic compound, against androgen-sensitive (LNCaP) and androgen-insensitive (DU-145) human prostate cancer cells. Our results indicate that after 72h of incubation, ergosterol peroxide and (22E)-ergosta-7,22-dien-5alpha-hydroxy-3,6-dione at micromolar concentrations exhibited an inhibitory effect on LNCaP and DU-145 cell growth (MTT assay), but the semisynthetic compound was the most active. In addition, our results indicate that apoptotic cell demise is induced in LNCaP and DU-145 cells. In fact, a significant increase of caspase-3 activity, not correlated to LDH release, marker of membrane breakdown, was observed in both cell lines treated with ergosterol peroxide and the semisynthetic compound. With respect to genomic DNA damage, determined by COMET and TUNEL assays, the results obtained show a significant increase in DNA fragmentation when compared with the untreated control. In conclusion, the results obtained in this study, demonstrating that ergosterol peroxide and (22E)-ergosta-7,22-dien-5alpha-hydroxy-3,6-dione attenuate the growth of prostate cells, at least in part, triggering an apoptotic process, permit to confirm the use of mushrooms as origin of compounds to be used as novel therapeutic agents for prostate cancer treatment, or as models for molecules more active and selective.
The toxicities of foscarnet (PFA) and zidovudine (AZT) given alone or in combination have been investigated in mice. PFA administered at a dose of 500 mg/kg/day and AZT at a dose of 400 mg/kg/day for 17 days caused clear hematotoxicity and nephrotoxicity. Each drug alone showed little hematotoxicity, but using a combination of both drugs significantly and dramatically decreased RBC (approximately 50%), Hb (approximately 43%), and hematocrit (approximately 43%) and increased platelets (approximately 45%) on Day 11 of treatment. It seems that there is a synergistic or at least an additive effect between PFA and AZT in terms of red blood cell toxicity. Surprisingly, AZT significantly increased serum creatinine levels on Days 5 and 11 of treatment (up to 40% increase), whereas PFA was less toxic (only approximately 17% increase on Day 5 of treatment). Using a combination of the two drugs, PFA seems to reduce the nephrotoxic effect of AZT on Day 11 of treatment. None of the treatments had any effect on BUN. At a lower dose level of 340 mg PFA/kg/day and 270 mg AZT/kg/day for 15 days there was hematotoxicity (much less evident than that at the higher dose level), but no nephrotoxicity. Electron microscopic examination of the renal cortex of animals from the experiments testing the higher dose levels revealed a clear vacuolization in proximal tubules and necrosis of mitochondria in distal tubules. These effects were more striking with the combination and less evident with PFA or AZT alone. In conclusion, even though we have used a high dose of AZT, there was synergistic/additive hematotoxicity. The combination was less nephrotoxic, only on Day 11 of treatment, than either of these agents used alone although histopathology, at the time of euthanization, showed more severe damage.
A large number of oral drugs have been reported to cause pillinduced esophagitis in the medical literature. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case in which telithromycin was the cause of pill-induced esophagitis. In this report, we describe a male patient who admitted to the hospital with dysphagia and retrosternal pain after taking telithromycin (Ketek for acute sinusitis. He had a history of swallowing the film tablet with at least a glass of water and lying down immediately after taking the drug. An upper endoscopic examination demonstrated a deep ulceration of 1 cm diameter in the middle of the esophagus surrounded by relatively normal mucosa. Lansoprazole 30 mg was started. His symptoms improved seven days after cessation of the drug. The esophagus was completely normal in control endoscopy after two weeks. Telithromycin may cause esophageal lesions; therefore, patients should be educated by physicians about the drug's side effects and should drink at least 100 ml water after swallowing the medication. Drug administration should be in the upright position.
In a comparative cross-over trial we examined the influence of the betablocker bisoprolol and the ACE-inhibitor lisinopril on the peripheral blood flow of 2 groups of hypertensive patients with and without concomitant intermittent claudication. In 11 patients with hypertension without peripheral arterial obstructive disease and 11 patients with hypertension and claudication we assessed the blood pressure, leg blood flow, vascular resistance, walking distance, transcutaneous oxygen consumption and Laser-Doppler flow after treatment of one month with 10 mg bisoprolol once daily or 20 mg lisinopril once daily. The walking distance of patients with claudication improved in all patients while participating in an exercise program. For both treatment groups this improvement was significant (p < 0.05) compared to baseline, from 264 m at baseline to 313 m with bisoprolol and to 400 m with lisinopril. The difference was not significant between the both drugs. In patients without peripheral vascular obstructive disease we found a significant (p < 0.05) reduction in blood flow for both drugs. The peripheral blood flow parameters of 38 legs showed no statistical significant effect of bisoprolol nor lisinopril on the local vascular resistance at rest, after occlusion or after exercise.
To determine the effects of a perindopril-based blood pressure lowering regimen in hypertensive and non-hypertensive patients with a history of stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA).
6105 subjects from 172 centres in Asia, Australasia, and Europe were randomised to receive active treatment (n = 3051) or placebo (n = 3054). Active treatment consisted of a flexible regimen based on the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor perindopril (4 mg daily), with the addition of the diuretic indapamide, at the discretion of treating physicians. The primary outcome was total stroke (fatal or non-fatal). Analysis was by intention to treat.
Active treatment reduced blood pressure by 9/4 mmHg over 4 years of follow-up. 307 (10%) individuals assigned active treatment suffered a stroke, compared with 420 (14%) assigned placebo [relative risk reduction 28% (95% confidence interval 17-38), P < 0.0001]. Active treatment also reduced the risks of total major vascular events [26% (16-34)] including non-fatal myocardial infarction [38% (14-55)], severe cognitive decline [19% (4-32)], stroke-related dementia [34% (3-55)] and disability [18% (8-28)]. There were similar reductions in the risk of stroke in hypertensive and non-hypertensive subgroups (P < 0.01). Combination therapy with perindopril plus indapamide lowered blood pressure by 12/5 mmHg and stroke risk by 43%. Single-drug therapy lowered blood pressure by 5/3 mmHg and produced no significant fall in the risk of stroke.
The blood-pressure lowering regimen used in Perindopril pROtection aGainst REcurrent Stroke Study (PROGRESS) reduced the risks of stroke and other serious events in hypertensive and non-hypertensive subjects with a history of stroke (whatever the subtype) or transient ischaemic attack. Combination therapy with perindopril and indapamide produced larger blood pressure reductions and larger stroke reductions than monotherapy with perindopril alone. Treatment with these two agents should be considered routinely for all patients with a history of previous stroke or TIA, whether hypertensive or normotensive.
Studies were performed on the mechanisms of the protective effects of free-radical scavengers against gentamicin-mediated nephropathy. Administration of gentamicin, 100 mg/kg s.c., for 5 days to rats induced marked renal failure, characterised by a significantly decreased creatinine clearance and increased blood creatinine levels, fractional excretion of sodium Na(+), lithium Li(+), urine gamma glutamyl transferase and daily urine volume. A significant increase in kidney myeloperoxidase activity and lipid peroxidation was observed in gentamicin-treated rats. Immunohistochemical localisation demonstrated nitrotyrosine formation and poly(ADP-ribose)synthase activation in the proximal tubule from gentamicin-treated rats. Renal histology examination confirmed the tubular necrosis. N-acetylcysteine (10 mg/kg i.p. for 5 days) caused normalisation of the above biochemical parameters. In addition, N-acetylcysteine treatment significantly prevents the gentamicin-induced tubular necrosis. These results suggest that (1) N-acetylcysteine has protective effects on gentamicin-mediated nephropathy, and (2) the mechanisms of the protective effects can be, at least in part, related to interference with peroxynitrite-related pathways.
Diclofenac (Voltaren, Geigy) and aceclofenac (Falcol, Bayer) belong to a chemical subgroup of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAID) that are arylalkanoic groups of phenylacetic acid. Hepatotoxicity has been reported with the majority of NSAID although its incidence is not known. We describe two patients who presented hepatic injury after diclofenac and aceclofenac therapy. Recognition of cholestasis associated with NSAID may prevent invasive investigations in jaundiced patients. Clinically liver injury associated with NSAID is not prevalent but we think it is interesting to report those patients for recognition of the role of certain risk factors and to suggest close monitoring.
It was previously shown that nitric oxide (NO) produced by inducible NO synthase (iNOS) is responsible for cyclophosphamide (CP) induced cystitis. In this study we evaluated whether peroxynitrite is also responsible for CP induced bladder damage in rats.
A total of 38 male albino Wistar rats were divided into 4 groups. Group 1 served as controls and was given 2 ml saline, while 3 groups received a single dose of CP (200 mg/kg) at the same intervals. Group 2 received CP only, group 3 received the selective iNOS inhibitor aminoguanidine (AG) (100 mg/kg) and group 4 received the peroxynitrite scavenger ebselen (2-phenyl-1,2-benzisoselenazol-3[2H]-one) (20 mg/kg).
CP injection resulted in severe cystitis with continuous macroscopic hemorrhage, strong edema, inflammation and ulceration. Moreover, bladder tissue malondialdehyde levels, iNOS activation and urine nitrite-nitrate levels were dramatically increased. AG histologically protected bladder against CP damage and decreased urine nitrite-nitrate levels, bladder malondialdehyde and iNOS induction. Ebselen showed results similar to those of AG without changing the urinary nitrite-nitrate level and iNOS activity.
These results suggest that not only nitric oxide, but also peroxynitrite may be important in the pathogenesis of CP induced cystitis.
In order to reduce the extrahepatic side effects of antiviral nucleoside analogues in the treatment of chronic viral hepatitis, these drugs are conjugated with galactosyl-terminating macromolecules. The conjugates selectively enter hepatocytes after interaction of the carrier galactose residues with a receptor present in large amounts and high affinity only on these cells. Within hepatocytes the conjugates are delivered to lysosomes where enzymes split the bond between the carrier and the drug, allowing the latter to become concentrated in the liver. The majority of experiments referred to in this paper were performed employing a conjugate of lactosaminated human albumin with adenine arabinoside monophosphate (ara-AMP), a phosphorylated nucleoside analogue active against hepatitis B virus. This conjugate administered for 28 days to patients with chronic hepatitis B exerted the same antiviral activity as that of the free drug without producing any clinical side effects, including the severe neurotoxicity caused by free ara-AMP. This result demonstrates the validity of the liver targeting approach which enhances the therapeutic possibilities of nucleoside analogues. Coupling to galactosyl terminating carriers may be a way of obtaining higher drug concentrations within hepatocytes and permitting the use of nucleoside analogues, the administration of which would otherwise be impossible due to extrahepatic toxicity.
Crizotinib is an oral small-molecule inhibitor of ALK and c-Met tyrosine kinases that is being developed by Pfizer. ALK mutations or gene rearrangements result in growth factor-independent ALK activation. Most of the available clinical data with crizotinib are in patients with tumors that have an activated ALK, and the drug has shown very promising clinical benefit in these patients. ALK gene rearrangement occurs in approximately 3-5% of non-small-cell lung cancer patients, most of whom are never- or light smokers and have adenocarcinoma histology. In these patients, crizotinib at a dose of 250 mg twice daily demonstrated a response rate of 56% and a disease control rate of 87% in previously treated patients. The drug is generally well tolerated, with the most common adverse events being nausea, vomiting and some minor visual disturbances that are fleeting. Grade 3/4 elevations in hepatic transaminases occurred in 6% of the patients, which in most patients resolved with dose reduction. Ongoing studies will define the true utility of this drug in ALK-rearranged non-small-cell lung cancer patients and in patients with other tumors that also have ALK activation. Preliminary data suggest that the drug may also be active in tumors with an activated c-Met pathway.
Particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometers (PM10) that originates from anthropogenic activities and natural sources may settle in the bronchi and cause adverse effects possibly via oxidative stress in susceptible individuals, such as asthmatic children. This study aimed to investigate the effect of outdoor PM10 concentrations on childhood asthma admissions (CAA) in Athens, Greece.
Daily counts of CAA from the three Children's Hospitals within the greater Athens' area were obtained from the hospital records during a four-year period (2001-2004, n = 3602 children). Mean daily PM10 concentrations recorded by the air pollution-monitoring network of the greater Athens area were also collected. The relationship between CAA and PM10 concentrations was investigated using the Generalized Linear Models with Poisson distribution and logistic analysis.
There was a statistically significant (95% CL) relationship between CAA and mean daily PM10 concentrations on the day of exposure (+3.8% for 10 microg/m3 increase in PM10 concentrations), while a 1-day lag (+3.4% for 10 microg/m3 increase in PM10 concentrations) and a 4-day lag (+4.3% for 10 microg/m3 increase in PM10 concentrations) were observed for older asthmatic children (5-14 year-old). High mean daily PM10 concentration (the highest 10%; >65.69 microg/m3) doubled the risk of asthma exacerbations even in younger asthmatic children (0-4 year-old).
Our results provide evidence of the adverse effect of PM10 on the rates of paediatric asthma exacerbations and hospital admissions. A four-day lag effect between PM10 peak exposure and asthma admissions was also observed in the older age group.
Craniofrontonasal syndrome (CFNS [MIM 304110]) is an X-linked malformation syndrome characterized by craniofrontonasal dysplasia and extracranial manifestations in heterozygous females. In the majority of patients CFNS is caused by mutations in the EFNB1 gene (MIM 300035). We identified three girls with classical CFNS and mild developmental delay harboring de novo deletions of the EFNB1 gene. Applying haplotype analysis, Southern blot hybridization and array-comparative genomic hybridization, deletion of EFNB1 was found to be part of contiguous gene deletions in the patients. In one patient the deletion interval includes the genes for oligophrenin-1 (OPHN1 [MIM 300127]) and praja 1 (PJA1 [MIM 300420]). In the second patient the deletion includes OPHN1, PJA1 and the gene for ectodysplasin A (EDA [MIM 300451]). In the third patient EFNB1 gene deletion may include deletion of regulatory regions 5' of OPHN1. Previously, the OPHN1 gene has been shown to be responsible for recessive X-linked mental retardation. Although it is too early to predict the future cognitive performance of the two infant patients with contiguous gene deletions of OPHN1-EFNB1-PJA1, mild learning disabilities have been recognized in the older, third patient. It is important for genetic counseling to be aware that their male offspring may not only be carriers of CFNS but may also be affected by mental retardation and anhidrotic ectodermal dysplasia.
