Chronic ouabain treatment produces hypertension acting on the central nervous system and at vascular levels. However, cardiac effects in this model of hypertension are still poorly understood. Hence, the effects of hypertension induced by chronic ouabain administration ( approximately 8 microg day(-1), s.c.) for 5 weeks on the cardiac function were studied in Wistar rats. Ouabain induces hypertension but not myocardial hypertrophy. Awake ouabain-treated rats present an increment of the left ventricular systolic pressure and of the maximum positive and negative dP/dt. Isolated papillary muscles from ouabain-treated rats present an increment in isometric force, and this effect was present even when inotropic interventions (external Ca(2+) increment and increased heart rate) were performed. However, the sarcoplasmic reticulum activity and the SERCA-2 protein expression did not change. On the other hand, the activity of myosin ATPase increased without changes in myosin heavy chain protein expression. In addition, the expression of alpha(1) and alpha(2) isoforms of Na(+), K(+)-ATPase also increased in the left ventricle from ouabain-hypertensive rats. The present results showed positive inotropic and lusitropic effects in hearts from awake ouabain-treated rats, which are associated with an increment of the isometric force development and of the activity of myosin ATPase and expression of catalytic subunits of the Na(+), K(+)-ATPase.
In a previous study, we demonstrated that parathion suppressed both the primary IgM and IgG response to sheep erythrocytes (SRC) in inbred and outbred mice (G. P. Casale, S. D. Cohen, and R. A. DiCapua, 1982, toxicologist 2, 94). Suppression occurred after a dosage which produced cholinergic effects but was absent after a lower dosage which did not produce cholinergic signs. This information suggested that immunosuppression might be mediated indirectly as a result of toxic chemical stress. The present study evaluated the relationship between the anticholinesterase action of parathion, malathion, and dichlorvos (DDVP) and their effects on the primary humoral response to SRC. Male C57Bl/6 mice were given a single dose of parathion (16 mg/kg, po), malathion (720 mg/kg, po), or DDVP (120 mg/kg, po) 2 days after immunization with SRC. Two days later, tissues were removed for cholinesterase (CHE) assay and enumeration of splenic antibody-forming cells (PFC). All three compounds produced moderate to severe cholinergic poisoning. DDVP produced cholinergic signs beginning 1/2 hr after dosing and lasting 1/2 to 1 hr. This profile was associated with a rapid but transient inhibition of brain CHE activity. In contrast, malathion and parathion produced prolonged cholinergic poisoning (4 to 7 hr) and prolonged suppression of brain CHE activity. All three compounds suppressed the primary IgM response. However, when they were given as multiple lower doses, none of the compounds suppressed the primary IgG response. These latter treatments produced no cholinergic signs. The cholinomimetic agent, arecoline (65 mg/kg, ip) produced a short-lived cholinergic crisis but no IgM suppression. Sustained-release arecoline produced prolonged cholinergic poisoning (3 to 5 hr) and reduced the number of IgM PFC to 50% of control. These results demonstrated that organophosphate-induced immunosuppression was associated with severe cholinergic stimulation. The immunosuppression may result from direct action of acetylcholine upon the immune system or it may be secondary to the toxic chemical stress associated with cholinergic poisoning.
A severe bradycardia leading to sinus arrest in an 18-year-old girl anaesthetised for a bilateral breast reduction is described. The probable precipitating factors and the specific problems are discussed.
Interleukin-22 (IL-22) is a recently identified T cell-derived cytokine whose biological significance remains obscure. Previously, we have shown that IL-22 plays a protective role in T cell-mediated hepatitis induced by Concanavalin A (Con A), acting as a survival factor for hepatocytes. In the present paper, we demonstrate that hydrodynamic gene delivery of IL-22 cDNA driven either by a liver-specific albumin promoter or a human cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter results in IL-22 protein expression, STAT3 activation, and expression of several anti-apoptotic proteins, including Bcl-xL, Bcl-2, and Mcl-1 in the liver. Immunohistochemical analysis reveals that IL-22 protein expression is mainly detected in the cytoplasm of hepatocytes. Overexpression of IL-22 by hydrodynamic gene delivery significantly protects against liver injury, necrosis, and apoptosis induced by administration of Con A, carbon tetrachloride (CCl4), or the Fas agonist Jo-2 mAb. Western blot analyses show that overexpression of IL-22 significantly enhances activation of STAT3 and expression of Bcl-xL, Bcl-2, and Mcl-1 proteins in liver injury induced by Con A. In conclusion, hydrodynamic gene delivery of IL-22 protects against liver injury induced by a variety of toxins, suggesting the therapeutic potential of IL-22 in treating human liver disease.
1. Acetyl- and butyrylcholinesterase (AChE, BuChE) activities were studied in rabbits with experimentally induced daunorubicin cardiomyopathy. 2. A significant decrease of the plasma BuChE in the daunorubicin group was observed. 3. In the daunorubicin group, AChE activity in the heart was significantly decreased only in the interventricular septum. 4. BuChE activity was significantly decreased in the cardiac septum and ventricles and in the liver following daunorubicin treatment. 5. Changes in cholinesterase activities are probably caused by an effect of daunorubicin oon protein synthesis during the development of certain types of cardiomyopathy.
High-dose bolus exposure of rats to ethylene glycol (EG) causes developmental toxicity mediated by a metabolite, glycolic acid (GA), whose levels increase disproportionately when its metabolism is saturated. However, low-level exposures that do not saturate GA metabolism have a low potential for developmental effects. Toward the goal of developing EG risk assessments based on internal dose metrics, this study examined the differences between fast (bolus) and slow (continuous infusion) dose-rate exposures to EG on developmental outcome and pharmacokinetics. Time-mated female CD rats received sc bolus injections of 0, 1000, or 2000 mg/kg/day of EG on gestation day (GD) 6-15 once daily, whereas three corresponding groups were given the same daily doses as an infusion administered continuously from GD 6-15 via an sc implantable pump. In the sc bolus groups, increases in 11 fetal malformations (major defects) and 12 variations (minor alterations) were seen at the 2000 mg/kg/day dose level, whereas increases in 2 malformations and 2 variations occurred at 1000 mg/kg/day. In contrast, equivalent daily doses of EG given slowly via infusion did not cause any developmental effects. A pharmacokinetics time course was then conducted to compare GD 11-12 kinetics from oral bolus (gavage) exposure versus sc infusion of EG. Although dose rate had a modest impact (8- to 11-fold difference) on peak EG levels, peak levels of GA in maternal blood, kidney, embryo, and exocoelomic fluid were 59, 100, 49, and 56 times higher, respectively, following gavage versus the same dose given by infusion. These data illustrate how high-dose bolus exposure to EG causes a dramatic shift to nonlinear GA kinetics, an event which is highly unlikely to occur following exposures to humans associated with consumer and worker uses.
Identifying therapeutic drugs that block the release or effects of T-helper type 2 (Th2) cytokines after allergen exposure is an important goal for the treatment of allergic inflammatory diseases including asthma. We recently showed, using a murine model of allergic airway inflammation, that poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of asthma-related lung inflammation. PARP inhibition, by single injection of a novel inhibitor, thieno[2,3-c]isoquinolin-5-one (TIQ-A), before ovalbumin (OVA) challenge, prevented airway eosinophilia in C57BL/6 mice with concomitant suppression of Th2 cytokine production and mucus secretion.
To evaluate the efficacy of the drug when it is given after OVA challenge for its possible therapeutic potential.
This study was conducted using a murine model of allergic airway inflammation.
A single injection of TIQ-A (6 mg/kg) one or 6 h post-allergen challenge conferred similar reduction in OVA challenge-induced eosinophilia. More significantly, post-allergen challenge administration of the drug exerted even better suppression on the production of IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, and IgE and prevented airway hyperresponsiveness to inhaled-methacholine. The significant decrease in IL-13 was accompanied by a complete absence of airways mucus production indicating a potential protection against allergen-induced airway remodelling.
The coincidence of the inflammation trigger and the time of drug administration appear to be important for the drug's more pronounced protection. The observed time window for efficacy, 1 or 6 h after allergen challenge may be of great clinical interest. These findings may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for the treatment of allergic airway inflammation, including asthma.
Steroidogenic factor 1 (SF-1) is an orphan nuclear receptor that plays key roles in endocrine development and function. Knockout mice lacking SF-1 have adrenal and gonadal agenesis, impaired gonadotropin expression, and structural abnormalities of the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. Previous studies have identified three human subjects with mutations in SF-1 causing adrenocortical insufficiency with varying degrees of gonadal dysfunction. We now describe a novel 8-bp microdeletion of SF-1, isolated from a 46, XY patient who presented with gonadal agenesis but normal adrenal function, which causes premature termination upstream of sequences encoding the activation function 2 domain. In cell transfection experiments, the mutated protein possessed no intrinsic transcriptional activity but rather inhibited the function of the wild-type protein in most cell types. To our knowledge, this is the first example of an apparent dominant-negative effect of a SF-1 mutation in humans. These findings, which define a SF-1 mutation that apparently differentially affects its transcriptional activity in vivo in the adrenal cortex and the gonads, may be relevant to the cohort of patients who present with 46, XY sex reversal but normal adrenal function.
How podocytes respond to injury is poorly understood, although podocyte injury in the glomerulus has been proposed as the crucial mechanism in the pathogenesis of proteinuria and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. An increase in sodium/myo-inositol co-transporter (SMIT) transcripts, an osmoprotective gene, has been demonstrated in a variety of brain injury models. In the present study, we investigated SMIT expression in podocytes in experimental nephrosis.
Two types of nephrosis were induced in rats: puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis and monoclonal antibody (mAb) 5-1-6 nephropathy. Podocyte injury was morphologically distinct in the former type of nephrosis and limited to a minimum in the latter. SMIT expression in isolated glomeruli was estimated by ribonuclease protection assay. Localization of SMIT-expressing cells in glomeruli was examined by in situ hybridization.
SMIT transcripts in glomeruli increased conspicuously in the nephrotic stage of PAN nephrosis, whereas the transcripts in cortices and medullae did not show significant changes. In situ hybridization revealed that podocytes were predominant cells expressing SMIT in the glomerulus. Significant increase of SMIT mRNA in the glomeruli was detected before the onset of massive proteinuria. In contrast, up-regulation of SMIT expression was not observed in mAb 5-1-6 nephropathy, whose urinary protein levels were comparable with those in the nephrotic stage of PAN nephrosis.
These findings suggest that SMIT expression in podocytes is not provoked by an effect of massive proteinuria but by extensive cellular injury.
The high prevalence of substance use disorders in schizophrenia relative to the general population and other psychiatric diagnoses could result from developmental neuropathology in hippocampal and cortical structures that underlie schizophrenia. In this study, we tested the effects of neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions on instrumental behavior reinforced by sucrose pellets and intravenous cocaine injections. Lesioned rats acquired sucrose self-administration faster than sham-lesioned rats, but rates of extinction were not altered. Lesioned rats also responded at higher rates during acquisition of cocaine self-administration, and tended to acquire self-administration faster. Higher response rates reflected perseveration of responding during the post-injection "time-out" periods, and a greater incidence of binge-like cocaine intake, which persisted even after cocaine self-administration stabilized. In contrast to sucrose, extinction from cocaine self-administration was prolonged in lesioned rats, and reinstatement of cocaine seeking induced by cocaine priming increased compared with shams. These results suggest that neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions facilitate instrumental learning for both natural and drug rewards, and reduce inhibitory control over cocaine taking while promoting cocaine seeking and relapse after withdrawal. The findings are discussed in terms of possible developmental or direct effects of the lesions, and both positive reinforcement (substance use vulnerability as a primary disease symptom) and negative reinforcement (self-medication) theories of substance use comorbidity in schizophrenia.
Chloracne is one of the most sensitive and specific hallmark of dioxin intoxication. Although its clinical features are clearly described, poor understanding of the molecular pathways of dioxin-induced chloracne hampers a rational approach to therapy. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of EGFR, MAPK, CK17, and TGk in the pathogenesis of chloracne related to dioxin exposures.
Epidermal tissues of twelve chloracne patients exposed to dioxins were compared with tissues from 12 healthy controls. These skin tissues were obtained by punch biopsies. p-EGFR and p-MAPK were examined by immunofluorescence. The mRNA and protein levels of CK17 and TGk were examined by fluorescence in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, respectively.
p-EGFR and p-MAPK were found in all chloracne tissues, whereas no expression was found in the controls. CK17 mRNA and protein were also found in all chloracne lesions, but none in controls (P=0.000). TGk mRNA and protein were detected in both groups, but the distribution was distinct. The positive signals in the controls were mainly in the stratum granulosum, while in the chloracne tissues, the positive signals were found more significantly in the stratum granulosum and stratum spinosum.
The results demonstrate that in the human skin the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway and up-regulation of CK17 and TGK may play roles in the pathogenesis of chloracne related to dioxin exposures.
To observe the effects of different doses of esmolol on cardiovascular responses to tracheal extubation.
We randomly divided 175 patients undergoing elective surgery into 5 groups. Before the tracheal extubation, patients received 10 ml saline (group A), esmolol 0.5 mg/kg (group B), 1.0 mg/kg (group C), 1.5 mg/kg (group D) and 2.0 mg/kg (group E), respectively, and then the trachea was extubated 2 min later. Systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP) and heart rate (HR) were recorded at premedication, tracheal extubation, and 1, 3, 5, 10 min after the tracheal extubation. Rate-pressure product was derived from SBP x HR.
Compared with those at premedication, the SBP, DBP, HR, and RPP of the patients in Group A increased significantly at the tracheal extubation and 1 min after the tracheal extubation (P < 0.01). The DBP, HR, and RPP of patients in Group B were significantly higher at the tracheal extubation (P < 0.01). The SBP, HR and RPP of patients in Group B decreased significantly at the tracheal extubation and 1 min after the tracheal extubation compared with those in Group A (P < 0.01). The SBP, DBP, HR and RPP of patients in Group C, D and E decreased significantly at the tracheal extubation compared with those in group A and B (P < 0.05); as well as SBP, HR, RPP of patients in Group C, D, E at 1 min after tracheal extubation compared with those of patients in group A. SBP in Group C, D; HR in Group D, E; RPP in Group C, D, E decreased significantly at 3 min after the tracheal extubation compared with those in Group A(P < 0.05). Compared with premedication, HR, RPP in Group D decreased significantly at 3-10 min after the tracheal extubation and in group E at tracheal extubation, 1-10 min after the tracheal extubation (P < 0.05), but three patients in group E had a bradycardia after receiving esmolol.
Esmolol of 1.5 mg/kg may not only control cardiovascular responses more effectively to the tracheal extubation, but also has no side-effects.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by a progressive deterioration of cognitive abilities, accumulation of the amyloid-beta-peptide (Abeta) and synaptic alterations. Treatment with lithium has been shown to provide neuroprotection against several insults, including protection against Abeta neurotoxicity in vitro. Rosiglitazone, a peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma agonist, has been shown to attenuate Abeta-peptide neurotoxic effects, including the inflammatory response of microglia and astrocytes. Both types of drugs activate Wnt signaling, a pathway that has been shown to be related to AD. In this study, a double transgenic mouse model, which coexpresses APPswe and the exon 9 deletion of the presenilin 1 (PSEN1) gene, was used to examine, in vivo, the effect of lithium and rosiglitazone on Abeta neurotoxicity. Mice were tested for spatial memory, and their brain samples were used for histochemical and biochemical analysis. In this study, we report that both drugs significantly reduced (1) spatial memory impairment induced by amyloid burden; (2) Abeta aggregates and Abeta oligomers; and (3) astrocytic and microglia activation. They also prevented changes in presynaptic and postsynaptic marker proteins. Finally, both drugs activate Wnt signaling shown by the increase in beta-catenin and by the inhibition of the glycogen synthase kinase-3beta. We conclude that lithium and rosiglitazone, possibly by the activation of the Wnt signaling pathway, reduce various AD neuropathological markers and may be considered as potential therapeutic agents against the disease.
The in vitro cardiac and vascular pharmacology of Malo maxima, a newly described jellyfish suspected of causing Irukandji syndrome in the Broome region of Western Australia, was investigated in rat tissues. In left atria, M. maxima crude venom extract (CVE; 1-100μg/mL) caused concentration-dependent inotropic responses which were unaffected by atropine (1μM), but significantly attenuated by tetrodotoxin (TTX; 0.1μM), propranolol (1μM), Mg(2+) (6mM) or calcitonin gene-related peptide antagonist (CGRP(8-37); 1μM). CVE caused no change in right atrial rate until 100μg/mL, which elicited bradycardia. This was unaffected by atropine, TTX, propranolol or CGRP(8-37). In the presence of Mg(2+), CVE 30-100μg/mL caused tachycardia. In small mesenteric arteries CVE caused concentration-dependent contractions (pEC(50) 1.03±0.07μg/mL) that were unaffected by prazosin (0.3μM), ω-conotoxin GVIA (0.1μM) or Mg(2+) (6mM). There was a 2-fold increase in sensitivity in the presence of CGRP(8-37) (3μM). TTX (0.1μM), box jellyfish Chironex fleckeri antivenom (92.6U/mL) and benextramine (3μM) decreased sensitivity by 2.6, 1.9 and 2.1-fold, respectively. CVE-induced maximum contractions were attenuated by C. fleckeri antivenom (-22%) or benextramine (-49%). M. maxima CVE appears to activate the sympathetic, but not parasympathetic, nervous system and to stimulate sensory nerve CGRP release in left atria and resistance arteries. These effects are consistent with the catecholamine excess thought to cause Irukandji syndrome, with additional actions of CGRP release.
The sequential distribution of key tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle enzymes have been investigated during hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in Swiss mice. Animals were continuously exposed to HCH (500ppm) for 2, 4, and 6 months until liver tumor developed. The activity of TCA cycle enzymes such as isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH), succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), and malate dehydrogenase (MDH) have been studied. The activity of all the enzymes declined after 2 months of exposure of HCH in the liver. The neoplastic nodules and tumors developed after an exposure of HCH for 4 and 6 months, respectively. Neoplastic nodule and tumor showed wide variations in the activity and distribution of TCA cycle enzymes. The decreasing pattern in the activity of enzymes persisted in the non-neoplastic and non-tumor regions of the liver except SDH. However, the cells in nodular area and tumor showed intense enzymatic activities at cellular level. In the nodular region SDH activity declined prominently, whereas the non-nodular area showed positive reaction. Conspicuously, the tumor showed islands of positive and negative zones for TCA cycle dehydrogenases. The significance and relevance of such a distribution pattern still remains a mystery. The results are discussed in the light of HCH-induced toxicity on energy metabolism in exposed animals and possible role of such enzymes in the tumor formation.
To identify risk variants for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), we conducted a genome-wide association study of two case-control series, analyzing the genotypes with respect to 291,423 tagging SNPs in a total of 907 ALL cases and 2,398 controls. We identified risk loci for ALL at 7p12.2 (IKZF1, rs4132601, odds ratio (OR) = 1.69, P = 1.20 x 10(-19)), 10q21.2 (ARID5B, rs7089424, OR = 1.65, P = 6.69 x 10(-19)) and 14q11.2 (CEBPE, rs2239633, OR = 1.34, P = 2.88 x 10(-7)). The 10q21.2 (ARID5B) risk association appears to be selective for the subset of B-cell precursor ALL with hyperdiploidy. These data show that common low-penetrance susceptibility alleles contribute to the risk of developing childhood ALL and provide new insight into disease causation of this specific hematological cancer. Notably, all three risk variants map to genes involved in transcriptional regulation and differentiation of B-cell progenitors.
Doxorubicin administered to rats induces a dose-dependent cardiomyopathy. Both doxorubicin administration and the presence of indwelling catheters have been associated with thrombus formation. We sought to determine feasibility of drug delivery and degree of thrombogenesis related to long-term indwelling catheter use in a cardiotoxicity model. Rats receiving doxorubicin or saline via jugular catheters coated with end-point immobilized heparin were compared to rats receiving similar treatments via direct jugular intravenous injection (venotomy). Onset of cardiotoxicity, defined by reduction in fractional shortening to 45% or less, was determined by echocardiography. Thrombogenesis was assessed by observation of atrial thrombi and pulmonary emboli as determined by post-mortem and histologic examination. Significantly more of the doxorubicin-treated and catheterized group (87.5%) developed cardiotoxicity relative to the doxorubicin-treated-venotomized group (28.6%), as indicated by an earlier and more precipitous decline in fractional shortening in the doxorubicin-treated-catheterized rats. Despite this change, rats from catheterized groups demonstrated improved weight maintenance relative to venotomy groups. Although the number of pulmonary emboli did not differ significantly between groups, 50% of the doxorubicin-treated-catheterized animals developed vegetative endocarditis. Despite alteration of the model-induced cardiac disease, we submit that the more reliable and early induction of the desired endpoint, in addition to improved weight maintenance, represent model refinements. The ease of drug delivery with minimal restraint and no anesthesia is an additional and important benefit. The development of vegetative endocarditis represents an opportunity to study the formation and prevention of this condition.
N-myristoylation is a common form of co-translational protein fatty acylation resulting from the attachment of myristate to a required N-terminal glycine residue. We show that aberrantly acquired N-myristoylation of SHOC2, a leucine-rich repeat-containing protein that positively modulates RAS-MAPK signal flow, underlies a clinically distinctive condition of the neuro-cardio-facial-cutaneous disorders family. Twenty-five subjects with a relatively consistent phenotype previously termed Noonan-like syndrome with loose anagen hair (MIM607721) shared the 4A>G missense change in SHOC2 (producing an S2G amino acid substitution) that introduces an N-myristoylation site, resulting in aberrant targeting of SHOC2 to the plasma membrane and impaired translocation to the nucleus upon growth factor stimulation. Expression of SHOC2(S2G) in vitro enhanced MAPK activation in a cell type-specific fashion. Induction of SHOC2(S2G) in Caenorhabditis elegans engendered protruding vulva, a neomorphic phenotype previously associated with aberrant signaling. These results document the first example of an acquired N-terminal lipid modification of a protein causing human disease.
Agents that block the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor induce a schizophrenialike psychosis in adult humans and injure or kill neurons in several corticolimbic regions of the adult rat brain. Susceptibility to the psychotomimetic effects of the NMDA antagonist, ketamine is minimal or absent in children and becomes maximal in early adulthood. We examined the sensitivity of rats at various ages to the neurotoxic effects of the powerful NMDA antagonist, MK-801. Vulnerability was found to be age dependent, having onset at approximately puberty (45 days of age) and becoming maximal in early adulthood. This age-dependency profile (onset of susceptibility in late adolescence) in the rat is similar to that for ketamine-induced psychosis or schizophrenia in humans. These findings suggest that NMDA receptor hypofunction, the mechanism underlying the neurotoxic and psychotomimetic actions of NMDA antagonists, may also play a role in schizophrenia.
We initiated a phase 1 clinical study to determine the safety and bioactivity of direct myocardial gene transfer of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) as sole therapy for patients with symptomatic myocardial ischemia.
VEGF gene transfer (GTx) was performed in 5 patients (all male, ages 53 to 71) who had failed conventional therapy; these men had angina (determined by angiographically documented coronary artery disease). Naked plasmid DNA encoding VEGF (phVEGF165) was injected directly into the ischemic myocardium via a mini left anterior thoracotomy. Injections caused no changes in heart rate (pre-GTx=75+/-15/min versus post-GTx=80+/-16/min, P=NS), systolic BP (114+/-7 versus 118+/-7 mm Hg, P=NS), or diastolic BP (57+/-2 versus 59+/-2 mm Hg, P=NS). Ventricular arrhythmias were limited to single unifocal premature beats at the moment of injection. Serial ECGs showed no evidence of new myocardial infarction in any patient. Intraoperative blood loss was 0 to 50 cm3, and total chest tube drainage was 110 to 395 cm3. Postoperative cardiac output fell transiently but increased within 24 hours (preanesthesia=4.8+/-0.4 versus postanesthesia=4.1+/-0.3 versus 24 hours postoperative=6. 3+/-0.8, P=0.02). Time to extubation after closure was 18.4+/-1.4 minutes; average postoperative hospital stay was 3.8 days. All patients had significant reduction in angina (nitroglycerin [NTG] use=53.9+/-10.0/wk pre-GTx versus 9.8+/-6.9/wk post-GTx, P<0.03). Postoperative left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was either unchanged (n=3) or improved (n=2, mean increase in LVEF=5%). Objective evidence of reduced ischemia was documented using dobutamine single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)-sestamibi imaging in all patients. Coronary angiography showed improved Rentrop score in 5 of 5 patients.
This initial experience with naked gene transfer as sole therapy for myocardial ischemia suggests that direct myocardial injection of naked plasmid DNA, via a minimally invasive chest wall incision, is safe and may lead to reduced symptoms and improved myocardial perfusion in selected patients with chronic myocardial ischemia.
Nitric acid burn traumata often occur in the chemical industry. A few publications addressing this topic can be found in the medical database, and there are no reports about these traumata in children. A total of 24 patients, average 16.6 years of age, suffering from nitric acid traumata were treated. Wound with I degrees burns received open therapy with panthenol-containing creams. Wound of II degrees and higher were initially treated by irrigation with sterile isotonic saline solution and then by covering with silver-sulphadiazine dressing. Treatment was changed on the second day to fluid-absorbent foam bandages for superficial wounds (up to IIa degrees depth) and occlusive, antiseptic moist bandages in combination with enzymatic substances for IIb degrees -III degrees burns. After the delayed demarcation, necrectomy and mesh-graft transplantation were performed. All wounds healed adequately. Chemical burn traumata with nitric acid lead to specific yellow- to brown-stained wounds with slower accumulation of eschar and slower demarcation compared with thermal burns. Remaining wound eschar induced no systemic inflammation reaction. After demarcation, skin transplantation can be performed on the wounds, as is commonly done. The distinguishing feature of nitric-acid-induced chemical burns is the difficulty in differentiation and classification of burn depth. An immediate lavage should be followed by silver sulphadiazine treatment. Thereafter, fluid-absorbent foam bandages or occlusive, antiseptic moist bandages should be used according to the burn depth. Slow demarcation caused a delay in performing surgical treatments.
Although a major goal in the treatment of chronic heart failure is to improve daily physical activity levels, this has not been assessed quantitatively. An increased daily activity level may be reflected by an increase in daily energy expenditure. In the present study, measurements of energy expenditure with a commercially available ambulatory calorimeter were first validated using cardio-pulmonary exercise tests in 5 normal volunteers. The energy expenditure measured by the calorimeter correlated well with that estimated from oxygen uptake (r = 0.89). Subsequently, the daily energy expenditure was serially measured with the calorimeter during long-term administration of the converting enzyme inhibitor ramipril for 24 weeks in 8 patients with chronic heart failure. Changes in echocardiographic parameters and exercise capacity were also studied. Peak oxygen uptake and anaerobic threshold assessed with symptom-limited maximal bicycle exercise were significantly increased 12 weeks or more after the initiation of treatment (P < 0.01 and P < 0.01, respectively). Left ventricular fractional shortening substantially, but not significantly, increased during this period (P < 0.1). These results strongly suggest that an overall improvement in heart failure was achieved after long-term ramipril therapy. The energy expenditure during daily activities was also significantly increased after ramipril therapy for 24 weeks (P < 0.01). Thus, the daily energy expenditure increased with improvement of heart failure, probably reflecting an increase in daily activity levels. We conclude that calorimetric measurement of daily energy expenditure is a novel and simple technique for quantitative evaluation of the effect of therapy on daily physical activity levels in patients with chronic heart failure.
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) are drugs with Type IA antiarrhythmic properties that cause severe cardiac conduction blocks, hypotension, and ventricular dysrhythmias at toxic levels. Phenytoin has been proposed as a prophylaxis and treatment of these dysrhythmias, since it is thought to improve conduction in this setting. Anesthetized dogs were given a loading dose of phenytoin, followed by constant amitriptyline infusion until death. Variables known to affect TCA toxicity, such as arterial pH, were carefully controlled. There were no significant differences between the phenytoin and control group in any physiologic parameter, including toxicity, drug levels, or dose to death. However, duration and frequency of episodes of ventricular tachycardia were dramatically increased in the phenytoin group. It is concluded that prophylactic phenytoin in this animal model provides no benefits and may in fact increase the severity of ventricular tachycardia and hypotension. In addition, it is speculated that similar adverse effects of phenytoin might be seen in other Type IA antiarrhythmics if the extremely toxic levels seen in this study with TCA were reached.
To study the prevalence and features of visual field constrictions (VFCs) associated with vigabatrin (VGB) in children.
A systematic collection of all children with any history of VGB treatment in fifteen Finnish neuropediatric units was performed, and children were included after being able to cooperate reliably in repeated visual field tests by Goldmann kinetic perimetry. This inclusion criterion yielded 91 children (45 boys; 46 girls) between ages 5.6 and 17.9 years. Visual field extent <70 degrees in the temporal meridian was considered abnormal VFC.
There was a notable variation in visual field extents between successive test sessions and between different individuals. VFCs <70 degrees were found in repeated test sessions in 17 (18.7%) of 91 children. There was no difference in the ages at the study, the ages at the beginning of treatment, the total duration of the treatment, general cognitive performance, or neuroradiologic findings between the patients with normal visual fields and those with VFC, but the patients with VFC had received a higher total dose of VGB. In linear regression analysis, there were statistically significant inverse correlations between the temporal extent of the visual fields and the total dose and the duration of VGB treatment. The shortest duration of VGB treatment associated with VFC was 15 months, and the lowest total dose 914 g.
Because of a wide variation in normal visual-field test results in children, the prevalence figures of VFCs are highly dependent on the definition of normality. Although our results confirm the previous findings that VFC may occur in children treated with VGB, our study points out the need to reevaluate critically any suspected VFC to avoid misdiagnosis. Nevertheless, our study suggests that the prevalence of VFC may be lower in children than in adults, and that the cumulative dose of VGB or length of VGB therapy may add to the personal predisposition for developing VFC.
Rett Syndrome (RTT) is caused in more than 60% of cases by nonsense mutations in the MECP2 gene. So far, no curative therapy for RTT has become available. In other genetic disorders, it has been shown that aminoglycosides can cause a read-through of nonsense mutations with an efficiency of up to 20%. The aim of this study was to evaluate if this therapeutic concept is applicable to RTT. HeLa cells were transfected with eukaryotic expression vectors carrying mutant alleles of frequently occurring MECP2 nonsense mutations that were N-terminally fused to a FLAG tag. Transfected cells were incubated 24 h in the presence of gentamicin. The expression of full-length protein was analyzed by Western blotting and immunofluorescent cell staining. In the presence of gentamicin a read-through varying between 10 and 21.8% was found, depending on the nucleotide sequence context of the nonsense mutations. The full-length protein was located correctly in the nucleus. We have shown that aminoglycoside-mediated read-through of nonsense mutations in the MECP2 gene can be achieved in vitro with efficiency comparable with that seen in other disorders.
