The aim of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of the measurement of urinary excretion of the brush-border enzyme gamma glutamyl-transferase (GGT), in comparison with that of alanine aminopeptidase (AAP), as a marker for tubular toxicity due to contrast media (CM). Urinary activities of AAP and GGT were measured prior to the administration of CM and 1, 3 and 5 days after in forty-nine adult renal patients undergoing a radiological examination with intravascular administration of CM. The behavior of GGT was similar to that of AAP. In fact, urinary activities of both AAP and GGT increased greatly after CM. This effect was maximal on the 1st day and statistically significant for both enzymes. Furthermore, on the 1st day a relevant increase of enzyme activity (at least +50% over the basal value) was observed in the same number of patients (67%) for AAP and GGT. The concordance between GGT and AAP variations was high and statistically significant. Finally, different variables (osmolarity, dose of CM, and baseline renal function of the patients) had a similar effect on urinary excretion of AAP and GGT. The repeatability of duplicated determinations of GGT resulted better than that of AAP. In conclusion, the good concordance of the results of GGT with those of AAP justifies the use of GGT as a marker for tubular effects due to CM. Furthermore, the measurement of GGT has a better repeatability than that of AAP.
In this study, mice lacking the gp91(phox) gene were used to address the role of NADPH oxidase in hyperhomocysteinemia-induced podocyte injury. It was found that a folate-free diet increased plasma homocysteine levels, but failed to increase O(2)(-) production in the glomeruli from gp91(phox) gene knockout (gp91(-/-)) mice, compared with wild-type (gp91(+/+)) mice. Proteinuria and glomerular damage index (GDI) were significantly lower, whereas the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was higher in gp91(-/-) than in gp91(+/+) mice when they were on the folate-free diet (urine albumin excretion, 21.23+/-1.88 vs 32.86+/-4.03 microg/24 h; GDI, 1.17+/-0.18 vs 2.59+/-0.49; and GFR, 53.01+/-4.69 vs 40.98+/-1.44 microl/min). Hyperhomocysteinemia-induced decrease in nephrin expression and increase in desmin expression in gp91(+/+) mice were not observed in gp91(-/-) mice. Morphologically, foot process effacement and podocyte loss due to hyperhomocysteinemia were significantly attenuated in gp91(-/-) mice. In in vitro studies of podocytes, homocysteine was found to increase gp91(phox) expression and O2(*)(-) generation, which was substantially inhibited by gp91(phox) siRNA. Functionally, homocysteine-induced decrease in vascular endothelial growth factor-A production was abolished by gp91(phox) siRNA or diphenyleneiodonium, a NADPH oxidase inhibitor. These results suggest that the functional integrity of NADPH oxidase is essential for hyperhomocysteinemia-induced podocyte injury and glomerulosclerosis.
Arylphenylpyrrolidinylmethylphenoxybenzamides were found to have high affinity and selectivity for κ opioid receptors. On the basis of receptor binding assays in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing cloned human opioid receptors, (S)-3-fluoro-4-(4-((2-(3-fluorophenyl)pyrrolidin-1-yl)methyl)phenoxy)benzamide (25) had a K(i) = 0.565 nM for κ opioid receptor binding while having a K(i) = 35.8 nM for μ opioid receptors and a K(i) = 211 nM for δ opioid receptor binding. Compound 25 was also a potent antagonist of κ opioid receptors when tested in vitro using a [(35)S]-guanosine 5'O-[3-thiotriphosphate] ([(35)S]GTP-γ-S) functional assay in CHO cells expressing cloned human opioid receptors. Compounds were also evaluated for potential use as receptor occupancy tracers. Tracer evaluation was done in vivo, using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) methods, precluding the need for radiolabeling. (S)-3-Chloro-4-(4-((2-(pyridine-3-yl)pyrrolidin-1-yl)methyl)phenoxy)benzamide (18) was found to have favorable properties for a tracer for receptor occupancy, including good specific versus nonspecific binding and good brain uptake.
A substantial percentage of infants, children and adolescents experience gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and its accompanying symptoms, as well as disease complications. The diagnosis of GERD in children is made based upon the child's history, and data derived primarily from pH monitoring tests and endoscopy. In those children with confirmed reflux disease, the options for management parallel those recommended in adult patients, with the first step consisting of lifestyle changes. Surgical procedures may also be performed; however, these are rarely recommended prior to an adequate course of pharmacologic therapy, and appropriate case selection is important. Among the current pharmacotherapeutic options available in the US, the prokinetic agents and the acid-inhibitory agents (histamine-2 receptor antagonists, proton pump inhibitors) are the most widely used. The clinical utility of the prokinetic agents has been limited by the recent withdrawal of cisapride from the US marketplace and the potential for irreversible central nervous system complications with metoclopramide. Numerous clinical studies performed in adults, and several studies involving children, have demonstrated that the proton pump inhibitors are more effective than the histamine-2 receptor antagonists in the relief of GERD symptoms and healing of erosive esophagitis. In children, omeprazole and lansoprazole may be administered as the intact oral capsule, or in those who are unable or unwilling to swallow, the granule contents of the capsule may be mixed with soft foods (e.g. apple sauce) or fruit drinks/liquid dietary supplements prior to oral administration with no detrimental effects on pharmacokinetics, bioavailability, or pharmacodynamics. Studies performed with omeprazole and lansoprazole in children have shown pharmacokinetic parameters that closely resemble those observed in adults. In over a decade of use in adults, the proton pump inhibitor class of agents has been found to have a good safety profile. Studies involving children have also shown these agents to be well tolerated. In numerous drug-drug interaction studies performed with these two proton pump inhibitors, relatively few clinically significant interactions have been observed.
We describe a 12-year-old girl with an early onset neurologic disease of slow progressiveness and electro-encephalography showing epileptic activity. The girl developed fulminant liver failure 5 months after the start of valproic acid treatment. Repeated mitochondrial assays failed to prove a mitochondrial disorder, but muscle biopsies were slightly pathological. Liver histology indicated acute-on-chronic liver disease. Six weeks after a successful orthotopic liver transplantation her neurological condition deteriorated rapidly, soon leading to generalized cortical disease and death. Post-mortem brain examination showed advanced central nervous destruction. We suggest that this is a late-onset Huttenlocher variant of Alpers' syndrome, where fulminant liver failure can be triggered by valproic acid, and orthotopic liver transplantation can subsequently trigger a fatal neurologic deterioration. Our case illustrates that when a referral center receives a previously unknown patient with hepatocellular insufficiency, it might be impossible to differentiate between fulminant vs. acute-on-chronic liver failure, and the decision whether to perform a liver transplantation or not would become difficult.
Mice pretreated with the peroxisome proliferator clofibrate (CFB) are resistant to acetaminophen (APAP) hepatotoxicity. Whereas the mechanism of protection is not entirely known, CFB decreases protein adducts formed by the reactive metabolite of APAP, N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine (NAPQI). NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1) is an enzyme with antioxidant properties that is responsible for the reduction of cellular quinones. We hypothesized that CFB increases NQO1 activity, which in turn enhances the conversion of NAPQI back to the parent APAP. This could explain the decreases in APAP covalent binding and glutathione depletion produced by CFB without affecting APAP bioactivation to NAPQI. Administration of CFB (500mg/kg, i.p.) to male CD-1 mice for 5 or 10 days increased NQO1 protein and activity levels. To evaluate the capacity of NQO1 to reduce NAPQI back to APAP, we utilized a microsomal activating system. Cytochrome P450 enzymes present in microsomes bioactivate APAP to NAPQI, which binds the electrophile trapping agent, N-acetyl cysteine (NAC). We analyzed the formation of APAP-NAC metabolite in the presence of human recombinant NQO1. Results indicate that NQO1 is capable of reducing NAPQI. The capacity of NQO1 to amelioriate APAP toxicity was then evaluated in primary hepatocytes. Primary hepatocytes isolated from mice dosed with CFB are resistant to APAP toxicity. These hepatocytes were also exposed to ES936, a high affinity, and irreversible inhibitor of NQO1 in the presence of APAP. Concentrations of ES936 that resulted in over 94% inhibition of NQO1 activity did not increase the susceptibility of hepatocytes from CFB treated mice to APAP. Whereas NQO1 is mechanistically capable of reducing NAPQI, CFB-mediated hepatoprotection does not appear to be dependent upon enhanced expression of NQO1.
Haematological adverse reactions associated with fatal outcome are rare during treatment with ciprofloxacin. A 30-year old Caucasian man reported with abdominal pain and jaundice after 3-day administration of oral ciprofloxacin for a suspect of urinary tract infection. Clinical evaluations suggested an initial diagnosis of severe thrombocytopenia and haemolysis. The patient progressively developed petechiae and purpura on thorax and lower limbs. Despite pharmacological and supportive interventions, laboratory parameters worsened and the patient died 17 hours after admission. An accurate autopsy revealed most organs with diffuse petechial haemorrhages. No signs of bone marrow depression were found. No thrombi or signs of microangiopathies were observed in arterial vessels. Blood and urine cultures did not show any bacterial growth. This case report shows that ciprofloxacin may precipitate life-threatening thrombocytopenia and haemolytic anaemia, even in the early phases of treatment and without apparent previous exposures.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a potentially life-threatening condition when immune-mediated platelet aggregation results in thromboembolic complications. A case is detailed of multiple saphenous vein graft thromboses and cardiac mural thrombi in a patient who died from complications of HIT.
To help determine whether sustained attention deficits as measured with the Continuous Performance Test (CPT) are stable vulnerability indicators of schizophrenia, we compared the CPT performance of schizophrenic patients before and after treatment with risperidone or haloperidol. In this double blind trial, 56 schizophrenic patients were randomly assigned to a 12-week regimen of either risperidone or haloperidol, after a 1-week washout period. The patients undertook two sessions of the CPT (undegraded and 25% degraded) twice, one at the end of the washout period and the other at the end of the study. Thirty-eight patients completed the study, 19 in each group. Both groups experienced significant improvements in clinical symptoms, and the risperidone group showed no change in the severity of extrapyramidal symptoms. Despite those improvements, the CPT performance indexes did not change significantly from the beginning to the end of the study. These findings indicate that sustained attention deficits might be stable vulnerability indicators of schizophrenia.
To investigate the efficacy of nadolol in the prevention of supraventricular arrhythmias after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery, 148 patients undergoing elective CABG were randomized in double-blind, placebo-controlled fashion to receive either nadolol or placebo. The test medication was started on the first postoperative morning and maintained as a single daily dose for 6 weeks. Aside from routine daily clinical evaluation and postoperative electrocardiographic monitoring, patients underwent 24-hour Holter recording once preoperatively and 3 times postoperatively. Seven patients were excluded from the evaluation of efficacy analysis because of insufficient postoperative data. There were no significant differences between the patients receiving nadolol (n = 67) and those receiving placebo (n = 74) with respect to age, preoperative heart rate, previous medications (including beta blockers), incidence of previous myocardial infarction, frequency of preoperative ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias, concomitant valvular heart disease, mean cardiopulmonary bypass time, mean aortic cross-clamp time, use of blood and crystalloid cardioplegia, mean number of bypass grafts placed, postoperative use of inotropic agents and catecholamines and incidence of perioperative myocardial infarction. Analysis of postoperative Holter recordings showed that the heart rate was consistently and significantly higher in the placebo group throughout the period of the study (p less than 0.001). The average number of premature atrial contractions was significantly smaller in the nadolol group (p less than 0.05), and nadolol patients had fewer ventricular premature complexes, couplets and non-sustained ventricular tachycardias during the first week postoperatively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Type 1 neurofibromatosis (NF1) is a common autosomal dominant disorder that results in neuroectodermal tumors. The NF1 tumor-suppressor gene encodes neurofibromin, which includes a GTPase-activating domain for Ras inactivation. Affinity purification showed N-Ras to be the predominant activated isoform of Ras in two independent neurofibrosarcoma cell lines from NF1 patients (lines ST88-14 and NF90-8). These NF1 cells also demonstrated increased constitutive activity of the extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1,2) mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases compared with a sporadic malignant schwannoma cell line that maintains neurofibromin expression (STS-26T). Thus, MAP kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitors may be a rational approach to NF1 therapy. The MEK inhibitors PD98059 [2'-amino-3'-methoxyflavone], PD184352 (also called CI-1040) [2-(2-chloro-4-iodo-phenylamino)-N-cyclopropylmethoxy-3,4-difluoro-benzamide], and U0126 [1,4-diamino-2,3-dicyano-1,4-bis(2-aminophenylthio)butadiene] all produced concentration-dependent suppression of the proliferation of the three cell lines. Individual MEK inhibitors had similar effects in all three cell lines. However, only the antiproliferative effects of PD184352 correlated closely with the elimination of ERK1,2 MAP kinase activities. PD98059 was primarily cytostatic, whereas U0126 and PD184352 were cytotoxic. Only PD184352 induced apoptosis in all three lines, as indicated by morphology, activation of DEVDase, procaspase-3 cleavage, and the appearance of populations having sub-G(0)/G(1) DNA contents. The differential effects of the MEK inhibitors on cell survival were not dependent on p53 status or effects on the ERK5 pathway. PD184352 was also proapoptotic to primary rat Schwann cells. Hence, although PD184352 effectively killed neurofibrosarcoma cells, its effects on normal Schwann cells may limit its usefulness in the clinic.
Isolated systolic hypertension (ISH) is the predominant form of hypertension in the elderly population and drug treatment is unsatisfactory. We compared the efficacy of an endothelin-receptor antagonist (darusentan), an angiotensin-receptor blocker (irbesartan) and a thiazide diuretic (hydrochlorothiazide, HCTZ) to prevent and regress pulse pressure (PP) elevation and remodeling of large and small arteries, in a rat model of ISH obtained by the chronic administration of warfarin and vitamin K1 (WK).
Warfarin and vitamin K1 treatment for 4 or 8 weeks led to an elevation of PP, associated with increases in aortic calcium deposition and the ratio of collagen to elastin (C/E). Despite these changes in the composition of the aortic wall, the global structure of the aorta was unchanged. In contrast, an outward hypertrophic remodeling was observed in the middle cerebral artery. An early treatment with all drugs (darusentan, irbesartan, HCTZ) prevented PP elevation, changes of aortic media composition and the development of vascular remodeling. However, after 4 weeks of ISH, only darusentan and irbesartan reduced PP when administered from week 4 to 8. Darusentan was the most effective to regress existent aortic calcification, while only irbesartan reversed small artery hypertrophic remodeling.
During the development of ISH, drug treatment appears more beneficial when started early. Indeed, the three agents prevented PP elevation, aortic calcification and C/E increase in the aorta, and hypertrophy in small arteries. In contrast, once the disease is established, endothelin appears crucial in the maintenance of aortic calcification, while angiotensin II sustains small artery hypertrophy.
Diabetic dyslipidemia is characterized by high triglyceride levels; low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels; small, dense low-density lipoprotein particles; and high free fatty acid levels. Niacin reduces concentrations of triglyceride-rich and small low-density lipoprotein particles while increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. It also lowers levels of free fatty acids and lipoprotein(a). However, the use of niacin in patients with diabetes has been discouraged because high doses can worsen glycemic control. We evaluated the efficacy and safety of once-daily extended-release (ER) niacin in patients with diabetic dyslipidemia.
During a 16-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 148 patients were randomized to placebo (n = 49) or 1000 (n = 45) or 1500 mg/d (n = 52) of ER niacin. Sixty-nine patients (47%) were also receiving concomitant therapy with statins.
Dose-dependent increases in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (+19% to +24% [P<.05] vs placebo for both niacin dosages) and reductions in triglyceride levels (-13% to -28% [P<.05] vs placebo for the 1500-mg ER niacin) were observed. Baseline and week 16 values for glycosylated hemoglobin levels were 7.13% and 7.11%, respectively, in the placebo group; 7.28% and 7.35%, respectively, in the 1000-mg ER niacin group (P=.16 vs placebo); and 7.2% and 7.5%, respectively, in the 1500-mg ER niacin group (P=.048 vs placebo). Four patients discontinued participation because of inadequate glucose control. Rates of adverse event rates other than flushing were similar for the niacin and placebo groups. Four patients discontinued participation owing to flushing (including 1 receiving placebo). No hepatotoxic effects or myopathy were observed.
Low doses of ER niacin (1000 or 1500 mg/d) are a treatment option for dyslipidemia in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Cisplatin-based concurrent chemoradiotherapy is the standard treatment of nasopharyngeal cancer. The expression of excision repair cross-complementation group 1 (ERCC1) has been reported to be associated with resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy. We evaluated whether ERCC1 expression could predict the treatment response and survival outcome of patients with locally advanced nasopharyngeal cancer who were treated with cisplatin-based concurrent chemoradiotherapy.
Immunohistochemistry was used to examine the expression of ERCC1 in nasopharyngeal tumor tissue. Patients were categorized into either a resistant or sensitive group depending on their treatment response outcome. A total of 77 patients were assessed in the present study.
The resistant and sensitive groups included 25 and 52 patients, respectively. ERCC1 expression was positive in the tumor tissue for 39 of the 77 patients (51%). Significantly more ERCC1-negative tumors were in the sensitive group than in the resistant group (p = .035). In terms of survival outcome, univariate analysis determined that patients with ERCC1-negative tumors had longer disease-free survival (p = .076) and overall survival (p = .013) than patients with ERCC1-positive tumors. Multivariate analysis determined that negative ERCC expression in tumors was an independent predictor for prolonged overall survival (hazard ratio, 0.14; 95% confidence interval, 0.03-0.71).
These results suggest that ERCC1 expression might be a useful predictive marker in patients with locally advanced nasopharyngeal cancer who are under consideration for cisplatin-based concurrent chemoradiotherapy.
Patients exposed to organophosphate (OP) compounds demonstrate a central apnea. The Kölliker-fuse nuclei (KF) are cholinergic nuclei in the brainstem involved in central respiratory control. We hypothesize that exposure of the KF is both necessary and sufficient for OP induced central apnea. We performed an animal study of acute OP exposure. Anesthetized and spontaneously breathing Wistar rats (n=24) were exposed to a lethal dose of dichlorvos using three experimental models. Experiment 1 (n=8) involved systemic OP poisoning using subcutaneous (SQ) 2,2-dichlorovinyl dimethyl phosphate (dichlorvos) at 100mg/kg or 3× LD50. Experiment 2 (n=8) involved isolated poisoning of the KF using stereotactic microinjections of dichlorvos (625μg in 50μl) into the KF. Experiment 3 (n=8) involved systemic OP poisoning with isolated protection of the KF using SQ dichlorvos (100mg/kg) and stereotactic microinjections of organophosphatase A (OpdA), an enzyme that degrades dichlorvos. Respiratory and cardiovascular parameters were recorded continuously. Animals were followed post exposure for 1h or until death. There was no difference in respiratory depression between animals with SQ dichlorvos and those with dichlorvos microinjected into the KF. Despite differences in amount of dichlorvos (100mg/kg vs. 1.8mg/kg) and method of exposure (SQ vs. CNS microinjection), 10min following dichlorvos both groups (SQ vs. microinjection respectively) demonstrated a similar percent decrease in respiratory rate (51.5 vs. 72.2), minute ventilation (49.2 vs. 68.8) and volume of expired gas (17.5 vs. 0.0). Animals with OpdA exposure to the KF during systemic OP exposure demonstrated less respiratory depression, compared to SQ dichlorvos alone (p<0.04). No animals with SQ dichlorvos survived past 25min post exposure, compared to 50% of animals with OpdA exposure to the KF. In conclusion, exposure of the KF is sufficient but not necessary for OP induced apnea. Protection of the KF during systemic OP exposure mitigates OP induced apnea.
We have studied the effects of urokinase (UK) on concentration changes of alpha 2 antiplasmin (alpha 2 AP) and on fibrino(geno)lysis. Medium dose (480,000 u) or large dose (960,000 u) of UK was given to each of seven normal volunteers by intravenous drip infusion within six hours, and then blood and urine analyses were carried out. Total alpha 2 AP, which includes free alpha 2 AP and alpha 2 AP-plasmin complex, decreased to about 50% of the original value with large dose of UK. alpha 2 AP-plasmin complex appeared in the plasma one hr after UK infusion and increased up to 50% of total alpha 2 AP at the end of UK infusion. B beta peptides, which are liberated from fibrin(ogen) at the very early stage of fibrino(geno)lysis, increased significantly with UK infusion, and was 65 times as much as the normal range at the end of UK infusion. Urinary B beta peptides increased as well as plasma B beta peptides. On the other hand, fibrin(ogen) degradation products (FDP) measured with enzyme immunoassay (EIA) increased only slightly, and moreover, urinary FDP was not detectable at any time. Plasma fibrinogen levels did not decrease and changed within the normal range in both groups. We then gave 960,000 u of UK to four patients with deep vein thrombosis and blood analyses were carried out as with normal volunteers. The most significant observation different from that of normal volunteers was shown in FDP levels. Serum FDP levels of four patients increased significantly in comparison with normal volunteers. Urinary FDP increased as significantly as plasma FDP. In conclusion, the infusion of 960,000 u of UK caused only very early stage of fibrinogenolysis without advanced fibrinogenolysis in normal volunteers, but in thrombotic patients, advanced fibrinolysis was observed.
A case is reported of Fanconi syndrome and nonliquric renal failure, following a brief course of cephalothin and gentamicin, in a patient with diffuse histiocytic lymphoma. These drugs, especially when used in combination, have been associated with nephrotoxicity manifested as acute tubular necrosis and altered proximal tubular function, but biochemical evidence for generalized proximal tubular dysfunction has not been accurately defined. Thus far, only two other antibiotics, degraded tetracycline and streptozotocin, have been implicated in producing an acquired Fanconi syndrome.
A 56-year-old man with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombosis syndrome (HITTS) received anticoagulation with recombinant hirudin (lepirudin) for emergency coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery and aortic valve replacement. The patient experienced life-threatening refractory bleeding that was successfully treated with recombinant factor VIIa. He had a history of infective endocarditis that resulted in severe aortic insufficiency, three-vessel coronary artery disease, and acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis. The patient was transferred from another hospital for the emergency surgery, but before his transfer, he developed HITTS secondary to therapeutic heparin for a deep vein thrombosis of the lower extremity. The presence of HITTS, the urgent nature of the case, and the availability of the direct thrombin inhibitor led the surgical team to select lepirudin for anticoagulation to facilitate cardiopulmonary bypass. After separation from cardiopulmonary bypass, the patient was in a coagulopathic state due to the inability to reverse the lepirudin and the slowed elimination of the drug secondary to inadequate renal function. As a result, the patient experienced excessive generalized oozing that was unresponsive to traditional therapies and blood product transfusions. Recombinant factor VIIa 35 microg/kg was given as rescue therapy. The bleeding slowed, which allowed placement of chest tubes and closing of the sternum. The patient was transferred to the intensive care unit in stable condition with no evidence of thrombosis in the freshly placed bypass grafts or on the bioprosthetic valve. Recombinant factor VIIa appears to be a suitable option as salvage therapy in patients with refractory bleeding secondary to anticoagulation with a direct thrombin inhibitor during cardiac surgery.
Acetaminophen (APAP) can cause life-threatening renal damages and there is no specific treatment for APAP-induced renal damage. The aim of this study was to investigate the protective effects of curcumin (CMN) on APAP-induced nephrotoxicity. Nephrotoxicity was induced in male Wistar Albino rats by the administration of a single dose of 1000 mg/kg APAP intraperitoneally (i.p.). Some of these rats also received i.p. CMN (200mg/kg) at 30 min after the administration of APAP. Twenty-four hours after the administration of APAP, all the rats were sacrificed with a high dose of ketamine. Urea and creatinine levels were measured in the blood, and the levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and glutathione (GSH), and antioxidant enzyme activity were determined in the renal tissue. Histopathological changes were studied. APAP administration caused elevated levels of renal MDA, and marked depletion of GSH levels and antioxidant enzyme activity, and deteriorated the renal functions as assessed by the increased plasma urea and creatinine levels as compared to control rats. CMN markedly reduced the elevated MDA levels, significantly increased the antioxidant enzyme activity and normalized the altered renal morphology in rats treated with APAP. CMN might be a potential candidate agent against APAP-induced nephrotoxicity, but further studies are required to identify this issue before clinical application becomes possible.
To study the molecular origin of the altered regulation of butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) in nervous system tumors, BuChE complementary DNA (cDNA) sequences from human glioblastoma and neuroblastoma cDNA libraries were compared with BuChE cDNAs from normal fetal and adult tissues. A single 2.6-kilobase BuChE cDNA sequence was found in all normal tissues, whereas an additional alternatively terminated BuChE cDNA clone was found in both tumor libraries. The tumor-specific cDNA contained a 3',0.7-kilobase nontranslatable extension, as well as several nucleotide alterations in the normal polyadenylation site. Single-base mutations in the coding region of this unusual BuChE cDNA infer two amino acid substitutions: Asp70----Gly and Ser425----Pro. The Asp70----Gly change has recently been implicated with "atypical" BuChE, which is deficient in its capacity to hydrolyze succinylcholine. The 3.6-kilobase mRNA was less abundant in RNA blot hybridization than the 2.6-kilobase mRNA, which is in agreement with the low ratios between the 3.6- and 2.6-kilobase BuChE cDNA clones in glioblastoma and neuroblastoma libraries. Furthermore, size fractionation and microinjection of glioblastoma polyadenylated RNA, followed by enzyme activity and selective inhibition measurements, demonstrated two peaks of functional BuChE mRNA, the heavier one probably reflecting the longer transcripts. Chromosomal mapping of the 0.7-kilobase 3' fragment by in situ hybridization localized it to a unique 3q26-ter position, where we recently found an inheritably amplified "silent" defective CHE gene in a family exposed to the cholinesterase inhibitor methyl parathion. Our findings confirm previous genetic linkage mapping of the functional CHE gene to the 3q26-ter position and demonstrate that extended functional mRNA transcripts encoding a BuChE form with two modified amino acids are produced from this gene in glioblastoma and neuroblastoma cells.
Several pieces of evidence support the view that GABA neurons inhibit the DA system both in extrapyramidal and limbic regions. This inhibition is exerted on cell bodies and terminals of DA neurons and is involved in the regulation of their activity. A recently synthesized GABAmimetic compound SL 76.002 has considerably helped in elucidating the role of GABA in this regulation as well as the therapeutic implication of changes of GABAergic transmission in human brain. Thus, impairment of dopaminergic transmission by SL 76.002 has been shown to be effective in iatrogenic extrapyramidal syndromes such as L-DOPA-induced involuntary movements in parkinsonian patients and neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesias: the first attributed to an exaggerated formation and liberation of DA, the second to supersensitivity of target cells of DA neurons. Furthermore, GABAergic medication has been confirmed to be useful in Huntington's chorea in which some symptoms originate from degeneration of striatal GABAergic neurons. Finally, GABAergic inhibition on cellular excitability has been proved to ameliorate epilepsy. However, SL 76.002, contrary to the expectation, was not effective in schizophrenia suggesting that GABA does not play a major role in the pathogenesis of this disorder.
Five dialysis patients with residual hypertension were treated with a new sustained-release formulation of propranolol (160 mg per capsule) in a dosage of 1 to 2 capsules per day. Four of these patients developed persistent cold, numb, blue and clumsy fingers. The symptoms resolved when the drug was withdrawn.
Uncontrolled growth of neoplastic cells and unregulated production of immunoglobulin are major components of the morbidity and mortality of multiple myeloma. Suramin, a polysulfonated napthylurea, has antitumor activity in a number of malignancies, but also significant dose-related toxicity. Suramin has been reported to have major antiproliferative effects in a variety of lymphoid cell lines. Glucocorticoids have long been recognized to have activity in lymphoid malignancies and multiple myeloma while IL-6 has been reported to be an autocrine growth factor for multiple myeloma. This study examines growth inhibition and inhibition of IL-6-mediated secretion of immunoglobulin in human lymphoid and myeloma cell lines by dexamethasone and suramin. Dexamethasone and suramin show synergistic inhibition of cell proliferation at their IC10 concentrations. IL-6-mediated immunoglobulin secretion is also inhibited by both dexamethasone and suramin in an additive fashion. Both dexamethasone and suramin induce apoptosis of lymphoid cell lines, and suramin inhibits the binding of IL-6 to its receptor in a multiple myeloma cell line. These findings suggest that the synergistic growth inhibitory activities of dexamethasone and suramin may be related to induction of apoptosis by both agents and inhibition of IL-6-mediated autocrine growth stimulation and immunoglobulin production. These results indicate that the combination of low-dose suramin (in concentrations not associated with significant clinical toxicity) and dexamethasone merit further study in the treatment of myeloma or lymphoid malignancies.
To assess the efficacy and toxicity of single-agent paclitaxel as first-line chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced or metastatic transitional-cell carcinoma of the urothelium.
Twenty-six eligible patients were enrolled onto this cooperative group study and treated with paclitaxel at a dosage of 250 mg/m2 by 24-hour continuous infusion every 21 days until progression or patient intolerance. All patients received recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (rhG-CSF) at 5 micrograms/kg/d for at least 10 days during each cycle.
Eleven of 26 patients (42%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 23% to 63%) demonstrated an objective response, with seven achieving a complete clinical response (CR) (27%; 95% CI, 12% to 48%) and four (15%) a partial response (PR). The median duration of response in the 11 responders is 7+ months (range, 4 to 17), with five responders (four CRs, one PR) remaining progression-free at 5, 6, 10, 12, and 16 months from the start of therapy. The estimated median survival duration for all patients is 8.4 months. Hematologic toxicity consisted of anemia (12% grade 3) and granulocytopenia (4% grade 3, 19% grade 4), with two patients developing granulocytopenic fevers. Nonhematologic toxicity included grade 3 mucositis in 11%, grade 3 neuropathy in 11%, and grade 4 diarrhea in 4%.
Single-agent paclitaxel at this dosage and schedule is one of the most active single agents in previously untreated patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma, and is well tolerated by this patient population when given with hematopoetic growth factor support.
To evaluate noradrenergic (NE) function in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), behavioral, physiological, and neuroendocrine responses to the alpha 2-adrenergic agonist clonidine were examined in 18 patients with OCD and 10 healthy subjects. Subjects received single i.v. doses of 2 micrograms/kg of clonidine administered under double-blind, placebo-controlled, random-assignment conditions. Following clonidine, but not following placebo, patients transiently experienced a significant reduction of obsessions and compulsions. Significant drowsiness and a reduction in anxiety were also noted, but the antiobsessional effect appeared independent of the soporific and antianxiety effects. Growth hormone (GH), cortisol, and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol responses to clonidine did not differentiate patients from healthy controls. Blood pressure and pulse in response to clonidine did not differ between groups. Improvement in OCD symptoms after clonidine significantly correlated with GH response to clonidine, suggesting specific noradrenergic mediation. This finding lends only partial support for a primary defect of noradrenergic function in OCD.
The inhibitory effects of yogurt consisting of milk fermented by Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus strain 2038 and Streptococcus salivarius subsp. thermophilus strain 1131 on formation of colonic aberrant crypt foci (ACF) in rats and also on development of colorectal tumors in transgenic mice harboring human prototype c-Ha-ras genes (rasH2 mice) were examined. F344 rats and rasH2 mice were fed commercial diet containing freeze-dried yogurt or starter medium (non-fermented milk). Rats were inoculated orally with heterocyclic amine 2-amino-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine hydrochloride (PhIP) for two weeks. The rats were necropsied 14 days after the PhIP treatment, and ACF in the colon and rectum were counted. RasH2 mice were injected with 1,2-dimethylhydrazine dihydrochloride (DMH) for 20 weeks. Three weeks after the last injection of DMH, rasH2 mice were necropsied to determine the number and the size of colorectal tumors. Yogurt supplementation in diet significantly reduced the number of ACF and aberrant crypts (ACs) in rats fed control diet (P<0.01), but not in rats fed non-fermented milk diet. On the other hand, rasH2 mice receiving the yogurt-supplemented diet had significantly reduced numbers of tumors induced by DMH compared with those fed the non-fermented milk-supplemented diet (P<0.05). These results demonstrate that the yogurt used in this study appears to have tumor-suppressing properties, and rasH2 mice are a useful model for the evaluation of antitumor activities of foods.
