The present study was conducted to determine the effects of two potent 5-HT4 receptor agonists, BIMU 1 (1 (3-ethyl-2,3-dihydro-N-[endo-8-methyl-8-azabicyclo (3.2.1)-oct-3-yl]-2-oxo-1H) benzimidazole-1-carboxamide hydrochloride; 1, 3, 10 mg/kg, i.p.) and RS 67333 (1-(4-amino-5-chloro-2-methoxyphenyl)-3-(1-n-butyl-4-piperidinyl)-1-propanone; 0.25, 0.5, 1 mg/kg, i.p.) on the learning impairment induced by the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, scopolamine (1 mg/kg) in mice. Working memory was examined by observing spontaneous alternation behavior in the Y-maze test. Both BIMU 1 (10 mg/kg) and RS 67333 (1 mg/kg) prevented the scopolamine-induced alternation deficits, whereas no effect could be evidenced on locomotor or emotional indices. The reversal actions of BIMU 1 and RS 67333 on this cognitive dysfunction were abolished by the selective 5-HT4 receptor antagonist GR 125487 (1-[2-[(methyl sulfonyl)-amino]-ethyl]-4-piperidinyl-methyl-5-fluoro-2-methoxy-1H-indole-3-carboxylate; 10 mg/kg, i.p.). When given alone at the same doses, none of the three serotonergic agents had any measurable effect. These results demonstrate the ability of 5-HT4 receptor agonists to reverse spontaneous working memory deficits and further confirm the therapeutic potential of such ligands in the treatment of cognitive alterations that associate short-term working memory disorders and cholinergic hypofunction.
Neurotrophic factors (NFs) are promising agents for the treatment of peripheral neuropathies such as diabetic neuropathy. However, the value of treatment with recombinant NF is limited by the short half-lives of these molecules, which reduces efficiency, and by their potential toxicity. We explored the use of intramuscular injection of a recombinant adenovirus encoding NT-3 (AdNT-3) to deliver sustained low doses of NT-3. We assessed its effect in two rat models: streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes, a model of early diabetic neuropathy characterized by demyelination, and acrylamide experimental neuropathy, a model of diffuse axonal neuropathy which, like late-onset human diabetic neuropathy, results in a diffuse sensorimotor neuropathy with dysautonomy. Treatment of STZ-diabetic rats with AdNT-3 partially prevented the slowing of motor and sensory nerve conduction velocities (p < 0.01 and p < 0.0001, respectively). Treatment with AdNT-3 of acrylamide-intoxicated rats prevented the slowing of motor and nerve conduction velocities (p < 0.001 and p < 0.0001, respectively) and the decrease in amplitude of compound muscle potentials (p < 0.0001), an index of denervation. Acrylamide-intoxicated rats treated with NT-3 had higher than control levels of muscle choline acetyltransferase activity (p < 0.05), suggesting greater muscle innervation. In addition, treatment of acrylamide-intoxicated rats with AdNT-3 significantly improved behavioral test results. Treatment with AdNT-3 was well tolerated with minimal muscle inflammation and no detectable general side effects. Therefore, our results suggest that NT-3 delivery by adenovirus-based gene therapy is a promising strategy for the prevention of both early diabetic neuropathy and axonal neuropathies, especially late axonal diabetic neuropathy.
We performed gene expression analysis to identify molecular predictors of resistance to preoperative concomitant trastuzumab and paclitaxel followed by 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide (T/FEC).
Pretreatment fine-needle aspiration specimens from 45 patients with HER-2-overexpressing stage II to IIIA breast cancer were subjected to transcriptional profiling and examined for differential expression of various genes and gene sets. The primary endpoint for tumor response was pathologic complete response (pCR). Correlations between pCR and gene expression were sought.
The overall pCR rate was 64%. Age, nuclear grade, tumor size, nodal status, quantitative expression of estrogen and HER-2 receptor mRNA, and HER-2 gene copy number showed no correlation with pCR. Results of gene set enrichment analysis suggested that the lower expression of genes involved with CD40 signaling is associated with a greater risk of residual cancer after the preoperative chemotherapy that includes trastuzumab.
CD40 signaling may play a role in determining response to trastuzumab-plus-T/FEC therapy in patients with HER-2-overexpressing breast cancer.
Changes in plasma concentrations of adrenaline and noradrenaline were measured when sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was used for the induction of hypotension in healthy adults undergoing middle ear surgery (group 1) and patients undergoing neurosurgery for subarachnoid haemorrhage (group 2). The mean catecholamine concentrations before the infusion of SNP were four to five times greater in group 2 than in group 1. Group 1 showed significant increases in plasma catecholamines during hypotension induced with SNP, the increase correlating significantly with the degree of hypotension and the rate of infusion of SNP. Group 1 showed an increase in heart rate of about 10%, which could not be related to the catecholamine concentrations. In group 2, changes in plasma catecholamines following infusion of SNP were inconsistent. This may have been because the sympatho--adrenal medullary system was already maximally active and was unable to respond further to induced hypotension.
The investigation was undertaken to elucidate the impact of epidural analgesia (EA) during labor on the incidence of transient neurological symptoms (TNS). By the agreement of a local ethics committee, an informed consent was obtained from 90 healthy puerperas enrolled in the investigation. The patients were randomized into 3 groups, with 30 patients in each. At the beginning of labor, an epidural catheter was inserted in all the puerperas. For EA, 1% lidocaine solution and 0.2% ropivacaine solution were used in Groups 1 and 2, respectively; Group 3 was control in which EA was not performed. Two days after labor, an independent observer asked the females about possible neurological symptoms, by using the standard questionnaire. TNS included symmetric pain and/or dysesthesia in the buttocks, lower lumbar region, and/or legs. The patients who presented problems were proposed to indicate the degree of discomfort by a 10-score verbal scale. The findings were statistically processed using the U-test and X-test (p < 0. 05). A total of TNS occurred in 22 (25%) patients, including 7 (27%), 8 (27%), and 7 (23%) in Groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. This difference was not statistically significant. The duration of TNS was generally short; in all the patients, the symptoms were completely resolved after 24-72 hours. Labor EA is not a cause of TNS. The type of a local anesthetic (lidocaine, ropivacaine) does not affect the incidence of TNS in puerperas after labor EA.
Atherosclerotic coronary heart disease is a common complication of the insulin resistance syndrome that can occur with or without diabetes mellitus. Thiazolidinediones (TZDs), which are insulin-sensitizing antidiabetic agents, can modulate the development of atherosclerosis not only by changing the systemic metabolic conditions associated with insulin resistance but also by exerting direct effects on vascular wall cells that express peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma), a nuclear receptor for TZDs. Here we show that troglitazone, a TZD, significantly inhibited fatty streak lesion formation in apolipoprotein E-knockout mice fed a high-fat diet (en face aortic surface lesion areas were 6.9+/-2.5% vs 12.7+/-4.7%, P<0.05; cross-sectional lesion areas were 191 974+/-102 911 micrometer(2) vs 351 738+/-175 597 micrometer(2), P<0.05; n=10). Troglitazone attenuated hyperinsulinemic hyperglycemia and increased high density lipoprotein cholesterol levels. In the aorta, troglitazone markedly increased the mRNA levels of CD36, a scavenger receptor for oxidized low density lipoprotein, presumably by upregulating its expression, at least in part, in the macrophage foam cells. These results indicate that troglitazone potently inhibits fatty streak lesion formation by modulating both metabolic extracellular environments and arterial wall cell functions.
Use of typical antipsychotics like haloperidol in treatment of schizophrenia is associated with a high incidence of extrapyramidal side effects. In rodents, administration of haloperidol leads to the development of a behavioural state called catalepsy, in which the animal is not able to correct an externally imposed posture. In the present study we evaluated the anticataleptic efficacy of NR-ANX-C, a polyherbal formulation containing bioactives of Withania somnifera, Ocimum sanctum, Camellia sinensis, triphala and shilajit in haloperidol induced catalepsy in mice.
Five groups (n = 6) of male albino mice were used in the study. Catalepsy was induced by ip administration of haloperidol (1mg/kg). The degree of catalepsy (cataleptic score) was measured as the time the animal maintained an imposed posture. We compared the anticataleptic efficacy of NR-ANX-C (10, 25 and 50 mg/kg) with scopolamine (1 mg/kg). The superoxide dismutase (SOD) level in brain tissue was also estimated to correlate the levels of oxidative stress and degree of catalepsy in the animal.
Significant (P<0.01) reduction in the cataleptic scores was observed in all NR-ANX-C treated groups and maximum reduction was observed in the NR-ANX-C (25 mg/kg) treated group. Significant (P<0.05) reduction in SOD activity was observed in NR-ANX-C (25 and 50 mg/kg) treated groups and maximum reduction was observed in NR-ANX-C (25mg/kg) treated group.
In our study, maximum reduction in cataleptic score was observed in NR-ANX-C (25 mg/kg) treated group. The maximum reduction in SOD activity was also observed in the same group. These findings suggest a possible involvement of the antioxidant potential of NRANX- C in alleviating haloperidol induced catalepsy.
Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a major public health problem in many tropical countries of the world. The available chemotherapeutics require parenteral administration and have other limitations like cost, toxicity, variable efficacy or restricted supplies. There is no effective treatment for immunosuppressed patients with leishmaniasis- HIV co-infection. Hence, new therapies, that are effective when treatment with the currently available drugs fails, must be developed. One of the major strategies for effective and safe treatment of leishmaniasis and other infectious diseases, in the last decade, involves the use of immunomodulators as adjunct to chemotherapy. In this context, we studied the immunomodulatory activity of a hexapeptide Val-Glu-Pro-Ile-Gly-Tyr (CDRI compound 89-215) corresponding to (54-59) fragment of human beta-casein in mice and its efficacy in adjunct chemotherapy with SSG using L. donovani/hamster model. The hexapeptide was found to enhance both humoral and CMI responses. In animal model the hexapeptide per se showed no antileishmanial activity. However, when given alongwith suiboptimal dose of SSG, it enhanced the efficacy of SSG from 24% to 80%. The activity was very close to the efficacy (85%) recorded for curative dose of SSG. Adjunct chemotherapy with immunomodulator in visceral leishmaniasis appears to be a fruitful preposition.
A case is presented in which a patient was placed on phenytoin following open depressed skull fracture. He subsequently was lost to follow-up, and then presented with several complaints, among them mutism, found to be related to phenytoin toxicity. There are no reports to date of this condition being caused by phenytoin. The issue is again raised of the risk versus benefits of long-term anticonvulsant prophylaxis following severe head injury.
Doxorubicin is an effective chemotherapeutic agent against a broad range of tumors. However, a threshold dose of doxorubicin causes an unacceptably high incidence of heart failure and limits its clinical utility. We have established two models of doxorubicin cardiotoxicity in mice: 1) in an acute model, mice are treated with 15 mg/kg of doxorubicin once; and 2) in a chronic model, they receive 3 mg/kg weekly for 12 wk. Using echocardiography, we have monitored left ventricular function during treatment in the chronic model and seen the expected development of dilated cardiomyopathy. Treated mice showed histological abnormalities similar to those seen in patients with doxorubicin cardiomyopathy. To investigate transcriptional regulation in these models, we used a muscle-specific cDNA microarray. We have identified genes that respond to doxorubicin exposure in both models and confirmed these results using real-time PCR. In the acute model, a set of genes is regulated early and rapidly returns to baseline levels, consistent with the half-life of doxorubicin. In the chronic model, which mimics the clinical situation much more closely, we identified dysregulated genes that implicate specific mechanisms of cardiac toxicity. These include STARS, a hypertrophy-responsive gene; SNF1-kinase, a potential modulator of ATP levels; and AXUD1, a downstream target of the proapoptotic regulator AXIN1.
The authors, by describing their own observations made on eight patients showing extrapyramidal syndromes as side effects of metoclopramide (Cerucal) medication, report the various kinds of possible side effects, discussing their conformity with side effects produced by conventional neuroleptics and showing methods of treatment. Metoclopramide is known to produce three froms of extrapyramidal and motor side effects, namely: 1. Dyskinetic syndrome; 2. acathisia; and 3. Parkinson's syndrome. Therapy is in the following form regardless of the particular side effect produced by the said drug: 1. Administration of antiparkinsonian remedies; 2. administration of coffein; and 3. discontinuation or drastic reduction, respectively, of the daily dose of Cerucal.
During CNS injury and diseases, nitric oxide (NO) is released at a high flux rate leading to formation of peroxynitrite (ONOO(*)) and other reactive nitrogenous species, which nitrate tyrosines of proteins to form 3-nitrotyrosine (3NY), leading to cell death. Previously, we have found that motor neurons exposed to low levels of NO become resistant to subsequent cytotoxic NO challenge; an effect dubbed induced adaptive resistance (IAR). Here, we report IAR mitigates, not only cell death, but 3NY formation in response to cytotoxic NO. Addition of an NO scavenger before NO challenge duplicates IAR, implicating reactive nitrogenous species in cell death. Addition of uric acid (a peroxynitrite scavenger) before cytotoxic NO challenge, duplicates IAR, implicating peroxynitrite, with subsequent 3NY formation, in cell death, and abrogation of this pathway as a mechanism of IAR. IAR is dependent on the heme-metabolizing enzyme, heme oxygenase-1 (HO1), as indicated by the elimination of IAR by a specific HO1 inhibitor, and by the finding that neurons isolated from HO1 null mice have increased NO sensitivity with concomitant increased 3NY formation. This data indicate that IAR is an HO1-dependent mechanism that prevents peroxynitrite-mediated NO toxicity in motor neurons, thereby elucidating therapeutic targets for the mitigation of CNS disease and injury.
The pathophysiology of the nephrotic syndrome (NS), characterized by protenuria, edema, sodium retention and hyperlipidemia, is not clear. We studied the role of some systemic factors on sodium retention in an experimental model of NS. NS was induced in rats by a single subcutaneous injection of puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) (15 mg/100 g); control animals received vehicle. All rats were kept in metabolic cages for 24 days (3 days before and 21 days after PA-injection). Urine was collected daily. Blood samples were obtained every day until day 10, and then every other day up to the end of the study. The rats showed the following alterations after PA injection: a) a rise in serum angiotensin converting enzyme activity (ACEA) and plasma aldosterone (PAldo) at day 1; b) a rise in urinary aldosterone (UAaldoV), azotemia and sodium retention at day 2; c) massive proteinuria (UProt) and decrease in plasma angiotensinogen concentration (PAC) at day 4; d) increases in plasma renin activity (PRA), plasma renin concentration (PRC) and serum creatinine as well as hypoproteinemia, hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, ascitis and edema at day 5; e) increase in urine volume at day 6. PAldo became normal at day 7; urine sodium (UNaV), PRA and PRC at day 8; UAldoV at day 9; serum urea and ACEA at day 10; urinary volume at day 11; PAC, serum total protein and creatinine at day 12. The edema disappeared at day 11. UProt, hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia persisted, though they decreased substantially by the end of the study (day 21). Light microscopy studies revealed normal glomerular morphology, but electron microscopy showed fusion of podocytes before proteinuria. These data suggest that: a) sodium retention was not a consequence of proteinuria or hypoproteinemia; b) sodium retention seems non-related to renin secretion, but may be partially mediated by a fall in glomerular filtration rate or by an increased tubular resabsorption secondary to other factors; c) the increase in PAldo, UAldoV and ACEA are non-related to renin secretion: all occurred before PRA rose; d) water retention, increase in PRA and PRC, hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia are secondary to the hypoproteinemia.
We report a 30 years old male, recipient of a kidney allograft and treated with azathioprine, who eighteen days after transplantation had a clinically asymptomatic elevation of total bilirubin and alkaline phosphatases. Nineteen months later, he presented with mild ascites, with a total bilirubin of 3.5 mg/dl, alkaline phosphatases of 308 U/L (normal < 170 U/L) and a prothrombin time at 55% of control. A liver biopsy showed sinusoidal and perivenular fibrosis without inflammation, compatible with chronic venous obstruction. Hepatic veno-occlusive disease is an infrequent complication of azathioprine use.
We report three women aged 33, 63 and 43 years old receiving an anorexigenic medication that contained phenylpropanolamine who, 30 min to 3 h after the ingestion of this medication, presented a frontal hematoma, a left putaminal hematoma and a subaracnoidal hemorrhage, respectively. Cerebral angiography, performed in all of them, did not show any vascular abnormality. This complication of phenylpropanolamine use, has been reported previously abroad and the mechanism of production, could be related to an elevation of blood pressure and the production of a vasculitis by the drug. The risk of this complication must be taken into account when prescribing phenylpropanolamine.
Chronic tacrolimus (FK506) nephrotoxicity is characterized by renal fibrosis with interstitial inflammation. Since nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) plays a key role in chronic inflammatory diseases including renal disease, the present study was conducted to elucidate the role of NF-kappaB in the pathogenesis of chronic FK506-induced nephropathy.
FK506 (1 mg/kg/day, SC) was administered daily to rats maintained on low sodium diet for 42 days. Some rats were treated with a putative NF-kappaB inhibitor, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC; 100, 200 mg/kg/day, by gavage). The renal function, renal histology, renal NF-kappaB-DNA binding activity and gene expression profile were examined.
FK506 caused a decline in glomerular filtration and induced characteristic renal morphologic changes including arteriolopathy, tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis. FK506 markedly activated renal cortical NF-kappaB-DNA binding. PDTC administration inhibited NF-kappaB-DNA binding activity in a dose dependent manner. With higher dose, NF-kappaB-DNA binding activity was decreased to a control level. PDTC had little effect on FK506-induced renal dysfunction. Renal cortical monocyte/macrophage infiltration observed in FK506-treated rats was dramatically suppressed by PDTC. FK506 up-regulated renal cortical gene expression of chemoattractant proteins, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and osteopontin. PDTC significantly blocked MCP-1 gene expression but had no effect on osteopontin gene expression. Tubular atrophy and tubulointerstitial fibrosis, but not arteriolopathy, were significantly attenuated by PDTC. FK506 increased renal mRNA expression of fibrogenic molecules and extracellular matrices that also were attenuated by PDTC treatment.
NF-kappaB plays an important role in mediating cortical monocyte/macrophage infiltration and in the pathogenesis of tubular injury and interstitial fibrosis in experimental FK506-induced chronic nephropathy.
Proanthocyanidins are the most abundant polyphenols in human diets. Epidemiological studies have pointed to proanthocyanidins as promising molecules that could prevent the development of several coronary syndromes by inhibiting the atherogenic process. The present study was designed to investigate the antiatherogenic effects of a proanthocyanidin-rich fraction (PRF) obtained from Croton celtidifolius Baill (Euphorbiaceae) barks. In isolated human LDL, PRF caused a concentration-dependent inhibition of Cu2+-induced oxidative modifications, evidenced by the increasing of the lag phase of lipid peroxidation and decreasing in the oxidation rate (Vmax), moreover, the protein moieties from LDL were protected against Cu2+-induced oxidation. In human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), PRF reduced the ROS production stimulated by oxidized LDL. Herein, we demonstrate that oral treatment with PRF improved endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation in hypercholesterolemic LDL receptor knockout mice (LDLr-/-), however, the fraction did not modify plasma lipids and atherosclerotic lesion size in this experimental model. Finally, our results showed for the first time that PRF prevent isolated LDL oxidation, decrease oxidative stress in endothelial cells and improve endothelial function in mice.
Thalidomide is effective as a first-line therapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM), but its use is limited by peripheral neurotoxicity.
To study the occurrence of both myeloma-related neuropathy and thalidomide-induced neuropathy in 31 patients with newly diagnosed MM.
Clinical and electrophysiologic examinations were performed in 31 patients with newly diagnosed MM before and after 4 months of therapy with thalidomide (200 mg/day, total dose: 21 g) aimed at debulking MM, before autologous transplantation. After transplantation, the patients took thalidomide, 200 mg/day for another 3 months (total dose over three months: 18 g) and then underwent a final clinical and electrophysiologic checkup.
At baseline, four patients presented a mild sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy related to MM, which tended to worsen slightly during treatment with thalidomide. At the end of treatment, 83% of the patients had clinical and electrophysiologic evidence of a mild sensory rather than motor, axonal, length-dependent polyneuropathy, whereas 100% of the patients showed improvement to the basic pathology (>or=partial response).
Peripheral neuropathy, sometimes subclinical, and mild in our patients, is a common, early side effect of thalidomide therapy. The high doses (21 g) used in all patients for a relatively short time (4 months) rule out any correlations between neuropathy, total dose, and duration of treatment.
Primarily resulting as a spin-off of the search for effective anti-HSV or anti-HIV agents, several compounds have been identified as effective and promising candidate anti-HBV drugs, i.e. famciclovir (penciclovir), BMS-200475, lamivudine (3TC), (-)FTC, L(-)Fd4C, L-FMAU, DAPD (DXG), bis(POM)-PMEA and bis(POC)-PMPA. They all inhibit HBV replication in Hep G2 2.2.15 at concentrations that are well below the cytotoxicity threshold. All these nucleoside analogues require three phosphorylation steps to be active, in their triphosphate form, as inhibitors of the HBV DNA polymerase, except for PMEA (adefovir) and PMPA (tenofovir), which need only two phosphorylation steps, to PMEApp and PMPApp, respectively, to interact as chain terminators with the HBV DNA polymerase reaction. Several of these compounds (for example, famciclovir, lamivudine and adefovir) have proven to be efficacious in the duck and/or woodchuck hepatitis models, and, accordingly, famciclovir, lamivudine and adefovir have also proven to be effective (i.e. in reducing HBV DNA levels) in patients with chronic HBV infection. Yet, famciclovir and lamivudine may lead to the emergence of resistance mutations (i.e. L528M and M552V/I) in the HBV DNA polymerase upon long-term treatment. These penciclovir- and lamivudine-resistant HBV mutants still retain susceptibility to adefovir, which, in turn, has so far not been found to engender resistance mutations in HBV. As has become obvious from the experience with the treatment of HIV infections, future HBV chemotherapy may reside in combination drug therapy so as to achieve the highest possible virus reduction, thereby minimizing the likelihood of drug resistance development.
Amphetamine-induced anorexia and stereotyped behaviour were studied in rats, following pretreatment with the antidepressants DMI, inprindole and mianserin. A complex drug-dependent and dose-dependent pattern of results was obtained. Acute pretreatment with DMI and iprindole enhanced amphetamine anorexia and stereotypy; at high doses only, the enhancement of anorexia disappeared during chronic treatment. Mianserin had no effects acutely, but chronic treatment with high doses attenuated anorexia and enhanced stereotypy. High doses of all three drugs attenuated anorexia and enhanced stereotypy during withdrawal. The most parsimonious account of these results is that the acute affects of DMI and iprindole are artefactual, and that chronic administration of all three antidepressants increased dopaminergic function and decreased beta-adrenergic function.
Arzoxifene ([6-hydroxy-3-[4-[2-(1-piperidinyl)-ethoxy]phenoxy]-2-(4-methoxyphenyl)]benzo[b]thiophene) is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that is a potent estrogen antagonist in mammary and uterine tissue while acting as an estrogen agonist to maintain bone density and lower serum cholesterol. Arzoxifene is a highly effective agent for prevention of mammary cancer induced in the rat by the carcinogen nitrosomethylurea and is significantly more potent than raloxifene in this regard. Arzoxifene is devoid of the uterotrophic effects of tamoxifen, suggesting that, in contrast to tamoxifen, it is unlikely that the clinical use of arzoxifene will increase the risk of developing endometrial carcinoma.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by selective motor neuronal death. In addition to elucidate the "cell death mechanism", we think it is also important to clarify the "cell survival mechanism", to understand the pathogenesis of this intractable disease. Glutamate (Glu) is an excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, and is implicated in the pathogenesis of ALS. In this report, we presented our current research, investigating the mechanism of Glu-induced selective motor neuronal death, derived from the study of primary culture of rat embryonic spinal cord. In brief, 1) motor neurons are selectively injured by long-term exposure to low-dose Glu through the activation of nNOS to generate NO and ONOO-: 2) nonmotor neurons are protected by cGMP which is formed by NONdependent guanylyl cyclase: 3) chronic exposure of spinal neurons to Glu increases nNOS positive neurons only in nonmotor neurons. These results indicate the cascade of Glu-calcium influx-NO generation is toxic to motor neurons and protective to nonmotor neurons. The different effect of cGMP on motor neurons and nonmotor neurons against Glu-induced excitotoxicity may explain the selective motor neuronal death of ALS. Further investigation might advance the possibility of new therapy against ALS.
Active hexose correlated compound (AHCC) is a product prepared from the mycelium of edible Basidiomycete fungi that contains oligosaccharides. Here we have studied the antiinflammatory effect of AHCC in the trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) model of colitis in rats. Rats received AHCC (100 or 500 mg/kg) daily starting 2 d before (pretreatment) colitis induction and were killed 6 d after the TNBS challenge. The status of the rats was assessed by morphological and biochemical methods. The effect of AHCC on the colonic microflora was also assessed by studying the bacteria profile in feces by standard culture techniques. AHCC administration attenuated colonic inflammation, improving rat weight, food intake, damage score, extension of necrosis, colonic weight, colonic weight-to-length ratio, myeloperoxidase and alkaline phosphatase activities, glutathione concentration, and the expression of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines (IL-1beta, IL-1 receptor antagonist, TNF, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1) and of mucins 2-4 and trefoil factor 3. The magnitude of the antiinflammatory effect of AHCC was similar to that of sulfasalazine (200 mg/kg). The study of colonic microflora indicated that rats treated with AHCC had higher aerobic and lactic acid bacteria counts as well as higher bifidobacteria counts, whereas clostridia were reduced when compared with the TNBS group. Therefore, our results indicate that AHCC is antiinflammatory and could be useful as a prebiotic to design functional foods for inflammatory bowel disease patients.
For some instances of Parkinson disease (PD), current evidence in the literature is consistent with reactive oxygen species being involved in the etiology of the disease. The management of PD is still challenging owing to its ambiguous etiology and lack of permanent cure. Because nicotine offers neuroprotection against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced parkinsonism, the neuroprotective efficacy of nicotine-encapsulated poly(lactic-co-glycolic) acid (PLGA) nanoparticles and the underlying mechanism of improved efficacy, if any, over bulk nicotine were assessed in this study. The selected indicators of oxidative stress, dopaminergic neurodegeneration and apoptosis, were measured in both in vitro and rodent models of parkinsonism in the presence or absence of "nanotized" or bulk nicotine. The levels of dopamine and its metabolites were measured in the striatum, nicotine and its metabolite in the nigrostriatal tissues while the immunoreactivities of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), metallothionein-III (MT-III), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and microglial activation were checked in the substantia nigra of controls and treated mice. GSTA4-4, heme oxygenase (HO)-1, tumor suppressor protein 53 (p53), caspase-3, lipid peroxidation (LPO), and nitrite levels were measured in the nigrostriatal tissues. Nicotine-encapsulated PLGA nanoparticles improved the endurance of TH-immunoreactive neurons and the number of fiber outgrowths and increased the mRNA expression of TH, neuronal cell adhesion molecule, and growth-associated protein-43 over bulk against 1-methyl-4-phenyl pyridinium ion-induced degeneration in the in vitro model. MPTP reduced TH immunoreactivity and levels of dopamine and its metabolites and increased microglial activation, expression of GSTA4-4, iNOS, MT-III, HO-1, p53, and caspase-3, and levels of nitrite and LPO. Whereas both bulk nicotine and nicotine-encapsulated PLGA nanoparticles modulated the changes toward controls, the modulation was more pronounced in nicotine-encapsulated PLGA nanoparticle-treated parkinsonian mice. The levels of nicotine and cotinine were elevated in nicotine-encapsulated PLGA nanoparticle-treated PD mouse brain compared with bulk. The results obtained from this study demonstrate that nanotization of nicotine improves neuroprotective efficacy by enhancing its bioavailability and subsequent modulation in the indicators of oxidative stress and apoptosis.
Dexmedetomidine is an alpha(2)-adrenoreceptor agonist that, in spite of its potent sedative, amnesic, and analgesic properties, has minimal respiratory depressant effect. Even at doses adequate for general anaesthesia, it does not cause central apnoea. Thus, it has been claimed that "combining alpha(2)-agonists with opiate narcotics or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs can enhance the analgesic efficacy without increasing the respiratory depressant effect of the latter" and "the combination of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonists with opioids does not lead to further ventilatory depression". We present a case of central apnoea after general anaesthesia that included opioids and dexmedetomidine, and remind the readers that in susceptible patients, dexmedetomidine may cause life-threatening respiratory depression through potentiation of co-administered central nervous system depressants.
To compare the effects of cilostazol on cerebral arteries and cerebrovascular blood flow in secondary prevention of ischemic stroke, with those of aspirin.
Sixty-eight patients who had ischemic stroke during the recent 1-6 months were recruited and randomized into cilostazol or aspirin group. Cerebrovascular condition was assessed by magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and transcranial doppler ultrasonography (TCD) at the beginning of the study and after 12-month medication.
During the clinical follow-up, ischemic stroke recurred in 2 patients in cilostazol group, while in aspirin group, one case of ischemic stroke recurrence and one case of acute myocardial infarction were found. MRA revealed that in aspirin group, the percentages of patients experiencing aggravation and attenuation of cerebrovascular condition were 3.3% and 6.7%, respectively, while in aspirin group, they were 3.3% and 10%, respectively. Moreover, TCD revealed that 26.9% of the patients in aspirin group and 14.3% of the patients in cilostazol group experienced aggravation of cerebrovascular condition. However, the systolic peak flow velocity of the previously abnormal arteries increased by 42.9% after 12-month medication of cilostazol, which was significantly higher than that after aspirin medication (27.5%) (P = 0.04). Furthermore, as a major side effect of antiplatelet therapy, the frequency of bleeding was much less in cilostazol group (0 case in cilostazol group vs 5 in aspirin, P< 0.05).
Cilostazol is as effective as aspirin in preventing the aggravation of cerebral arteries in secondary prevention of ischemic stroke. Besides, it is more safe. Cilostazol can increase the systolic peak flow velocity of cerebral arteries, which may improve the blood supply of focal ischemia.
We describe a patient with advanced Parkinson's disease who developed pathological gambling within a month after successful bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation. There was no history of gambling. On neuropsychological testing, slight cognitive decline was evident 1 year after surgery. Stimulation of the most dorsal contact with and without medication induced worse performances on decision making tests compared with the more ventral contact. Pathological gambling disappeared after discontinuation of pergolide and changing the stimulation parameters. Pathological gambling does not seem to be associated with decision making but appears to be related to a combination of bilateral STN stimulation and treatment with dopamine agonists.
