A systematic and comprehensive literature search was performed to determine the extent of weight gain induced by risperidone (RIS) treatment across the age span. The review and pooled data analyses were based on double-blind, open trial, and case series studies containing findings on drug dose, age of subjects, weight gain, duration of treatment, and if available, baseline body weight, body mass index, and the percent of subjects experiencing a prominent RIS-induced weight gain. Drug-induced weight gain per month for youths was defined as recorded weight gain minus the age-expected weight gain. The major findings from pooled data were (1) preadolescent youths received a smaller average daily dose and lower mg/kg/d dose of RIS than adolescents, and adolescents in turn had lower mg/kg/d doses than middle-aged adults; (2) RIS-induced weight gain as a percentage of baseline body weight was most pronounced in the preadolescent years and decreased with advancing age; (3) adults over age 65 experienced little to no RIS-induced weight gain; and (4) RIS treatment led to consistently greater body mass index percentage increases for youths than for adults. Available data thus suggest that across the age span, youths are the most sensitive to weight gain induced by a commonly prescribed second-generation neuroleptic.
Although lithium carbonate is widely used in the treatment of mood disorders, symptoms suggesting toxic effects on the peripheral nervous system may emerge even in subjects whose serum lithium levels remain within the recommended therapeutic range.
Electroneuronographic (ENG) parameters (motor nerve conduction velocity of peroneal and median nerves, sensory nerve conduction velocity of sural and median nerves, amplitude of motor potential of peroneal and median nerves, and amplitude of sensory action potential of the median nerve at the wrist and the sural nerve) were investigated in 2 groups (N = 34) of patients suffering from bipolar affective disorder (DSM-III-R, DSM-IV) undergoing maintenance treatment with lithium carbonate for at least 1 year (mean = 2.06 years) in monotherapy. For 12 patients, ENG results were compared with pretreatment values, whereas in the other 22 cases, only data relevant to posttreatment were available. Fifty-four healthy subjects and 20 patients with recurrent major affective disorder (unipolar and bipolar) never treated with lithium made up the comparison groups.
Compared with the 2 comparison groups, patients on chronic lithium treatment showed significant reduction of motor nerve conduction velocity of peroneal and median nerves, sensory nerve conduction velocity of sural and median nerves, amplitude of motor potential of peroneal and median nerves, and amplitude of sensory action potential of the median nerve at the wrist and the sural nerve. The comparison with the assessment made prior to lithium treatment also showed significant changes; after a period of treatment with lithium varying from 2 to 8 years (mean = 5.2 years), significant reductions were found on motor and sensory nerve conduction velocity and on amplitude motor potentials and sensory action potentials.
Chronic maintenance treatment with lithium affects the peripheral nerves, even if the impairment rarely is such as to warrant discontinuation of treatment. Monitoring of ENG results could be useful for the early detection of neurotoxicity of lithium.
The anti-inflammatory effects of etodolac (Eto) were compared with those of 6 other anti-inflammatory drugs: indomethacin (Ind), diclofenac Na (Dic), piroxicam (Pir), naproxen (Nap), ketoprofen (Ket) and aspirin (Asp). Eto inhibited carrageenin-induced edema in rats, adjuvant-induced arthritis in rats, acetic acid-induced writhing in mice and brewer's yeast-induced hyperalgesia and fever in rats. In the adjuvant arthritis test, the ED30 value (1.88 mg/kg) on day 3 and ED50 values (adjuvant-injected paw: 1.18 mg/kg and non-injected paw: 0.96 mg/kg) on day 18 for Eto were comparable to those for Dic (2.16, 1.72 and 1.28) when given prophylactically and the ED50 values for Eto (adjuvant-injected paw: 1.61 and non-injected paw: 1.20 mg/kg) were comparable to those for Ket (1.24 and 1.22) when used therapeutically. The analgesic activity of Eto (ED50 value: 3.67 mg/kg) in the acetic acid-induced writhing test was greater than that of Nap (9.83) or Asp (31.6) and less than that of Ind (0.71), Dic (1.54), Pir (0.92) or Ket (1.34). In the antipyretic test, the minimum effective dose (MED: 1 mg/kg) for Eto was comparable to that for Ind (1.0), Nap (1.0) or Ket (1.0). Eto was less potent in inhibiting carrageenin-induced edema (ED30 value: 6.99 mg/kg) and inflammatory pain (ED50 value: 9.24 mg/kg) than the other drugs (Ind: 2.32 and 3.47, Dic: 0.69 and 3.80, Pir: 1.31 and 1.94, Nap: 1.83 and 2.78, Ket: 1.12 and 0.63), except for Asp (167 and 51.8).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
High-fat diet has been implicated as a major cause of insulin resistance and dyslipidemia. The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of dietary-supplementation of chromium (D-phenylalanine)(3) [Cr(D-Phe)(3)] on glucose and insulin tolerance in high-fat diet fed mice. C57BL/6-mice were randomly assigned to orally receive vehicle or Cr(D-Phe)(3) (45 μg of elemental chromium/kg/day) for 8-weeks. High-fat-fed mice exhibited impaired whole-body-glucose and -insulin tolerance and elevated serum triglyceride levels compared to normal chow-fed mice. Insulin-stimulated glucose up-take in the gastrocnemius muscles, assessed as 2-[(3)H-deoxyglucose] incorporation was markedly diminished in high-fat fed mice compared to control mice. Treatment with chromium reconciled the high-fat diet-induced alterations in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. Treatment of cultured, differentiated myotubes with palmitic acid evoked insulin resistance as evidenced by lower levels of insulin-stimulated Akt-phosphorylation, elevated JNK-phosphorylation, (assessed by Western blotting), attenuation of phosphoinositol-3-kinase activity (determined in the insulin-receptor substrate-1-immunoprecipitates by measuring the extent of phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol by γ-(32)P-ATP), and impairment in cellular glucose up-take, all of which were inhibited by Cr(d-Phe)(3). These results suggest a beneficial effect of chromium-supplementation in insulin resistant conditions. It is likely that these effects of chromium may be mediated by augmenting downstream insulin signaling.
Assessing combined anti-platelet therapy in suspected acute myocardial infarction Aspirin has been shown to be effective in the emergency treatment of acute myocardial infarction. It irreversibly inhibits platelet cyclo-oxygenase and thereby prevents the formation of the platelet aggregating agent thromboxane A2. Clopidogrel is an anti-platelet agent that acts by a different mechanism, inhibiting adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation. Simultaneous inhibition of both of these pathways might produce significantly greater anti-platelet effects than inhibition of either alone. The Second Chinese Cardiac Study (CCS-2) will reliably determine whether adding oral clopidogrel to aspirin for up to 4 weeks in hospital after suspected acute myocardial infarction can produce a greater reduction in the risk of major vascular events than can be achieved by giving aspirin alone. In order to be able to detect a further reduction of 10-15%, some 20,000-40,000 patients in over 1000 Chinese hospitals will be randomized. Assessing early beta-blocker therapy in suspected acute myocardial infarction Although over 27,000 patients have been studied previously in randomized trials of short-term beta-blocker therapy in acute myocardial infarction, the reduction in early mortality (513 (3.7%) for beta-blocker therapy deaths versus 586 (4.3%) for control deaths) was only just conventionally significant (P = 0.02) and, overall, the absolute benefits were small in the relatively low-risk patients studied. Although there might be worthwhile benefit in higher risk patients, there is currently little routine use of beta-blocker therapy in acute myocardial infarction. Hence, patients in CCS-2 will also be randomly allocated to receive metoprolol (intravenous then oral) or matching placebo for up to 4 weeks in hospital in a 2 x 2 factorial design. Such a design allows all patients to contribute fully to assessment of the separate effects of the anti-platelet regimen and the beta-blocker (without any material effect on study cost or sample size requirements) whilst also providing information about their combined effects. A streamlined trial in a wide range of patients In order to randomize 20,000-40,000 patients, the design of CCS-2 has been streamlined: data collection and other extra work for collaborators is minimal, allowing busy hospitals to take part easily. All patients presenting within 24 h of the onset of suspected acute myocardial infarction are eligible for the study provided they have a definite ECG abnormality and are not persistently hypotensive, and provided the doctor responsible considers there to be no clear indication for or contraindication to either of the trial treatments. Apart from administration of the trial treatments, all other aspects of individual patient management are entirely at the discretion of the doctor responsible. By including many different types of patient from many different types of hospital, with wide variation in ancillary management, the CCS-2 results will be of direct clinical relevance to the heterogeneous realities of future clinical practice. The trial began in July 1999 and is expected to be completed by the year 2003.
Indomethacin therapy for closure of a patent ductus arteriosus in preterm neonates is responsible for transient renal insufficiency. Dopamine theoretically reduces the renal side effects of indomethacin therapy.
33 neonates with a mean gestational age of 28.5 weeks who received indomethacin for treatment of a symptomatic PDA were included in a prospective randomized controlled clinical study.
15 patients were treated with indomethacin alone (control group), 18 patients with indomethacin and dopamine (study group). Indomethacin was given in a dose of 0.2 mg/kg/dose intravenously, all patients received three doses with intervall of 12 hours. The dose of dopamine was in all patients 4 micrograms/kg per minute commencing 2 hours prior to the first dose of indomethacin and continuing for 12 hours after the third dose.
Indomethacin induced a significant increase in serum creatinin (76.3 mumol/l vs 99.7 mumol/l for the control group, and 70.7 mumol/l vs 93.0 mumol/l for the study group), and weight (1259 g vs 1316 g for the control group, and 1187 g vs 1221 g for the study group). The increase systolic blood pressure (61 mmHg vs 65.7 mmHg) in the study group was significant (p < 0.05) but remained unchanged in the control group. The changes between the study group and the control group were not significant either in serum creatinin, fractional excretion of sodium, or weight gain. The failure rate of ductal closure was not different between the two groups.
The additional use of dopamine does not reduce the renal side effects of indomethacin.
sorafenib, a tyrosine-kinase inhibitor, is widely used in the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. Drug-related toxicities are generally mild but sorafenib, as other similar agents, may induce elevation of systemic arterial blood pressure levels in relation to an interaction with cardiovascular system probably mediated by HIF pathway. This side effect may be particularly critical for patients with underlying serious heart disease as it can induce acute heart failure, a life-threatening condition, and usually such patients are excluded from active treatment with tyrosine-kinase inhibitors. We report the case of a patient affected by advanced hepatocellular carcinoma and serious impairment of cardiac function treated with sorafenib without any worsening of heart function. To our knowledge this is the first report of this kind in the literature.
We report the case of a 74-year-old patient affected by advanced multifocal HCV-cirrhosis related hepatocellular carcinoma and severe post-ischemic fall of left-ventricular function with serious risk of cardiac functional impairment. The patient presented with an ECOG performance status of 0. Blood chemistry tests showed a substantial elevation of alpha-fetoprotein values and slight increases of bilirubin, of gamma-GT and of GOT; the absence of encephalopathy and ascites and the normality of coagulation parameters and of albumin led to classify the patient into the functional class Child-Pugh A. The patients was successfully treated with sorafenib at the reduced daily dose of 400 mg for long-time without any worsening of heart function.
The presented case can offer to oncologists a clinical support to take into consideration when deciding to treat with sorafenib advanced hepatocellular carcinoma patients presenting with serious impairment of cardiac function that are usually excluded from an active treatment.
Major depressive disorder causes significant morbidity and mortality. Current therapies fail to fully treat both emotional and physical symptoms of major depressive disorder.
To evaluate duloxetine, a dual reuptake inhibitor of serotonin and norepinephrine, on improvement of emotional and painful physical symptoms.
Randomized, double-blind, evaluation of duloxetine at 40 mg/d (20 mg twice daily) and 80 mg/d (40 mg twice daily) versus placebo and paroxetine 20 mg/d in depressed outpatients.
The primary efficacy measure was the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale. Visual Analog Scales for pain, Clinical Global Impression of Severity, Patient's Global Impression of Improvement, and Quality of Life in Depression Scale were also used. Safety was evaluated by assessing discontinuation rates, adverse event rates, vital signs, and laboratory tests.
Duloxetine 80 mg/d was superior to placebo on mean 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale total change by 3.62 points (95% CI 1.38, 5.86; P = 0.002). Duloxetine at 40 mg/d was also significantly superior to placebo by 2.43 points (95% CI 0.19, 4.66; P = 0.034), while paroxetine was not (1.51 points; 95% CI -0.55, 3.56; P = 0.150). Duloxetine 80 mg/d was superior to placebo for most other measures, including overall pain severity, and was superior to paroxetine on 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale improvement (by 2.39 points; 95% CI 0.14, 4.65; P = 0.037) and estimated probability of remission (57% for duloxetine 80 mg/d, 34% for paroxetine; P = 0.022). The only adverse event reported significantly more frequently for duloxetine 80 mg/d than for paroxetine was insomnia (19.8% for duloxetine 80 mg/d, 8.0% for paroxetine; P = 0.031). Hypertension incidence was not affected by any treatment.
Duloxetine therapy was efficacious for emotional and physical symptoms of depression, with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor-like profile of side effects.
Cadmium (Cd) exposure results in injury to the proximal tubule characterized by polyuria and proteinuria. Kidney injury molecule-1 (Kim-1) is a transmembrane glycoprotein not normally detected in the mature kidney, but is upregulated and shed into the urine following nephrotoxic injury. In this study, we determine if Kim-1 might be a useful early biomarker of Cd nephrotoxicity. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given daily injections of Cd for up to 12 weeks. Weekly urine samples were analyzed for Kim-1, protein, creatinine, metallothionein, and Clara cell protein CC-16. Significant levels of Kim-1 were detected in the urine by 6 weeks and continued to increase throughout the treatment period. This appearance of Kim-1 occurred 4-5 weeks before the onset of proteinuria, and 1-3 weeks before the appearance of metallothionein and CC-16. Higher doses of Cd gave rise to higher Kim-1 excretion. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) expression analysis showed that Kim-1 transcript levels were increased after 6 weeks at the low dose of Cd. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that Kim-1 was present in proximal tubule cells of the Cd-treated rats. Our results suggest that Kim-1 may be a useful biomarker of early stages of Cd-induced proximal tubule injury.
This study evaluates the effectiveness and safety of intravenous diltiazem for the treatment of atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter. A double-blind, parallel, randomized, placebo-controlled protocol was used, and 6 large, urban hospitals, both university-affiliated and private, participated. The study involved 113 patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter, a ventricular rate greater than or equal to 120 beats/min and systolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 90 mm Hg without severe heart failure. The dose of intravenous diltiazem (or identical placebo) was 0.25 mg/kg/2 minutes followed 15 minutes later by 0.35 mg/kg/2 minutes if the first dose was tolerated but ineffective. If a patient did not respond, the code was broken and the patient was allowed to receive open-label diltiazem if placebo had been given. Of 56 patients, 42 (75%) randomized to receive diltiazem responded to 0.25 mg/kg and 10 of 14 responded to 0.35 mg/kg, for a total response rate of 52 of 56 patients (93%), whereas 7 of 57 patients (12%) responded to placebo (p less than 0.001). After the double-blind protocol, 49 of the 57 patients who received placebo were then given diltiazem; 47 of 49 responded, for an overall response rate of 99 of 105 patients (94%) with diltiazem. The median time from the start of drug infusion to the maximal decrease in heart rate was 4.3 minutes. Side effects occurred in 14 patients, 7 of whom had asymptomatic hypotension not requiring intervention. Thus, intravenous diltiazem was rapidly effective for slowing the ventricular response in most patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter. Blood pressure decreased slightly. Side effects were mild.
Puerarin is a major isoflavonoid compound isolated from Pueraria lobata, an edible vine used widely for various medicinal purposes. It has been used for centuries in China to counteract alcohol intoxication. However, the effects of puerarin on chemical-induced liver fibrosis have not been reported. In the present study, we investigated the effects of puerarin on liver fibrosis in Wistar rats induced by alcohol plus carbon tetrachloride administration. Liver fibrosis was produced in rats by treatment with a mixture (50% alcohol, 8 g/kg per day; corn oil, 2 g/kg per day; pyrazole, 24 mg/kg per day; ig) once a day and by intraperitoneal injection of 0.25 ml/kg of a 25% solution of carbon tetrachloride in olive oil twice a week for 8 weeks. After 8 weeks, treatment with puerarin (0.4 and 0.8 g/kg ig, daily for 4 weeks) was conducted to examine its therapeutic effects. At the same time, the model group and treatment group continued to receive the chemical mixture, while the control group received saline instead of the chemical mixture. Upon pathological examination, the puerarin-treated rats significantly reversed the symptoms of liver fibrosis and other hepatic lesions. Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST), as indexes of hepatic cell disruption, were reduced with puerarin treatment, whereas no significant effect was discovered in the levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) activities. A significant increase in apoptosis of activated hepatic stellate cell (HSC) was found by flow cytometric analysis of the hepatic tissues. And the expression of bcl-2 mRNA was down-regulated after puerarin administration. Consequently, all these results showed that puerarin could effectively reverse chemical-induced liver fibrosis in experimental rats, via the recovery of hepatic injury as well as the induction of apoptosis in activated HSC.
The interaction between clonidine and opiate receptor antagonists on arterial blood pressure (BP) and heart rate were examined in normotensive Wistar Kyoto (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). In conscious SHR, the hypotension and bradycardia caused by clonidine, 5 micrograms/kg iv, were significantly attenuated by naltrexone, 2 mg/kg ip. In urethane-anesthetized SHR, the reduction in mean BP and heart rate in response to 5 nmol clonidine microinjected into the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), were similarly inhibited after intra-NTS microinjection of 100 ng DL-naloxone but not after the same dose of D-naloxone. Neonatal treatment of SHR by monosodium glutamate (MSG) markedly reduced the beta-endorphin (BE) but not the leucin-enkephalin content of the arcuate nucleus and the NTS. MSG treatment did not affect the basal BP of these animals, but significantly reduced the hypotensive effect of clonidine and eliminated its susceptibility to opiate antagonists in both conscious and anesthetized SHR. In conscious and anesthetized WKY, the cardiovascular effects of clonidine were smaller than in SHR and were unaffected by naloxone or naltrexone. Neonatal treatment of WKY with MSG reduced the BE content of the arcuate nucleus but not of the NTS. MSG treatment of WKY did not influence either basal BP or the cardiovascular effects of clonidine, and the latter remained unaffected by opiate antagonists. These findings support the hypothesis that in SHR, but not in WKY, the centrally mediated cardiovascular effects of clonidine are partially mediated by the release of a BE-like opioid. They also strongly suggest that the site of both the release and the action of this opioid is in the NTS.
Combination therapy of pegylated interferon alpha and ribavirin has been associated with various adverse effects, but sudden-onset hearing loss is uncommon. We report a 60-year-old male patient who developed sudden-onset hearing loss during combination therapy with pegylated interferon alpha and ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C. This patient had been diagnosed with chronic hepatitis C (genotype Ib) and early-stage liver cirrhosis 3 years previously, and had been treated with conventional interferon-alpha and ribavirin for 12 months. However, 6 months from the end of the treatment course the patient relapsed and received combination retreatment with pegylated interferon alpha-2b and ribavirin. He developed sudden-onset right-side hearing loss and tinnitus 42 weeks after the start of this retreatment. Pure-tone audiometry revealed a right-side hearing loss of 60 approximately 90 dB. The patient consequently immediately discontinued the pegylated interferon therapy and was given prednisone 60 mg/day for 10 days, after which the hearing loss had almost completely recovered.
Proton pump inhibitors have been reported to be more useful than histamine-2 receptor antagonists for the prevention of bleeding after endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) for superficial gastric neoplasia. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of the proton pump inhibitor lansoprazole and the histamine-2 receptor antagonist roxatidine for the prevention of bleeding and the promotion of ulcer healing after ESD and to compare the cost-effectiveness of these two drugs.
The study subjects were 129 patients who underwent ESD for superficial gastric neoplasia. The patients were randomly assigned to the lansoprazole group (L group) or the roxatidine group (R group). Either drug was administered intravenously from the morning of the ESD day to the day after the ESD, followed by oral treatment for an additional 8 weeks. A second-look endoscopy was performed on the day after the ESD, and a repeat endoscopy was performed at 8 weeks after the ESD. The incidence of bleeding and the ulcer-healing rate at 8 weeks after the ESD were analyzed, as well as the total cost of treatment with these antisecretory agents.
Three patients in each group were excluded from the analysis, leaving 62 patients in L group and 61 in R group. Two of the 62 patients (3.2%) in L group and three of the 61 patients (4.9%) in R group showed bleeding after ESD ; there was no significant difference between the two groups (P = 0.68). The ulcer-healing rate was 93.5% (58/62) in L group and 93.4% (57/61) in R group (P = 1). The total cost of treatment with the antisecretory agent from the day of the ESD to day 56 after the ESD was Yen 13,212 for lansoprazole and Yen 5,841 for roxatidine.
Roxatidine appears to have high cost-effectiveness in the prevention of bleeding and in the promotion of ulcer healing after ESD for superficial gastric neoplasia.
A 17-day-old infant on isoniazid therapy 13 mg/kg daily from birth because of maternal tuberculosis was admitted after 4 days of clonic fits. No underlying infective or biochemical cause could be found. The fits ceased within 4 hours of administering intramuscular pyridoxine, suggesting an aetiology of pyridoxine deficiency secondary to isoniazid medication.
Aspartame is a widely used artificial sweetener that has been linked to pediatric and adolescent migraines. Upon ingestion, aspartame is broken, converted, and oxidized into formaldehyde in various tissues. We present the first case series of aspartame-associated migraines related to clinically relevant positive reactions to formaldehyde on patch testing.
To evaluate the efficacy of the selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor NS-398 in treating experimental T24 bladder carcinoma, and to assess its effect on tumor cell proliferation and survival and tumor vascularization. COX-2 overexpression is frequently observed in bladder carcinoma and has been correlated with an increased disease stage and with reduced patient survival.
NS-398 was used to inhibit COX-2 selectively in human T24 bladder carcinoma cells. Lentiviral transduction of the firefly luciferase gene allowed us to assess the effect of NS-398 on orthotopic bladder carcinoma growth over time in a noninvasive manner. Immunohistochemistry on bladder tissue sections was performed to determine the effect of NS-398 treatment on tumor cell proliferation (Ki-67), apoptosis (cleaved caspase-3), and angiogenesis (von Willebrand factor; CD31).
T24 cells expressed COX-2 and secreted prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Selective COX-2 inhibition using NS-398 abrogated PGE2 secretion and inhibited cell proliferation in vitro in a dose-dependent manner, without affecting cell viability. In vivo administration of NS-398 reduced the outgrowth of experimental orthotopic T24 bladder carcinoma. This was accompanied by a significant reduction in Ki-67-positive tumor cells but not by a reduction in tumor cell viability or tumor vascularization.
Selective COX-2 inhibition by NS-398 reduces the outgrowth of T24 human bladder carcinoma in an orthotopic mouse model. The therapeutic activity was most likely caused by inhibition of tumor cell proliferation, rather than by inhibition of angiogenesis or tumor cell survival.
Nonnarcotic analgesics are the most commonly used drugs in the United States. To our knowledge, the association between the use of these analgesics, particularly acetaminophen, and the risk of hypertension among men has not been extensively studied.
The association between analgesic use and risk of incident hypertension was analyzed in a prospective cohort analysis of 16 031 male health professionals without a history of hypertension at baseline. Detailed information about the frequency of use of acetaminophen, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and aspirin was gathered at baseline and updated 2 years later. The relative risk of incident hypertension during 4 years of follow-up was analyzed using multivariable proportional hazards regression.
We identified 1968 incident cases of hypertension. After adjusting for multiple potential confounders, men who used acetaminophen 6 to 7 days per week compared with nonusers had a relative risk for incident hypertension of 1.34 (95% confidence interval, 1.00-1.79; P=.01 for trend). This same comparison resulted in relative risks of 1.38 (95% confidence interval, 1.09-1.75; P=.002 for trend) for nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and 1.26 (95% confidence interval, 1.14-1.40; P<.001 for trend) for aspirin. We observed similar results when the number of pills per week was analyzed rather than frequency of use in days per week.
The frequency of nonnarcotic analgesic use is independently associated with a moderate increase in the risk of incident hypertension. Given the widespread use of these medications and the high prevalence of hypertension, these results may have important public health implications.
We describe 2 cases of proximal tubular defects induced by the administration of ifosfamide at a dosage of 6 g/m2/course over 2 days in children with a diagnosis of malignant mesenchymal tumors. This adverse effect could be minimized dividing dosage of the drug. However at present it is not clear if divided doses are completely safe.
Razorback sucker (Xyrauchen texanus) larvae from adults exposed to selenium at three sites near Grand Junction, Colorado, for 9 months were used in a 30-day waterborne and dietary selenium study. Selenium concentrations in water averaged <1.6 microg/L from 24-Road, 0.9 microg/L from Horsethief, 5.5 microg/L from Adobe Creek, and 10.7 microg/L from the North Pond. Selenium in dietary items averaged 2.7 microg/g in brine shrimp, 5.6 microg/g in zooplankton from Horsethief east wetland, 20 microg/g in zooplankton from Adobe Creek, and 39 microg/g in zooplankton from North Pond. The lowest survival occurred in larvae fed zooplankton rather than brine shrimp. Survival of larvae at Adobe Creek and North Pond was lower in site water than in reference water. Survival of brood stock larvae was higher than Horsethief larvae even though they received the same water and dietary treatments. Arsenic concentrations in brine shrimp may have resulted in an antagonistic interaction with selenium and reduced adverse effects in larvae. Deformities in larvae from North Pond were similar to those reported for selenium-induced teratogenic deformities in other fish species. Selenium concentrations of 4.6 microg/g in food resulted in rapid mortality of larvae from Horsethief, Adobe Creek, and North Pond, and suggested that selenium toxicity in the Colorado River could limit recovery of this endangered fish.
We report two cases of tendon rupture associated with ciprofloxacin. One patient had a complete rupture of an Achilles tendon 6 months after taking the medication. The other case involved a partial rupture of the subscapularis tendon. Both ruptures occurred with minimal mechanical stress on the tendons, suggesting that the fluoroquinolone increased the susceptibility to rupture. We also review the literature describing the association between fluoroquinolones and tendon rupture and discuss the mechanisms explaining the heightened risk of tendon rupture associated with these drugs.
The effect of nalbuphine on common bile duct (CBD) pressure was studied by measurements through T-tubes on the first and second postoperative days after cholecystectomy and choledochotomy. Nalbuphine in a dose of 0.25 mg X kg-1 was injected intramuscularly in 11 patients, and changes in biliary pressure, heart and respiratory rate, blood pressure, and arterial blood gases were recorded during the subsequent four hours. The patients were free of pain, had stable common bile duct pressures and did not have any statistically significant changes in their vital signs. These results are similar to our previous observations during perioperative intravenous injection of nalbuphine. It is suggested that nalbuphine does not significantly change, or even may relax, the sphincter of Oddi, and can therefore be recommended as a safe analgesic in the postoperative period after extrahepatic biliary surgery.
Since the 1980s the abuse of cocaine has been -associated with gastroduodenal perforations in the United States. Here, we report the case of a 28-year-old man who came to our hospital with severe abdominal pain after smoking cocaine. Physical examination revealed generalised abdominal guarding. His X-ray did not show any free intraperitoneal air. However, there was a slightly elevated white blood cell count. Upon laparoscopic exploration of the abdomen, the -patient was found to have a generalised peritonitis secondary to a perforation of the prepyloric anterior wall. The operative procedure consisted of ulcer excision and primary closure with a pyloroplasty as well as an extensive abdominal irrigation after laparotomy.
Overdose with amitriptyline and other tricyclic antidepressants can result in ventricular conduction abnormalities as well as severe ventricular arrhythmias. The arrhythmogenic effects of these compounds may be attributed to their direct local anesthetic actions in blocking sodium channels in cardiac membranes. Thus tricyclic-induced ventricular arrhythmias usually do not respond well to therapy with standard Class I antiarrhythmic drugs that also have the same direct local anesthetic action and may potentiate the adverse effects of tricyclic antidepressants. Cardiac toxicity was produced in dogs by the administration of amitriptyline, both orally and IV. At serum concentrations less than 2,000 ng/mL, sinus tachycardia occurred with widened QRS complexes. At higher concentrations, QRS duration became more markedly prolonged and was followed by ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Occurrence of ventricular tachyarrhythmias was associated with QRS durations of more than 0.11 second. Sodium bicarbonate (18 to 36 mEq) administered IV over either 30 seconds or two minutes rapidly converted ventricular tachycardia to normal sinus rhythm. Conversion was associated with abbreviation of the QRS complex and was accompanied by a rise in both systolic and diastolic pressures. The duration of sodium bicarbonate effect paralleled the duration of the changes in arterial pH and plasma bicarbonate concentrations. In vitro studies in cardiac Purkinje fibers suggested that reversal of amitriptyline-induced cardiac membrane effects by sodium bicarbonate may be attributed not only to alkalinization but also to increased in extracellular sodium concentration, diminishing the local anesthetic action of amitriptyline and resulting in less sodium channel block.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
