Mitoxantrone is a recently approved drug for patients with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS). However, cardiac side effects limit Mitoxantrone use in SPMS and its lifetime cumulative dose should not exceed 140 mg/m2. Additionally, Mitoxantrone is contraindicated for use in SPMS patients with a baseline left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of < or = 50%. The goal of this study was to monitor LVEF more frequently than ordinarily recommended since experience with Mitoxantrone use in SPMS patients is limited. An unexpected decline in LVEF in one of the SPMS patients being treated with Mitoxantrone prompted further investigation into this finding. In our clinic, 47 patients on Mitoxantrone were followed prospectively; 28 of 47 patients had received a minimum of three doses and underwent a repeat LVEF evaluation prior to their fourth dose of Mitoxantrone. Of these 28 patients, five of 28 (17.8%) had a significant decline in LVEF from baseline. It is suggested that more stringent cardiac monitoring guidelines than current Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommendations be used to avert potential cardiac complications in SPMS patients on Mitoxantrone.
To evaluate whether tamoxifen enhances the cytotoxicity of chemotherapeutic agents on bladder cancer cells, and the possible mechanism(s) of action.
The in vitro inhibition of cell growth was examined in a model simulating intravesical chemotherapy using two bladder cancer cell lines (TSGH-8301, HTB9) and three commonly used intravesical cytotoxic agents (doxorubicin, mitomycin C, and thiotepa) in the presence or absence of tamoxifen or verapamil as modulators. The expression of the multi-drug resistance-related gene mdr-1 was evaluated by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and Southern blotting (RT-PCR-SB) to determine its transcript level, by flow cytometric analysis of the P-glycoprotein (P-gp) product level with C-219 monoclonal antibody and by the rhodamine-123 retention and efflux assay for P-gp activity. Transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF beta-1) levels in tamoxifen-conditioned culture medium were determined with enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA).
Tamoxifen at concentrations > or = 30 microM significantly enhanced the cytotoxicity of the three chemotherapeutic agents to both cell lines, as shown by a marked reduction in the drug concentration which inhibited growth by 50% (IC50). The enhancement of cytotoxicity was significantly dependent on the concentration of tamoxifen. However, tamoxifen alone caused significant toxic effects to TSGH-8301 at > or = 40 microM and to HTB9 at > or = 30 microM. Median-effect analysis showed additive or less-than-additive combination effects between tamoxifen and chemotherapeutic agents and only a minimal synergism in a narrow range of maximal cytotoxicity (fraction affected > 0.9). Thus, the reduction of IC50s by tamoxifen was mostly because it was cytotoxic to the bladder cancer cells used. No enhancement of cytotoxicity was observed in verapamil-modulated cells. Transcripts of mdr-1 could not be detected by RT-PCR-SB, nor was P-gp detected by flow cytometric analysis in the two cell lines. Furthermore, no active P-gp function was detected by the rhodamine-123 retention and efflux study, indicating that the primary chemoresistance mechanisms of the two cell lines were not mediated by mdr-1, nor could tamoxifen or verapamil act through modulation of the mdr-1 pathway in the two cell lines. Tamoxifen at 3 and 10 microM down-regulated the secretion of TGF beta-1 from TSGH-8301 in a concentration-dependent manner, in contrast to the findings that tamoxifen was cytotoxic to the bladder cancer cells used and that tamoxifen up-regulated TGF beta-1 in a breast cancer model, suggesting that there may be a different mechanism of response to TGF beta-1 in these bladder cancer cells.
Tamoxifen enhanced the cytotoxicity of chemotherapeutic agents largely through its toxic effects on the bladder cancer cells. The mode of action of tamoxifen was not through the regulation of TGF beta-1 or the function of mdr-1. Although cytotoxic levels of tamoxifen (> 50 microM) can be achieved easily in the intravesical model, further study is necessary before tamoxifen can be used clinically in intravesical chemotherapy.
Adverse effects and venous blood ammonia concentrations were monitored over a period of 7 months in patients with epilepsy treated with valproate (VPA). During the 1st, 4th, 12th, 20th, and 28th weeks of therapy, blood samples for analysis of ammonia and anticonvulsants were taken immediately before the morning dose of VPA as well as 2 h after dosing. In all, 40 patients completed the follow-up; 16 of these (Group 1) received VPA alone, while the remaining 24 (Group 2) were treated simultaneously with VPA and other anticonvulsants (phenobarbital, phenytoin, and/or carbamazepine). In Group 1 patients, a slight though significant increase in ammonia concentrations was found during long-term VPA treatment; this trend was even more pronounced in Group 2 patients. The difference between postdose and predose ammonia levels in Group 2 patients was significant at each of the five follow-up examinations. In contrast, no such difference was demonstrated in patients of Group 1. VPA concentrations were found to be consistently higher in Group 2 patients than in Group 1. Twenty-three patients complained of various long-term adverse effects, while the other 17 remained symptom-free. The adverse effects reported included drowsiness, tremors, weight gain, hair loss, and gastrointestinal symptoms. Our data confirm the previously suggested hypothesis that changes in venous blood ammonia are particularly evident in patients taking VPA in combination with other antiepileptic drugs, such as phenobarbital and phenytoin.
Obese mottled yellow Avy/a, lean pseudoagouti Avy/a and lean black a/a (YS X VY) F-1 hybrid female mice were fed diet containing 160 p.p.m. lindane (gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane) for 6, 12, 18 or 24 months. Clara cell hyperplasia was present in a majority of the mice after six months of lindane ingestion; however, more yellow mice (77%) than pseudoagouti (50%) or black (56%) mice had developed this lesion. Continued ingestion of lindane increased the incidence of Clara cell hyperplasia and resulted in similar prevalences in the three phenotypes. Lung tumors associated with lindane ingestion for 24 months were found only in yellow (19%) and pseudoagouti (14%) mice but not in the black mice. Prevalences of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were very low (less than 10%) in untreated pseudoagouti and black mice. Lindane ingestion for 24 months resulted in an hepatocellular adenoma prevalence of 12% in pseudoagouti mice and 3% in black mice; comparable hepatocellular carcinoma prevalences were 5% and 1%. Among yellow mice fed lindane diet for 24 months, adenoma prevalence was 35% (9% among untreated controls) but carcinoma prevalence was only 17% (13% among controls). The tumorigenic responses evoked by lindane feeding in the lean pseudoagouti Avy/a mice but not in the black a/a mice indicate, for the first time, that the Avy gene itself, in the absence of obesity, sensitizes cells to transformation. The greater prevalence of hepatocellular adenomas in obese yellow Avy/a than in lean pseudoagouti Avy/a mice implicates obesity-associated factors in tumor promotion. Similarly, the increased prevalence of hepatocellular carcinomas in untreated obese yellow Avy/a mice, as compared to lean pseudoagouti mice, implicates obesity-associated factor as favoring histiotypic progression of liver tumors. Thus, the Avy gene not only sensitizes cells to respond to tumorigenic stimuli but also, by the induction of obesity, enhances promotion and progression of transformed cells.
Lindane is a persistent, bioaccumulative, and toxic organochlorine insecticide. Human exposure to lindane (gamma hexachlorohexane) occurs via food and water. It is largely known to cause toxicity in various organs, such as the liver, brain, and testes. Appreciable amounts of lindane also accumulate in the heart. However, the effect of chronic lindane exposure on the heart is not well investigated.
The present study was designed to explore the effect of oral administration of lindane (1.5 and 7 mg/kg/day for 21 days) on lipid peroxidation, endogenous antioxidants (GSH, SOD and catalase), and histopathological changes (light and electron microscopic studies) of rat hearts.
Lipid peroxidation of the heart, as measured by thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, (TBARS) was increased, with a decrease in GSH level. An increase in SOD and catalase activities was observed in the 7-mg/kg/day dose of lindane. Interstitial edema in the myocardium was observed in both doses. Ultrastructural changes consisted of loss of integrity of the myofibrils, Z-band disruption, and mitochondrial damage.
This is the first study to report lindane-induced oxidative stress in the heart. Our observations have significant clinical relevance, as oxidative stress plays a key role in the pathogenesis and progression of major cardiovascular disorders.
To study the structure-activity relationship of coumarin (-) mammea A/BB isolated from the CH(2)Cl(2) extract of Calophyllum brasiliense leaves, we evaluated the antileishmanial activity of natural, synthetic and derivatives of this coumarin, against promastigote and intracellular amastigote forms of Leishmania amazonensis, and their cytotoxicity to J774G8 murine macrophages. The derivatives were obtained by hydrogenation and methoxylation reactions. The compound structures were elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic data. The compounds 5,7-dihydroxy-8-(2-methylbutanoyl)-6-(3-methylbutyl)-4-phenyl-chroman-2-one (3), 7-hydroxy-5-methoxy-8-(2-methylbutanoyl)-6-(3-methylbut-2-en-1-yl)-4-phenylcoumarin (4) and 5,7-dimethoxy-8-(1-methoxy-2-methylbutyl)-6-(3-methylbut-2-en-1-yl)-4 phenylcoumarin (6) were more biologically active than the compound (-) mammea A/BB (1) (7.4 microM), with IC(50) values from 0.9, 2.4 and 1.9 microM respectively; compound (3) displayed the highest activity. The compounds mammea B/BB (2), 5,7-dimethoxy-8-(2-methylbutanoyl)-6-(3-methylbut-2-en-1-yl)-4-phenylcoumarin (5) and 5,7-dihydroxy-4-phenylcoumarin (7) were less active than (-) mammea A/BB (1), with IC(50) of 30.1, 15.1 and 60.2 microM respectively; compound (7) showed the lowest antileishmanial activity of all. Compounds (1), (3), (4) and (6) were active not only against promastigote forms of L. amazonensis, but also against intracellular amastigote forms with IC(50) of 14.3, 0.6, 34.0 and 22.2 microM, respectively. Interestingly, compound (3) showed the most antileishmanial activity of all. This study demonstrated that several aspects of the structure were important for antileishmanial activity.
Within the glomerulus, the scaffolding protein nephrin bridges the actin-rich foot processes that extend from adjacent podocytes to form the slit diaphragm. Mutations affecting a number of slit diaphragm proteins, including nephrin, cause glomerular disease through rearrangement of the actin cytoskeleton and disruption of the filtration barrier. We recently established that the Nck family of Src homology 2 (SH2)/SH3 cytoskeletal adaptor proteins can mediate nephrin-dependent actin reorganization. Formation of foot processes requires expression of Nck in developing podocytes, but it is unknown whether Nck maintains podocyte structure and function throughout life. Here, we used an inducible transgenic strategy to delete Nck expression in adult mouse podocytes and found that loss of Nck expression rapidly led to proteinuria, glomerulosclerosis, and altered morphology of foot processes. We also found that podocyte injury reduced phosphorylation of nephrin in adult kidneys. These data suggest that Nck is required to maintain adult podocytes and that phosphotyrosine-based interactions with nephrin may occur in foot processes of resting, mature podocytes.
The antihypertensive effect of oral labetalol and propranolol were evaluated in 65 black and 75 white patients with mild to moderate hypertension (standing diastolic blood pressure (StDBP) of 90-115 mmHg) in a double-blind multicenter clinical trial. Following a 4-week placebo phase, labetalol (n = 70) or propranolol (n = 70) was randomly assigned. During a 5-week titration phase, labetalol could be increased from 100 mg BID to 600 mg BID to achieve a StDBP of less than 90 mmHg and a decrement of greater than or equal to 10 mmHg. Propranolol could be titrated from 40 to 240 mg BID. A 3-month maintenance phase was followed by an optional 8-month maintenance phase. Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) could be added at any time during the maintenance phase. Supine and standing blood pressures were measured at each visit. Statistical analysis revealed significant (ANOVA, p less than 0.05) treatment by race effects. Therefore, the treatment groups were stratified retrospectively by race. This study demonstrated that labetalol is equally effective in white and black patients, whereas, propranolol is significantly (p less than 0.05) more effective in white than in black patients. Moreover, labetalol is significantly more effective than propranolol in lowering the standing systolic/diastolic blood pressure of black patients (p less than 0.02/p less than 0.001). These blood-pressure effects were accompanied by a significantly greater (p less than 0.04) reduction in heart rate with propranolol. Furthermore, significantly more (p less than 0.05) black patients treated with propranolol compared to those treated with labetalol required the addition of a diuretic for control of their blood pressure.
The present study investigates the effectivity and the incidence of side effects of sufentanil-supplemented propofol versus isoflurane anaesthesia in children undergoing elective strabismus surgery.
130 children (aged 3-11; ASA I-II) were randomly allocated to one of four groups. In group 1 and 2, anaesthesia was induced with 2 mg/kg propofol and maintained with 15-20 mg/kg x h propofol and 30% O2 in air (group 1) or 10-15 mg/kg x h propofol in N2O (group 2). After induction with either 2 mg/kg propofol (group 3) or 5 mg/kg thiopentone (group 4), anaesthesia was maintained with 0.8-1.5 Vol% isoflurane and N2O in 30% O2 in these groups. All children were orally premedicated with midazolam and atropine and received a single dose of intravenous sufentanil (0.5 micrograms/kg) and atracurium (0.5 mg/kg) prior to intubation. Heart rate, mean arterial blood pressure and pulse oximetry were registered 5 min prior and after intubation as well as 10 min before and 5 min after extubation. The incidence of pain and involuntary movements during injection, oculocardiac reflex (OCR), laryngospasm and postoperative shivering were as well registered as the duration of the operation and the time of extubation. Episodes of nausea and vomiting were documented during 24 hours postoperatively.
TIVA with Propofol resulted in a decreased heart rate (p = 0.002) and a higher frequency of OCR (p = 0.01) than thiopentone/isoflurane anaesthesia with a higher sensitivity of children younger than 6 years (p = 0.007) in all groups. There were no differences in extubation time between groups. The overall incidence of nausea (p = 0.002) and vomiting (p = 0.007) was lower in group 1 and 2 when compared to group 3 and 4.
Propofol as an induction agent of balanced anaesthesia fails to show advantages over thiopentone. During total intravenous anaesthesia propofol increases the risk of bradycardia especially in younger children. However, a significantly lower incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting after TIVA with propofol and sufentanil, irrespective of N2O administration, may be an advantage over isoflurane anaesthesia in paediatric patients after strabismus surgery.
ATF2 is a subfamily member of AP-1 and has an important role in cellular stress responses. ATF2 has been implicated in a transcriptional response leading to cell migration and malignant tumor progression. However, little is known about the effect of arsenic on expression of ATF2 and regulatory pathways in human urothelial cells. In this study, ATF2 expression was measured in NaAsO(2)-treated human uroepithelial cell line (SV-HUC-1) with 1, 2, 4, 8 and 10 μM concentrations in order to provide some basis data for the study on mechanism of bladder cancer induced by arsenic. We found that ATF2 expression levels at 2, 4, 8 and 10 μM arsenic-treated cells were significantly higher than those of control cells, and the strongest expression occurred in 4 μM NaAsO(2)-treated cells. Antioxidants (melatonin) and JNK or p38 inhibitors decreased significantly arsenic-induced ATF2 expression. Taken together, these data indicated that the increasing of ATF2 expression is mediated via oxidative stress induced by arsenic in SV-HUC-1 cells, and JNK or p38 rather than ERK is responsible for arsenic-induced ATF2 expression. ROS were also involved in arsenic induced the activation of JNK and p38 MAPK signaling pathway.
Administration of bioactive nutritional supplements near or at the time of immunization has been a recent approach to stimulate human immune response to vaccination. Active hexose correlated compound (AHCC), a mushroom extract, has been shown to protect mice against lethal primary influenza infection. Moreover, when AHCC was administered pre-vaccination in mice, they showed improved protection from lethal avian flu infection when compared to mice vaccinated alone. In this study, we hypothesized that AHCC will also improve the immune responses of healthy individuals to influenza vaccine. A randomized controlled study was performed with 30 healthy adults to evaluate the effects of AHCC supplementation on the immune response to the 2009-2010 seasonal influenza vaccine. Blood was drawn pre-vaccination and 3 wk post-vaccination. Immediately post-vaccination, the AHCC group began supplementation with AHCC (3 g/d). Flow cytometric analysis of lymphocyte subpopulations revealed that AHCC supplementation increased NKT cells (P < .1), and CD8 T cells (P < .05) post-vaccination compared to controls. Analysis of antibody production 3 weeks post-vaccination revealed that AHCC supplementation significantly improved protective antibody titers to influenza B, while the improvement was not significant in the control group. Overall, our study showed that AHCC supplementation improved some lymphocyte percentages and influenza B antibody titers over the control. Future studies are required to determine the kinetics of AHCC supplementation to improve the overall response to influenza vaccination.
Patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease (AD) may show increased sensitivity to tropicamide, a muscarinic cholinoceptor antagonist. AD is associated with a severe loss of noradrenergic neurones in the locus coeruleus (LC), which can be "switched off" experimentally by the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine. The possibility arises that increased pupillary sensitivity to tropicamide in AD may be due to diminished LC activity.
To examine the hypothesis that clonidine may potentiate tropicamide-evoked mydriasis.
Sixteen healthy male volunteers participated in two experimental sessions (0.2 mg clonidine or placebo) conducted 1 week apart. In each session tropicamide (0.01% 10 microl x 2) was applied to the left eye and artificial tear (10 microl x 2) was applied to the right eye. Pupillary functions (resting pupil diameter and light and darkness reflexes), alertness and non-pupillary autonomic functions (blood pressure, heart rate, core temperature and salivary output) were measured. Data were analysed by ANOVA, with multiple comparisons.
Tropicamide increased resting pupil diameter, velocity and amplitude of the darkness reflex response, and decreased recovery time of the light reflex response. Clonidine affected all these pupillary measures in the opposite direction with the exception of the recovery time. The mydriatic response to tropicamide was potentiated by pre-treatment with clonidine. Clonidine reduced critical flicker fusion frequency, subjective alertness, blood pressure, salivation and temperature.
The potentiation of tropicamide-evoked pupil dilatation by clonidine may be due to the abolition of the increase in parasympathetically mediated pupil constriction due to reduced LC activity.
Thalidomide is effective for the treatment of some refractory dermatologic and oncologic diseases. Toxic neuropathy limits its use, as embryopathy can be avoided by contraceptive measures.
To describe the clinical, electrophysiologic, and pathologic features of thalidomide-induced peripheral neuropathy.
Clinical and electrophysiologic examinations were performed in seven patients with thalidomide-induced peripheral neuropathy. Thalidomide was used for graft-vs-host disease, pyoderma gangrenosum, and discoid lupus with dosages ranging from 100 to 1,200 mg/day for 5 to 16 months (cumulative dosages of 24 to 384 g).
All seven patients had clinical and electrophysiologic evidence of a sensory more than motor, axonal, length-dependent polyneuropathy that presented as painful paresthesias or numbness. Sural nerve biopsies, done in three patients, showed evidence of Wallerian degeneration and loss of myelinated fibers. The symptoms, signs, and electrophysiologic data correlated with total cumulative dose of thalidomide.
Thalidomide induces a dose-dependent sensorimotor length-dependent axonal neuropathy; it should be judiciously used with close neurologic monitoring.
Chemically modified tetracyclines are orally active inhibitors of multiple proteases and cytokines. In this study, we focused on the regulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in sepsis and their reduction by treatment with nonantimicrobial chemically modified tetracycline-3 (CMT-3), which retains their antiinflammatory activity. Sepsis was induced in rats by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). At 24 h and 1 h before CLP, treated rats received CMT-3 (25 mg/kg), and untreated rats received saline by gavage. At 0 h, 0.5 h, 1.5 h, and 24 h after CLP, blood and liver samples were collected. TNF-alpha was determined by ELISA, and MAPKs were determined by Western blot analysis. A significant activation of p38 MAPK was observed after 0.5 h and 1.5 h of sepsis that appeared to coincide with the increased circulating TNF-alpha level. The activation of p42/44 was increased after 24 h of sepsis, whereas that of SAPK/JNK was unaltered throughout the course of sepsis. CMT-3 pretreatment inhibited the TNF-alpha level as well as p38 MAPK activation seen after 0.5 and 1.5 h of CLP and also suppressed the activation of p42/44 after 24 h post-CLP. These results indicate increased activity of TNF-alpha and MAPK following sepsis and demonstrate the beneficial effect of CMT-3 in preventing the increase in TNF-alpha, p38 MAPK, p42/44 MAPK, and the progression of septic shock.
Aniline exposure is associated with toxicity to the spleen which is characterized by splenomegaly, hyperplasia, fibrosis, and a variety of sarcomas on chronic exposure in rats. However, mechanisms by which aniline elicits splenotoxic responses are not well understood. Earlier we have shown that aniline exposure leads to increased nitration of proteins in the spleen. However, nitrated proteins remain to be characterized. Therefore, in the current study using proteomic approaches, we focused on characterizing the nitrated proteins in the spleen of aniline-exposed rats. Aniline exposure led to increased tyrosine nitration of proteins, as determined by 2D Western blotting with anti-3-nitrotyrosine specific antibody, compared to the controls. The analyzed nitrated proteins were found in the molecular weight range of 27.7 to 123.6kDa. A total of 37 nitrated proteins were identified in aniline-treated and control spleens. Among them, 25 were found only in aniline-treated rats, 11 were present in both aniline-treated and control rats, while one was found in controls only. The nitrated proteins identified mainly represent skeletal proteins, chaperones, ferric iron transporter, enzymes, nucleic acids binding protein, and signaling and protein synthesis pathways. Furthermore, aniline exposure led to significantly increased iNOS mRNA and protein expression in the spleen, suggesting its role in increased reactive nitrogen species formation and contribution to increased nitrated proteins. The identified nitrated proteins provide a global map to further investigate alterations in their structural and functional properties, which will lead to a better understanding of the role of protein nitration in aniline-mediated splenic toxicity.
Angiogenesis is a primary disease target in ocular retinopathy and a secondary target in numerous other angiogenic diseases such as cancer, rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis. Clinical trials using antiangiogenic antisense oligonucleotides (aso's) for the treatment of ocular disorders or cancer are well advanced. Clusterin aso's are currently under investigation for the treatment of prostate cancer. We have investigated the antiangiogenic properties of clusterin aso's using a capillary cell (HUVEC) viability assay. In this study we included aso's to known apoptosis modulators (bcl-2, bcl-xl and survivin) which were previously identified in HUVEC's. We have also studied the effect of clusterin aso's on angiogenesis using an in vitro, matrigel assay and on HUVEC apoptosis using an ELISA DNA fragmentation assay. Clusterin, bcl-2, bcl-xl and survivin aso's were all found to inhibit HUVEC growth. The apoptosis-inducing drugs paclitaxel, camptothecin and doxorubicin were also found to inhibit HUVEC proliferation. Combinations of aso's with these drugs demonstrated a minor additive but not synergistic inhibitory effect on HUVEC proliferation. Clusterin aso's were found to strongly inhibit angiogenesis and induce high levels of apoptosis in HUVECs. In cancer cells the prosurvival protein clusterin may protect the cells from apoptosis-inducing agents so that the clusterin aso's may act as chemosensitization agents. These data demonstrate a strong antiangiogenic action of clusterin aso's, that is not necessarily related to any chemosensitization effect of this agent.
Stanniocalcin 1 (STC1) and STC2 are secreted, homodimeric glycoproteins that share 30% amino acid sequence identity. Breast tumour gene profiling studies have demonstrated significantly upregulated STC2 expression in hormone-responsive positive breast tumours; therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate STC2 hormonal regulation and function in breast cancer cells. Here we report that STC2 is expressed in a number of human breast cancer cell lines, regardless of their oestrogen (E(2)) and progesterone (P4) receptor status, and its expression is readily detectable in human and mouse mammary gland tumours. Besides E(2), retinoic acid (RA) and P4 play an important role in the regulation of STC2 expression, not only in MCF-7 but also in other breast cancer and non-breast cell lines. The expression of the related hormone, STC1, is not affected by the above hormones in breast and endometrial cancer cell lines implying a fundamental difference in regulation in cancer cell lines. The induction of STC2 expression by E(2) and RA occurs at the transcriptional level but through intermediary transcription factors. The STC2 proximal promoter region is not responsible for hormonal induction, but exhibits a high basal transcriptional activity. Constitutive STC2 expression in human breast cancer cell lines resulted in significant impairment of cell growth, migration and cell viability after serum withdrawal. In conclusion, STC2 is a downstream target of E(2), P4 and RA signalling pathways. In hormone receptor negative cell lines it can function in a paracrine/autocrine fashion to reduce cell proliferation.
We report a 10-year-old female with Wilms tumor (WT) who developed severe neuropathy after the fifth weekly dose of vincristine. The girl was previously asymptomatic and the family history was negative for inherited neuropathies. Neurophysiological studies and electrodiagnostic findings were suggestive of a axonal neuropathy with greater motor than sensory characteristics not typical of Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) Type 1A. Genetic studies were performed in view of the degree of neurotoxicity. Duplication of 17p11.2 was found that supported the diagnosis of CMT Type 1A. The patient is alive without disease and with minimal weakness of the lower extremities after 42 months. Neurophysiological studies, repeated at 8 and 24 months, were negative. Although the association of asymptomatic CMT and vincristine neuropathy has been previously reported, the present case is of note because the reversible neuropathy occurred after five doses of vincristine, suggesting that possible more people suffering vincristine neurotoxicity may have underlying and asymptomatic CMT.
2,2,5,7,8-Pentamethyl-6-chromanol (PMCol) was administered by gavage in rats for 28 days at dose levels of 0, 100, 500, and 2000mg/kg/day. PMCol administration induced decreases in body weight gains and food consumption, hepatotoxicity (increased TBILI, ALB, ALT, TP; increased relative liver weights; increased T4 and TSH), nephrotoxicity (increased BUN and BUN/CREAT, histopathology lesions), effect on lipid metabolism (increased CHOL), anemia, increase in WBC counts (total and differential), coagulation (FBGN upward arrow and PT downward arrow) and hyperkeratosis of the nonglandular stomach in the 2000mg/kg/day dose group (in one or both sexes). In the 500mg/kg/day dose group, toxicity was seen to a lesser extent. In the 100mg/kg/day dose group, only increased CHOL (females) was observed. To assess the toxicity of PMCol in male dogs it was administered orally by capsule administration for 28 days at dose levels of 0, 50, 200 and 800mg/kg/day (four male dogs/dose group). PMCol treatment at 800mg/kg/day resulted in pronounced toxicity to the male dogs. Target organs of toxicity were liver and thymus. Treatment at 200mg/kg/day resulted in toxicity consistent with slight adverse effect on the liver only. The results of the safety pharmacology study indicate that doses of 0, 50, 200 and 800mg/kg administered orally did not have an effect on the QT interval, blood pressures and body temperatures following dosing over a 24-h recording period. Under the conditions of this study, the no-observed-adverse effect level (NOAEL) for daily oral administration of PMCol by gavage for 28 days to male rats was 100mg/kg/day and 50mg/kg in male dogs. In female rats, the NOAEL was not established due to statistically significant and biologically meaningful increases in CHOL level seen in the 100mg/kg/day dose group. The results of these studies indicated that administration of PMCol at higher dose levels resulted in severe toxicity in dogs and moderate toxicity in rats, however, administration at lower levels is considered to be less likely to result in toxicity following 28 days of exposure. Sex-related differences were seen in rats. Male rats appeared to have greater sensitivity to nephrotoxicity, while female animals had a greater incidence of hepatoxicity and changes in hematological parameters evaluated, especially at a dose of 500mg/kg/day, which correlated to the higher plasma drug levels in female rats. It appeared that dogs were generally more sensitive than rats to oral administration of PMCol. Further examination of the potential toxic effects of PMCol in longer term studies is required prior to understanding the full risks of PMCol administration as a chemopreventative agent.
The peptide-leukotriene antagonist, ICI 204,219 [4-(5-cyclopentyloxycarbonylamino-lmethylindol-3-ylmethyl )-3-methoxy-n-o-tolylsulfonyl benzamide], was administered 12 hours before an inhaled leukotriene D4 (LTD4) challenge during a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, two-period crossover trial. Subjects with mild asthma were randomized into five treatment groups (six subjects each) and received single oral doses of placebo and either 5, 10, 20, 40, or 100 mg of ICI 204,219 on day 1 of each treatment period. ICI 204,219 was tolerated well by all subjects. A progressive dose response was observed for doses of ICI 204,219 from 5 mg through 100 mg. Compared with placebo, ICI 204,219 increased the concentration (PC20FEV1) and dose of LTD4 needed to reduce forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) by 20%. Mean LTD4 PC20FEV1 for groups that received placebo and 10, 40, or 100 mg ICI 204,219 increased by tenfold or more (p < 0.05). An association was found between the plasma concentration and protective effect of ICI 204,219 (p < 0.01). ICI 204,219 is the first leukotriene receptor antagonist for which a relationship has been established between drug plasma levels and its protective effect in subjects with asthma.
Although the acute toxic effects of trichothecene mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON or vomitoxin), a known cause of human food poisoning, have been well characterized in several animal species, much less is known about closely related 8-ketotrichothecenes that similarly occur in cereal grains colonized by toxigenic fusaria. To address this, we compared potencies of DON, 15-acetyldeoxynivalenol (15-ADON), 3-acetyldeoxynivalenol (3-ADON), fusarenon X (FX), and nivalenol (NIV) in the mink emesis model following intraperitoneal (ip) and oral administration. All five congeners dose-dependently induced emesis by both administration methods. With increasing doses, there were marked decreases in latency to emesis with corresponding increases in emesis duration and number of emetic events. The effective doses resulting in emetic events in 50% of the animals for ip exposure to DON, 15-ADON, 3-ADON, FX, and NIV were 80, 170, 180, 70, and 60 µg/kg bw, respectively, and for oral exposure, they were 30, 40, 290, 30, and 250 µg/kg bw, respectively. The emetic potency of DON determined here was comparable to that reported in analogous studies conducted in pigs and dogs, suggesting that the mink is a suitable small animal model for investigating acute trichothecene toxicity. The use of a mouse pica model, based on the consumption of kaolin, was also evaluated as a possible surrogate for studying emesis but was found unsuitable. From a public health perspective, comparative emetic potency data derived from small animal models such as the mink should be useful for establishing toxic equivalency factors for DON and other trichothecenes.
Silymarin, a flavonolignan from 'milk thistle' (Silybum marianum) plant is used almost exclusively for hepatoprotection and amounts to 180 million US dollars business in Germany alone. In this review we discuss about its safety, efficacy and future uses in liver diseases. The use of silymarin may replace the polyherbal formulations and will avoid the major problems of standardization, quality control and contamination with heavy metals or bacterial toxins. Silymarin consists of four flavonolignan isomers namely--silybin, isosilybin, silydianin and silychristin. Among them, silybin being the most active and commonly used. Silymarin is orally absorbed and is excreted mainly through bile as sulphates and conjugates. Silymarin offers good protection in various toxic models of experimental liver diseases in laboratory animals. It acts by antioxidative, anti-lipid peroxidative, antifibrotic, anti-inflammatory, membrane stabilizing, immunomodulatory and liver regenerating mechanisms. Silymarin has clinical applications in alcoholic liver diseases, liver cirrhosis, Amanita mushroom poisoning, viral hepatitis, toxic and drug induced liver diseases and in diabetic patients. Though silymarin does not have antiviral properties against hepatitis virus, it promotes protein synthesis, helps in regenerating liver tissue, controls inflammation, enhances glucuronidation and protects against glutathione depletion. Silymarin may prove to be a useful drug for hepatoprotection in hepatobiliary diseases and in hepatotoxicity due to drugs. The non traditional use of silymarin may make a breakthrough as a new approach to protect other organs in addition to liver. As it is having a good safety profile, better patient tolerability and an effective drug at an affordable price, in near future new derivatives or new combinations of this drug may prove to be useful.
The side-effects of oral contraceptives on the nervous system have been studied in 2 patients. The first case, a young woman who, after several years, of cyclic consumption of 4 mg of norethylsterone acetate and 0.05 mg of ethynilestradiol, died from a transtentorial temporal hernia due to severe intracranial hypertension. Angiography, and later autopsy, showed thrombosis of the dural venous sinuses and also of the majority of the emissary veins with C.S.F. blockage. The second case, a patient who took 1 mg of norethyndrone and 0.05 mg of mestranol for 20 months, developed a focal symptomatology (Grand Mal, global aphasia without lowering of the level of conscionsness) which cleared up rapidly. The CAT performed during the clinical illness showed mild signs of intracranial hypertension while cerebral angiography normal. It seems possible that the hormonal treatment may disturb the mechanisms of C.S.F. production-reabsorbtion and the filtration dynamics of the blood-brain barrier and perhaps, cause alteration of hypothalamic-hypophysial function. This would explain a transitory symptomatology, such as benign intracranial hypertension. However, the thrombosis of the venous sinuses (sometimes, as in our first case, massive) may be due to the venous stasis, that accompanies intracranial hypertension and to the altered blood coagulation.
2 cases of serious complications from oral contraception are presented. The first patient, on oral contraception for some time, died of a temporal hernia due to severe intracranial hypertension. Autopsy and angiography revealed thrombosis of the venous sinuses. The second patient, on oral contraception for 20 months, developed sudden aphasia and epilepsy without ever losing consciousness; tests showed intracranial hypertension, but a normal angiography. She recovered rapidly after treatment and after suspension of oral contraception. Oral contraceptives might alter the mechanism of production and reabsorption of cerebrospinal fluid, and also disturb the hypothalamo-hypophyseal function. The article includes a short review of studies on the problem.
Apoptosis of photoreceptors occurs infrequently in adult retina but can be triggered in inherited and environmentally induced retinal degenerations. The protooncogene bcl-2 is known to be a potent regulator of cell survival in neurons. We created lines of transgenic mice overexpressing bcl-2 to test for its ability to increase photoreceptor survival. Bcl-2 increased photoreceptor survival in mice with retinal degeneration caused by a defective opsin or cGMP phosphodiesterase. Overexpression of Bcl-2 in normal photoreceptors also decreased the damaging effects of constant light exposure. Apoptosis was induced in normal photoreceptors by very high levels of bcl-2. We conclude that bcl-2 is an important regulator of photoreceptor cell death in retinal degenerations.
Insulin resistance (IR) impairs vascular responses in coronary arteries, but mechanisms of dysfunction and approaches to treatment remain unclear. We examined the ability of a new 3-hydroxy-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, rosuvastatin, to reverse reduced dilator responses in rats made IR by feeding a fructose-rich diet (FF). Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized to control (normal rat diet) or FF. After 1 wk, rats received rosuvastatin (2 mg/kg) or placebo (saline) subcutaneously for 5 wk. Biochemical measurements and in vitro functional studies of small coronary arteries were performed. Fasting insulin and triglyceride (TG) levels were markedly increased in FF-placebo rats compared with other groups. Rosuvastatin treatment of FF rats normalized TG and modestly decreased insulin levels. ACh-induced dilator responses were depressed in arteries from FF-placebo rats. This impairment was due to decreased responses via calcium-dependent K channels (K(Ca)). Rosuvastatin treatment of FF rats completely reversed the response to ACh to normal levels. Moreover, this recovery in function was due to an improvement in vasodilation via K(Ca). Thus rosuvastatin treatment of IR rats normalizes coronary vascular dilator responses by improving the K(Ca) function.
Ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA) is a known complete renal carcinogen. In this study we show that Fe-NTA is a potent inducer of renal ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and DNA synthesis and promoter of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced renal tumorigenesis in rat. Fe-NTA induced renal ODC activity several fold as compared with saline-treated rats. Renal DNA synthesis, measured as [3H]thymidine incorporation into DNA, was increased after Fe-NTA treatment. Similar to other known tumor promoters, Fe-NTA also depleted the antioxidant armory of the tissue. It depleted glutathione (GSH) levels to approximately 55% of saline-treated controls. It also led to a dose-dependent decrease in the activities of glutathione reductase and glutathione S-transferase. Similarly, activities of catalase, glutathione peroxidase and glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase decreased significantly (45-65%). In contrast, gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity showed an increase. The maximum changes in activities of these enzymes could be observed at 12 h following Fe-NTA treatment. In addition, Fe-NTA augmented renal microsomal lipid peroxidation >150% over saline-treated controls, which was concomitant with the alterations in GSH metabolizing enzymes and depletion of the antioxidant armory. These effects were alleviated in rats which received a pretreatment with an antioxidant, BHA or BHT. Fe-NTA promoted DEN-induced renal tumorigenesis. In saline alone- and DEN alone-treated animals no tumors could be recorded, whereas in Fe-NTA alone-treated animals 17% tumor incidence was observed. However, in DEN-initiated and Fe-NTA-promoted animals tumor incidence increased to 71%. Our results show that Fe-NTA induces oxidative stress in the kidney and decreases antioxidant defenses, as indicated by the fall in GSH level and in the activities of glutathione peroxidase and catalase. Concomitantly, Fe-NTA increases ODC activity and DNA synthesis, which may be compensatory changes following oxidative injury to renal cells in addition to providing a strong stimulus for renal tumor promotion. Thus oxidative stress and impaired antioxidant defenses induced by Fe-NTA in the kidney may contribute to the observed nephrotoxicity and carcinogenicity.
In a 3-centre study involving 144 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), a relationship between side effects from D-penicillamine and HLA antigens, allotypic markers of the IgG heavy chain (Gm) and allotypes of complement components Bf, C4A and C4B was sought. There was a significant association between proteinuria induced by D-penicillamine and the antigens DR3 and B8. However, the presence of DR2 seemed to protect against the development of proteinuria. Thrombocytopenia from D-penicillamine was significantly associated with HLA-A1 and DR4; 15 of 23 patients who possessed both antigens developed thrombocytopenia (p less than 0.001 uncorrected, approximate relative risk (RR) = 5.5). A null complement allele located at the C4B locus (C4BQO) was also associated with thrombocytopenia from D-penicillamine (p less than 0.005, RR = 17.3). Our study confirms the findings from other series which indicate that there is a genetic predisposition for the development of proteinuria from D-penicillamine in RA and suggests that this may also be the case in D-penicillamine induced thrombocytopenia.
