11 patients (aged 23--75 years) with refractory acute leukemia were treated at the Maine Medical Center with 5-Azacytidine, 150 mg/m2/day, by continuous infusion for 5 days every 2 weeks. Prior therapy included anthracycline/cytosine arabinoside protocols. Of the 8 patients with refractory de novo acute myelogenous leukemia, 6 achieved remission at an overall response rate of 75% (3 complete remission and 3 partial remission). An average of 1.67 courses was necessary to achieve a response. Remissions were not seen in blastic chronic myelogenous leukemia nor in acute leukemia secondary to cytotoxic drugs. Toxicity included myelosuppression, moderate nausea and vomiting, abnormal liver function tests, and neuromuscular symptoms. 5-Azacytidine by continuous infusion has significant activity in refractory acute myelogenous leukemia and should be considered for inclusion in primary remission induction therapy.
The present meta-analysis pooled data from 5 double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in 432 patients with dyslipidemia treated with various doses of extended-release niacin. Data were analyzed for possible gender differences in response to treatment. At all doses, mean decreases in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were greater in women than in men; differences were significant at doses of 1,000 mg (6.8% vs 0.2%, p = 0.006), 1,500 mg (11.3% vs 5.6%, p = 0.013), 2,000 mg (14.8% vs 6.9%, p = 0.010), and 3,000 mg (28.7% vs 17.7%, p = 0.006). Decreases in triglyceride levels also tended to be greater in women than in men but reached significance only at the 1,500-mg dose (28.6% vs 20.4%, p = 0.040). No similar trends or significant gender differences were noted in levels of lipoprotein(a) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. This meta-analysis confirms that women respond as well as men, and possibly slightly better, to treatment with extended-release niacin and that it is a safe and effective treatment option for women with dyslipidemia.
Pulmonary toxicity of styrene is initiated by cytochromes P450-dependent metabolic activation. P450 2E1 and P450 2F2 are considered to be two main cytochrome P450 enzymes responsible for styrene metabolism in mice. The objective of the current study was to determine the correlation between the formation of styrene metabolites (i.e., styrene oxide and 4-vinylphenol) and pulmonary toxicity of styrene, using Cyp2e1- and Cyp2f2-null mouse models. A dramatic decrease in the formation of styrene glycol and 4-vinylphenol was found in Cyp2f2-null mouse lung microsomes relative to that in the wild-type mouse lung microsomes; however, no significant difference in the production of the styrene metabolites was observed between lung microsomes obtained from Cyp2e1-null and the wild-type mice. The knockout and wild-type mice were treated with styrene (6.0 mmol/kg, ip), and cell counts and LDH activity in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids were monitored to evaluate the pulmonary toxicity induced by styrene. Cyp2e1-null mice displayed a susceptibility to lung toxicity of styrene similar to that of the wild-type animals; however, Cyp2f2-null mice were resistant to styrene-induced pulmonary toxicity. In conclusion, both P450 2E1 and P450 2F2 are responsible for the metabolic activation of styrene. The latter enzyme plays an important role in styrene-induced pulmonary toxicity. Both styrene oxide and 4-vinylphenol are suggested to participate in the development of lung injury induced by styrene.
The advantages of perioperative low dose heparinization as well known. Angiospastic reactions of Heparin-DHE have been described. In some cases additional factors such as interruption of blood flow and application of sympathicomimetics, are supposed to be decisive for the course. In cases where the application of sympathicomimetics might be necessary, perioperative treatment with DHE should therefore be avoided. Consequent observation of the peripheric blood flow is required in traumatized patients. In addition to other vasodilating agents the intraarterial application of Prostaglandin E1 is of advantage in case of angiospastic reactions.
Ondansetron can rarely induce extrapyramidal reactions in susceptible individuals. Our patient had a history of drug-induced dystonic reaction; therefore, these patients may be susceptible to extrapyramidal adverse reactions after ondansetron.
Understanding the neurobiological underpinnings of putative memory stabilization processes that maintain context-response-cocaine associations in long-term memory and underlie contextual control over addictive behavior is of great interest from an addiction treatment perspective. Using an instrumental animal model of contextual drug relapse we show that the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin, administered into the basolateral amygdala (BLA) immediately after limited (15- or 60-min) re-exposure to a previously cocaine-paired context, subsequently disrupted the ability of the previously cocaine-paired context to reinstate extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior relative to vehicle. Consistent with a BLA-mediated memory reconsolidation deficit, a similar impairment in cocaine-seeking behavior was not observed in (i) 'no-reactivation' control groups that received anisomycin into the BLA after (re)exposure to either a novel unpaired or an extinction-paired context or in (ii) a neuroanatomical control group that received anisomycin into the posterior caudate-putamen, dorsally adjacent to the BLA, after re-exposure to the cocaine-paired context. Furthermore, anisomycin administered into the BLA after brief (5-min) or extensive (120-min) re-exposure to the cocaine-paired context (which was sufficient to extinguish cocaine-seeking behavior in a vehicle control group) also failed to alter responding. Together, these findings suggest that re-exposure to a cocaine-paired context in the absence of cocaine reinforcement is sufficient to trigger memory reconsolidation processes that support future drug-seeking behavior. The presence and duration of drug-related memory reactivation critically influences, and anisomycin-sensitive mechanisms in the BLA selectively control, this phenomenon. These findings support the feasibility of novel pharmacotherapeutic approaches that selectively inhibit the reconsolidation of cocaine-related memories in order to prevent drug relapse.
Opioid-induced hyperalgesia, toxicity, and withdrawal are phenomena that may occur with intrathecal opioid infusion. We present a case in which a patient received intrathecal morphine infusion, and then experienced a clinical course that may have involved hyperalgesia, toxicity, and/or withdrawal. The possible differential diagnosis of opioid-induced hyperalgesia, toxicity, and withdrawal, and its implications in clinical pain management, are discussed. This report demonstrates the complexity of treating patients with long-term continuous intrathecal opioids when modest adjustment of the intrathecal cocktail results in a paradoxical clinical course.
We are presenting 20 patients with hepatitis C, who developed anemia on interferon alpha-2b/ribavirin treatment and were treated with recombinant human c alpha. Median age was 43 years (range 25-72). Four patients received previous treatment. Interferon-alpha-2b was given at six million units three times a week to 10 patients and at three million units three times a week to five patients. PEG-interferon-alpha-2b (80-120 mug/week) was given to five patients. The dose of ribavirin was 800-1200 mg/day (19 patients) and 200 mg/day (one patient with renal failure). Duration of an interferon/ribavirin treatment was 6-12 months. Baseline median hemoglobin was 13.3 g/dl (range 12.2-15.8); median hemoglobin nadir: 9.8 g/dl (range 8.4-11.2). On erythropoietin, the hemoglobin increased to median 11.7 g/dl (range 9.6-12.8). The ribavirin dose had been decreased to 800 mg in four patients, to 600 mg in four patients, to 400 mg in one patient. Thirteen patients responded to interferon/ribavirin treatment, six patients (all genotype 1) did not. Of the 13 initial responders 11 had sustained response, one still under treatment and two patients relapsed. In conclusion, in our patients with chronic hepatitis C treated with interferon/ribavirin combination therapy, erythropoietin was beneficial in the treatment of ribavirin-induced anemia.
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) has been well documented in association with propylthiouracil (PTU), and some patients with PTU-induced ANCA also develop clinical vasculitis. The aim of the current study was to detect ANCA specificities in sera from patients with PTU-induced ANCA with and without clinical vasculitis.
Sera from 65 patients with PTU-induced ANCA were collected, and 27 of these patients were diagnosed with PTU-induced ANCA associated systemic vasculitis (AASV). Indirect immunofluorescence assay and antigen-specific ELISAs were used to detect ANCA and their antigen specificities. The seven known target antigens included myeloperoxidase (MPO), proteinase 3, human leukocyte elastase, lactoferrin, cathepsin G, azurocidin and bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein (BPI).
In IIF assay, P-ANCA was found in 58/65 (89.2%) sera, C-ANCA in two, both P-ANCA and C-ANCA in five, respectively. MPO (60%) and lactoferrin (63.1%) were the two most common target antigens detected in sera from all the patients. 25/27 sera from patients with PTU-induced AASV recognized multiple target antigens, which was significantly higher than those (13/38) from patients without (P<0.001). Except anti-BPI antibodies, the prevalence of antibodies against the other six target antigens was significantly higher in patients with clinical vasculitis than that in patients without (P<0.05, respectively).
Antibodies against multiple ANCA specific antigens, especially the antigens rather than MPO and PR3, might be the characteristic of PTU-induced ANCA. Patients with antibodies against more ANCA specific antigens might be at increased risk of developing overt clinical vasculitis. The mechanism of ANCA production in PTU-induced cases was different from that in primary AASV.
The present study was designed to evaluate the effects of chronic fluorosis on the dynamics (including fusion and fission proteins), fragmentation, and distribution of mitochondria in the cortical neurons of the rat brain in an attempt to elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying the brain damage associated with excess accumulation of fluoride. Sixty Sprague-Dawley rats were divided randomly into three groups of 20 each, that is, the untreated control group (drinking water naturally containing <0.5 mg fluoride/l, NaF), the low-fluoride group (whose drinking water was supplemented with 10 mg fluoride/l) and the high-fluoride group (50 mg fluoride/l). After 6 months of exposure, the expression of mitofusin-1 (Mfn1), fission-1 (Fis1), and dynamin-related protein-1 (Drp1) at both the protein and mRNA levels were detected by Western blotting, immunohistochemistry, and real-time PCR, respectively. Moreover, mitochondrial morphology and distribution in neurons were observed by transmission electron or fluorescence microscopy. In the cortices of the brains of rats with chronic fluorosis, the level of Mfn1 protein was clearly reduced, whereas the levels of Fis1 and Drp1 were elevated. The alternations of expression of the mRNAs encoding all three of these proteins were almost the same as the corresponding changes at the protein levels. The mitochondria were fragmented and the redistributed away from the axons of the cortical neurons. These findings indicate that chronic fluorosis induces abnormal mitochondrial dynamics, which might in turn result in a high level of oxidative stress.
This study is focused on the toxicological effect of cyclophosphamide on male mice reproductive system. In the present study, cyclophosphamide was injected intraperitoneally (ip) at the level of 50-200mg/kg body weight into 6-weeks old ICR male mice once in a week for a period of 5 weeks. The animals were sacrificed after 1st and 5th week of last injection. Reduction in weight of testis and epididymis were observed both in 1st and 5th week group mice after administration with increasing concentration of cyclophosphamide. The weight of the body significantly decreased in both 1st and 5th week group in mice treated with 200mg/kg cyclophosphamide. The weight of the testis significantly decreased with all doses of cyclophosphamide in 1st week group, whereas, in 5th week group significant reduction was observed only in 200mg/kg dose of cyclophosphamide. The sperm motility was analyzed with Computer-Assisted Sperm Analysis (CASA). The motility of caudal sperm decreased with increasing concentration of cyclophosphamide in the 1st week group, whereas, it revived after 5th week. The total sperm counts in the epididymis of 1st week group mice declined significantly while significant restoration of the same was observed with mice treated with 50,100 and 150 mg/kg doses in the 5th week group. The intact acrosome was lower with 150 and 200mg/kg doses in both 1st and 5th week group. The live sperm was reduced to 29% in mice treated with 200mg/kg in the 5th week group. The decrease in the pregnancy rate of female mice was 17, 50, 58 and 100% when mated with male mice injected with 50, 100, 150 and 200mg/kg dose, respectively. Seminiferous tubules of mouse testis were severely damaged in the 1st week group. However, reinstate of sperm within the seminiferous tubules was observed in the 5th week group mice. Significant decrease in serum luteinizing hormone (LH) was observed in the 1st week group treated with 50, 100, 150 and 200mg/kg dose of cyclophosphamide. However, no significant difference was observed in the serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), whereas, a decrease of about 98% in serum testosterone level was observed in cyclophosphamide treated mice. The decrease in the mean testosterone levels of cyclophosphamide treated mice served as proof for the damage of testis. These results demonstrate that cyclophosphamide caused temporary interference of normal male reproductive system with low dose treatment, but might be permanent dysfunction in high dose treatment.
Zymosan- or thioglycollate-induced experimental peritoneal inflammation in mice may serve as a convenient model for investigations of involvement of opioid peptides derived from exudatory leukocytes in the inflammatory processes. During peritonitis, the influx of neutrophils and monocytes/macrophages correlated with a sequential appearance of proinflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta and TNFalpha). After both kinds of stimulation, the expression of PENK mRNA was much higher in exudatory peritoneal leukocytes than its basal level in steady state.
Astragalus membranaceus (AM) has been widely used for treating kidney diseases in traditional Chinese medicine. In this study, the Astragalus polysaccharide (APS), the main active ingredient was isolated and purified from the Rhizomes of AM, which consisted of d-glucopyranose and had the molecular weight of 3.6x10(4) Da. The effect of APS on glomerulonephritis rats induced by cationic Bovine Serum Albumin(C-BSA) was evaluated by flow cytometry using Nuclear Transcription Factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) as marker. Interleukin-2 (IL-2), Interleukin-6 (IL-6) and Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were determined by the ELISA method. The rats (model group and treatment group) were injected subcutaneously with C-BSA plus incomplete Freund's adjuvant on day 0, C-BSA was injected through the caudal vein from week 2 to week 7 to induce glomerulonephritis. The rats (treatment group) were given APS by intraperitoneal injection from week 2 to week 7. The expression of NF-kappaB and the concentration of IL-2, IL-6 and TNF-alpha were significantly decreased in the treatment group. This study clearly suggests that APS is effective in protecting against glomerulonephritis induced by C-BSA through the inhibition of NF-kappaB mediated-cytokine pathway.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography has proven to be a method with high diagnostic accuracy in the detection of coronary artery disease. In case of previous myocardial infarction it is of importance to detect additional regions with inducible myocardial ischemia. This study aimed at the detection of inducible ischemia by dobutamine stress echocardiography and stress perfusion scintigraphy in patients without and with previous myocardial infarction. 50 patients without as well as 50 patients with previous transmural myocardial infarction were investigated. In all patients coronary angiography, technetium-99m methoxy-isobutyl-isonitrile (MIBI)-SPECT after bicycle ergometry and dobutamine stress echocardiography (up to 40 mcg/kg/min dobutamine, 1 mg atropine) were performed within 14 days. In patients with previous myocardial infarction dobutamine stress echocardiography and MIBI-SPECT had similar sensitivities (91 vs. 94%, n.s.) and specificities (81 vs. 75%; n.s.) in the detection of significant coronary artery disease. Agreement on the presence or absence of inducible ischemia was 84% (Kappa = 0.60). In patients with previous transmural myocardial infarction sensitivity of stress echocardiography and perfusion scintigraphy in the detection of significant coronary artery disease is lower with 63% and 77%, respectively. In this patient group transient perfusion defects were found more frequently than inducible wall motion abnormalities, 76% and 60%, respectively. There was a lower agreement (76%; Kappa = 0.49) in the detection of abnormal or normal results between dobutamine echocardiography and stress perfusion scintigraphy for this group of patients.
This study demonstrates high agreement of dobutamine stress echocardiography and stress perfusion scintigraphy in the evaluation of inducible ischemia in patients without previous transmural myocardial infarction and equal diagnostic accuracy in the detection of coronary artery disease. In patients with previous myocardial infarction there is a lower agreement in the interpretation of patients as having ischemia due to negative dobutamine echo results in patients having positive perfusion scintigraphies.
Zoledronic acid is a potent bisphosphonate licensed for the treatment of myeloma and bone metastases from solid tumors. Renal deterioration is the most significant toxicity associated with zoledronic acid. We attempted to define the incidence and clinical significance of renal deterioration in patients receiving zoledronic acid and to develop a risk-factor profile for this treatment sequela. This study is a retrospective analysis of all patients who received zoledronic acid at Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, Pa, between 1/10/02 and 1/30/04. Data recorded included patient demographics, tumor characteristics, comorbid illnesses, concomitant medications, cancer therapy, number of zoledronic acid doses administered, and serial creatinine measurements. In total, 3,115 evaluable doses of zoledronic acid were administered to 446 patients (median, 4 doses; mean, 6.98 doses; range, 1-28 doses) at a dose of 4 mg over 15 minutes every 3-4 weeks. Of these 446 patients, 42 experienced renal deterioration (median rise in creatinine level, 1.0 mg/dL; range, 0.5-4.4 mg/dL), requiring discontinuation of zoledronic acid therapy in 8 cases. No patient required dialysis and no patient died as a result of zoledronic acid-induced renal dysfunction. On multivariable analysis, predictive factors for the development of renal deterioration were patient age, a diagnosis of myeloma or renal cell cancer, cumulative number of doses, concomitant therapy with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, and current or prior therapy with cisplatin. Using these factors, we constructed a predictive model with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.75. The incidence of clinically significant renal deterioration in patients treated with zoledronic acid is low.We present a predictive model for decision support when estimating this risk.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO) induces B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) cell apoptosis in vitro. We sought to study the mechanism involved in this effect and whether ATO is suitable for combination therapies with protein kinase inhibitors.
B-CLL cells were isolated from the peripheral blood of 28 patients. Cell viability studies with ATO alone or in combination with kinase inhibitors were done by flow cytometry, Western blotting, and immunofluorescence analyses.
After 48 hours, 3 mumol/L ATO induced apoptosis (average 75%) in all B-CLL samples studied and with minimal effect on normal peripheral blood lymphocytes. Apoptosis entailed Akt and NF-kappaB inactivation, XIAP downregulation, and PTEN upregulation, thus implying inhibition of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) survival pathway. Indeed, the combination of ATO and PI3K inhibitors increased the apoptotic effect of either agent alone. ATO also induced c-jun-NH(2) terminal kinase (JNK) activation, and this was crucial and required for subsequent apoptotic events, as inhibiting JNK activity by either gene silencing or specific inhibitors prevented Akt and NF-kappaB inactivation, caspase activation, and mitochondrial damage. Moreover, JNK activation was the earliest response to ATO, preceding and determining reactive oxygen species production.
We identified the mechanism involved in ATO action on B-CLL cells and show that the combination of low doses of ATO and PI3K inhibitors efficiently induces B-CLL cell death. ATO may therefore constitute an efficient treatment for B-CLL, particularly in combined therapies.
Aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA), a major clinical presentation of aspirin hypersensitivity, affects 10% of adult asthmatics. The genetic risk factors involved in the susceptibility to AIA have recently been investigated, but multilocus single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with this susceptibility has not been evaluated.
We examined 246 asthmatic patients: 94 having aspirin intolerance and 152 having aspirin tolerance. We selected 23 SNPs of 13 candidate genes and genotyped each SNP using a primer extension method. Multilocus genetic interactions were examined using multifactor dimensionality reduction (MDR) to test all multilocus SNP combinations to identify a useful SNP set for predicting the AIA phenotype.
We identified the best model using the MDR method, which consisted of a four-locus gene-gene interaction with 65.16% balanced accuracy and a cross-validation consistency of 70% in predicting AIA disease risk among asthmatic patients. This model included four SNPs such as B2ADR 46A>G, CCR3-520T>G, CysLTR1-634C>T, and FCER1B-109T>C.
These results suggest that a multilocus SNP acts in combination to influence the susceptibility to aspirin intolerance in asthmatics and could be a useful genetic marker for the diagnosis of AIA.
Neurosurgical patients have a high risk of hyponatremia and associated complications. We critically evaluated the existing literature to identify the determinants for the development of hyponatremia and which management strategies provided the best outcomes.
A multidisciplinary panel in the areas of neurosurgery, nephrology, critical care medicine, endocrinology, pharmacy, and nursing summarized and classified hyponatremia literature scientific studies published in English from 1950 through 2008. The panel's recommendations were used to create an evaluation and treatment protocol for hyponatremia in neurosurgical patients at the University of Florida.
Hyponatremia should be further investigated and treated when the serum sodium level is less than 131 mmol/L (class II). Evaluation of hyponatremia should include a combination of physical examination findings, basic laboratory studies, and invasive monitoring when available (class III). Obtaining levels of hormones such as antidiuretic hormone and natriuretic peptides is not supported by the literature (class III). Treatment of hyponatremia should be based on severity of symptoms (class III). The serum sodium level should not be corrected by more than 10 mmol/L/d (class III). Cerebral salt wasting should be treated with replacement of serum sodium and intravenous fluids (class III). Fludrocortisone may be considered in the treatment of hyponatremia in subarachnoid hemorrhage patients at risk of vasospasm (class I). Hydrocortisone may be used to prevent natriuresis in subarachnoid hemorrhage patients (class I). Hyponatremia in subarachnoid hemorrhage patients at risk of vasospasm should not be treated with fluid restriction (class II). Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone may be treated with urea, diuretics, lithium, demeclocycline, and/or fluid restriction (class III).
The summarized literature on the evaluation and treatment of hyponatremia was used to develop practice management recommendations for hyponatremia in the neurosurgical population. However, the practice management recommendations relied heavily on expert opinion because of a paucity of class I evidence literature on hyponatremia.
Intoxication due to insufficient renal clearance developed in 2 patients, a 54-year-old man and a 61-year-old woman, who were under treatment with methotrexate (MTX) for a primary cerebral lymphoma and a recurrence of large-cell B-cell-non-Hodgkin lymphoma, respectively. Both were treated with folinic acid rescue, thymidine, and alkalisation of the urine. MTX is a cytotoxic drug that is often used in oncology and rheumatology. Significant and even lethal toxicity can develop when the elimination ofMTX is delayed or when supportive care, such as folinic acid rescue, is inadequate. Delayed elimination can be caused by reduced renal function, by the 'third space' phenomenon such as in case of ascites, pleural fluid accumulation and oedema, and by drug-drug interactions leading to reduced renal function or a disturbance in the plasma protein binding ofMTX. Once toxicity has developed, the therapy must be directed at protection of the normal tissues, restoration of renal function and hence the renal elimination ofMTX, restoration of the alkalisation of the urine, and general supportive therapy.
Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine found pre-formed in the urothelium. During inflammation, MIF is released into the bladder lumen and bladder MIF mRNA is upregulated. Since MIF also has tautomerase activity and blocking tautomerase activity also blocks MIF's biological activity, we hypothesized that blocking MIF's tautomerase activity would prevent bladder inflammation. Therefore, we examined the effects of a MIF tautomerase inhibitor (ISO-1; also blocks biological activity) on cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis in mice.
Mice receiving CYP (300 mg/kg; i.p.) to induce cystitis or saline (control) were treated either with ISO-1 (20 mg/kg; i.p.; daily) or vehicle (20% DMSO; i.p.; daily) for 2 days. After 2 days, micturition volume and frequency in awake mice were recorded and also mechanical sensitivity to abdominal stimulation using von Frey monofilaments. Bladders were collected under anesthesia and examined histologically, nerve growth factor levels were assayed in bladder homogenates, and production of inflammatory cytokines in the bladder was determined using a targeted array.
CYP treatment resulted in decreased micturition volume, increased frequency, decreased threshold, increased histological signs of cystitis, increased bladder NGF levels and production of inflammatory cytokines when compared to the control group. Treatment with ISO-1 prevented or greatly decreased all these changes.
Antagonizing MIF's activity with a systemic MIF tautomerase inhibitor was able to prevent or greatly reduced chemical cystitis in mice, thus indicating the MIF mediates bladder inflammation in this model. MIF represents a novel and important modulator of cystitis.
β-Cell mitochondrial dysfunction as well as proinflammatory cytokines have been suggested to contribute to reduced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) in type 2 diabetes. We recently demonstrated that Cohen diabetic sensitive (CDs) rats fed a high-sucrose, low-copper diet (HSD) developed hyperglycemia and reduced GSIS in association with peri-islet infiltration of fat and interleukin (IL)-1β-expressing macrophages, whereas CD resistant (CDr) rats remained normoglycemic on HSD. We examined: 1) the correlation between copper concentration in the HSD and progression, prevention, and reversion of hyperglycemia in CDs rats, 2) the relationship between activity of the copper-dependent, respiratory-chain enzyme cytochrome c oxidase (COX), infiltration of fat, IL-1β-expressing macrophages, and defective GSIS in hyperglycemic CDs rats. CDs and CDr rats were fed HSD or copper-supplemented HSD before and during hyperglycemia development. Blood glucose and insulin concentrations were measured during glucose tolerance tests. Macrophage infiltration and IL-1β expression were evaluated in pancreatic sections by electron-microscopy and immunostaining. COX activity was measured in pancreatic sections and isolated islets. In CDs rats fed HSD, GSIS and islet COX activity decreased, while blood glucose and infiltration of fat and IL-1β-expressing macrophages increased with time on HSD (P < 0.01 vs. CDr-HSD rats, all parameters, respectively). CDs rats maintained on copper-supplemented HSD did not develop hyperglycemia, and in hyperglycemic CDs rats, copper supplementation restored GSIS and COX activity, reversed hyperglycemia and infiltration of fat and IL-1β-expressing macrophages (P < 0.01 vs. hyperglycemic CDs-HSD rats, all parameters, respectively). We provide novel evidence for a critical role of low dietary copper in diminished GSIS of susceptible CDs rats involving the combined consequence of reduced islet COX activity and pancreatic low-grade inflammation.
The seizures associated with the atypical antipsychotic medication clozapine represent a serious side effect of treatment. In premarketing studies, seizures occurred at a crude rate of 3.5%. It is possible that the rate and character of seizures would vary in clinical settings because of differences in patient populations or differences in the manner in which treatment is administered. We studied the seizures that occurred during clozapine treatment in a state psychiatric hospital.
We reviewed the medical charts and pharmacy records of 100 sequential patients who were to start clozapine treatment. The review period covered 6 months pretreatment through 1 year of follow-up.
The patients were 55 men and 45 women, aged 20 to 61 years. Ten (5 men, 5 women) had at least one seizure during clozapine treatment. Seizures occurred at all dose ranges (0-299 mg/day, N = 6; 300-599 mg/day, N = 2; 600-900 mg/day, N = 2). Of 12 patients with histories of previous seizures, 4 (33%) had a seizure while taking clozapine and anticonvulsants. Of 9 patients with histories of head trauma but no seizures, 1 (11%) had a seizure. Of 79 patients without seizure disorder or a history of head trauma, 5 (6.3%) had a seizure. Nine of the patients who had a seizure continued on clozapine treatment with temporary dose reduction and/or addition of an anticonvulsant, 2 having one additional seizure.
Clozapine-associated seizures were more frequent in this group of state hospital patients than they were in premarketing studies. Clozapine-related seizures did not preclude successful treatment with clozapine.
Absent hepatic lipase (HL) activity results in dyslipidemia and premature atherosclerosis. DNA sequencing of the HL gene from subjects with heritable HL deficiency identified a new C to T substitution within exon 8 that in the mature enzyme caused a threonine to methionine change at position 383 (T383M). With a rapid DNA detection method we observed that all 6 individuals with complete HL deficiency from 2 families had the T383M mutation. None of 50 random unrelated unaffected subjects had this mutation. We propose that T383M is specific to families with heritable HL deficiency. Furthermore, structural variation at the HL gene, possibly in combination with other factors, appears to be etiologic in HL deficiency.
Background and Purpose-When given within 3 hours of symptom onset, recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) improves outcome 3 months after ischemic stroke. Prespecified secondary end points of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA Stroke Trial were CT lesion volumes in the 2 treatment groups (tPA and placebo) at 24 hours, 7 to 10 days, and 3 months after stroke.
-The trial included 2 independent studies, part I and part II, with identical methods of data collection. Before part I, uniform standards were established for CT scanning. CT images were obtained at baseline, 24 hours, 7 to 10 days, and 3 months after stroke onset and were reviewed centrally by reviewers blinded to treatment group and clinical findings. Since the individual studies were not powered to test for lesion volume differences, data from both parts of the trial were combined for all analyses. The primary analysis was conducted with the use of an intention-to-treat algorithm (including patients who died or were lost to follow-up). Measured lesion volume (excluding deaths and those lost to follow-up) was used as a secondary outcome in an exploratory analysis.
-After tPA treatment, there was a trend toward a reduction in 3-month median lesion volume in the tPA group: 15 cm(3) (interquartile range, 2 to 87) compared with 24 cm(3) (interquartile range, 4 to 101) in the placebo group (P:=0.06, log model) with a reduction of 11% in cumulative lesion volume, computed with Smirnov's D statistic. After exclusion of deaths and those lost to follow-up, similar trends toward positive treatment effects were seen at all time points.
-The direction of the effect of tPA on CT lesion volume at all time points was consistent with the observed clinical effects at 3 months. CT lesion volume may not be as sensitive a measure of treatment effect as clinical evaluation, at least as used in this study. An intention-to-treat analysis for the radiographic end point in this acute ischemic stroke clinical trial is a less biased approach to account for missing radiographic data than an analysis that uses only measured radiological data.
The potential for development of 2 to 1 atrioventricular conduction in children with prolongation of the QT interval has been previously reported secondary to electrolytic disturbances. We report here a child who developed 2 to 1 atrioventricular conduction with prolongation of the QT interval following treatment with amiodarone for refractory supraventricular tachycardia. We highlight the importance of electrocardiographic monitoring to assess for those at risk of amiodarone toxicity, which may be manifested by prolongation of the QT interval and the simultaneous loss of atrioventricular conduction, and of equal importance the need for prompt conversion to an alternative anti-arrhythmic agent.
Fatigue is common in primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). Altered central serotonergic neurotransmission may be involved in its pathogenesis. This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial evaluated the efficacy of ondansetron, a selective 5-HT3 receptor subtype antagonist, for treating fatigue in PBC. A crossover design was chosen, allowing subjects to serve as their own controls-appropriate to evaluate fatigue, a subjective symptom. Sixty patients with clinically stable PBC, a Fatigue Severity Score (FSS) > 4, and no other identifiable cause for fatigue were enrolled. Subjects were randomized to receive ondansetron (4 mg) or placebo orally 3 times daily for 4 weeks (period 1). Subjects then crossed over, after a minimum 1-week washout period, for a further 4 weeks of ondansetron or placebo (period 2). Fatigue was measured at the beginning and end of each period by using the FSS and Fatigue Impact Scale (FIS). Six patients withdrew; the remaining 54 subjects had a mean baseline FSS of 5.55 (+/-0.1). Response to study medication in period 1 versus period 2 was not uniform; thus, it was necessary to analyze the trial periods separately. In period 1, there was no significant additional fatigue reduction on ondansetron over placebo. During period 2, FSS and FIS decreased significantly on ondansetron versus placebo (P = .001). However, period 2 results were invalidated because drug side effects unblinded subjects (constipation affected 63.0% of patients taking ondansetron, versus 13.3% on placebo). In conclusion, ondansetron administration did not confer clinically significant fatigue reduction when compared with placebo in our study population.
