The cytogenetic and hepatotoxic effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on mouse liver cells were investigated. Male C57BL/6J strain mice, which have TCDD receptors, were given single intraperitoneal injections of 25, 37.5, 75 and 150 micrograms of TCDD/kg body weight or corn oil carrier alone. Two-thirds hepatectomies were carried out at 1 or 7 days after injection and chromosomal aberrations and mitotic indexes of the regenerating hepatocytes were scored 54 hr after hepatectomy. Liver sections from additional intact mice were studied for TCDD-hepatotoxicity at 1, 7 and 30 days after injection. The three high doses of TCDD caused hepatotoxicity with necrosis of liver cells and focal architectural collapse by 30 days after injection. No evidence was obtained of an increase in the frequency of chromosomal structural aberrations at doses that allowed sufficient mitotic activity for cytogenetic evaluation. We conclude that TCDD is not a clastogen for mouse hepatocytes, although high doses cause marked hepatocellular necrosis.
To evaluate the association between arsenic exposure and mortality from cardiovascular disease and to assess whether cigarette smoking influences the association.
Prospective cohort study with arsenic exposure measured in drinking water from wells and urine.
General population in Araihazar, Bangladesh.
11,746 men and women who provided urine samples in 2000 and were followed up for an average of 6.6 years.
Death from cardiovascular disease.
198 people died from diseases of circulatory system, accounting for 43% of total mortality in the population. The mortality rate for cardiovascular disease was 214.3 per 100,000 person years in people drinking water containing <12.0 µg/L arsenic, compared with 271.1 per 100,000 person years in people drinking water with ≥ 12.0 µg/L arsenic. There was a dose-response relation between exposure to arsenic in well water assessed at baseline and mortality from ischaemic heart disease and other heart disease; the hazard ratios in increasing quarters of arsenic concentration in well water (0.1-12.0, 12.1-62.0, 62.1-148.0, and 148.1-864.0 µg/L) were 1.00 (reference), 1.22 (0.65 to 2.32), 1.35 (0.71 to 2.57), and 1.92 (1.07 to 3.43) (P = 0.0019 for trend), respectively, after adjustment for potential confounders including age, sex, smoking status, educational attainment, body mass index (BMI), and changes in urinary arsenic concentration since baseline. Similar associations were observed when baseline total urinary arsenic was used as the exposure variable and for mortality from ischaemic heart disease specifically. The data indicate a significant synergistic interaction between arsenic exposure and cigarette smoking in mortality from ischaemic heart disease and other heart disease. In particular, the hazard ratio for the joint effect of a moderate level of arsenic exposure (middle third of well arsenic concentration 25.3-114.0 µg/L, mean 63.5 µg/L) and cigarette smoking on mortality from heart disease was greater than the sum of the hazard ratios associated with their individual effect (relative excess risk for interaction 1.56, 0.05 to 3.14; P = 0.010).
Exposure to arsenic in drinking water is adversely associated with mortality from heart disease, especially among smokers.
Many breast cancer patients experience bone metastases and suffer skeletal complications. The present study provides evidence on the protective and therapeutic potential of betulinic acid on cancer-associated bone diseases. Betulinic acid is a naturally occurring triterpenoid with the beneficial activity to limit the progression and severity of cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, atherosclerosis, and obesity. We first investigated its effect on breast cancer cells, osteoblastic cells, and osteoclasts in the vicious cycle of osteolytic bone metastasis. Betulinic acid reduced cell viability and the production of parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP), a major osteolytic factor, in MDA-MB-231 human metastatic breast cancer cells stimulated with or without tumor growth factor-β. Betulinic acid blocked an increase in the receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa B ligand (RANKL)/osteoprotegerin ratio by downregulating RANKL protein expression in PTHrP-treated human osteoblastic cells. In addition, betulinic acid inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis in murine bone marrow macrophages and decreased the production of resorbed area in plates with a bone biomimetic synthetic surface by suppressing the secretion of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, MMP-9, and cathepsin K in RANKL-induced osteoclasts. Furthermore, oral administration of betulinic acid inhibited bone loss in mice intra-tibially inoculated with breast cancer cells and in ovariectomized mice causing estrogen deprivation, as supported by the restored bone morphometric parameters and serum bone turnover markers. Taken together, these findings suggest that betulinic acid may have the potential to prevent bone loss in patients with bone metastases and cancer treatment-induced estrogen deficiency.
Although beta-blockers prevent adverse events after myocardial infarction, they are contraindicated when chest pain is associated with recent cocaine use. Recommendations against this use of beta-blockers are based on animal studies, small human experiments, and anecdote. We sought to test the hypothesis that beta-blockers are safe in this setting.
We performed a retrospective cohort study of consecutive patients admitted to the San Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco, California, with chest pain and urine toxicologic test results positive for cocaine, from January 2001 to December 2006. Mortality data were collected from the National Death Index.
Of 331 patients with chest pain in the setting of recent cocaine use, 151 (46%) received a beta-blocker in the emergency department. There were no meaningful differences in electrocardiographic changes, troponin levels, length of stay, use of vasopressor agents, intubation, ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation, or death between those who did and did not receive a beta-blocker. After adjusting for potential confounders, systolic blood pressure significantly decreased a mean 8.6 mm Hg (95% confidence interval, 14.7-2.5 mm Hg) in those receiving a beta-blocker in the emergency department compared with those who received their first beta-blocker in the hospital ward (P = .006). Over a median follow-up of 972 days (interquartile range, 555-1490 days), after adjusting for potential confounders, patients discharged on a beta-blocker regimen exhibited a significant reduction in cardiovascular death (hazard ratio, 0.29; 95% confidence interval, 0.09-0.98) (P = .047).
beta-Blockers do not appear to be associated with adverse events in patients with chest pain with recent cocaine use.
To estimate the frequency of adverse effects associated with the use of the transdermal nicotine patch, we abstracted and analysed data from 47 reports of 35 clinical trials. The meta-analysis presented here represents a synthesis of data from 41 groups of nicotine patch recipients totalling 5501 patients, and 33 groups of placebo recipients totalling 3752 patients. Smoking abstinence was the primary outcome in 32 of the trials, and relief of colitis symptoms was the primary outcome in 2 of the trials; 1 study of contact sensitisation was included in the skin irritation analysis. The patch was clearly effective as an aid to smoking abstinence. Despite the large number of patients in the analysis, few adverse cardiovascular outcomes (myocardial infarction, stroke, tachycardia, arrhythmia, angina) were reported, and no excess of these outcomes was detected among patients assigned to nicotine-patch use. The incidences of several minor adverse effects were clearly elevated among the nicotine-patch groups, especially sleep disturbances, nausea or vomiting, localised skin irritation and respiratory symptoms, but the background rates and risk ratios varied considerably across studies. The incidence of nausea or vomiting appeared to be lowest when the patch dose was tapered. The results of this meta-analysis indicate that very large studies would be needed to assess the effect of the patch, if any, on serious, rare outcomes. These results also suggest that the rate of minor adverse effects might be lowered by modifying patch-use protocols.
The Flinders sensitive line (FSL) rat is a proposed genetic hypercholinergic animal model of human depression. Considering the strong comorbidity between depression and cocaine dependence we investigated the well-documented behavioral and molecular effects of cocaine in the FSL and their control Flinders resistant line (FRL) rats. First, we found no difference between the two lines to establish cocaine self-administration; both lines reached stable responding within 10 days of training at a fixed ratio-1 schedule of reinforcement (1.5 mg/kg/injection). However, the FSL rats exhibited reduced cocaine intake at a dose of 0.09 mg/kg/injection in a within-session dose-response curve (0.02, 0.09, 0.38, 1.5 mg/kg/injection). Second, we examined the effects of repeated cocaine administration on locomotor activity, dopamine overflow and striatal prodynorphin mRNA expression. We found the FSL rats to be low responders to novelty and to exhibit less locomotor activation after repeated cocaine administration (30 mg/kg, i.p., daily injections for 10 days) than their controls. Microdialysis sampling from the nucleus accumbens shell revealed no significant difference in the dopamine overflow between the rat lines, neither during baseline nor after cocaine stimulation. Postmortem analyses of striatal prodynorphin mRNA expression (using in situ hybridization histochemistry) revealed a differentiated response to the cocaine exposure. In contrast to control FRL rats, the FSL rats showed no typical cocaine-evoked elevation of prodynorphin mRNA levels in rostral subregions of the striatum whereas both strains expressed increased prodynorphin mRNA levels in the caudal striatum after cocaine administration. In conclusion, the FSL animal model of depression demonstrates marked blunting of the locomotor and dynorphin neuroadaptative responses to cocaine in accordance with its enhanced cholinergic sensitivity.
We have previously reported that labetalol infusion increases prolactin (PRL) secretion in hypertensive patients. In an attempt to investigate the site where labetalol stimulates PRL, the drug was infused intravenously (100 mg) into healthy subjects, both under basal conditions and after pretreatment with L-dopa plus carbidopa (250 mg and 25 mg respectively every 6 h for 1 day), since this regimen has been reported to blunt the PRL responses to centrally acting stimuli. The effects of oral labetalol administration (100 and 200 mg) on PRL was also evaluated. Serum PRL concentration did not change after oral labetalol, whereas it was increased by intravenous drug administration. This effect was completely abolished by pretreatment with L-dopa plus carbidopa. These findings, though they do not demonstrate the mechanism, suggest that the hyperprolactinaemia induced by labetalol is mediated inside the blood-brain barrier.
To investigate the effects of simvastatin (SIM) on in vivo and in vitro cardiac hypertrophy models and changes on JAK/STAT signal pathways.
Myocardial hypertrophy was induced by Cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1) in neonatal cardiomyocytes and by abdominal aortic constriction (AC) for 4 weeks in adult SD rats. In vitro study groups were as follows (n = 3 each): (1) control, (2) CT-1 (10(-10) mol/L), (3) CT-1 + SIM (10(-6) mol/L), (4) CT-1 + AG490(JAK inhibitor, 10(-4) mol/L), (5)SIM (10(-6) mol/L), (6) AG490 (10(-4) mol/L). In vivo study groups were as follows (n = 8 each): (1) sham group, (2) AC group, (3) AC + SIM group, (4) AC + captopril group. Total protein content was measured by Lowry's method and the cell surface area was measured by phase contrast microscope. The expression of AGT mRNA and c-fos mRNA were detected by RT-PCR. Systolic blood pressure (SBP), heart weight/body weight (HW/BW) and left ventricle weight/body weight (LVW/BW) were measured. The expressions of p-JAK2 and p-STAT3 were detected by Western blot.
The total protein content and cardiomyocytes size were significantly increased in CT-1 treated cells and which could be blocked by SIM. The expressions of p-JAK2 and p-STAT3 as well as the expression of AGT mRNA and c-fos mRNA significantly activated by CT-1, which could be inhibited by SIM or Janus Kinase-selective inhibitor AG490. Similar as captopril, SIM also attenuated cardiac hypertrophy in AC rats as shown on reduced systolic blood pressure, heart weight to body weight, left ventricular weight to body weight ratios as well as cross sectional area of cardiomyocytes.
SIM prevented CT-1 and AC induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy via inhibiting JAK/STAT pathways.
Loss of imprinting (LOI), an epigenetic alteration affecting the insulin-like growth factor II gene (IGF2), is found in normal colonic mucosa of about 30% of colorectal cancer (CRC) patients, but it is found in only 10% of healthy individuals. In a pilot study to investigate the utility of LOI as a marker of CRC risk, we evaluated 172 patients at a colonoscopy clinic. The adjusted odds ratio for LOI in lymphocytes was 5.15 for patients with a positive family history [95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.70 to 16.96; probability P = 0.002], 3.46 for patients with adenomas (95% CI, 1.14 to 11.37; P = 0.026), and 21.7 for patients with CRC (95% CI, 3.48 to 153.6; P = 0.0005). LOI can be assayed with a DNA-based blood test, and it may be a valuable predictive marker of an individual's risk for CRC.
Tigriopus japonicus Mori has been recognized as a good model for toxicological testing of marine pollutants. Recently, a large number of genes have been identified from this copepod, and their mRNA expression has been studied independently against exposure to marine pollutants; however, biochemical-response information is relatively scarce. The response of T. japonicus to nickel (Ni) additions was examined under laboratory-controlled conditions in 12 days exposure. Superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), acetylcholinesterase (AchE), reduced glutathione (GSH), the ratio of reduced to oxidized glutathione (GSH/GSSG) and metallothionein (MT) were analyzed for Ni treatments (0, 0.125, 0.25, 0.75 and 3.0 mg/L) after 1, 4, 7 and 12 days. The thiobarbituric reactive species assay was used to evaluate lipid peroxidation (LPO) level in copepods after exposure. The results showed that Ni remarkably affected the biochemical parameters (SOD, GPx, GST, GSH, and GSH/GSSG) after certain exposure durations. However, the copepod's LPO level was significantly decreased under metal treatments after exposure, hinting that the factors involved in LPO might not significantly depend on the operations and functions in the antioxidant system. Ni exhibited the neurotoxicity to copepods, because its use obviously elevated AchE activity. During exposure, Ni initially displayed an inhibition effect but induced MT synthesis in T. japonicus by day 12, probably being responsible for metal detoxification. Thus, Ni had intervened in the detoxification process and antioxidant system of this copepod, and it could be used as a suitable bioindicator of Ni exposure via measuring SOD, GPx, GST, and MT as biomarkers.
A 20-year-old man presented with a 14-day course of fever. Physical examination showed petechiae of the conjunctivae, Janeway lesions on both hands, a grade III/VI systolic murmur over the apex, pulseless dorsal pedal artery and posterior tibial artery of the right leg, and a pale right foot. Femoral arteriogram of the right leg revealed total occlusion of the popliteal artery with collateral circulation of the posterior tibial artery. Transthoracic echocardiogram showed trace mitral regurgitation. Embolectomy of the right popliteal artery was done, and penicillin and gentamicin treatment was administered. However, postoperative fever developed intermittently. Transesophageal echocardiogram disclosed vegetation over the anterior leaflet of the mitral valve. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) was isolated from all three cultures of blood drawn at admission and from the septic embolus during operation. He had neither evidence of underlying heart disease, nor history of intravenous drug abuse or hospitalization. Exploratory cardiotomy with removal of vegetation on the mitral valve was performed followed by a 4-week treatment with intravenous vancomycin. After discharge, he was well at 2-year follow-up.
To investigate the prognostic significance and electrophysiological characteristics of dobutamine stress echo (DSE)-induced sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT).
In our department, 3022 DSE studies were carried out on 2688 patients, aged 54.7 +/- 11.8 years, over a 3.5 year period. Patients with DSE-induced VT were studied by means of coronary angiography and electrophysiological testing, and were followed-up for 17.8 +/- 9.3 months.
During DSE, nine patients (0.3%) developed sustained monomorphic VT. Four patients had coronary artery disease, one developed spontaneous right coronary artery (RCA) dissection during DSE, one patient had peripartum cardiomyopathy and the remainder had normal coronary arteries. Logistic regression analysis did not identify clinical parameters such as left ventricular ejection fraction, documentation of an ischaemic response or the presence of non-viable myocardial segments during DSE, that could predict the occurrence of DSE-induced VT. Monomorphic VT was inducible by electrophysiological testing in two patients with CAD and reduced LVEF. During follow-up, only these two patients developed VT.
Sustained monomorphic VT is a rare complication of DSE, with no predictive value for the identification of patients with coronary artery disease and no prognostic significance in patients with normal coronary arteries. No predictors of its occurrence were identified.
Proadifen (SKF-525A) is a well-known inhibitor of cytochrome P450 monooxygenases. Besides the prevention of drug metabolism it affects the proliferation of cancer cells, although the mechanisms of possible anti-cancer activity of proadifen have not been fully understood yet. The aim of this study therefore was to evaluate the potential anti-proliferative effect of proadifen on HT-29 colon cancer cells. Our results show that proadifen inhibited the growth of HT-29 cells by the accumulation of cells in the G1 phase of the cell cycle, reduction of metabolic activity and colony formation and by the induction of apoptosis. Analyses of Western blots and flow cytometry revealed time- and dose-dependent phosphatidylserine externalization, caspase-3 activation and PARP cleavage. Intense upregulation of NAG-1 and ATF3 and downregulation of Mcl-1 and Egr-1 were also observed. Further investigation showed that NAG-1 gene silencing by siRNA had no effect on the pro-apoptotic action of proadifen. In contrast, we found that AR-A014418, the specific inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase-3 β (GSK-3β), significantly decreased proadifen-induced apoptosis. Inactivation of GSK-3β (phosphorylation at serine 9) resulted in changes in phosphatidylserine externalization and caspase-3 activation. These data suggest that GSK-3β is an important factor in the induction of apoptosis in HT-29 colon cancer cells treated with proadifen.
Paralysis of the right third and fourth cranial nerves, lasting for about six weeks, occurred in a patient following the injection of procaine hydrochloride in the area of the right superior alveolar artery. Ocular complications of dental anesthesia are rare and are probably caused by intra-arterial injection of anesthetic that reaches the orbit via an anastomosis between the middle meningeal and ophthalmic arteries. Such complications include transient oculomotor palsies and permanent or transient loss of vision.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by an expanded glutamine tract in human Ataxin-1 (hAtx-1). The expansion stabilizes hAtx-1, leading to its accumulation. To understand how stabilized hAtx-1 induces selective neuronal degeneration, we studied Drosophila Atx-1 (dAtx-1), which has a conserved AXH domain but lacks a polyglutamine tract. Overexpression of hAtx-1 in fruit flies produces phenotypes similar to those of dAtx-1 but different from the polyglutamine peptide alone. We show that the Drosophila and mammalian transcription factors Senseless/Gfi-1 interact with Atx-1's AXH domain. In flies, overexpression of Atx-1 inhibits sensory-organ development by decreasing Senseless protein. Similarly, overexpression of wild-type and glutamine-expanded hAtx-1 reduces Gfi-1 levels in Purkinje cells. Deletion of the AXH domain abolishes the effects of glutamine-expanded hAtx-1 on Senseless/Gfi-1. Interestingly, loss of Gfi-1 mimics SCA1 phenotypes in Purkinje cells. These results indicate that the Atx-1/Gfi-1 interaction contributes to the selective Purkinje cell degeneration in SCA1.
Patients with chronic urticaria frequently experience flares of hives following the ingestion of chemically unrelated nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). The pathogenic mechanism of these reactions is based on cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) enzyme inhibition. In most cases, nonselective NSAIDs, which inhibit both COX-1 and COX-2, are responsible for such adverse reactions; in contrast, analgesic and anti-inflammatory drugs exerting limited inhibition on COX-1 are generally better tolerated by these patients. This study aimed to detect tolerability of etoricoxib, a selective COX-2-inhibiting drug, in patients with chronic urticaria with a history of NSAID intolerance. Single-blind, placebo-controlled oral challenges with increasing doses of etoricoxib were carried out in 17 adult patients with chronic urticaria exacerbated by NSAID. All patients tolerated the drug at therapeutic doses. The study suggests that etoricoxib, with its favourable COX-1/COX-2 ratio, is well tolerated by patients with chronic urticaria exacerbated by NSAID intolerance.
The BEACOPP regimen is a consolidated first-line treatment regimen for advanced stage Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), while few data are available on the efficacy of this regimen in advanced disease. About 50% of patients with HL relapsed after or refractory to first-line therapy achieve a durable response after peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT). Patients relapsing after a PBSCT (performed as second line therapy) have a very poor prognosis. We evaluated the efficacy of BEACOPP in two settings: patients refractory or in relapse after first-line therapy (Group A) and patients relapsing after a PBSCT (Group B). Twenty-three patients with HL, admitted between February 2003 and April 2007, were retrospectively studied: 10 patients in Group A and 13 in Group B. Group A: Nine complete remissions (CR) and one partial remission (PR) were achieved following BEACOPP treatment. After a median follow-up of 32 months, one patient has died due to secondary leukemia, while the other eight are alive, five (50%) in second CR, three in third CR after PBSCT and one with disease. Group B: Eight of the 13 patients (62%) obtained a CR, one patient a PR, two were refractory and two have died of toxicity. To date, eight patients (62%) are alive, four (31%) still in CR. All patients experienced hematologic toxicity (WHO 3-4) with two deaths due to septic shock. These results show that BEACOPP is an effective regimen for both refractory/relapsed patients with HL after first-line treatment (Group A) and for patients relapsing after a PBSCT (Group B) with a 3-year probability of overall survival, progression-free survival, and cumulative incidence of relapse of 90, 50, and 33.3% in Group A, and 61, 31, and 37.5% in Group B, respectively.
One hundred and thirty-seven cases of stomach cancer given fluoropyrimidines (UFT: 66 cases, Tegafur: 58 cases, 5-FU: 13 cases) after gastrectomy as the adjuvant chemotherapy were examined as to appearance of macrocytic anemia. The mean corpuscular volume (MCV) gradually elevated in all cases but seven after administration. Macrocytic anemia, defined by the elevation over 20% compared with both pre-operative and pre-administrative values of MCV, was developed 30.3% in UFT group, 8.6% in tegafur group and 30.8% in 5-FU group. The incidence was statistically higher in UFT group (p less than 0.01) and 5-FU group (p less than 0.05) than in tegafur group. The cause was attributed to fluoropyrimidine administration because the serum folate and vitamin B12 levels remained normal and the value of MCV normalized after cessation of administration. Each total dose to induce macrocytic anemia was potentially about 70g in UFT. 100g in tegafur and 30 g in 5-FU. In conclusion, periodical hematological examination is necessary for the patients given fluoropyrimidine preparations.
An automated method is described that can accurately and reliably measure weight displacement resulting from hindlimb extension due to muscular rigidity following opioid administration in rats. IV administration of fentanyl (0.035 mg/kg) immediately induced rigidity. Rigidity was dose dependently reversed by the alpha 2-agonist clonidine with an ED50 value equal to 0.011 mg/kg IV. Second, rigidity was restored following administration of the alpha 2-antagonist idazoxan (0.3 mg/kg, IV) thereby confirming an alpha 2-mediated mechanism of action. Previously, reversal of fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity was measured by subjective rating criteria not suitable for quantitative potency comparisons. The new automated rigidity model provides a simple yet precise measurement of the ability of alpha 2-agonists to attenuate opioid-induced muscular rigidity in rats.
Exposure to particulate matter (PM) has been associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity; however, causative components are unknown. Zinc is a major element detected at high levels in urban air.
We investigated the role of PM-associated zinc in cardiac injury.
We repeatedly exposed 12- to 14-week-old male Wistar Kyoto rats intratracheally (1x/week for 8 or 16 weeks) to a) saline (control); b) PM having no soluble zinc (Mount St. Helens ash, MSH); or c) whole-combustion PM suspension containing 14.5 microg/mg of water-soluble zinc at high dose (PM-HD) and d ) low dose (PM-LD), e) the aqueous fraction of this suspension (14.5 microg/mg of soluble zinc) (PM-L), or f ) zinc sulfate (rats exposed for 8 weeks received double the concentration of all PM components of rats exposed for 16 weeks).
Pulmonary inflammation was apparent in all exposure groups when compared with saline (8 weeks > 16 weeks). PM with or without zinc, or with zinc alone caused small increases in focal subepicardial inflammation, degeneration, and fibrosis. Lesions were not detected in controls at 8 weeks but were noted at 16 weeks. We analyzed mitochondrial DNA damage using quantitative polymerase chain reaction and found that all groups except MSH caused varying degrees of damage relative to control. Total cardiac aconitase activity was inhibited in rats receiving soluble zinc. Expression array analysis of heart tissue revealed modest changes in mRNA for genes involved in signaling, ion channels function, oxidative stress, mitochondrial fatty acid metabolism, and cell cycle regulation in zinc but not in MSH-exposed rats.
These results suggest that water-soluble PM-associated zinc may be one of the causal components involved in PM cardiac effects.
Nicotine potentiated the catalepsy produced by haloperidol. The excitotoxin quinolinic acid (QA) selectively destroys striatal neurons when injected directly into the striatum. Bilateral QA lesions of the rat striatum (150 nmol) significantly reduced the catalepsy produced by haloperidol as well as the ability of nicotine to potentiate haloperidol-induced catalepsy. A second experiment examined whether the ability of nicotine to potentiate haloperidol-induced catalepsy was associated with a potentiation of dopamine turnover following haloperidol. Nicotine alone produced a mild increase in dopamine turnover relative to saline treated controls while haloperidol produced a marked increase in dopamine turnover relative to saline- and nicotine-treated controls. However, the combined administration of haloperidol and nicotine did not further elevate dopamine turnover over that observed following haloperidol alone. The results indicated that: 1) nicotine could not potentiate haloperidol-induced catalepsy without an intact striatum and 2) the behavioral effect of nicotine and haloperidol cotreatment was not due to any change in dopamine turnover.
To report the influence of transdermal oestradiol therapy on the vascular dynamics of men with advanced prostate cancer.
Twenty patients with newly diagnosed locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer (10 each) were treated using transdermal oestradiol patches. The vascular flow was assessed 6-monthly before and during a year of therapy using arterial and venous Doppler and duplex ultrasonography, arterial and venous photoplethysmography and opto-electronic plethysmography.
Arterial flow, as measured by the mean and peak systolic velocities and photoplethysmography, significantly increased over time. Arterial compliance initially decreased but had normalized after 12 months. The venous variables were unaffected. As a result, the total limb blood flow and the capillary filtration rate were significantly increased.
Transdermal oestradiol therapy causes an increase in arterial but not venous flow, and an initial decrease in arterial compliance, which adapts to the physiological range with time. It is possible that these changes may account for the increase in cardiovascular toxicity seen in the early phase of oestrogen therapy, and the cardioprotective effect that accrues thereafter.
Increasing evidence suggests that enhanced production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) activates the MAP kinases, c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK) and mitogen-activated protein kinase MAPK (p38). These phosphorylated intermediates at the stress-activated pathway induce expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), leading to inflammatory responses and pathological damages involved in the etiology of multiple sclerosis (MS). Here we report that N-acetylcysteine amide (AD4) crosses the blood-brain barrier (BBB), chelates Cu(2+), which catalyzes free radical formation, and prevents ROS-induced activation of JNK, p38 and MMP-9. In the myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a mouse model of MS, oral administration of AD4 drastically reduced the clinical signs, inflammation, MMP-9 activity, and protected axons from demylination damages. In agreement with the in vitro studies, we propose that ROS scavenging by AD4 in MOG-treated animals prevented MMP's induction and subsequent damages through inhibition of MAPK pathway. The low toxicity of AD4 coupled with BBB penetration makes this compound an excellent potential candidate for the therapy of MS and other neurodegenerative disorders.
A case of severe toxic hepatitis in a patient with metastatic prostatic cancer treated for three months with flutamide (Eulexin) combined with an LHRH analogue, goserelin (Zoladex) is described. The patient developed severe liver failure with jaundice, ascites and severe encephalopathy. The condition reversed after discontinuation of flutamide. Less severe, but otherwise similar, adverse reactions have been reported in the literature, and the importance of considering the drug as a potential hepatotoxin is stressed.
This study was undertaken to search for an alternative experimental model in the evaluation of fentanyl-induced muscle rigidity. Unanesthetized, spontaneously ventilating Sprague-Dawley rats, and rats anesthetized with either ketamine or thiopental whose ventilation was mechanically controlled, were studied. Intravenous administration of fentanyl (25, 50, or 100 micrograms/kg) caused an increase in electromyographic (EMG) activity in both unanesthetized and ketamine-anesthetized, but not in thiopental-anesthetized, animals. Muscle rigidity was more prominently manifested in the gastrocnemius muscle, when compared with the rectus abdominis muscle. Hypoxemia was exhibited during the course of rigidity by both spontaneously ventilating and ketamine-anesthetized rats, but not by thiopental-anesthetized animals. In addition, unanesthetized, spontaneously ventilating rats developed hypercarbia and respiratory acidosis. The authors suggest that, in addition to using unanesthetized animals, EMG activity in the gastrocnemius muscle of rats anesthetized with ketamine in whom ventilation is controlled may provide an alternative approach in the evaluation of fentanyl-induced muscle rigidity.
