To study the effects of iothalamate sodium and two dosages of iopromide in acute cerebral ischemia on infarction volume, neurologic performance, and mortality in a rat model of middle cerebral artery occlusion.
Sixty-four rats underwent endovascular occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Four hours later, 16 animals received iothalamate sodium (588 mg iodine per kilogram); 16, iopromide as a single bolus (518 mg iodine per kilogram); and 16, iopromide as a double bolus (1,036 mg iodine per kilogram). Sixteen animals received equivolumetric saline (control group). Neurologic score and body weight were recorded every 8 hours. Twenty-four hours after occlusion, all animals were killed; brains were stained to assess the infarction size.
Single and double doses of iopromide did not affect infarction volume or neurologic performance. Iothalamate caused an increase in infarction volume and worsening of the neurologic score (p < .05). Mortality rate was 25% in the iothalamate group, 12% in the control group, and 6% in the iopromide groups.
Bolus injection of the nonionic iopromide does not statistically significantly affect infarction volume or cerebral ischemia symptoms. Nonionic rather than ionic contrast agents should be preferred during acute cerebral ischemia.
Current treatments for Parkinson's disease rely on a dopamine replacement strategy and are reasonably effective, particularly in the early stages of the disease. However, chronic dopaminergic therapy is limited by the development of a range of side effects, including the onset of abnormal movements ('dyskinesia'). The neural mechanisms that underlie dyskinesia are far from clear but they have been associated with pulsatile stimulation of dopamine receptors, downstream changes in proteins and genes, and abnormalities in non-dopamine transmitter systems. However, there has been no pathophysiological explanation for the worsening motor symptoms in the afternoon and evening reported by Parkinsonian patients in long-term L-dopa therapy, and no direct relationship has been found with the pharmacokinetics of the drug. Moreover, there continues to be a debate about whether the development of dyskinesias in patients is dependent upon the duration of L-dopa treatment or on the degree of denervation/advanced stage of the disease, both factors that are difficult to resolve experimentally in the human disease. The objective of this study was to characterise, in an animal model, factors that predispose some individuals to develop dyskinesia after a prolonged treatment with L-dopa, whereas others continue to exhibit symptom alleviation without the side effects. We report that none of the parameters studied--genetic variation within and between strains, delay of treatment onset after lesion, or time of day of the drug treatment--were found to influence directly the formation of dyskinesias after L-dopa treatment. We conclude that a complex combination of individual factors are likely to interact to regulate the onset and development of abnormal movements in some animals but not others.
Type-1 and -2 responses of T helper lymphocytes demonstrate essentially different and opposite effector functions. In the present study, we determined the immunoregulatory effect of ginsenoside Re against disseminated candidiasis due to Candida albicans. This fungus may be one of the most problematic fungi for humans. Results showed that Re had no growth-inhibitory effect on C. albicans. In contrast, mice groups given Re intraperitoneally before intravenous challenge with live C. albicans survived longer against disseminated candidiasis than Re-untreated mice. All of the ten control mice died by day 15, whereas seven out of ten Re-treated mice survived during the entire duration of the 40 day-observation resulting in mean survival times (MST) of 32.7 ± 13.4 (MST ± S.E.) days. These survival values were almost the same as the values obtained from Rg1-treated mice used for a positive control. Through determining the kidneys' candidal colony forming unit, we found that the disease severity of Re-treated mice was far less than that of Re-untreated animals. This protection was transferable by the CD4+T cells (RECD4T) from Re-treated mice similar to (RGCD4T) CD4+T cells from Rg1-treated animals. A cytokine profile revealed the Th1- lineage development of dominant IFNg and IL-2 from RECD4T. However, the protection was abolished when mice were treated with anti-mouse IFNg. In addition, a hemolytic assay showed that Re at 1000 μg/ml caused no hemolysis. All of these data indicate that Re has the immunoregulatory effect of CD4+T cell-mediated immune response that is led from a Type 1-dominant immunity.
We assessed the effects of the adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium channel opener, nicorandil, on ATP- and verapamil-responsive ventricular tachycardias (VTs).
Adenosine- or ATP-sensitive VTs are thought to be due to a nonreentrant mechanism, presumably delayed afterdepolarization. We suggest that this potassium channel opener may suppress ATP- and verapamil-sensitive VTs.
The subjects included 13 patients with idiopathic VTs, 7 of whom had sustained VT and 6 of whom had nonsustained VT. We evaluated the effects of ATP, nicorandil and verapamil on VTs.
Sustained VT: Verapamil had preventive effects on seven VTs. Four VTs were terminated by ATP, and of these, nicorandil terminated two and prevented exercise-induced VT in the two others. Three ATP-insensitive VTs, which were determined to be due to a reentry by an electrophysiologic study, were not terminated by nicorandil. Nonsustained VT: All six VTs were inhibited by ATP, and five of these were suppressed by nicorandil. Verapamil inhibited four of the five VTs. QT intervals and the corrected QT intervals were significantly shortened by nicorandil.
Nicorandil suppresses ATP- and verapamil-responsive VTs. One of the mechanisms of suppression by nicorandil might be related to a reduction of calcium in the myocardium, because it reduces the action potential duration.
Oral contraceptives (OCs) containing 0.150 mg desogestrel plus 0.020 or 0.030 mg ethinylestradiol (Marvelon) were studied with respect to their effect on blood pressure. Data on 3,421 women were obtained covering 41,132 treatment cycles. The drop-out rate due to hypertension was 2.92 per thousand women-years (TWY). Mean changes in blood pressure were small, indicating that low doses of ethinylestradiol when combined with desogestrel do not adversely affect blood pressure.
Acute toxicity of tobramycin and carbenicillin used alone and in combination was studied on albino mice. The antibiotics were combined in the following ratios: 1:15, 1:30, 1:45, 1:60, 1:75 and 1:150 (1 refers to tobramycin). The character of the toxic effect of the combinations was estimated with the Loewe graphical method and interaction indices. It was shown that interaction of tobramycin with carbenicillin in the combinations with wide ratio ranges was of an indifferent character. The toxic effect of the combinations did not reach the total toxic effect of the components used alone. It was noted that the combinations of tobramycin with carbenicillin in the ratios of 1:15, 1:30 and 1:150 were most favourable for the drug tolerance. The nephrotoxic effect of tobramycin and carbenicillin used alone and in combination was studied on albino rats. The antibiotics were administered intravenously for 5 days. It was demonstrated that the level and the character of the morphological changes in the kidneys of the rats treated with the combinations of tobramycin and carbenicillin were the same as those after the use of an analogous dose of tobramycin alone. Therefore, the nephrotoxic effect of tobramycin was not potentiated on its combined use with carbenicillin.
Chelating therapy has been reported as a useful approach for counteracting mercurial toxicity. Moreover, 2,3-dimercapto-1-propanesulfonic acid (DMPS), a tissue-permeable metal chelator, was found to increase urinary mercury excretion and decrease mercury content in rat brain after methylmercury (MeHg) exposure. We evaluated the capability of DMPS to reduce MeHg-induced motor impairment and cerebellar toxicity in adult mice. Animals were exposed to MeHg (40 mg/L in drinking water, ad libitum) during 17 days. In the last 3 days of exposure (days 15-17), animals received DMPS injections (150 mg/kg, i.p.; once a day) in order to reverse MeHg-induced neurotoxicity. Twenty-four hours after the last injection (day 18), behavioral tests related to the motor function (open field and rotarod tasks) and biochemical analyses on oxidative stress-related parameters (cerebellar glutathione, protein thiol and malondyaldehyde levels, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase activities) were carried out. Histological analyses for quantifying cellular damage and mercury deposition in the cerebellum were also performed. MeHg exposure induced a significant motor deficit, observed as decreased locomotor activity in the open field and decreased falling latency in the rotarod apparatus. DMPS treatment displayed an ameliorative effect toward such behavioral parameters. Cerebellar glutathione and protein thiol levels were not changed by MeHg or DMPS treatment. Conversely, the levels of cerebellar thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), a marker for lipid peroxidation, were increased in MeHg-exposed mice and DMPS administration minimized such phenomenon. Cerebellar glutathione peroxidase activity was decreased in the MeHg-exposed animals, but DMPS treatment did not prevent such event. Histological analyses showed a reduced number of cerebellar Purkinje cells in MeHg-treated mice and this phenomenon was completely reversed by DMPS treatment. A marked mercury deposition in the cerebellar cortex was observed in MeHg-exposed animals (granular layer>Purkinje cells>molecular layer) and DMPS treatment displayed a significant ameliorative effect toward these phenomena. These findings indicate that DMPS displays beneficial effects on reversing MeHg-induced motor deficits and cerebellar damage in mice. Histological analyses indicate that these phenomena are related to its capability of removing mercury from cerebellar cortex.
Hallucinosis is a dopaminergic dose limiting complication of the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Typical neuroleptic medications cannot be used for suppressing hallucinosis because the extrapyramidal side effects worsen parkinsonian motor control. Olanzapine is a novel atypical antipsychotic drug with few reported extrapyramidal side effects which may be more suitable for controlling hallucinosis in these patients.
Olanzapine was given to five patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and the dosage was titrated until a clinically meaningful reduction in hallucinosis was achieved. The commercially available 5 mg, 7.5 mg and 10 mg tablets were used.
After an initial 9 days of treatment, hallucinosis frequency was significantly reduced, an effect which was maintained with continued treatment. However, during this early phase of treatment, parkinsonian motor disability increased, which resulted in two of the patients discontinuing medication.
Olanzapine is effective in the suppression of hallucinosis in patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease but the currently available dose increments may result in an unacceptable exacerbation of motor disability.
This experiment pertains to the protective role of naringenin against cadmium (Cd)-induced oxidative stress in the liver of rats. Cadmium is a major environmental pollutant and is known for its wide toxic manifestations. Naringenin is a naturally occurring citrus flavonone which has been reported to have a wide range of pharmacological properties. In the present investigation cadmium (5mg/kg) was administered orally for 4 weeks to induce hepatotoxicity. Liver damage induced by cadmium was clearly shown by the increased activities of serum hepatic marker enzymes namely aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) and serum total bilirubin (TB) along with the increased level of lipid peroxidation indices (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and lipid hydroperoxides) and protein carbonyl contents in liver. The toxic effect of cadmium was also indicated by significantly decreased levels of enzymatic antioxidants (superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and glutathione S-transferase (GST)) and non-enzymatic antioxidants (reduced glutathione (GSH), vitamin C and vitamin E). Administration of naringenin at a dose of (50mg/kg) significantly reversed the activities of serum hepatic marker enzymes to their near-normal levels when compared to Cd-treated rats. In addition, naringenin significantly reduced lipid peroxidation and restored the levels of antioxidant defense in the liver. The histopathological studies in the liver of rats also showed that naringenin (50mg/kg) markedly reduced the toxicity of cadmium and preserved the normal histological architecture of the tissue. The present study suggested that naringenin may be beneficial in ameliorating the cadmium-induced oxidative damage in the liver of rats.
We present a case report of a posttransplant patient who had hepatotoxicity due to both tacrolimus and cyclosporine and cholestatic jaundice due to tacrolimus. The patient did not show sustained improvement in enzyme and bilirubin abnormalities after an initial change from tacrolimus to cyclosporine or with a change back to tacrolimus, but he ultimately showed improvement when the blood concentration of tacrolimus was lowered. A 56-year-old man with subacute fulminant hepatitis induced by acarbose was admitted to our hospital for living donor liver transplantation. The liver graft consisted of the left lobe from his ABO-identical son. The early posttransplant course was uneventful. The serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and total bilirubin improved initially, but the ALT and AST levels later increased. A liver biopsy suggested a presumptive diagnosis of drug reaction. All drugs were discontinued, the immunosuppressive agent was changed from tacrolimus to cyclosporine. After initial improvement, the ALT and AST levels increased again. Assuming a reaction to cyclosporine, we decreased the concentration of cyclosporine in the blood. The enzyme levels improved temporarily but again began to rise. We changed the immunosuppressive agent to tacrolimus, which resulted in improvements in the ALT and AST levels; however, the total bilirubin level increased. We interpreted this increase as tacrolimus-induced cholestasis; in response, we decreased the blood concentration of tacrolimus to between 3 and 5 ng/dL and added 1,000 mg of mycophenolate mofetil to the drug regimen. The patient recovered without further complications. Repeated liver biopsies throughout the hospital course suggested that the mild mononuclear cell infiltration observed in a few triads had not been caused by acute rejection but had possibly been drug-induced.
Cortical excitability can be assessed by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Previously we observed that TMS motor threshold (MT) was elevated in abstinent cocaine-dependent subjects. In the current study we aimed at replicating our initial finding, exploring other TMS-based measures of excitability, and examining association with personality characteristics. Nineteen cocaine-dependent and 12 healthy control subjects were examined. Resting and activated motor thresholds (RMT and AMT) and duration of the cortical silent period (CSP) were examined. The Cocaine Experience Questionnaire (CEQ) was administered to assess cocaine-induced psychotic symptoms. The relationship between Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) scales and cortical excitability measures was also examined. AMT was significantly elevated in cocaine-dependent subjects on both hemispheres. RMT was also significantly elevated on the right hemisphere. No CSP changes were noted. Patients with cocaine-induced paranoia had longer CSPs on the right hemisphere compared to subjects reporting no paranoid experiences. The patients displayed significantly elevated scores on several MMPI scales, though the scale scores did not correlate with cortical excitability measures. These data support our initial finding of decreased cortical excitability in abstinent cocaine-dependent subjects. We interpret this finding as a compensatory mechanism against the stimulating and epileptogenic effects of cocaine.
The methanolic extract from the flowers buds of Camellia japonica L. (Theaceae) were found to exhibit potent inhibitory activities on ethanol- or indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal lesions in rats. Through bioassay-guided separation, 28-noroleanane-type triterpene oligoglycosides, camelliosides A, B, and C, and an oleanane-type triterpene oligoglycoside, camellioside D, were isolated from the methanolic extract together with five known compounds. The absolute stereostructures of camelliosides were determined on the basis of chemical and physicochemical evidence, which included the structure revision of the nortriterpene aglycons (camellenodiol and camelledionol). The principal oligoglycosides, camelliosides A and B, showed platelet aggregation activity in addition to the gastroprotective effects on ethanol- or indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal lesions in rats.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the value of esophageal programmed stimulation in children and teenagers with normal sinus rhythm ECG and normal noninvasive studies, having palpitations and syncope, and no documented tachycardias. Paroxysmal tachycardias are frequent in children and are often related to accessory connection. These tachycardias are sometimes difficult to prove. Transesophageal atrial pacing was performed at rest and during infusion of isoproterenol in 31 children or adolescents aged 9-19 years (16 +/- 3 years) with normal sinus rhythm ECG and suspected or documented episodes of paroxysmal tachycardia. Sustained tachycardia was induced in 27 patients, at rest in 13 patients, and after isoproterenol in 14 remaining patients. Atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia was found as the main cause of paroxysmal tachycardia (22 cases). Six patients were followed by a vagal reaction and dizziness. These patients had spontaneous tachycardia with syncope. In three other patients, atrial fibrillation was also induced. Concealed accessory pathway reentrant tachycardia was identified in three patients. In two patients, a regular wide tachycardia with right bundle branch block morphology was induced; the diagnosis of verapamil-sensitive ventricular tachycardia was made in a second study by intracardiac study. In conclusion, atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia was found as the main cause of symptoms in children with normal sinus rhythm ECG. Syncope is frequently associated and provoked by a vagal reaction. This diagnosis could be underestimated in adolescents frequently considered as hysterical because noninvasive studies are negative.
Low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol increase the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD), and recent clinical studies suggest that interventions in low-HDL patients are beneficial. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of increased HDL levels on endothelium-dependent vasodilation.
We studied patients with CAD with a low-density lipoprotein (LDL) level of <100 mg/dL. Patients with an HDL level of < or =36 mg/dL were treated with niacin (n = 11), and patients with an HDL level of >36 mg/dL were followed as controls (n = 10). Baseline and 3-month follow-up studies of flow-mediated dilation (FMD) and blood lipid levels were obtained.
HDL levels increased from 30.1 +/- 1.2 to 40.5 +/- 1.2 mg/dL in the niacin-treated patients (P <.001) but remained unchanged in the control patients. At baseline, FMD was impaired in both the treated (6.5% +/- 1%) and the control (7.3% +/- 1%) patients compared with 10 healthy subjects (16% +/- 2%, P <.01). After 3 months, FMD improved in the niacin-treated patients (11.8% +/- 1%, P =.001) but remained unchanged in the control patients (6.2% +/- 1%). Exposure of cultured human vascular endothelial cells to HDL in vitro enhanced expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), as shown by immunoblotting.
In patients with CAD and well-controlled LDL levels, elevation of HDL with niacin improves endothelial function. HDL increases eNOS protein expression in cultured vascular endothelial cells. Taken together, these observations suggest that HDL-mediated increases in eNOS expression may contribute to the observed enhancement in vasorelaxation and thus support a previously unrecognized mechanism for the beneficial cardiovascular effects of HDL.
A middle-aged woman began experiencing spells of profound anterograde amnesia several months after beginning intrathecal baclofen treatment for generalized dystonia. Her spells met criteria for transient global amnesia, but were unusual because of their frequent recurrence and because their frequency was somewhat dose-dependent on baclofen. Fludrocortisone decreased the frequency of these episodes, and sublingual nitroglycerin both prevented and terminated them. Baclofen-induced amnesia in rodents is a reliable model of memory impairment. In contrast, baclofen-induced memory impairment in humans is uncommon. Baclofen- associated transient global amnesia has not previously been reported.
Careful ultrastructural studies of the rat model of nephrotic syndrome induced by puromycin aminonucleoside have demonstrated morphological features which are only seen in proteinuric glomeruli fixed without interruption of the blood pressure. These consist of balloon-like swellings bounded by attenuated epithelial cell cytoplasm, with an area of bare basement membrane at the base. A theory of the mechanism of proteinuria was proposed on the basis of these findings. To test the proposed wide validity of that theory, we improved the method of surface fixation and performed similar studies in sequential manner, using chronic serum sickness glomerulonephritis in the rat as a model of proteinuria. Glomeruli were studied by light microscopy, transmission and scanning electron microscopy. The findings were correlated with the level of proteinuria in the 24 h preceding death and with the duration of serum sickness. Epithelial cell 'balloons' are also demonstrated in this model, correlating with the presence of proteinuria, but with slightly different configurations from those seen in puromycin nephrosis. Surface fixation revealed similar balloons in two other models of proteinuria: a graft versus host induced model of systemic lupus erythematosus in the mouse, and chronic streptozotocin-induced diabetes in the rat. A lengthy search failed to find bare basement membranes in any of these models of proteinuria. We conclude, therefore, that the mechanism of proteinuria proposed in puromycin nephrosis does not apply in these models, and we suggest an alternative mechanism by which the 'balloons' may develop, as a further manifestation of the epithelial cell dysfunction which causes foot process effacement.
The synergistic effects of nicorandil (KATP-channel opener) and amlodipine (calcium-channel blocker) on heart mitochondrial enzymes and the mitochondrial antioxidant defence system was examined on isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction in rats. The rats given isoproterenol (150 mg kg(-1) daily, i.p.) for two days showed significant changes in marker enzymes, mitochondrial enzymes and the mitochondrial defence system. Pre-co-treatment with nicorandil (2.5 mg kg(-1) daily, p.o.) and amlodipine (5.0 mg kg(-1) daily, p.o.) for 3 days significantly prevented these alterations and restored enzyme activity to near normal. These findings demonstrate the protective and synergistic effect of nicorandil and amlodipine in combination against isoproterenol-induced cardiac damage.
Rapid opioid withdrawal induced by naltrexone is now used as a treatment for heroin addiction. The alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine, is currently used in clinical practice to reduce opioid withdrawal in humans. However, few studies have been reported on its effectiveness for this purpose. Guinea-pigs were made dependent and tolerant to morphine using a 3-day chronic morphine regimen (total 410 mg kg(-1) morphine base), and injected with either clonidine (0.1 mg kg(-1), s.c.) or saline, 1 h before induction of withdrawal with naltrexone (15 mg kg(-1), s.c.). Withdrawal behaviours were measured for 90 min and animals were then euthanased and the brains removed. The presence of the immediate early gene protein product, c-Fos, was detected using immunohistochemical techniques. Clonidine reduced the number of head/body shakes, but had no effect on the total withdrawal behaviour score. In the CNS, clonidine increased the number of Fos-LI neurons in the central amygdala. In conclusion, the modest effect of clonidine in the present experiments suggests that the efficacy of clonidine in humans undergoing naltrexone-induced opioid withdrawal requires further investigation.
A retrospective investigation was conducted by members of the Japanese Society for Pediatric Nephrology from 1990 to 1997 to define the clinical features and outcomes in children with antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-positive glomerulonephritis associated with propylthiouracil treatment. Seven Japanese pediatric patients who had myeloperoxidase-specific ANCA-positive biopsy-proven pauci-immune necrotizing crescentic glomerulonephritis associated with propylthiouracil administration were entered in the study. Three patients had nephritis alone, and four had nephritis and extrarenal organ system vasculitis. Females predominated, and the mean age at onset was 14 yr. Propylthiouracil was reduced or discontinued in all patients and was switched to methimazole in three patients. For the treatment of nephritis, five patients received corticosteroids; three had pulse methylprednisolone, one had plasma exchange, and one had plasma exchange and pulse methylprednisolone before initiating oral prednisolone. The remaining two patients received cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids, one of whom had pulse methylprednisolone before initiating oral prednisolone and cyclophosphamide. All patients achieved remission. In general, ANCA titers correlated with the response to treatment and disease activity, with some exceptions. No patient progressed to end-stage renal disease, renal dysfunction, or death during the follow-up period (58 +/- 25 mo; range, 32 to 108 mo). All but one patient remained euthyroid. In conclusion, this experience suggests that the clinical disease spectrum of ANCA-positive disease associated with propylthiouracil treatment is similar in pediatric and adult patients and that the overall prognosis may be better than that in the non-drug-induced ANCA-positive disease.
A 57-year-old woman presenting with asthma, hypereosinophilia, and generalized unspecific symptoms was diagnosed with Churg-Strauss syndrome. Echocardiography revealed a cardiac mass obliterating the right ventricle and severely impaired left ventricular function, which were caused by endomyocardial fibrosis. Cortisone and cyclophosphamide therapy resulted in amelioration of left ventricular function and significant size reduction of the right ventricular mass.
Usnic acid, a natural botanical product, is a constituent of some dietary supplements used for weight loss. It has been associated with clinical hepatotoxicity leading to liver failure in humans. The present study was undertaken for metabolism and toxicity evaluations of usnic acid in human hepatoblastoma HepG2 cells in culture. The cells were treated with the vehicle control and usnic acid at concentrations of 0-100 µm for 24 h at 37 °C in 5% CO2 . Following the treatment period, the cells were evaluated by biochemical and toxicogenomic endpoints of toxicity that included cytochrome P450 activity, cytotoxicity, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and changes in pathway focused gene expression profiles. Usnic acid exposure resulted in increased P450 activity, cytotoxicity, oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in HepG2 cells. The pathway-focused gene expression analysis resulted in significantly altered expression of six genes out of a total of 84 genes examined. Of the six altered genes, three genes were up-regulated and three genes down-regulated. A marked up-regulation of one gene CCL21 associated with inflammation, one gene CCNC associated with proliferation and carcinogenesis and one gene UGT1A4 associated with metabolism as well as DNA damage and repair were observed in the usnic acid-treated cells compared with the vehicle control. Also a marked down-regulation of one gene CSF2 associated with inflammation and two genes (CYP7A1 and CYP2E1) associated with oxidative metabolic stress were observed in the usnic acid-treated cells compared with the control. The biomarkers used in this study demonstrate the toxicity of usnic acid in human hepatoblastoma HepG2 cells, suggesting an oxidative mechanism of action.
A multicentre prospective surveillance study was undertaken to compare the incidence and severity of adverse reactions attributed to atracurium and alcuronium. Clinical manifestations were used by the anaesthetist to diagnose an adverse reaction (a cutaneous reaction, a greater than 20% change in arterial pressure or heart rate, and bronchospasm). Of the 1956 patients receiving atracurium, 10.1% had adverse reactions compared with 17.9% of the 1425 patients receiving alcuronium (P less than 0.001). There were no longterm sequelae. The atracurium group had a markedly lower incidence of hypotension (3.4% v. 13.7%; P less than 0.0001), but a higher incidence of cutaneous reactions (4.6% v. 2.3%; P less than 0.005) which were not associated with other adverse reactions. There was a low incidence of bronchospasm in both groups (0.2% v. 0.1%).
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are widely used, but the potential hepatotoxic side effects are not always appreciated. Herein, we report the first case, to our knowledge, of an atopic patient in whom severe cholestatic jaundice from bile ductopenia developed 3 wk after initiation of ibuprofen therapy. This drug-induced vanishing bile duct syndrome is probably an immunological (hypersensitivity) reaction. Vanishing bile duct syndrome as a consequence of ibuprofen use should be considered as a potential cause of chronic cholestasis when other more common etiologies have been excluded.
Fatal disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) was induced in female rats by administration of progesterone in late pregnacy. This prevented parturition, with intrauterine fetal death 2 to 4 days past term and subsequent retention of dead fetuses. Concomitantly with or closely following the intrauterine death of their litters, a large proportion of pregnant rats died with histologically evident DIC. Administration of cortisone, heparin, or disoumarin did not prevent DIC, and xi-aminocaproic acid, acetylsalicylic acid, or an onion-rich diet tended to increase its incidence. Antibiotic regimens gave variable results, with significant decrease in DIC only with a combination of two wide-spectrum penicillins. Neomycin and polymyxin had little effect on susceptible Sprague-dawley derived rats, but polymxin caused a significant increase in DIC in a resistant strain of hooded rats. Fatal maternal DIC was completely prevented only by use of natural or synthetic estrogens concurrently with progesterone, although this did not alter the sequence of abnormally prolonged pregnacy with intrauterine fetal death and retention of dead fetuses. Potencies of estrogens varied greatly, but all compounds tested prevented DIC at adequate dosage levels. Diethylstilbestrol, the most potent drug tested, was completely protective at 1 mug daily given subcutaneously. beta-Estradiol was the most effective natural estrogen, giving complete protection with a 10-mug daily subcutaneous injection. Estrogens were much more potent by subcutaneous injection than by oral ingestion, and toxic side effects were sometimes noted with higher levels of the latter. For estrogen therapy to be effective, it was necessary to begin its use before the expected onset of DIC, and in no instance was there evidence of reversal of this process after signs of illness were observed.
Fatal disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) was induced in female rats by administration of progesterone in late pregnancy. This prevented parturition, with intrauterine fetal death 2-4 days past term and subsequent retention of dead fetuses. Concomitantly with, or closely following the intrauterine death of their litters, a large proportion of pregnant rats died with histologically evident DIC. Administration of cortisone, heparin, or dicoumarin did nothing to prevent DIC, and epsilon-aminocaproic acid, acetylsalicylic acid,or an onion-rich diet tended to increase its incidence. Antibiotic regimens gave variable results, with significant decrease in DIC only with a combination of 2 wide-spectrum penicillins. Neomycin and polymyxin had little effect on susceptible Sprague-Dawley derived rats, but polymyxin caused a significant increase in DIC in a resistant strain of hooded rats. Fatal maternal DIC was completely prevented only by use of natural or synthetic estrogens concurrently with progesterone, although the sequence of abnormally prolonged pregnancy with intrauterine fetal death and retention of dead fetuses remained. Potencies of estrogens varied greatly, but all compounds tested prevented DIC at adequate dosage levels. Diethylstilbestrol, the most potent drug tested, was completely protective at 1 mcg daily given sc. Bate-estradiol was the most effective natural estrogen, giving complete protention with a 10 mcg daily sc injection. Estrogens were much more potent by sc injection than by oral ingestion, and toxic side effects were sometimes noted with higher levels of the latter. For estrogen therapy to be effective, it was necessary to begin its use before the expected onset of DIC. Reversal of this process once DIC has started is beyond the powers of this therapy.
