Phosgene is a toxic oxidant gas that causes the adult respiratory distress syndrome in exposed workers. Phosgene exposure markedly increased lung weight gain in buffer-perfused isolated rabbit lungs (31 +/- 5 g over 60 min after phosgene vs. 7.7 +/- 1.2 in control lungs, P less than 0.01) and markedly increased the lung leak index for 125I-albumin (0.28 +/- 0.03 after phosgene vs. 0.02 +/- 0.01 in control lungs, P less than 0.01). Pretreatment with dibutyryl adenosine 3',5' -cyclic monophosphate (DBcAMP), aminophylline, or terbutaline plus isoproterenol prevented the increase in lung weight caused by phosgene (31 +/- 5 g phosgene, 11.7 +/- 2.8 DBcAMP, 7.5 +/- 2.5 aminophylline, 6.1 +/- 1 terbutaline and isoproterenol, 6.1 +/- 1.2 control + aminophylline, and 7.7 +/- 1.2 control; all treatments were P less than 0.01 vs. the untreated phosgene group and not significantly different from control lungs). Pretreatment with aminophylline prevented the increase in lung leak index for 125I-albumin (0.28 +/- 0.03 after phosgene vs. 0.06 +/- 0.02 in aminophylline-treated lungs, P less than 0.01). Posttreatment with aminophylline and terbutaline also prevented the increase in lung weight caused by phosgene. These results indicate that phosgene dramatically increases the movement of fluid and protein across the pulmonary vasculature and that treatment with DBcAMP, aminophylline, terbutaline, or isoproterenol markedly reduces the pulmonary edema caused by phosgene.
Segmental necrotising glomerulonephritis has been reported as complication of rifampicin therapy in patients receiving treatment for tuberculosis. Changing epidemiology of infections such as infective endocarditis (IE) has led to an increase in the use of rifampicin for Staphylococcal infections. We describe a case of a patient with Staphylococcal IE who developed acute renal failure secondary to a segmental necrotising glomerulonephritis while being treated with rifampicin, and review the literature regarding this complication of rifampicin therapy.
The Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors (ESFT) comprises several well-characterized malignant neoplasms with particularly aggressive behavior. Despite recent progress in the use of multimodal therapeutic approaches and aggressive local control measures, a substantial proportion of patients die because of disease progression. Furthermore, this outcome has not changed significantly over the last 15 to 20 years. Consequently, new, more effective therapeutic options are sorely needed for the treatment of ESFT. Because ESFT cells overexpress several cyclin-dependent kinases (CDK), we explored the efficacy against ESFT of roscovitine, a CDK inhibitor shown to be surprisingly safe for humans in clinical trials of their anticancer activity. Results showed that ESFT cell lines are uniformly sensitive to roscovitine. In addition to exerting comparatively minor cell cycle effects, roscovitine treatment concomitantly caused the up-regulation of the expression of the proapoptotic protein BAX and the down-regulation of both survivin and XIAP, thus resulting in caspase-dependent apoptosis. Furthermore, in vivo experiments showed that s.c. growth of ESFT xenografts was also significantly slowed by i.p. injection of roscovitine. These results strongly suggest that roscovitine may be an effective therapeutic agent against ESFT and recommend its evaluation against ESFT in clinical trials and its inclusion in future treatment protocols.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are neurodevelopmental disorders of complex etiology, with a recognized substantial contribution of heterogeneous genetic factors; one of the core features of ASD is a lack of affiliative behaviors.
On the basis of the existing literature, in this study we examined the hypothesis of allelic associations between genetic variants in six genes involved in control of maternal and affiliative behaviors (OXT, OXTR, PRL, PRLR, DbetaH, and FOSB). One hundred and seventy-seven probands with ASD from 151 families (n = 527) were assessed with a set of related instruments capturing multiple facets of ASD. Multivariate and univariate phenotypes were constructed from these assessments and subjected to genetic linkage and association analyses with PBAT and FBAT software.
The resulting pattern of findings, in general, confirmed the hypotheses of the significance of the genes involved in the development of affiliative behaviors in the manifestation of ASD (p values ranging from .000005 to .05); statistically speaking, the strongest results were obtained for allelic associations with the PRL, PRLR, and OXTR genes.
These preliminary data provide additional support for the hypothesis that the allelic variants of genes necessary for the development of species-typical affiliative behaviors are associated with ASD. Independent replication of these findings is needed and studies of other genes associated with affiliative behaviors are indicated.
The purpose of this study is to describe the neuroimaging (CT and MR imaging) findings in liver transplant patients who develop severe neurologic side effects during immunosuppressive therapy with tacrolimus and to correlate these findings with clinical signs and tacrolimus levels in blood.
Brain CT and/or MR imaging was performed on six patients who developed neurologic symptoms while receiving tacrolimus in the post-transplant period. All patients were evaluated by the neurology staff, and imaging studies were independently interpreted by three neuroradiologists. Trough tacrolimus levels in blood were measured with the IMX immunoassay and were correlated with neurologic symptoms and imaging findings.
Imaging abnormalities were observed in five of six patients during the course of their neurologic illnesses. For each patient, neurologic symptoms began when the tacrolimus level in blood was at a peak, exceeding the therapeutic limit in all but one case. In five patients, neurologic symptoms eventually resolved after the tacrolimus dose was reduced or after the drug was stopped. Multifocal low attenuation of white matter was the predominant finding seen on CT images, and matching hyperintense white matter foci were observed on long-TR MR images. In three patients, clinical recovery was accompanied by reversal of the white matter abnormalities seen on CT and MR images.
Immunosuppressive therapy with tacrolimus may produce neurologic side effects that are associated with brain CT and MR imaging abnormalities. Resolution of symptoms and reversal of imaging findings occur when the tacrolimus dose is reduced.
The effects of saikosaponin-d extracted from the roots of Bupleurum falcatum L. on aminonucleoside nephrosis were studied in rats. Urine protein excretion in rats receiving aminonucleoside alone was significantly elevated on the 2nd day after the last injection of aminonucleoside and reached a peak on the 11th day. Urinary protein on the 11th day was reduced by 48 and 46%, respectively in animals treated with saikosaponin-d from the 2nd and 8th day after the last injection of aminonucleoside. Electron microscopically, the degree of abnormality, e.g. loss or fusion of foot processes, in the glomerular epitherial cells was significantly lower in the rats treated with saikosaponin-d after aminonucleoside injection than in the rats treated with aminonucleoside alone. It is concluded that saikosaponin-d prevents the development of proteinuria induced by aminonucleoside in the rat.
The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that the severity of left ventricular remodeling predicts the response to treatment and outcomes in chronic heart failure.
Reversal of remodeling should produce the most favorable outcome in patients with the most severe remodeling.
In 5010 heart failure patients on background therapy and randomized to valsartan and placebo, serial recordings of left ventricular internal diastolic diameter (LVIDd) and ejection fraction (EF) were read at sites that had to meet qualifying standards before participating. Baseline LVIDd and EF were pooled across treatments and retrospectively grouped by quartiles Q1 to Q4, representing best to worst. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were obtained by the log-rank test. Q1 was compared with Q4 for mortality and combined mortality and morbidity (M + M) from Cox regression risk ratios (RRs). Valsartan versus placebo changes from baseline in LVIDd and EF were analyzed by quartiles from analysis of covariance. Valsartan and placebo were compared by RRs for M + M.
Survival rates were greater in the better quartiles for LVIDd and EF (p < 0.00001). The RR for Q1 versus Q4 in events approached 0.5 for both LVIDd and EF (p < 0.0001). An LVIDd decrease and EF increase were quartile-dependent and greater with valsartan than placebo at virtually all time points. The RR for M + M outcomes favored valsartan in the worse quartiles.
Stratification by baseline severity of remodeling showed that patients with worse LVIDd and EF are at highest risk for an event, yet appear to gain the most anti-remodeling effect and clinical benefit with valsartan treatment.
The incidence of auditory toxicity resulting from therapy with ticarcillin (T) (12 g/sq m/day) in combination with gentamicin (G) (200 mg/sq m/day), amikacin (A) (600 mg/dq m/day), or netilmicin (N) (280 mg/sq m/day) was compared. Before administration of these antibiotic combinations to febrile, granulocytopenic patients, baseline audiograms were determined by a pharmacist using a portable audiometer. The before-therapy audiograms for 32 patients receiving T and G, 29 receiving T and A, and 29 receiving T and N were compared with the audiograms after the completion of therapy. The mean length of therapy was seven days. Two patients (6.2%) receiving T and G, one (3.4%) receiving T and N, and one (3.4%) receiving T and A developed auditory toxicity with bilateral decreases of at least 20 decibels at one or more frequencies. The incidence of auditory toxicity secondary to aminoglycoside exposure was low, and the relative auditory toxicity among the three aminoglycosides appeared to be similar.
Exposure to cadmium is associated with the development of pulmonary damage such as emphysema and lung cancer. This metal is also a powerful inducer of different proinflammatory and cell cycle regulatory proteins in many biologic models. Previously, we showed that prolonged exposure of low concentration of cadmium resulted in upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines and cell cycle regulatory molecules in mice lung cell. The present study was undertaken to determine molecular mechanism of inflammation and its relation to cell proliferation in a transformed human lung adenocarcinoma epithelial cell line (A549) in response to cadmium chloride. In comparative studies, we examine that short-duration exposure to lower doses of cadmium significantly increase the growth of A549 cells, whereas higher doses are toxic and cause cell death. We also observed that cadmium induced elevated expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) along with different proinflammatory cytokines like interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukin-6 (IL-6). The possible occurrence of cell proliferation events was evaluated via analysis of the physical state of the DNA and the expression of Ki-67 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). We also checked the pattern of expression of different cell cycle regulatory molecules involved in the onset of cell proliferation. Our results indicate that cadmium treatment appears to induce inflammatory and growth responses in transformed A549 cell line by activating EGFR and its downstream modulators. These results may contribute to better understand the toxic mechanism of cadmium; moreover, the expression profile of cadmium-induced regulatory molecules could provide potential biomarkers for cadmium exposure.
Cocaine-induced cerebral vasculitis is a serious but uncommon clinical entity. We present a case of probable cocaine-induced vasculitis that was unusual in that it was suggested by magnetic resonance angiography. The patient was a 42-year-old woman, who used cocaine both intravenously and intranasally, who was admitted with the acute onset of an illness that resembled bacterial meningitis. Results of the initial standard evaluation were negative, and a diagnosis of cerebral vasculitis was ultimately suggested by magnetic resonance angiography. We believe this to be the first reported case of the diagnosis of cocaine-induced cerebral vasculitis to be suggested by magnetic resonance angiography.
Complexation of host iron (Fe) on the surface of inhaled asbestos fibers has been postulated to cause oxidative stress contributing to in vivo pulmonary injury and inflammation. We examined the role of Fe in Libby amphibole (LA; mean length 4.99 µm ± 4.53 and width 0.28 µm ± 0.19) asbestos-induced inflammogenic effects in vitro and in vivo. LA contained acid-leachable Fe and silicon. In a cell-free media containing FeCl(3), LA bound #17 µg of Fe/mg of fiber and increased reactive oxygen species generation #3.5 fold, which was reduced by deferoxamine (DEF) treatment. In BEAS-2B cells exposure to LA, LA loaded with Fe (FeLA), or LA with DEF did not increase HO-1 or ferritin mRNA expression. LA increased IL-8 expression, which was reduced by Fe loading but increased by DEF. To determine the role of Fe in LA-induced lung injury in vivo, spontaneously hypertensive rats were exposed intratracheally to either saline (300 µL), DEF (1 mg), FeCl(3) (21 µg), LA (0.5 mg), FeLA (0.5 mg), or LA + DEF (0.5 mg). LA caused BALF neutrophils to increase 24 h post-exposure. Loading of Fe on LA but not chelation slightly decreased neutrophilic influx (LA + DEF > LA > FeLA). At 4 h post-exposure, LA-induced lung expression of MIP-2 was reduced in rats exposed to FeLA but increased by LA + DEF (LA + DEF > LA > FeLA). Ferritin mRNA was elevated in rats exposed to FeLA compared to LA. In conclusion, the acute inflammatory response to respirable fibers and particles may be inhibited in the presence of surface-complexed or cellular bioavailable Fe. Cell and tissue Fe-overload conditions may influence the pulmonary injury and inflammation caused by fibers.
Osteolytic bone diseases including osteoporosis are commonly accompanied with enhanced osteoclast formation and bone resorption. Naringin, a natural occurring flavonoid has been found to protect against retinoic acid-induced osteoporosis and improve bone quality in rats. Here, we showed that naringin perturbs osteoclast formation and bone resorption by inhibiting RANK-mediated NF-κB and ERK signaling. Naringin suppressed gene expression of key osteoclast marker genes. Naringin was found to inhibit RANKL-induced activation of NF-κB by suppressing RANKL-mediated IκB-α degradation. In addition, naringin inhibited RANKL-induced phosphorylation of ERK. This study identifies naringin as an inhibitor for osteoclast formation and bone resorption, and provides evidence that natural compounds such as naringin might be beneficial as an alternative medicine for the prevention and treatment of osteolysis.
The efficacy of the cholinergic agonist pilocarpine to evoke generalized seizures in rats was examined over the 24-h photocycle. Both seizure latency and severity during the 24-h period exhibited marked diurnal variation. Seizure activity generalized more rapidly throughout the dark phase and was often characterized by wild running clonus and tonic extensor convulsions. In contrast, electrographic seizures during the light phase were mainly associated with facial/forelimb clonus and rearing typical of pilocarpine-induced seizures. These data suggest that the sensitivity of the rodent brain to pilocarpine exhibits day-night variation and seizure activity induced during the dark phase may generalize via the brainstem.
A 21-year-old female with mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD) experienced nausea, headache, consciousness disturbance, nuchal rigidity, and a temperature of 38.5 less than or equal to C three days after the intake of sulindac (300 mg/day). Cerebrospinal fluid analysis revealed an opening pressure of 310 mm of water, a predominantly lymphocytic pleocytosis, and elevated protein content of 89 mg/dl. After discontinuing sulindac, the aseptic meningitis improved in five days. In the acute stage, CT scan disclosed contrast enhancement in the cerebral hemispheres, which suggests that hypersensitivity may be involved in the pathogenesis of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) induced aseptic meningitis.
Recent studies suggest an association between 6-thioguanine (6-TG) therapy and hepatic nodular regenerative hyperplasia (NRH) in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). An influence of 6-TG on portal pressure remains to be determined. The aim of the study was to examine the functional relevance of long-term 6-TG treatment on hepatic hemodynamics in IBD patients and its association with NRH.
Patients treated with 6-TG for IBD underwent measurement of the hepatic venous pressure gradient (HVPG) and liver biopsy. 6-TG therapy was stopped when NRH was diagnosed. If elevated, HVPG measurement was repeated after 1 yr.
Twenty-six patients (15 women, 11 men; median age 41 yr, range 23-76) treated with 6-TG for 38 months (median; range 12-45) were included. Among 24 patients with sufficient liver biopsy, 6 patients (25%) were diagnosed with NRH. In these 6 patients, the HVPG was higher (median HVPG 7 mmHg, range 3-14) than in the 18 patients without NRH (median 3 mmHg, range 2-5; P < 0.001). In the patients with NRH, two had clinically significant portal hypertension (CSPH) (13 and 14 mmHg, respectively); in one patient the HVPG was slightly elevated (7 mmHg). No overt clinical signs of portal hypertension were observed. One year after stopping 6-TG therapy, HVPG decreased in all 3 patients with initially elevated HVPG levels.
We demonstrate that IBD patients under long-term 6-TG therapy are at a substantial risk for developing NRH. NRH results in elevation of HVPG and may cause CSPH. Discontinuation of 6-TG therapy extenuates portal hypertension and may thus reduce the risk of complications.
To evaluate the effect of 0.005% latanoprost and 0.50% timolol for the treatment of steroid-induced ocular hypertension (SIOH) after excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy (PRK).
In this comparative, open-label study we enrolled 29 patients who received steroid therapy after PRK and developed intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation within 30 days of treatment. Fifteen were randomized to 0.005% latanoprost (group A) and 14 to 0.50% timolol (group B). IOP measurements were scheduled at 1, 3, 7, 15, 30, 60, 90 and 120 days of therapy. RESULTS; We did not find any real differences between latanoprost and timolol except at the 7-day and 15-day timepoints, when latanoprost reduced IOP significantly more than timolol (p=0.033, 0.035, respectively). After 7 days of therapy two of the 14 timolol-treated patients had high IOP (24 and 26 mmHg) but these promptly returned to normal when latanoprost was added. No significant differences were observed in the ocular side effects considered.
0.005% latanoprost is as safe and effective as 0.50% timolol in the treatment of SIOH after PRK. Both drugs provide a significant and stable IOP reduction in the majority of patients after short-term treatment. These findings are encouraging for the use of latanoprost in the management of SIOH after PRK, although further trials are necessary to consider it as a primary treatment.
The present study has determined the ability of dicofol, an organochlorine pesticide, to induce cytochrome P450 using rats treated with 1, 10, and 25mg/kg dicofol intraperitoneally for 4 days. Treatments with 10 and 25mg/kg dicofol produced dose-related increases of cytochrome P450 and cytochrome b(5) contents and NADPH-cytochrome c reductase, 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase, pentoxyresorufin O-dealkylase, aniline hydroxylase, and erythromycin N-demethylase activities in liver microsomes. The treatments also increased glutathione S-transferase and superoxide dismutase activities in liver cytosol. Dicofol at 1mg/kg produced a general trend towards increases of the aforementioned enzyme levels. The results of immunoblot analyses showed that 10 and 25mg/kg dicofol increased protein levels of CYP1A1, CYP2B, CYP2E1, and 3A in liver. RT-PCR data indicated that dicofol induced mRNA expression of liver CYP1A1, CYP2B, and CYP3A. Pretreatments of rats with 10 and 25mg/kg dicofol decreased phenobarbital-induced sleeping time by 34% and 39%, respectively. Dicofol pretreatment at 25mg/kg increased CCl4-induced serum alanine aminotransferase activity by 4.3-fold and aspartate aminotransferase activity by 4.1-fold. The present study demonstrates that dicofol has the ability to induce CYP1A1, CYP2B, CYP2E1, and CYP3A in the liver and increase phenobarbital metabolism and CCl4 toxicity in rats.
Physostigmine, a centrally-acting cholinesterase inhibitor, has been shown to have potential as a treatment for primary degenerative dementia. In an experiment to test its effects, i.v. physostigmine caused the onset of unifocal premature contractions and runs of bigeminy in an 85-year-old man.
Generaliszed spike-and-wave (SW) spindles (5-7 Hz) associated with myoclonic jerks precede the occurrence of regular spikes (2-3 Hz) associated with convulsive seizure induced by picrotoxin. SW spindles occur spontaneously in rodent and cat under some experimental conditions and are considered to be models of human generalised epilepsy. These spindles have been proposed as being led by a thalamic pacemaker. To examine this possibility in picrotoxin-induced SW spindles and seizure spikes, we recorded EEG using chronically implant unipolar electrodes during intravenous picrotoxin infusion in freely behaving rat. The 6 EEG signals were digitally sampled at 1000 Hz. Linear correlation, spectral, coherence and phase analyses were undertaken to determine time differences (TDs) between EEG channels and the brain structure leading seizure activity. One frontal cortex led all other structures during SW spindles. TD between SW spindles in the leading frontal cortex (Fr1) and the contralateral Fr1 was 3.6 + / - 0.5 msec. All ipsilateral structures (hippocampus, thalamus, amygdala, caudate nucleus and occipital cortex) were delayed by more than 3 msec from Fr1 (intralaminar thalamic nuclei - by 6.3 + / - 0.9 msec). TDs of SW spindles between subcortical regions were less than 1.5 msec. Similar relationships with slightly smaller TDs were found with spikes during convulsive seizure except TDs between frontal cortices did not significantly differ from zero. We suggest that seizure activity induced by picrotoxin is led by one Fr1 during SW spindles and by both frontal cortices working as one system during convulsive seizure.
Norepinephrine has potent antiepileptic properties, the pharmacology of which is unclear. Under conditions in which GABAergic inhibition is blocked, norepinephrine reduces hippocampal cornu ammonis 3 (CA3) epileptiform activity through alpha(2) adrenergic receptor (AR) activation on pyramidal cells. In this study, we investigated which alpha(2)AR subtype(s) mediates this effect. First, alpha(2)AR genomic expression patterns of 25 rat CA3 pyramidal cells were determined using real-time single-cell reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, demonstrating that 12 cells expressed alpha(2A)AR transcript; 3 of the 12 cells additionally expressed mRNA for alpha(2C)AR subtype and no cells possessing alpha(2B)AR mRNA. Hippocampal CA3 epileptiform activity was then examined using field potential recordings in brain slices. The selective alphaAR agonist 6-fluoronorepinephrine caused a reduction of CA3 epileptiform activity, as measured by decreased frequency of spontaneous epileptiform bursts. In the presence of betaAR blockade, concentration-response curves for AR agonists suggest that an alpha(2)AR mediates this response, as the rank order of potency was 5-bromo-N-(4,5-dihydro-1H-imidazol-2-yl)-6-quinoxalinamine (UK-14304) >or= epinephrine >6-fluoronorepinephrine > norepinephrine > phenylephrine. Finally, equilibrium dissociation constants (K(b)) of selective alphaAR antagonists were functionally determined to confirm the specific alpha(2)AR subtype inhibiting CA3 epileptiform activity. Apparent K(b) values calculated for atipamezole (1.7 nM), MK-912 (4.8 nM), BRL-44408 (15 nM), yohimbine (63 nM), ARC-239 (540 nM), prazosin (4900 nM), and terazosin (5000 nM) correlated best with affinities previously determined for the alpha(2A)AR subtype (r = 0.99, slope = 1.0). These results suggest that, under conditions of impaired GABAergic inhibition, activation of alpha(2A)ARs is primarily responsible for the antiepileptic actions of norepinephrine in the rat hippocampal CA3 region.
This paper investigates the effects of air pollution in urethane-induced lung tumours in mice by means of histological, morphometrical, and DNA ploidy. The experimental exposure was done in locations with different air pollution profiles: a polluted area (downtown São Paulo) and a "clean" environment. Swiss mice were employed and urethane (3 g/kg) was used as a carcinogenic substance. All the animals, whether exposed or not to air pollution, were sacrificed after 6 months, and the lung lesions were analysed. The results showed a significant effect of air pollution on tumour progression, observed by changes in the phenotype of the tumour cells as demonstrated by morphometry and DNA ploidy. We observed more atypical adenomas in the air pollution-exposed group (p = 0.02). Coherently, morphometric differences were also detected between the two groups. Neoplasms of exposed mice exhibited an increase in the nuclear fraction (p = 0.002) and in the nucleus/cytoplasm ratio (p = 0.011), as a decrease in the stromal fraction (p < 0.001). There was a higher risk of aneuploidy in the 6-months-of-air-pollution-exposure group (relative risk: 1.58; 95% of confidence interval: 1.007 to 2.403). These results indicate that urban air pollution accelerates the process of progression towards malignancy.
We describe a 2-month-old girl with atypical Kawasaki disease (KD) complicated by peripheral gangrene and myocardial infarction. Peripheral ischaemia leading to gangrene is a rare but serious complication of KD in infants younger than 7 months of age. Treatment has been targeted at reducing arterial inflammation, arteriospasm and thrombosis. We report the first patient with incomplete KD and peripheral ischaemia in whom therapy with prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) as vasodilating and antithrombotic agent appeared successful, restoring hand and foot perfusion without significant long-term sequelae. However, PGE1 could have supported development of myocardial infarction by shunting blood away from ischaemic areas distal to a giant coronary artery aneurysm with beginning thrombosis. CONCLUSION. Atypical KD with peripheral gangrene appears to react favourably to treatment with PGE1, but needs careful monitoring to detect early signs of cardiac ischaemia.
A vascular component in ergotamine-induced headache has been proposed. No study has been carried out to evaluate cerebral hemodynamic changes by means of transcranial Doppler during withdrawal from migraine medication; in particular, ergotamine-containing drugs.
We examined 21 patients suffering from drug-induced headache during their in-hospital withdrawal from ergotamine (n=8) and compared them with patients during withdrawal from analgesics (n=13) and with healthy controls (n=14). Cerebral blood flow velocities were measured with transcranial Doppler, and pulsatility indices were calculated. Blood pressure, heart rate, and end-tidal carbon dioxide were documented. A subjective analog headache rating scaling was used for day-to-day evaluation of headache severity.
Mean cerebral blood flow velocities dropped significantly after discontinuation of ergotamine-containing drugs but not after stopping common analgesics. Pulsatility indices remained unchanged. Cerebral blood flow velocities were higher in drug-ingesting patients compared to the control group and showed significant changes in patients with headache using ergotamine and in those using analgesics. Carbon dioxide, heart rate, and blood pressure remained unchanged. The headache rating scale did not show a constant trend.
Our results indicate that ergotamine and, to a lesser extent, common analgesics including caffeine might influence cerebral blood flow velocities and pulsatility indices causing transient and reversible disturbance of cerebral autoregulation.
The pediatric sedative combination of meperidine, promethazine, and chlorpromazine (MPC) has been widely used for more than 40 years. Despite its relatively poor efficacy and questionable safety profile, many emergency departments (EDs) continue to stock specially formulated mixtures of these three agents. We report a case of iatrogenic cardiac arrest in a 2-month-old infant in whom a consulting resident administered too much MPC (10 times the expected dose) by the wrong route (intravenous instead of intramuscular). The child was successfully resuscitated with no apparent neurologic deficit. Subsequently, we have removed MPC entirely from our ED and instituted a policy restricting ED procedural sedation privileges to emergency physicians. We urge other EDs to do likewise.
The semeiology and significance of neonatal "minor withdrawal" are developed. Its treatment and the consequent prevention of rebound, late, or classical withdrawal are proposed. Basic research implications are formulated.
Statins, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors could be associated with the risk reduction of colorectal cancer. We previously demonstrated that simvastatin inhibits NF-kappaB signaling in human intestinal epithelial cells and ameliorates acute murine colitis. The aim of our study was to evaluate the effects of simvastatin on the apoptotic pathways related to NF-kappaB signaling in colon cancer cells, and on anticancer effects in 2 different animal models. We treated cell lines (COLO 205 and HCT 116) with simvastatin or vehicle and determined apoptosis by cell cycle analysis, Annexin V-FITC staining, caspase-3 activity assay and confocal microscopy. We assessed the expression of antiapoptotic factors by RT-PCR and Western blotting. In the colitis-associated colon cancer (CAC) model, we induced colonic tumors in C57/BL6 mice by azoxymethane and dextran sulfate sodium administration, and evaluated simvastatin's effect on tumor growth. In the xenograft model, we evaluated its effect on the inoculated tumor growth. In both cell lines, simvastatin caused dose- and time-dependent cell death. Annexin V staining significantly increased after simvastatin treatment. It augmented caspase-3 activity and downregulated the expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, cIAP1 and cFLIP. In the CAC model, simvastatin significantly reduced tumor development. In the xenograft model, tumors from animals treated with simvastatin had smaller volumes, larger necrotic areas, lower expression of VEGF and higher apoptotic scores. In conclusion, simvastatin inhibited colon cancer development by induction of apoptosis and suppression of angiogenesis. These results suggest that simvastatin could be a potential chemopreventive and therapeutic agent of CAC as well as de novo colon cancer.
A chronic alcoholic who had ingested a very high dose of disulfiram (29 g over a 1-week period) without simultaneous alcohol intake developed an acute encephalopathy and a severe flaccid tetraparesis that worsened over the course of several days, even after the intake of the drug had stopped. Recovery was both slow and incomplete. One year after intoxication, the patient still had distal weakness in the arms and legs, and hypesthesia in the hands and feet.
Thirty-two of 487 patients who received quinidine between the years of 1970 and 1974 in the departments of medicine at Hadassah University Hospital developed hypersensitivity reactions. Ten of the 32 patients had clinical and biochemical manifestations of liver invlovement. In 4 patients liver biopsy showed granulomatous hepatitis. It is therefore concluded that quinidine-induced hepatitis is a relatively common side effect of this drug.
