To investigate whether gastrointestinal lipase inhibition reduces the progression of a western-type diet induced atherosclerosis, male apolipoprotein-E knockout (apoE KO) mice were administered orlistat ((S)-1-[[(S, 2S, 3S)-3-hexyl-4-oxo-2-oxetanyl] methyl]dodecyl-(S)-2-formamido-4-methylvalerate) mixed with a western-type diet for 8 weeks. Orlistat significantly reduced plasma triglyceride levels, but not total cholesterol levels, at 4 and 8 weeks of treatment. Increase in plasma triglyceride levels after oral olive oil loading in the mice fed a western-type diet was significantly suppressed in the orlistat treated group at 4 weeks of treatment. After 8 weeks treatment, atherosclerotic lesion area in the aorta of the orlistat treated group was significantly smaller than that of the control group. These results suggest that gastrointestinal lipase inhibition reduces the progression of atherosclerosis through a triglyceride-lowering effect, via inhibition of fat absorption.
Ivermectin is widely used in human and veterinary medicine for the control of helminth infections. Ivermectin is known to interact with P-glycoprotein (P-gp/MDR1), being a good substrate and a potent inhibitor, however, the influence of ivermectin on the expression of the transporter has not been investigated. Expression of P-glycoprotein was investigated in cultured mouse hepatocytes acutely exposed to ivermectin. The two P-glycoprotein murine isoforms, Mdr1a and Mdr1b, mRNA levels were assessed by real-time RT-PCR. Ivermectin induced a clear time- and concentration-dependent up-regulation of Mdr1a and Mdr1b mRNA levels (as early as a 12-h exposure and up to 2.5-fold at 10μM). Moreover, ivermectin-treated cells displayed enhanced cellular efflux of the P-glycoprotein substrate calcein that was inhibited by the P-glycoprotein blocker valspodar, providing evidence that the ivermectin-induced P-glycoprotein was functional. The mechanisms underlying these effects were investigated. Ivermectin-mediated Mdr1 mRNA induction was independent of the two nuclear receptors CAR and PXR, which are known to be involved in drug transporters regulation. Moreover, by using reporter cell lines that detects specific ligand-activated transcription factors, we showed that ivermectin did not displayed CAR, PXR or AhR ligand activities. However, studies with actinomycin D revealed that the half-life of Mdr1a and Mdr1b mRNA were significantly prolonged by two-fold in ivermectin-treated cells suggesting a post-transcriptional mode of ivermectin regulation. This study demonstrates for the first time that ivermectin induces P-glycoprotein overexpression through post-transcriptional mRNA stabilization, thus offering insight into the mechanism of reduced therapeutic efficacy and development of ivermectin-resistant parasites.
Simulation training is rapidly becoming an integral element of the education curriculum of anesthesia residency programs. We report a case of successful resuscitation of bupivacaine-induced cardiac arrest treated with i.v. lipid emulsion by providers who had recently participated in simulation training involving a scenario nearly identical to this case. Upon debriefing, it was determined that the previous training influenced execution of the following steps: rapid problem recognition, prompt initiation of specific therapy in the setting of supportive advanced cardiac life support measures, and coordinated team efforts. Although the true cause of efficient resuscitation and ultimate recovery cannot be proven, the efficiency of the resuscitation process, including timely administration of lipid emulsion, is evidence that simulation may be useful for training providers to manage rare emergencies.
Dysfunctional cross talk between adipose tissue and liver tissue results in metabolic and inflammatory disorders. As an insulin sensitizer, rosiglitazone (Rosi) improves insulin resistance yet causes increased adipose mass and weight gain in mice and humans. Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) reduces adipose mass and body weight gain but induces hepatic steatosis in mice. We examined the combined effects of Rosi and CLA on adiposity, insulin sensitivity, and hepatic steatosis in high-fat-fed male C57Bl/6 mice. CLA alone suppressed weight gain and adipose mass but caused hepatic steatosis. Addition of Rosi attenuated CLA-induced insulin resistance and dysregulation of adipocytokines. In adipose, CLA significantly suppressed lipoprotein lipase and fatty acid translocase (FAT/CD36) mRNA, suggesting inhibition of fatty acid uptake into adipose; addition of Rosi completely rescued this effect. In addition, CLA alone increased markers of macrophage infiltration, F4/80, and CD68 mRNA levels, without inducing TNF-alpha in epididymal adipose tissue. The ratio of Bax to Bcl2, a marker of apoptosis, was significantly increased in adipose of the CLA-alone group and was partially prevented by treatment of Rosi. Immunohistochemistry of F4/80 demonstrates a proinflammatory response induced by CLA in epididymal adipose. In the liver, CLA alone induced microsteatotic liver but surprisingly increased the rate of very-low-density lipoprotein-triglyceride production without inducing inflammatory mediator-TNF-alpha and markers of macrophage infiltration. These changes were accompanied by significantly increased mRNA levels of stearoyl-CoA desaturase, FAT/CD36, and fatty acid synthase. The combined administration of CLA and Rosi reduced hepatic liver triglyceride content as well as lipogenic gene expression compared with CLA alone. In summary, dietary CLA prevented weight gain in Rosi-treated mice without attenuating the beneficial effects of Rosi on insulin sensitivity. Rosi ameliorated CLA-induced lipodystrophic disorders that occurred in parallel with rescued expression of adipocytokine and adipocytes-abundant genes.
We describe a case of successful resuscitation with an i.v. lipid infusion of local anesthetic-induced cardiovascular toxicity after supraclavicular brachial plexus block with mepivacaine and bupivacaine. Lipid therapy was initiated after 10 min of unsuccessful resuscitation and resulted in restoration of cardiovascular activity and hemodynamic stability. This case illustrates the utility of i.v. lipid therapy in the treatment of local anesthetic toxicity.
Multiple reports of cauda equina syndrome and transient radicular nerve root irritation have suggested that lidocaine spinal anesthesia may be responsible. In this case report, a patient with a preexisting diabetic neuropathy received a partial block following a tetracaine spinal, which was followed by a lidocaine spinal. Following block resolution, a new conus medullaris syndrome was diagnosed. Because of the close proximity of the cauda equina and the conus medullaris, differentiation between these syndromes can be difficult. The preexisting diabetic neuropathy may have predisposed this patient to neurologic injury. The choice of a different local anesthetic drug with less neurotoxic potential such as bupivacaine may have prevented this injury.
A patient developed signs of central nervous system (CNS) toxicity during treatment of postthoracotomy pain with a continuous intrapleural bupivacaine infusion. This incident occurred after the patient's chest tube was clamped, without any decrease in the bupivacaine infusion rate. This is the first reported case of CNS toxicity in a patient receiving a continuous intrapleural bupivacaine infusion. Possible etiologies of this complication are discussed, as are ways to avoid such a complication in the future.
A double-blind trial of the effects of vitamin C on the frequency, severity and duration of post-suxamethonium pains was performed. Fifty-three patients undergone bronchoscopy received either a placebo or 10 g of vitamin C. No beneficial effect was demonstrated. In 18 patients no relationship was found between pre-anaesthetic buffy layer vitamin C levels and the subsequent pains. Measurement of buffy layer and plasma vitamin C levels before and after anaesthesia did not suggest that vitamin C deficiency occurs during or immediately after administration of suxamethonium. It is concluded that the administration of vitamin C cannot be recommended as a means for prevention of suxamethonium pains.
Buspirone, an azospirone compound, is a nonsedative anxiolytic that has achieved wide usage since its introduction in 1987. Although relatively free of side-effects, there have been several instances of dyskinesia and dystonia associated with the use of buspirone. We report two patients with persistent movement disorders that developed after prolonged treatment with the drug. One patient developed a lasting problem of cervical-cranial dystonia and tremors after treatment with buspirone at a dosage of 40 mg/day for several weeks. Another, receiving 30 mg/day for 6 weeks, experienced an exacerbation of preexisting spasmodic torticollis and tardive dyskinesia as well as the onset of involuntary phonations. As shown by these and other examples, buspirone poses the risk for inducing or exacerbating several types of movement disorders.
A 73-year-old woman with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma had two episodes of severe, bilateral, sensori-neural hearing loss after vincristine therapy. Her hearing gradually, then completely returned 2-3 months after the vincristine therapy was discontinued. Bilateral ear infections, central nervous system lymphoma and infection, or other drug-induced neuropathies were excluded as possible etiologies for the deafness. Bilateral acoustic (VIII) nerve palsy in this patient was most likely a manifestation of vincristine neurotoxicity.
The effects of oral verapamil monotherapy (320 mg/day) given to a group of essential hypertensive patients (n = 16) on blood pressure, electrocardiogram (ECG) and ventricular function measured by means of nuclear ventriculography (NV) were investigated. Verapamil significantly lowered systolic (SP) (p less than 0.001) and diastolic (DP) (p less than 0.001) blood pressure. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and ejection rate (LVER) were reduced from 61.61 +/- 6.34 to 54.16 +/- 6.09% (p less than 0.001) and from 255.6 +/- 58.9 to 217.4 +/- 56.03% (p less than 0.02), respectively. On the other hand, in the right ventricle, the drug only reduced the right ventricular filling rate (RVFR) from 225.2 +/- 60.02 to 167.5 +/- 43.7% (p less than 0.05). Total blood volume (TBV) was also significantly diminished (p less than 0.05). Variations in LVEF (delta LVEF) and RVEF (delta RVEF) correlated with variations in blood pressures and TVB (delta TVB). The results indicate that the hypotensive action mechanism of verapamil could be explained at least in part by a reduction in LVEF and systemic vasodilatation.
Essential hypertension is characterized by increased renal vascular resistance, which also has definite implications for renal sodium handling. We studied the possibility of correcting these abnormalities by inhibiting angiotensin-converting enzyme with enalapril. Enalaprilic acid produced renal vasodilation. This, particularly postglomerular, vasodilation was accompanied with an increase in sodium excretion. The natriuresis was positively correlated to initial plasma renin activity. During continuous treatment with enalapril up to 12 weeks, this vasodilation persisted in 22 patients with essential hypertension. We also showed that orally administered enalapril induces natriuresis, both during a 50-mmol and during a 200-mmol sodium intake a day. This natriuresis caused a net negative sodium balance of approximately 120-140 mmol Na after 1 week of enalapril therapy. This was accompanied with a fall in body weight. We conclude that enalapril in essential hypertension alleviates the angiotensin-II-mediated abnormalities in renal hemodynamics and sodium excretion.
We surveyed 1711 women exposed to diethylstilbestrol in utero, and 919 women not exposed, concerning lifetime weight loss histories. The prevalence of a history of unexplained profoundly low body weight (weight less than or equal to 80% of expected weight for age, sex, and height) was 18.7 per 1000 in the exposed group compared to 3.3 per 1000 in the unexposed group; a 5.72 to 1 ratio of increased risk.
Turmeric has been used for centuries in Ayurvedic medicine as a treatment for inflammatory disorders including arthritis. On the basis of this traditional usage, dietary supplements containing turmeric rhizome and turmeric extracts are also being used in the western world for arthritis treatment and prevention. However, to our knowledge, no data are available regarding antiarthritic efficacy of complex turmeric extracts similar in composition to those available for use as dietary supplements. Therefore, the studies described here were undertaken to determine the in vivo efficacy of well-characterized curcuminoid-containing turmeric extracts in the prevention or treatment of arthritis using streptococcal cell wall (SCW)-induced arthritis, a well-described animal model of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Arthritic index, a clinical measure of joint swelling, was used as the primary endpoint for assessing the effect of extracts on joint inflammation. An essential oil-depleted turmeric fraction containing 41% of the three major curcuminoids was efficacious in preventing joint inflammation when treatment was started before, but not after, the onset of joint inflammation. A commercial sample containing 94% of the three major curcuminoids was more potent in preventing arthritis than the essential oil-depleted turmeric fraction when compared by total curcuminoid dose per body weight. In conclusion, these data (1) document the in vivo antiarthritic efficacy of an essential oil-depleted turmeric fraction and (2) suggest that the three major curcuminoids are responsible for this antiarthritic effect, while the remaining compounds in the crude turmeric extract may inhibit this protective effect.
On the 4th day of acyclovir treatment for Herpes simplex pneumonia, a 28 month-old girl who had received allogenic marrow transplant for stage IV neuroblastoma presented with severe neurologic disorders including coma and choreic movements. These symptoms disappeared 9 days after acyclovir was stopped. The disturbance in acyclovir kinetics because of acute renal failure and/or a cerebral cortex atrophy might explain the poor neurologic tolerance of acyclovir. This reversible neurologic involvement on a prone patient should be known as a differential diagnosis of Herpes simplex encephalitis.
The effect of insulin therapy on adverse cardiovascular outcomes in diabetic patients has been debated and a reduced benefit in clinical restenosis outcomes after sirolimus stenting has been reported among diabetic patients requiring insulin therapy. We analyzed 297 diabetic patients receiving sirolimus-eluting stents, including 115 (39%) on insulin therapy, and compared outcomes with 541 nondiabetic patients treated consecutively during the same interval. The rates of target lesion revascularization (9.5% vs 3.5%, p = 0.003) and cardiac death or myocardial infarction (MI, 7.1% vs 3.1%, p = 0.012) were significantly higher for diabetic patients. Insulin treatment was independently associated with increased risk for target lesion revascularization (odds ratio [OR] 2.48, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.22 to 5.00) and cardiac death or MI (hazard ratio [HR] 2.85, 95% CI 1.41 to 5.77), whereas the adjusted risk for diabetic patients not treated with insulin was not significantly different from patients without diabetes for target lesion revascularization (OR 1.32, 95% CI 0.66 to 2.62) or cardiac death or MI (HR 1.04, 95% CI 0.50 to 2.17). In conclusion, diabetes mellitus is associated with increased risk for target lesion revascularization and cardiac death or MI after receiving sirolimus-eluting stenting, and is significantly exaggerated by the requirement for insulin therapy.
To identify predictors of mortality and long-term outcomes in survivors after pentobarbital coma (PBC) in patients failing current treatment standards for severe traumatic brain injuries (TBI). This is a retrospective cohort study of severe TBI patients receiving PBC at Level I Trauma Center and tertiary university hospital.
Four thousand nine hundred thirty-four patients were admitted to the trauma intensive care unit with severe TBI (head Abbreviated Injury Scale >or= 3) between April 1998 and December 2004. Six hundred eleven received intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring and 58 received PBC. Three patients underwent craniotomy for intracranial mass lesion and were excluded. The study group received standardized medical management for severe TBI including opiates, benzodiazepines, elevation of the head of bed, avoidance of hypotension and hypercapnia and hyperosmolar therapy (HOsmRx). In addition, 31 of 55 patients (56%) underwent placement of intraventricular catheters for cerebrospinal fluid drainage. If routine medical management and cerebrospinal fluid diversion failed to control ICP, then the patient was determined to have refractory intracranial hypertension (RICH) and PBC treatment was initiated. PBC was performed with pentobarbital infusion with continuous electroencephalogram monitoring to ensure adequate burst suppression. The measurements include serum sodium (Na) and osmolality (Osm) were assessed as indicators for initiation of PBC and to estimate the 50% mortality cut-points when controlling for ICP. Follow-up functional outcomes were assessed using the Glasgow Outcome Scale and stratified according to admission Glasgow Coma Scale score and Marshall computed tomography classification. Of the 55 PBC patients, 22 (40%) survived at discharge. 19 of 22 had long-term follow-up (1 year or more) available. Of these, 13 (68%) were normal or functionally independent (Glasgow Outcome Scale score 4 or 5). Serum Na and Osm were associated with death (p < 0.05) when controlling for ICP. The 50% mortality cut-points were Na of 160 mEq/L and Osm of 330 mOsm/kg H2O. Median minimum cerebral perfusion pressure after PBC was 42 mm Hg in survivors and 34 mm Hg in nonsurvivors (p = 0.013).
In patients with severe TBI and RICH, survival at discharge of 40% with good functional outcomes in 68% of survivors at 1 year or more can be achieved with PBC after failure of HOsmRx. Based on 50% mortality cut-points, analysis suggests the limits of HOsmRx to be Na of 160 mEq/L and Osm of 330 mOsm/Kg H2O. Maintenance of higher cerebral perfusion pressure after PBC is associated with survival. PBC treatment of RIH may be even more important when other treatments of RIH, such as decompressive craniectomy, are not available.
The IV injection of 1-2 mg/kg dl-propranolol in dogs elicited a reduction of arterial blood pressure accompanied by a blockade of hypertensive responses to carotid occlusion or stimulation of the central trunk of the vagus. The same fall of blood pressure and identical blockades were seen following propranolol injected in the cisterna magna at a total dose of 2-5 mg. This late treatment also abolished the hypertensive response to KCl injected into the cisterna magna. On the other hand, propranolol failed to modify significantly responses to the electrical stimulation of hepatic and splenic sympathetic fibers and did not influence the hypertensive effects of adrenaline and noradrenaline. These findings are compatible with the notion that propranolol lowers systemic blood pressure via an action on central nervous system vasomotive centers.
We previously demonstrated that seizure susceptibility developed by the 14th day post-ethacrynic acid (EA)-induced seizure in mice, with a prolonged increase in the expression of c-fos mRNA in the brain during days 10-14. To examine whether such c-fos increase contributes to the development of seizure susceptibility, we administered antisense oligodeoxynucleotide to c-fos by continuous infusion into the lateral ventricle of mice that had shown a moderate stage of EA seizure, and evaluated the seizure susceptibility to kainic acid (10 mg/kg) on the 14th day. Antisense-infused mice displayed significant reduction of the c-Fos level in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex on the 7th and 14th days, and a significant decrease in seizure severity. These findings suggest that the prolonged increase in c-fos expression after EA seizure may lead to the development of seizure susceptibility.
The changes in retinoid metabolism have been documented in liver cirrhosis. However, the dynamic alterations in levels of this vitamin between circulation and liver during development of the liver cirrhosis are not well understood. The aim of this study was to measure retinoids in the liver and circulation in parallel, during and after development of cirrhosis induced by carbon tetrachloride and thioacetamide. Retinoid levels were measured by HPLC. A decrease in retinaldehyde and total retinol, together with an increase in retinoic acid was evident in liver from both carbon tetrachloride or thioacetamide treated rats within a month after initiation of treatment. Activity of enzymes involved in retinoid metabolism such as retinaldehyde oxidase, retinaldehyde dehydrogenase, and retinaldehyde reductase were decreased in the liver. In parallel, levels of retinol and retinaldehyde in the serum were increased while retinoic acid was decreased. This study indicates that during development of cirrhosis, there is reciprocal transfer of retinoid metabolites between the circulation and the liver.
After a 1-week placebo washout, 25 depressed hospitalized patients were treated for 4 weeks with trimipramine or doxepin in a fixed equivalent dosage schedule ending in 150 mg h.s. The study used a parallel group double-blind design. Comparisons over time revealed that both drugs improved patients' overall well-being as indicated by the rating scales studied. Significant (p less than .05) differences between the treatments favored trimipramine over doxepin: the Hamilton scale diurnal variation cluster at Week 1 and the sleep disturbance factor at Week 4; the Clinical Global Impressions improvement index at Week 1; and the Anxiety Status Inventory somatic symptoms cluster at Week 4. No differences in blood pressure, heart rate, PVCs, or PACs were observed in any of the comparisons. The total number of side effects reported was greater in the doxepin-treated patients.
Ninety patients with rheumatoid arthritis who had received courses of gold followed by penicillamine for their disease were evaluated to determine the predictiveness of a certain response or adverse reaction to gold for the same response or adverse reaction to penicillamine. Most patients who were considered gold-responders also responded to penicillamine, and most patients who did not respond to gold responded to penicillamine as well. Regarding toxicity, gold reactions did not predict reactions to penicillamine except that that patients with gold-induced proteinuria were at a higher risk for development of proteinuria during penicillamine therapy (p less than 0.001), and this usually occurred within the first six months of treatment. Patients with penicillamine-associated mucocutaneous reactions tended to have low gamma globulin levels (p less than 0.05) and were less likely to have subcutaneous nodules (p less than 0.05).
Cigarette smoking is the most important modifiable risk factor for premature mortality. Many common and serious diseases, including coronary artery disease, chronic obstructive lung disease, stroke, and cancer, are strongly linked to cigarette smoking. Smoking cessation is difficult due to nicotine addiction and withdrawal symptoms. Comprehensive programs for tobacco control can substantially reduce the frequency of tobacco use. Physicians can improve screening and increase cessation rates by asking patients about tobacco use at every office visit. The spectrum of available smoking cessation interventions ranges from simple advice to intensive behavioral support and pharmacological treatment. Medications currently approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for smoking cessation include nicotine replacement therapy (patch, gum, lozenge, inhaler, and nasal spray), bupropion, and varenicline. Nortriptyline and clonidine have been used in patients who do not tolerate first-line agents. New drug therapies, such as nicotine vaccines, are being developed. The US Public Health Service Guideline, published in 2008, recommends a combination of behavioral support and pharmacologic therapy. In summary, smoking cessation should be based on a patient's coexisting medical conditions, level of smoking, compliance, previous experience with cessation agents, and the cost of therapy.
Morphine caused in the anaesthetized rat reduction in brain noradrenaline (NA) turnover, hypotension and bradycardia, similarly to the antihypertensive, alpha-adrenergic agonist, clonidine. All effects of morphine were antagonized by naloxone, as well as the alpha-receptor antagonist, yohimbine. In contrast, naloxone did not affect the circulatory depression and reduction in brain NA utilization by clonidine which both previously have been found to be antagonized by yohimbine. In contrast to clonidine, morphine even in high doses did not facilitate the flexor reflex activity of acutely spinalized rats. Pretreatment with protriptylin largely attenuated the circulatory depressive effects of morphine, as it has previously been found to block the corresponding effects of clonidine. Thus, the morphine-induced cardiovascular depressive effects are primarily elicited by activation of opiate receptors. However, the inhibition of brain NA neurotransmission by morphine appears critically involved in the mediation of the circulatory depression.
