To determine the effect of alpha-tocopherol in patients receiving hypotensive anesthesia with propofol-remifentanil.
Prospective, randomized study.
University hospital.
66 ASA physical status I and II patients, aged 32 to 56 years, scheduled for nasal polypectomy.
Patients were allocated into two groups, the treatment and the control groups (T group and C group). T group received alpha-tocopherol 300 mg orally 5 to 6 hours before surgery.
Sampling times and measurements were done before hypotension (t0), 45 minutes after starting hypotension (t1), 90 minutes after starting hypotension (t2), 45 minutes after recovery of normotension (t3), and 24 hours after surgery (t4). Renal function was assessed by testing glomerular and tubular functions: glomerular filtration rate, fractional excretion of sodium (FENA); fractional excretion of urea (FEUN); and urinary N-acetyl-1-beta-D-glucosoaminidase (NAG) index (NAGi).
Glomerular filtration rate values remained unchanged in all patient populations. Fractional excretion of sodium was within reference ranges in both groups at times t0, t1, and t2. At time t3, a significant FE(NA) peak was observed. At this time, FENA was significantly higher in C group than T group (P < 0.001). FEUN time course was similar to the FENA trend. At time t4, FENA and FEUN returned to basal values. At time t3, NAGi was also increased without significant intergroup differences (P < 0.01, P < 0.001, and P < 0.01 vs times t0, t1, t2 in C group, respectively; P < 0.01, P < 0.01, and P < 0.001 vs times t0, t1, and t2 in T group, respectively).
In patients without any renal disease, hypotensive anesthesia with propofol and remifentanil results in a transient tubular dysfunction, which appears to be minimized by the preoperative administration of alpha-tocopherol.
We report the unusual case of an elderly lady with glaucoma and sneeze syncope because of transient complete atrioventricular block, who had resolution of syncopal and pre-syncopal symptoms following removal of her beta-blocker eyedrops. This case suggests a previously unrecognised pathophysiology in sneeze syncope and illustrates the potential problems associated with the systemic absorption of beta-blocker eyedrops as well as the ingenuity of older patients when participating in the investigation of their own illnesses.
This paper deals with some changes at the cardiac and aortic levels observed in normotensive rats and in hypertensive rats and turkeys by using two different beta-blockers, namely propranolol and oxprenolol. Chronic treatment with propranolol induced in the heart of normotensive rats a shift in the ventricular myosin pattern toward the "slow" V2 and V3 isoforms which are characterized by a reduced oxygen consumption. Oxprenolol treatment did not modify the blood pressure levels in the renal hypertensive rats nor in the spontaneously hypertensive turkeys. Nevertheless, in both experimental models a substantial modification of the media and intima, respectively, took place. In untreated hypertensive and normal rats the thickness of the aortic media was significantly higher than that of the treated ones, therefore suggesting a direct effect of oxprenolol on the smooth muscle cells of the aortic media. In the spontaneously hypertensive turkeys the atherosclerotic plaques appeared to be more frequent and thicker than those found in the oxprenolol-treated animals. These two experiments demonstrate that beta-blockers can prevent the development of hypertrophy of the media and decrease both the incidence and severity of intimal proliferations independently of blood pressure control. It therefore appears that the well-known myocardial protective effect played by beta-blockers, which mainly consists of a reduced myocardial oxygen consumption, is certainly obtained by reducing blood pressure and heart rate but also by changing the contractile protein pattern. In addition, an indirect myocardial protective effect could be exerted by beta-blockers at the vascular level by preventing medial hypertrophy and the development of atherosclerosis.
We report a case of ciprofloxacin-related allergic tubulointerstitial nephritis, which manifested as nonoliguric renal failure, eosinophilia, and eosinophiluria. Our patient responded to discontinuation of ciprofloxacin therapy and oral administration of a brief course of corticosteroids. Although rare, allergic tubulointerstitial nephritis apparently can be caused by ciprofloxacin therapy. Clinicians should be aware of this entity.
We present a 45-year-old male patient who presented to Accident and Emergency department with a 6-week history of pain and stiffness involving his bilateral legs. Both calves were markedly tender, and he was not able to bear weight. He also complained of numbness involving his left big toe for a few days, which later spread to involve his arms, and tinnitus and hearing loss in his left ear. There were no respiratory, gastrointestinal or urinary symptoms. He had a background history of hypercholesterolemia and was treated with atorvastatin 10 mg for 6 months. His initial investigations showed markedly increased inflammatory markers, and serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) was markedly positive at a titre of 1:160 (P-ANCA). Electromyography and muscle biopsy showed myopathic features. A diagnosis of drug-induced ANCA-associated vasculitis (on the basis of mononeuritis multiplex, sensorineural hearing loss and markedly increased anti-myeloperoxidase (MPO) ANCA) and statin-induced distal myopathy was made. He was treated with three 500 mg doses of methylprednisolone, followed by slowly tapering dose of oral corticosteroids from 30 mg once daily (OD). He was also started on azathioprin (2.5 mg/kg). He had a dramatic improvement of his myalgia, hearing loss and sensory symptoms and went into complete clinical remission. His inflammatory markers rapidly returned to normal, and MPO-ANCA normalised within 3 months of starting immunosuppressive therapy and remained negative on further testing. He is currently on a tapering regimen of corticosteroids (7 mg OD), and after weaning him off corticosteroids, we plan to slowly taper his azathioprin.
The aim of this study to investigate the possible protective effect of resveratrol on some liver and serum/plasma parameters in methotrexate induced toxicity in rats. Methotrexate is used widely to treat various neoplastic diseases such as acute lymphoblastic leukemia, lymphoma, solid cancers, and autoimmune diseases. We hypothesized that resveratrol has a potential to decrease the oxidant damage in MTX-induced hepatic injury.
Following a single dose of methotrexate (20 mg/kg, i.p.), either saline or resveratrol (10 mg/kg, orally) was administered for 5 days. After decapitation of the rats, trunk blood was obtained and the liver was removed to measure malondialdehyde and glutathione levels, myeloperoxidase and thromboplastic activities and collagen content. Aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase and lactate dehydrogenase activity were measured in the serum samples, while TNF-alpha and total antioxidant capacity were assayed in plasma samples.
Our results showed that MTX administration increased the hepatic malondialdehyde levels, myeloperoxidase and thromboplastic activities and collagen contents and decreased glutathione, while these alterations were reversed in resveratrol-treated group. Elevated aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase activities and TNF-alpha level observed following MTX treatment was depressed with resveratrol.
The present study showed that resveratrol protects against methotrexate-induced hepatic injury and may be of therapeutic potential in alleviating the systemic side effects of chemotherapeutics.
Monosodium glutamate (MSG) administration to neonatal rodents produces convulsions and results in numerous biochemical and behavioral deficits. These studies were undertaken to determine if neonatal administration of MSG produced permanent alterations in seizure susceptibility, since previous investigations were inconclusive. A flurothyl ether seizure screening technique was used to evaluate seizure susceptibility in adult mice that received neonatal injections of MSG (4 mg/g and 1 mg/g). MSG treatment resulted in significant reductions in whole brain weight but did not alter seizure threshold. A naloxone (5 mg/kg) challenge was also ineffective in altering the seizure thresholds of either control of MSG-treated mice. Flurothyl ether produced hypothermia which was correlated with the duration of flurothyl exposure; however, the relationship of hypothermia to seizure induction was unclear. Flurothyl seizure testing proved to be a rapid and reliable technique with which to evaluate seizure susceptibility.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) levels were measured in the serum (sTNF-alpha) or bone marrow (BM) biopsies of 43 patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) who subsequently received therapy with a combination of pentoxifylline and ciprofloxacin (PC) with or without dexamethasone (PCD). All 43 patients received only PC therapy for 12 weeks, after which 18 of 36 nonresponders received PCD. A total of 18 of 43 patients showed a hematologic or cytogenetic response or both. BM TNF-alpha levels were semiquantitatively assessed using immunohistochemistry on a scale of 0-8+ and in the serum using enzyme linked immunoassay. The median TNF-alpha for the entire group was 3.0 in BM and 6.9 pg/ml in the serum, and 14 patients had no detectable levels. Responders had higher BM levels (median 3.5 vs. 2.0) than nonresponders, although this was not statistically significant. During PC therapy, a decline in BM TNF-alpha level was seen in the entire group, which was significant at 2 weeks (p = 0.02), 8 weeks (p = 0.001), and 12 weeks (p = 0.0001). Both responders (p = 0.01) and nonresponders (p = 0.03) had a decline at 8 weeks, but at 12 weeks, only the responders continued to show a significant decline (p = 0.03). We conclude that MDS patients with high BM TNF-alpa levels have a better chance of responding to PCD therapy and that the therapy is quite successful in reducing the TNF-alpha levels in a sustained fashion. Future studies need to be directed at identifying agents that would be more potent suppressors of the proapoptotic cytokines in these patients.
Genistein is a phytoestrogen isolated from soya beans. Although soy products are staple food of Asian, the potential effect of genistein on reproduction has not been fully addressed. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is an endotoxin found in the cell membrane of gram-negative bacteria. It may cause inflammation and other immune responses. Previous study has shown that LPS may induce pre-mature birth in rodents. In the present study, effect of genistein on LPS-induced preterm birth was investigated. Pregnant ICR mice were gavaged with genistein at 40, 200 and 400 mg/kg body weight/day during E13 to E16. LPS was injected i.p. on E16.5 and the animals were sacrificed at E17. Compared to the control group, an increased incidence of early delivery was observed in the pooled mice under LPS treatment. A rising trend of incidence was also demonstrated dose-dependently with genistein co-treatment. Real-time RT-PCR indicated that the placental crh expression was highly induced by the co-administration of 400 mg/kg genistein and LPS. By contrast, neither genistein nor LPS alone could alter the expression. Increased plasma CRH concentration was also seen in the co-treatment groups. In addition, the mRNA expression of placental CRH-binding protein and plasma progesterone concentration were reduced in these groups. These results indicated that genistein might exacerbate the undesirable effect of LPS on pregnant mice by altering hormonal regulations.
Presenilin-1 (PS-1) mutations can cause Pick's disease without evidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We describe a family with a PS-1 M146L mutation and both Pick bodies and AD. Sarkosyl-insoluble hyperphosphorylated tau showed three bands consistent with AD, although dephosphorylation showed primarily three-repeat isoforms. M146L mutant PS-1 may predispose to both Pick's disease and AD by affecting multiple intracellular pathways involving tau phosphorylation and amyloid metabolism.
In the present study, we examined the effects and mechanisms of the Chinese herb resveratrol on attenuation of morphine tolerance in rats.
Male Wistar rats were implanted with 2 intrathecal catheters; one catheter was connected to a mini-osmotic pump, used for either morphine (15 μg/h) or saline (1 μL/h) infusion for 5 days. On day 5, resveratrol (7.5, 15, 30, or 60 μg), dimethyl sulfoxide (5 μL), or saline (5 μL) was injected via the other catheter immediately after the discontinued morphine infusion. Three hours later, intrathecal morphine (15 μg in 5 μL saline) was given. All rats received the nociceptive tail-flick test every 30 minutes for 120 minutes after the morphine challenge.
Long-term morphine infusion induced antinociceptive tolerance and up-regulated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunit NR1 and NR2B expression in the synaptosome fraction of the tolerant spinal cord dorsal horn. Resveratrol pretreatment provided a significant antinociceptive effect of morphine in morphine-tolerant rats, and it was associated with reversal of the up-regulated NR1 and NR2B subunits in the synaptosome fraction of morphine-tolerant rat spinal cords. NR1/NR2B-specific antagonist ifenprodil treatment produced a similar effect as that of resveratrol. Furthermore, an increase of postsynaptic density-95/NR1/NR2B complex immunoprecipitation in morphine-tolerant rat spinal cord was also inhibited by resveratrol pretreatment. Moreover, chronic morphine infusion activated glial cells with an increase of proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-1β, and interleukin-6 mRNA expression in morphine-tolerant rat spinal cords and these effects were suppressed by resveratrol pretreatment before the morphine challenge.
Resveratrol attenuates morphine tolerance by inhibiting neuroinflammation and down-regulating NMDAR NR1 and NR2B subunit expression. Resveratrol regulates the NMDAR expression, which might be involved in a loss of scaffolding postsynaptic density-95 protein.
The present study elucidates a possible mechanism by which chronic organophosphate exposure (dichlorvos 6 mg/kg bw, s.c. for 12 weeks) causes neuronal degeneration. Mitochondria, as a primary site of cellular energy generation and oxygen consumption represent itself a likely target for organophosphate poisoning. Therefore, the objective of the current study was planned with an aim to investigate the effect of chronic dichlorvos exposure on mitochondrial calcium uptake, oxidative stress generation and its implication in the induction of neuronal apoptosis in rodent model. Mitochondrial preparation from dichlorvos (DDVP) treated rat brain demonstrated significant increase in mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake (644.2 nmol/mg protein). Our results indicated decreased mitochondrial electron transfer activities of cytochrome oxidase (complex IV) along with altered mitochondrial complex I, and complex II activity, which might have resulted from elevated mitochondrial calcium uptake. The alterations in the mitochondrial calcium uptake and mitochondrial electron transfer enzyme activities in turn might have caused an increase in malondialdehyde, protein carbonyl and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine formation as a result of enhanced lipid peroxidation, and as well as protein and mtDNA oxidation. All this could have been because of enhanced oxidative stress, decreased GSH levels and also decreased Mn-SOD activity in the mitochondria isolated from dichlorvos treated rat brain. Thus, chronic organophosphate exposure has the potential to disrupt cellular antioxidant defense system which in turn triggers the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytosol as well as caspase-3 activation in dichlorvos treated rat brain as revealed by immunoblotting experiments. Low-level long-term organophosphate exposure finally resulted in oligonucleosomal DNA fragmentation, a hallmark of apoptosis. These studies provide an evidence of impaired mitochondrial bioenergetics and apoptotic neuronal degeneration after chronic low-level exposure to dichlorvos.
The aim of this prospective naturalistic study was to examine for the first time the relationship between dosage, serum concentration and clinical outcome in children and adolescents with impulsive-aggressive symptoms during risperidone therapy.
Steady state trough serum concentrations of risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone (the active moiety) were measured in 103 subjects. The therapeutic effect was assessed by the clinical global impression improvement subscale and side effects by the Udvalg for Kliniske Undersogelser-side effect rating scale.
We found a linear relationship between the risperidone dose and the serum concentration of the active moiety (Spearman rho=0.53) and no correlation between the serum concentration and either the therapeutic effect or side effects. There was no effect of gender and co-medication.
This study has the typical limitations of naturalistic studies, therefore our results should be interpreted with caution. Based on the serum concentrations at the therapeutically effective dose range (0.25-1.5 mg/day) we obtained first information on a possibly appropriate therapeutic serum range for the risperidone treatment of children and adolescents with impulsive-aggressive symptoms. Further studies with greater sample sizes are needed to validate our results and to examine the influence of genetic polymorphisms on the serum concentration of risperidone.
Diabetes mellitus is a complex syndrome which is responsible for numerous complications affecting the whole body. Osteoporosis is regarded as one of the chronic complications of diabetes mellitus that results from reduced bone formation and increased resorption. In this context, we searched for dietary supplements that preserve diabetic bone loss. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) has been suggested as a possible mechanism affecting bone homeostasis in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. The osteoprotective effects of l-arginine and soy enriched diet were also investigated. Male Wistar rats were allocated into four groups; normal control, untreated STZ-diabetic rats and STZ-diabetic rats treated with either l-arginine (10mg/kg/day) or fed soy enriched diet (200 g/kg diet) for 12 weeks. l-Arginine and soy enriched diet normalized serum PTH level and increased serum osteocalcin level; bone osteocalcin, osteoprotegerin and runt-related transcription factor2 mRNA levels compared to diabetic rats. A decrease in serum pyridinoline, C-terminal telopeptides of type I collagen, cathepsin k levels and bone cathepsin k mRNA level was observed in both treated groups. Both treatments increased serum insulin and insulin like growth factor-1 levels and decreased urinary calcium excretion. In conclusion, l-arginine and soy enriched diet are effective in prevention of osteoporosis associated with diabetes mellitus.
In animal models of acute ischemic stroke (AIS), the free radical-trapping agent NXY-059 showed promise as a neuroprotectant. SAINT I and II were randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trials to investigate the efficacy of NXY-059 in patients with AIS.
Patients with AIS received an infusion of intravenous NXY-059 or placebo within 6 hours from the onset of stroke symptoms. A pooled individual patient analysis was prespecified to assess the overall efficacy and to examine subgroups. The primary end point was the distribution of disability scores measured on the modified Rankin scale (mRS) at 90 days. Neurologic and activities of daily living scores were investigated as secondary end points. We also evaluated whether treatment with NXY-059 would reduce alteplase-related intracranial hemorrhages. Finally, we evaluated possible predictors of good or poor outcome.
An intent-to-treat efficacy analysis was based on 5028 patients. Baseline parameters and prognostic factors were well balanced between treatment groups. The distribution of scores on the mRS was not different in the group treated with NXY-059 (n=2438) compared with the placebo group (n=2456): odds ratio for limiting disability=1.02; 95% CI, 0.92 to 1.13 (P=0.682, Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test). Comparisons at each level of the mRS confirmed an absence of benefit. There was no evidence of efficacy in prespecified subgroups or from the secondary outcome analyses. Mortality was equal in the 2 groups (16.7% vs 16.5%), and adverse event rates were similar. Among patients treated with alteplase, there was no decrease in rates of symptomatic or asymptomatic hemorrhage associated with NXY-059 treatment versus placebo. Subgroup analyses identified National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score, age, markers of inflammation, blood glucose, and right-sided infarct as predictors of poor outcome.
NXY-059 is ineffective for treatment of AIS within 6 hours of symptom onset. This is also true for subgroups and the prevention of alteplase-associated hemorrhage.
We report a fatal case of brain abscess caused by infection due to a community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus strain (USA300) in a 37-year-old incarcerated woman with a history of furunculosis and injection drug use. Community-onset pyogenic brain abscess should be added to the growing list of life-threatening invasive infections caused by epidemic community-acquired methicillin-resistant S. aureus.
The initiating potential of the secondary bile acids, deoxycholic acid (DCA) and lithocholic acid (LCA), for rat hepatocarcinogenesis was investigated using the development of hyperplastic nodules and/or glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive liver foci as the end point. Five week old male F344 rats were given either basal diet, or diets containing 0.5% DCA or 0.5% LCA for 3 weeks in conjunction with partial hepatectomy performed midway, followed by a selection regimen consisting of 2 weeks feeding of 0.02% 2-acetylaminofluorene diet and a single gastric intubation of carbon tetrachloride. The animals were then placed on either basal diet or a diet containing 0.05% phenobarbital (PB) for 52 weeks. Significantly higher numbers of hyperplastic liver nodules developed in the DCA-treated rats irrespective of PB promotion as compared with the respective control groups. No such increase was evident in the LCA-treated rats. In contrast, both DCA and LCA treatments enhanced the development of GST-P-positive liver foci with or without subsequent PB promotion. Only one hepatocellular carcinoma was diagnosed in a control group animal. The present data indicate that a short period of feeding of DCA and LCA in the initiation stage in conjunction with partial hepatectomy results in enhanced development of preneoplastic liver lesions under selection pressure conditions with or without subsequent PB promotion. They thus confirm and extend our previous finding of enhanced gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase-positive liver foci development in a short-term assay of DCA and LCA, and suggest that these secondary bile acids either possess possible initiating activity or some other priming effect for rat hepatocarcinogenesis.
Intravenous enalaprilic acid (2.5 mg) was given to 11 patients with stable cardiac failure (NYHA functional class II-IV). Reductions in mean right atrial, pulmonary artery and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 25%, 18% and 30% respectively (P less than 0.01), were observed. Cardiac output rose by 13% (NS) and mean blood pressure fell by 20% (P less than 0.01) with a decrease in systemic vascular resistance of 24% (P less than 0.01). Heart rate was unaltered. The haemodynamic effects correlated with control plasma renin activity (r = 0.78, P less than 0.01). Marked hypotension occurred in several subjects but no other side-effects were noted. The rapid onset of action and mixed venous and arteriolar dilating activity of intravenous enalaprilic acid may be an advantage in some clinical situations where parenteral vasodilating therapy is required.
Veno-occlusive disease (VOD) of the liver is mainly described after chemo-irradiation conditioning regimens during haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (SCT) and has been sporadically reported after kidney and liver transplantation. In the latter cases, it is commonly attributed to azathioprine and/or tacrolimus. One case of tacrolimus-induced hepatic VOD developing after lung transplantation (LT) has been recently reported. Here we describe another case of VOD occurring after LT, but in which the causative role was played by azathioprine.
We carried out a retrospective study to investigate the clinical and pathological findings in 31 patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In clinical findings, 17 patients showed nephrotic syndrome, five had isolated proteinuria, two had proteinuria and hematuria and seven had renal failure. In pathological findings, there were 16 patients with membranous nephropathy (MN), two with proliferative glomerulonephritis (DPGN), two with minor glomerular abnormality (MGA), six with amyloidosis, 2 with tubulointerstitial nephritis, and three patients had accompanying lupus nephritis. Eleven of 16 with MGN had been treated with gold, bucillamine or D-penicillamine, so they were diagnosed as drug induced MGN. In the other five patients, we could not decide which drugs induced the nephropathy. The 2 cases of MGA were associated with nephrotic syndrome and acute renal failure, which were caused by non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs. There were two cases of non-Ig A DPGN, which was regarded as the native nephropathy in RA. The three cases with lupus nephritis were diagnosed as systemic lupus erythematosus by the criteria of the American Rheumatism Association (ARA). In conclusion, the nephropathy in patients with RA was varied and renal biopsy was a useful examination.
Antipsychotic agents are known to be associated with a long QT interval and torsade de pointes. We report a 69 year old female who suffered from a syncopal attack at a psychiatric hospital and was referred to our center. Torsade de pointes with a long QT interval (QTc=680 ms) was observed on the 12 lead ECG in the emergency department and intensive care unit. A careful drug history revealed that sulpiride was the culprit agent. After stopping the medication, the QT interval returned to normal (420 ms). The patients taking sulpiride should be closely monitored, especially when it is used in combination with other antidepressant agents.
To determine the incidence and severity of adverse effects of treatment in patients with chronic hepatitis B and C (CHB and CHC).
A group of 104 patients with CHC and 74 CHB patients treated in 1994-2005 was evaluated. The patients were divided according to their treatment patterns and sex. Selected haematologic parameters (haemoglobin, neutrophil and platelet counts) were assessed.
In CHC patients treated with interferon alpha (IFN), IFN alpha and ribavirin (IFN+RIB) or pegylated IFN alpha with ribavirin (PEG+RIB), and in CHB patients, anaemia was observed in 6 (37.5 %), 43 (56.6 %), 27 (54.0 %) and 11 (24.4 %) cases, respectively. Anaemia was significantly more frequent in women treated with IFN(RIB or PEG+RIB +p > 0.01 and p > 0.005, respectively), and in those with CHB (p > 0.005). The difference in the incidence of anaemia in those treated with RIB and without RIB was statistically significant (55.5 vs. 27.9 %, respectively, p > 0,001). In CHC patients treated with IFN, IFN+RIB or PEG+RIB, and in CHB patients, neutropenia was observed in 9 (56.3 %), 51 (67.1 %), 36 (72.0 %) and 20 (44.4 %) cases, respectively. In women treated with IFN+RIB or PEG+RIB, neutropenia was significantly more frequent (p > 0.05). In CHC patients treated with IFN, IFN+RIB or PEG+RIB, and in CHB patients, thrombocytopenia was detected in 9 (56.3%), 41 (53.9 %), 35 (70.0 %) and 23 (51.1 %) cases, respectively. No significant difference was noted in the incidence of neutropenia and thrombocytopenia between the individual treatment patterns used in CHC or CHB patients. In two cases, the treatment was discontinued due to its adverse effects.
The data confirm a high incidence of haematologic adverse effects, mostly mild. From the point of view of haematologic complications, the treatment may be classified as safe.
Twenty-five patients with phlebographically confirmed deep vein thrombosis of the lower limb were treated with intravenous infusions of low molecular weight heparin for 7 to 29 days. The mean dosage was 15.2 +/- 3.0 Uanti-Xa (equivalent 7.6 +/- 1.5 U-aPTT). Phlebograms were taken before, during and after the treatment with low molecular weight heparin and evaluated using the score system of Marder. Nearly complete recanalization of the occluded veins was found in six (24%) patients, improvement of the Marder score of 60 to 90% was found in four patients and of 30 to 60% in seven patients, while eight patients remained unchanged. With an average dose of 15.2 I.U./kg/h the heptest was prolonged to 70 to 120 seconds while the aPTT-level did not significantly increase. tPA-antigen-levels increased significantly in most of the patients after the third day of treatment, while PAI-activity remained unchanged. A positive conclusion between the decrease of the Marder score and the duration of treatment was found. Thus the low molecular weight heparin used in this investigation proved to be effective and safe in treating deep vein thrombosis.
