Twenty-four hypertensive patients reported vasospastic symptoms in their hands during treatment with beta-blocking drugs with different pharmacological properties. Twenty patients had symptoms when staying indoors and 11 did not always experience complete relief of symptoms following active rewarming attempts. Finger systolic blood pressures were measured after standardized local cooling. In 15 patients, blood pressure decreased to a pathological level during this procedure. Previous beta-blockade was changed to combined alpha- and beta-blockade with labetalol given twice daily in a mean dose of 259 mg/day for 3 months. After this period, most patients showed a decreased temperature sensitivity both objectively and subjectively. Blood pressure control was maintained at the previous level. Heart rate increased significantly during treatment with labetalol. Labetalol offers an alternative treatment to patients suffering from vasospastic side-effects of beta-blockers.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO) is an effective cancer therapeutic drug for acute promyelocytic leukemia and has potential anticancer activity against a wide range of solid tumors. ATO exerts its effect mainly through elevated oxidative stress, but the exact molecular mechanism remains elusive. The thioredoxin (Trx) system comprising NADPH, thioredoxin reductase (TrxR), and Trx and the glutathione (GSH) system composed of NADPH, glutathione reductase, and GSH supported by glutaredoxin are the two electron donor systems that control cellular proliferation, viability, and apoptosis. Recently, the selenocysteine-dependent TrxR enzyme has emerged as an important molecular target for anticancer drug development. Here, we have discovered that ATO irreversibly inhibits mammalian TrxR with an IC(50) of 0.25 microM. Both the N-terminal redox-active dithiol and the C-terminal selenothiol-active site of reduced TrxR may participate in the reaction with ATO. The inhibition of MCF-7 cell growth by ATO was correlated with irreversible inactivation of TrxR, which subsequently led to Trx oxidation. Furthermore, the inhibition of TrxR by ATO was attenuated by GSH, and GSH depletion by buthionine sulfoximine enhanced ATO-induced cell death. These results strongly suggest that the ATO anticancer activity is by means of a Trx system-mediated apoptosis. Blocking cancer cell DNA replication and repair and induction of oxidative stress by the inhibition of both Trx and GSH systems are suggested as cancer chemotherapeutic strategies.
A retrospective cohort study was conducted among an international group of 46 law enforcement chemists and 13 Washington State clandestine drug laboratory investigation team members with more than 2,800 combined investigations. Each participant completed a questionnaire concerning previous drug laboratory investigations and adverse health effects during response activities. Methamphetamine laboratories accounted for 81-97% of all responses. Total illness incident rates varied between 0.75-3.4% of responses. Most exposures were through inhalation, and many occurred in the years prior to use of personal protective equipment. Symptoms were primarily those of headache and respiratory, mucous membrane, and skin irritation. Most illness episodes occurred during the processing phase of laboratory responses, and none occurred during the entry phase. A majority of illness episodes occurred in laboratories with leak/spills, fire/explosion, or uncontrolled reactions. Responding to an active laboratory was associated with a 7 to 15-fold risk of becoming ill as compared with setup, in-transit, or former (equipment removed) laboratory responses. No other laboratories characteristics were consistently associated with a significantly elevated relative risk of adverse health effects.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a rare complication in solid organ transplantation. It can be associated with severe hypertension. Several risk factors have been identified including immunosuppressive drugs such as cyclosporin A and, more recently, tacrolimus.
Here we report a case of tacrolimus-induced HUS in a 61-yr-old woman after liver transplantation. Hypertension, microangiopathic anemia and end-stage renal failure occurred 2 yr after liver transplantation.
At admission, she had malignant hypertension with a severe hypertensive retinopathy, renal failure (creatininemia: 800 micromol/L) and microangiopathic anemia (Hb: 7.3 g/dL, a low platelet count and elevated lactate dehydrogenase). At renal biopsy, histologic findings were ischemic and sclerotic glomeruli with hyaline thrombi, severe mesangiolysis and interstitial fibrosis.
Despite steroid treatment, antihypertensive agents and fresh frozen plasma therapy, end-stage renal failure was observed and chronic hemodialysis treatment was required.
To evaluate the duration and dose intensity of epirubicin-based regimens in premenopausal patients with lymph node-positive breast cancer.
Between 1986 and 1990, 621 patients with operable breast cancer were randomly assigned to receive fluorouracil (Roche SA, Basel, Switzerland) 500 mg/m2, epirubicin (Pharmacia SA, Milan, Italy) 50 mg/m2, and cyclophosphamide (Asta Medica AG, Frankfurt, Germany) 500 mg/m2 every 21 days (FEC 50) for six cycles (6 FEC 50); FEC 50 for three cycles (3 FEC 50); or the same regimen with epirubicin 75 mg/m2 (FEC 75) for three cycles (3 FEC 75). All patients in the three arms received chest wall irradiation at the end of the third cycle.
After a 131-month median follow-up, the 10-year disease-free survival (DFS) was 53.4%, 42.5%, and 43.6% (P =.05) in the three arms, respectively. Pairwise comparisons demonstrate that 6 FEC 50 was superior both to 3 FEC 50 (P =.02) and to 3 FEC 75 (P =.05). The 10-year overall survival (OS) for the 6 FEC 50 arm was 64.3%, for the 3 FEC 50 arm it was 56.6%, and for the 3 FEC 75 arm, it was 59.7% (P =.25), respectively. Pairwise comparisons demonstrate that 6 FEC 50 was more effective than 3 FEC 50 (P =.10). Cox regression analysis demonstrates that OS was significantly better in the 6 FEC 50 than in the 3 FEC 50 arm (P =.046). No severe infections (grade 3 to 4), acute cardiac toxicity, or deaths from toxicity have been observed. Only five patients developed delayed cardiac dysfunctions, and three patients developed acute myeloblastic leukemia.
After a long-term follow-up in an adjuvant setting, the benefit of six cycles of FEC 50 compared with three cycles, whatever the dose, is highly significant in terms of DFS. As regards OS, the group receiving six cycles of FEC 50 has significantly better results than the group receiving three cycles of FEC 50.
Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 has been reported to have therapeutic effects which have been attributed to anti-oxidant and free radical-scavenging activities, including a direct action on nitric oxide production. L G-nitro-arginine (L-NOARG), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, and haloperidol, a drug that blocks dopamine receptors, are both known to induce catalepsy in rodents. Nitric oxide has been shown to influence dopaminergic transmission in the striatum. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effect of the extract obtained from leaves of Ginkgo biloba tree EGb 761 on catalepsy induced by haloperidol or by L-NOARG. Albino Swiss mice (35-45 g, N = 8-12) received by gavage a single or repeated oral dose (twice a day for 4 days) of EGb 761 followed by ip injection of haloperidol or L-NOARG. After the treatments, the animals were submitted to behavioral evaluation using the catalepsy test. Acute treatment with 80 mg/kg EGb did not modify the catalepsy induced by L-NOARG but, the dose of 40 mg/kg significantly enhanced haloperidol-induced catalepsy measured at the 10th min of the test. After repeated treatment with 80 mg/kg EGb 761, a significant increase in the cataleptic effect produced by both haloperidol and L-NOARG was observed. These data show that repeated EGb 761 administration increases the effects of drugs that modify motor behavior in mice. Since the catalepsy test has predictive value regarding extrapyramidal effects, the possibility of pharmacological interactions between haloperidol and Ginkgo biloba extracts should be further investigated in clinical studies.
Amphotericin B causes reversible concentration-dependent loss of intracellular potassium in vitro and hyperkalemic ventricular arrhythmias in dogs. Hyperkalemic ventricular arrhythmias associated with amphotericin B infusion have not been well documented in humans. Ventricular fibrillation with progressive hyperkalemia (up to 8 to 8.4 meq/liter) occurred twice in an anuric patient during rapid infusion of high-dose amphotericin B (1.4 mg/kg over 45 min). The peak amphotericin B concentration in serum at the end of infusion was 6.7 micrograms/ml. Prolonged infusion (3 h) and concurrent hemodialysis each prevented the development of hyperkalemia and ventricular arrhythmia. In two anuric patients receiving 4-h infusions of amphotericin B during dialysis (0.7 and 1.0 mg/kg), peak amphotericin B concentrations in serum were lower, 1.6 +/- 0.1 and 2.7 +/- 0.7 micrograms/ml, respectively; serum potassium levels were maintained in the normal range; and venous access for outpatient therapy was convenient. Peak concentrations of amphotericin B in serum were also lower (1.7 +/- 0.7 micrograms/ml) in eight patients with normal renal function who received lower doses (0.7 +/- 0.2 mg/kg) over 45 min; there were only slight increases in the serum potassium level (from 3.9 +/- 0.9 to 4.4 +/- 0.6 meq/liter, P less than 0.05). We recommend that rapid infusion of amphotericin B not be used in patients with impaired potassium excretion unless accompanied by hemodialysis and careful potassium monitoring.
The randomised phase 3 First-Line Erbitux in Lung Cancer (FLEX) study showed that the addition of cetuximab to cisplatin and vinorelbine significantly improved overall survival compared with chemotherapy alone in the first-line treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The main cetuximab-related side-effect was acne-like rash. Here, we assessed the association of this acne-like rash with clinical benefit.
We did a subgroup analysis of patients in the FLEX study, which enrolled patients with advanced NSCLC whose tumours expressed epidermal growth factor receptor. Our landmark analysis assessed if the development of acne-like rash in the first 21 days of treatment (first-cycle rash) was associated with clinical outcome, on the basis of patients in the intention-to-treat population alive on day 21. The FLEX study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00148798.
518 patients in the chemotherapy plus cetuximab group-290 of whom had first-cycle rash-and 540 patients in the chemotherapy alone group were alive on day 21. Patients in the chemotherapy plus cetuximab group with first-cycle rash had significantly prolonged overall survival compared with patients in the same treatment group without first-cycle rash (median 15·0 months [95% CI 12·8-16·4] vs 8·8 months [7·6-11·1]; hazard ratio [HR] 0·631 [0·515-0·774]; p<0·0001). Corresponding significant associations were also noted for progression-free survival (median 5·4 months [5·2-5·7] vs 4·3 months [4·1-5·3]; HR 0·741 [0·607-0·905]; p=0·0031) and response (rate 44·8% [39·0-50·8] vs 32·0% [26·0-38·5]; odds ratio 1·703 [1·186-2·448]; p=0·0039). Overall survival for patients without first-cycle rash was similar to that of patients that received chemotherapy alone (median 8·8 months [7·6-11·1] vs 10·3 months [9·6-11·3]; HR 1·085 [0·910-1·293]; p=0·36). The significant overall survival benefit for patients with first-cycle rash versus without was seen in all histology subgroups: adenocarcinoma (median 16·9 months, [14·1-20·6] vs 9·3 months [7·7-13·2]; HR 0·614 [0·453-0·832]; p=0·0015), squamous-cell carcinoma (median 13·2 months [10·6-16·0] vs 8·1 months [6·7-12·6]; HR 0·659 [0·472-0·921]; p=0·014), and carcinomas of other histology (median 12·6 months [9·2-16·4] vs 6·9 months [5·2-11·0]; HR 0·616 [0·392-0·966]; p=0·033).
First-cycle rash was associated with a better outcome in patients with advanced NSCLC who received cisplatin and vinorelbine plus cetuximab as a first-line treatment. First-cycle rash might be a surrogate clinical marker that could be used to tailor cetuximab treatment for advanced NSCLC to those patients who would be most likely to derive a significant benefit.
Previous studies have demonstrated that alginate encapsulation of proliferating hepatocyte-derived cell lines (e.g., HepG2 cells) enhances the expression of differentiated hepatocyte function compared with conventional monolayer culture. Furthermore, such capsules have the advantage of cryopreservability, and can be readily manipulated, e.g., for the charging of extracorporeal devices. We utilize a rabbit model of acute liver failure caused by acetaminophen administration to rabbits pretreated to enhance cytochrome p450 enzyme activity, and demonstrate that encapsulated HepG2 cells, in an extracorporeal chamber, perfused by rabbit plasma separated on-line at a rate of 2-5 mL/min, and perfused over cells at 40-60 mL/min, improve systemic parameters of liver failure (diastolic blood pressure and transjugular venous oxygen saturation). Such encapsulated cells have the potential to be developed for extracorporeal liver support systems for acute liver failure.
The amount of peroxide lipid in vivo in the early stage of the experimental model of myocardial infarction in a rat induced by the administration of isoproterenol (Isp) was measured as the value of malonic dialdehyde (MDA). The model of myocardial infarction was made by giving 75 mg/kg of Isp to the rat weighing 270 +/- 10 g. After the administration of Isp, the amounts of lipid in the serum and in the myocardial tissue were measured, and a blood chemistry test (glutamic oxaloacetic dehydrogenase, glutamic pyruvic transaminase, lactate dehydrogenase, free fatty acid, creatine kinase) was simultaneously carried out on the serum. The value of the amount of peroxide lipid in the serum began to elevate 3 h after the administration of Isp and reached a maximum value at 6 h. The value of the amount of peroxide lipid in the tissue began to elevate 30 min after the administration and reached a maximum at 3 h. Each blood chemistry disclosed the elevation 30 min after the administration. As mentioned above, the production of peroxide lipid in vivo on the myocardial disorder in the early stage after the administration of Isp and the biochemical changes showed a significant correlation. From these results it is suggested that the myocardial disorder induced by the administration of Isp has already developed at 30 min after the administration.
In the present investigation, the neuropharmacology of 1,3 butanediol (1,3-BD) was compared with that of ethanol. Acute i.p. administration of equimolar doses of 1,3-BD or ethanol to rats impaired the aerial righting reflex, attenuated the suppressive effect of punishment on drinking behavior, lowered blood pressure, caused a concomitant reduction in the content of guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate in the cerebellum and reduced ethanol withdrawal reactions. Although these data suggested that ethanol and 2,3-BD were of similar potency, the brain content of 1,3-BD was only 33% of that of ethanol after treatment with equimolar doses, suggesting a greater central nervous system (CNS) potency for 1,3-BD. In rats treated chronically with ethanol to produce physical dependence, 1,3-BD was more potent than ethanol in inhibiting the hyperexcitability observed upon ethanol withdrawal. Furthermore, chronic administration and withdrawal of 1,3-BD caused CNS hyperexcitability in rats that was characteristic of physical dependence. Despite these similarities, there were clear differences in the actions of ethanol and 1,3-BD. In mice, locomotor stimulation caused by ethanol was not observed after 1,3-BD. Furthermore, while 1,3-BD did not alter the concentration of luteinizing hormone in plasma, equivalent doses of ethanol markedly reduced the concentration of this hormone. These data indicate that like ethanol, 1,3-BD depresses CNS activity and induces physical dependence, but has less effect on plasma luteinizing hormone concentration than ethanol.
The heterocyclic amine 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) induces intestinal tumours in C57BL/6J-multiple intestinal neoplasia (Min)/+ mice. The main mechanism for PhIP-induced tumour induction in Min/+ mice is loss of the wild-type adenomatous polyposis coli (Apc) allele, i.e. loss of heterozygosity (LOH). In this study, single injections of either 10, 17.5 or 25 mg/kg PhIP on days 3-6 after birth all increased the mean number of small intestinal tumours two to three-fold, from 37.7 in controls to 124.8 in the PhIP-treated Min/+ mice. In total, we analysed 292 small intestinal tumours and 253 of these had LOH. The frequency of LOH in the Apc gene was 88, 93, 83 and 84% in tumours of 0, 10, 17.5 and 25 mg/kg PhIP-treated mice, respectively. Therefore, these lower doses of PhIP did not reduce the frequency of LOH, as found in our previous study with a single injection of 50 mg/kg PhIP (Mutat. Res. 1-2 (2002) 157). In the second part of this study, we wanted to characterise Apc truncation mutations from tumour samples apparently retaining the Apc wild-type allele from this and two previous experiments with PhIP-exposed Min/+ mice. In the first half of exon 15 in Apc, we verified 25 mutations from 804 tumour samples of PhIP-treated mice. Of these were 60% G-->T transversions, and 16% G deletions, indicating that these are the predominant types of PhIP-induced truncation mutations in the Apc gene in Min/+ mice. Most of the mutations were located between codon 989 and 1156 corresponding to the first part of the beta-catenin binding region. We also identified two Apc truncation mutations from 606 spontaneously formed intestinal tumours from untreated Min/+ mice, one C-->T transition and one T insertion, which were different from those induced by PhIP.
A cross-sectional study was conducted to compare patients treated with tenofovir with patients never treated with tenofovir. Patients on tenofovir showed a lower mean glomerular filtration rate estimated by creatinine clearance or cystatin C clearance compared with control patients. In total, 24 patients on tenofovir versus five control patients had proteinuria greater than 130 mg/day. In the majority of patients on tenofovir proteinuria was of tubular origin.
Forty-two patients with previously untreated peripheral T-cell lymphomas (PTCL) were treated with an intensive chemotherapy protocol. Either the BACOP or the m-BACOD regimen was used for induction. Patients achieving complete clinical remission after three courses were given intensive consolidation and maintenance chemotherapy similar to the L10/L17M protocol designed by the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Group for acute lymphoblastic leukemia and lymphoblastic lymphoma. There were 27 (64 per cent) males and 15 (36 per cent) females. The median age was 54 years (mean 53, range 15 to 68). Seven of them (17 per cent) had stage I disease, four (10 per cent) stage II, seven (17 per cent) stage III and 24 (57 per cent) stage IV. Eighteen patients (43 per cent) had B symptoms and four (10 per cent) had bulky disease. According to the Working Formulation, the histology was diffuse mixed in 16 patients (38 per cent), diffuse large cell in 18 (43 per cent), diffuse immunoblastic in four (10 per cent) and unclassifiable in four (10 per cent). According to a modified Japanese Lymphoma Study Group's classification, the histology in 24 patients (57 per cent) was the pleomorphic type, in 13 (31 per cent) immunoblastic-lymphadenopathy-like (IBL-like), and in five (12 per cent) unclassifiable. The overall complete remission rate was 67 per cent. Twenty-five per cent of the complete responders relapsed and the DFS of the CR patients was 62 per cent at three years. The overall survival of all patients at three years was 52 per cent. Patients with stage I, II and III disease had significantly better CR rate (100 per cent versus 42 per cent, p = 0.001) and overall survival (82 per cent versus 35 per cent at three years, p = 0.01) than those with stage IV disease but the relapse rate and DFS of CR patients were similar. This study shows that the prognosis of patients with PTCL can be improved by intensive therapy.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether a liposomal formulation of curcumin would suppress the growth of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) cell lines CAL27 and UM-SCC1 in vitro and in vivo.
HNSCC cell lines were treated with liposomal curcumin at different doses and assayed for in vitro growth suppression using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. A reporter gene assay was done on cell lines to study the effect of liposomal curcumin on nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB) activation. Western blot analysis was done to determine the effect of curcumin on the expression of NFkappaB, phospho-IkappaBalpha, phospho-AKT (pAKT), phospho-S6 kinase, cyclin D1, cyclooxygenase-2, matrix metalloproteinase-9, Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, Mcl-1L, and Mcl-1S. Xenograft mouse tumors were grown and treated with intravenous liposomal curcumin. After 5 weeks, tumors were harvested and weighed. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot analyses were used to study the effect of liposomal curcumin on the expression of NFkappaB and pAKT.
The addition of liposomal curcumin resulted in a dose-dependent growth suppression of both cell lines. Liposomal curcumin treatment suppressed the activation of NFkappaB without affecting the expression of pAKT or its downstream target phospho-S6 kinase. Expression of cyclin D1, cyclooxygenase-2, matrix metalloproteinase-9, Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, Mcl-1L, and Mcl-1S were reduced, indicating the effect of curcumin on the NFkappaB pathway. Nude mice xenograft tumors were suppressed after 3.5 weeks of treatment with i.v. liposomal curcumin, and there was no demonstrable toxicity of liposomal curcumin upon autopsy. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis on xenograft tumors showed the inhibition of NFkappaB without affecting the expression of pAKT.
Liposomal curcumin suppresses HNSCC growth in vitro and in vivo. The results suggest that liposomal curcumin is a viable nontoxic therapeutic agent for HNSCC that may work via an AKT-independent pathway.
Fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis (FCH) is an aggressive and usually fatal form of viral hepatitis in immunocompromised patients. It is characterized by progressive cholestasis leading to hepatic failure, and a characteristic histopathological features including: periportal fibrosis, ballooning degeneration of hepatocytes, cholestasis, with minimal inflammation. FCH has been reported almost exclusively in heavily immunosuppressed organ transplant recipients or patients with AIDS. This case report describes a previously immunocompetent patient with previously stable chronic hepatitis C who developed fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis after receiving cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids for active glomerulonephritis.
Silicosis is one of the most prevalent occupational lung diseases worldwide. This study aimed to investigate the possible mechanism that silica affected thioredoxin (Trx) system during the development of silicosis in vivo. Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into saline group and silica group in which rats were intratracheally instilled with a single dose of silica suspension (50mg in 1ml saline/rat). After 7, 15 or 30 days instillation, rats were sacrificed. Biochemical parameters and histopathology were assessed. Our results demonstrated that silica could significantly cause the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA) as well as activate antioxidative protein Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and its downstream protein Trx in the early exposure to silica. The inhibition of Trx activity and the down-regulated expression of thioredoxin reductase (TrxR), suggesting that the function of Trx system may be suppressive induced by silica. Content of lung hydroxyproline and histopathological results showed significant fibrosis development with time. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that silica could suppress the Trx system to perturb the redox balance, elicit oxidative stress, and eventually induce pulmonary fibrosis.
Presenilins (PS1/PS2) regulate proteolysis of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) and affect its intracellular trafficking. Here, we demonstrate that a PS1-interacting protein, phospholipase D1 (PLD1), affects intracellular trafficking of betaAPP. Overexpression of PLD1 in PS1wt cells promotes generation of betaAPP-containing vesicles from the trans-Golgi network. Conversely, inhibition of PLD1 activity by 1-butanol decreases betaAPP trafficking in both wt and PS1-deficient cells. The subcellular localization of PLD1 is altered, and PLD enzymatic activity is reduced in cells expressing familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) PS1 mutations compared with PS1wt cells. Overexpression of wt, but not catalytically inactive, PLD1 increases budding of betaAPP-containing vesicles from the trans-Golgi network in FAD mutant cells. Surface delivery of betaAPP is also increased by PLD1 in these cells. The impaired neurite outgrowth capacity in FAD mutant neurons was corrected by introducing PLD1 into these cells. The results indicate that PLD1 may represent a therapeutic target for rescuing compromised neuronal function in AD.
Acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) has been reported in association with therapy with a number of drugs. We report a patient who developed drug-related AIN while receiving intravenous amoxicillin therapy. The patient developed rash, secondary temperature elevation, and eosinophilia in association with nonoliguric renal failure. Renal biopsy showed evidence for AIN and the renal failure was responsive to corticosteroid therapy. AIN may occur in patients receiving any drug of the penicillin class. This reversible form of acute renal failure must not be overlooked in patients with other forms of renal disease.
Aspartoacylase catalyzes hydrolysis of N-acetyl-l-aspartate to aspartate and acetate in the vertebrate brain. Deficiency in this activity leads to spongiform degeneration of the white matter of the brain and is the established cause of Canavan disease, a fatal progressive leukodystrophy affecting young children. We present crystal structures of recombinant human and rat aspartoacylase refined to 2.8- and 1.8-A resolution, respectively. The structures revealed that the N-terminal domain of aspartoacylase adopts a protein fold similar to that of zinc-dependent hydrolases related to carboxypeptidases A. The catalytic site of aspartoacylase shows close structural similarity to those of carboxypeptidases despite only 10-13% sequence identity between these proteins. About 100 C-terminal residues of aspartoacylase form a globular domain with a two-stranded beta-sheet linker that wraps around the N-terminal domain. The long channel leading to the active site is formed by the interface of the N- and C-terminal domains. The C-terminal domain is positioned in a way that prevents productive binding of polypeptides in the active site. The structures revealed that residues 158-164 may undergo a conformational change that results in opening and partial closing of the channel entrance. We hypothesize that the catalytic mechanism of aspartoacylase is closely analogous to that of carboxypeptidases. We identify residues involved in zinc coordination, and propose which residues may be involved in substrate binding and catalysis. The structures also provide a structural framework necessary for understanding the deleterious effects of many missense mutations of human aspartoacylase.
HBsAg vaccination might help to control HBV replication following nucleos(t)ide analog therapy. We tested HBsAg vaccine in a patient who developed lamivudine resistance.
An HBeAg negative HBV chronically-infected patient developed HBsAg seroconversion after 3 years of treatment by lamivudine. However, the control of HBV replication was transient and HBV DNA could be detected in the serum one year after lamivudine was stopped. Concurrently, the anti-HBs antibodies (HBsAb) titre had decreased from more than 100 IU/L to 23 IU/L. Due to the presence of rtM204V resistance mutation, lamivudine was not reintroduced and the patient was treated by HBsAg vaccination. After three injections, HBV DNA was no more detectable and the HBsAb titre reached more than 200 IU/L.
This observation suggests that a regular follow up of patients presenting HBsAg seroconversion following lamivudine therapy is necessary. In these patients, a low titre of HBsAb may not prevent from lamivudine-resistant HBV reactivation. Evaluation of HBsAg vaccination to maintain HBsAb at a high titre in these patients deserves further studies.
The trace metal copper is an essential cofactor for a number of enzymes that have critical roles in biological processes, but it is highly toxic when allowed to accumulate in excess of cellular needs. Consequently, homeostatic copper metabolism is maintained by molecules involved in copper uptake, distribution, excretion, and incorporation into copper-requiring enzymes. Previously, we reported that overexpression of the human or mouse Ctr1 copper transporter stimulates copper uptake in mammalian cells, and deletion of one Ctr1 allele in mice gives rise to tissue-specific defects in copper accumulation and in the activities of copper-dependent enzymes. To investigate the physiological roles for mammalian Ctr1 protein in cellular copper metabolism, we characterized wild type, Ctr1 heterozygous, and Ctr1 homozygous knock-out cells isolated from embryos obtained by the inter-cross of Ctr1 heterozygous mice. Ctr1-deficient mouse embryonic cells are viable but exhibit significant defects in copper uptake and accumulation and in copper-dependent enzyme activities. Interestingly, Ctr1-deficient cells exhibit approximately 30% residual copper transport activity that is saturable, with a K(m) of approximately 10 microm, with biochemical features distinct from that of Ctr1. These observations demonstrate that, although Ctr1 is critical for both cellular copper uptake and embryonic development, mammals possess additional biochemically distinct functional copper transport activities.
After admitting a patient to our Neonatal Intensive Care with a severe anemia and an ear malformation, we ruled out any other cause than maternal medication use. Knowing she used mycophenolate mofetil during pregnancy, we looked for related articles. Two articles were found describing ear malformations, but no article was ever written about anemia caused by this medication. Consulting the international registers of drug effects through the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, we found out that the anemia was never seen or reported before.
In susceptible individuals beryllium (Be)-exposure may cause Be-hypersensitivity (BH), leading to a spectrum of immune abnormalities ranging from the systemic responsiveness to Be to the CD4+ T-cell dominated chronic granulomatous pneumonitis known as berylliosis. Two gene markers have been previously associated with berylliosis: HLA-DP allelic variants carrying glutamate in position 69 of the beta-chain and the high TNF-alpha production-associated TNF-alpha promoter allele TNFA2. Since a number of TNF-alpha promoter sequence variants have been associated with higher or lower gene-expression, the entire TNF-alpha promoter region was screened for BH-associated variants.
Denaturating High Performance Liquid Chromatography (DHPLC) analysis followed by DNA sequence analysis of the heteroduplex observed was performed on a DNA bank obtained from a Be-exposed population composed of 73 subjects with BH and 43 Be-exposed controls.
The data show that the TNF-alpha TNFA2 variant (genotypic frequency: BH 26.7%, Be-exposed controls 5.8%; p < 0.0001), the -857T variant (BH 19.7%, Be-exposed controls 10.5%; p = 0.045) are significantly associated with BH and there is no linkage disequilibrium between them. Further, 64.4% of BH subjects carried at least one of higher TNF-alpha production-associated polymorphisms (Be-exposed controls 34.8%; p = 0.0036).
The finding that TNF-alpha production-associated polymorphisms are carried at higher frequency by BH-affected compared to Be-exposed controls suggests that the TNF-alpha may play a central role in the determination of susceptibility to BH.
