The purpose of this study was to determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) and the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of the 21 days carboplatin plus gemcitabine regimen in previously untreated patients with stage IV non small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
At least three patients were entered at each dose level. The starting dose was carboplatin AUC 4 mg/ml per min (Area Under the Curve; Calvert formula) on day 1 and gemcitabine 750 mg/m(2) on days 1 and 8. Carboplatin was increased to AUC 5 (level 3, 4) then to AUC 6 (level 5-7). Gemcitabine was increased to 875 (level 2, 3), 1000 (level 4, 5), 1250 (level 6) and finally 1500 mg/m(2) (level 7). Twenty-nine patients were entered into this phase I study.
At dose level 6, a DLT (grade 4 thrombocytopenia) was observed in one out of six patients. At dose level 7, no DLT was observed during the first course, so the MTD was not reached. During the second course, two out of four patients presented grade 4 thrombocytopenia. None of the five patients receiving two courses at level 6 presented a DLT, so this level was retained for further phase II studies. Of the 25 patients assessable for response, five achieved partial responses with a response rate of 20% (95% CI, 7 to 41%). The median survival time was 7 months and the 1-year survival rate was 24% (95% CI, 9 to 45%).
The combination of carboplatin given on day 1 and gemcitabine given on days 1 and 8 every 3 weeks seems to be an acceptable regimen. The DLT consists exclusively of severe thrombocytopenia. Despite the MTD was not reached with carboplatin AUC 6 mg/ml per min and gemcitabine 1500 mg/m(2), the recommended dose for further phase II studies is carboplatin AUC 6 mg/ml per min and gemcitabine 1250 mg/m(2).
The cause for increased cell proliferation in AHR overexpressing breast cancer cells still remains unknown. Here we studied the molecular basis of aggressive cell proliferation of an AHR overexpressing and ERα functionally down-regulated MCF10AT1 cell line, designated as P20E, in comparison to a matched sub-line, P20C with normal AHR expression and ERα function. We found that a 4-day treatment of P20E cells with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (AZ) caused a significant suppression of cell proliferation. Such an effect of AZ was accompanied with the significant recovery of ERα function. Among diagnostic markers of AZ-induced cellular changes we found conspicuous up-regulation of mRNA expression of Wnt inhibitory factor-1 (WIF-1), particularly in P20E. The possibility of AZ-induced demethylation on the promoter of WIF-1 gene was confirmed through methylation specific PCR assay. Such AZ-induced changes in P20E cells were also accompanied with the decrease in the binding of nuclear proteins to the (32)P labeled TRE (TCF response element) and the reduced accumulation of β-catenin protein in the cell nucleus, indicating the importance of Wnt/β-catenin pathway in maintaining the increased cell proliferation in P20E line over P20C line. The importance of WIF-1 in this regard has been validated by transfecting cells with siRNA against WIF-1, which caused an increase in cell proliferation. Moreover, artificial overexpression of ERα in both P20E as well as MDA-MB-231 cells increased the mRNA expression of WIF-1. Together these results support our main conclusion that the aggressive cell proliferation of this AHR-overexpressing sub-type of transformed mammary epithelial cells is assisted by the epigenetic suppression of WIF-1 gene, which is caused by the loss of ERα.
In the present study, role of brain insulin receptors (IRs) in memory functions and its correlation with acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and oxidative stress in different brain regions were investigated in intracerebroventricular (ICV) streptozotocin (STZ) induced dementia model. Rats were treated with STZ (3 mg/kg, ICV) on day 1 and 3. Donepezil (5 mg/kg po) and melatonin (20 mg/kg ip) were administered in pre- and post-treatment schedules. Morris water maze test was done on day 14 and animals were sacrificed on day 21 from 1st STZ injection. Memory deficit was found in STZ group as indicated by no significant decrease in latency time antagonized by donepezil and melatonin. IR protein level was found significantly increased in trained group as compared to control, whereas STZ decreased IR level significantly as compared to trained rats in hippocampus which indicates that IR is associated with memory functions. STZ induced decrease in IR was reversed by melatonin but not by donepezil. Melatonin per se did not show any significant change in IR level as compared to control. AChE activity (DS and SS fraction) was found to be increased in hippocampus in STZ group as compared to trained which was inhibited by donepezil and melatonin. Increase in MDA level and decrease in GSH level were obtained in STZ group indicating oxidative stress, which was attenuated by donepezil and melatonin. Effectiveness of antioxidant, melatonin but not of anti-cholinesterase, donepezil against STZ induced changes in IR indicates that IR is more affected with oxidative stress than cholinergic changes.
The purpose of this study was to elucidate the prevalence, magnitude and clinical implications of a hypotensive response during dobutamine stress echocardiography.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography is an accurate noninvasive method for detecting coronary artery disease. It has been associated with unexpected hypotension in a proportion of patients. Hypotension occurring during exercise testing has been associated with an increased prevalence of multivessel coronary artery disease and a poor prognosis. The clinical significance of hypotension when seen during dobutamine infusion for diagnostic testing is unknown.
Clinical characteristics, coronary artery anatomy (n = 41), ventricular function at rest and during dobutamine infusion and prognosis were evaluated in 115 patients experiencing hypotension during dobutamine stress echocardiography and compared with data in 59 nonhypotensive catheterized patients for comparison of coronary anatomy and in 239 nonhypotensive patients for prognostic purposes.
Hypotension occurred in 115 (20%) of 568 consecutive patients studied with dobutamine stress echocardiography. It was gradual in 73 and precipitous in 42 patients. There were no statistical differences among the hypotensive groups and the index group in prevalence or severity of coronary disease or in prognosis during 15 months compared with findings in nonhypotensive patients.
Hypotension occurs commonly during dobutamine stress echocardiography, and patients with dobutamine-induced hypotension constitute a heterogeneous group. Unlike hypotension occurring with exercise testing, dopamine-induced hypotension is not invariably associated with advanced coronary disease or an adverse prognosis.
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is an autoimmune disease characterized by fibrosis of the skin and internal organs that leads to profound disability and premature death. To identify new SSc susceptibility loci, we conducted the first genome-wide association study in a population of European ancestry including a total of 2,296 individuals with SSc and 5,171 controls. Analysis of 279,621 autosomal SNPs followed by replication testing in an independent case-control set of European ancestry (2,753 individuals with SSc (cases) and 4,569 controls) identified a new susceptibility locus for systemic sclerosis at CD247 (1q22-23, rs2056626, P = 2.09 x 10(-7) in the discovery samples, P = 3.39 x 10(-9) in the combined analysis). Additionally, we confirm and firmly establish the role of the MHC (P = 2.31 x 10(-18)), IRF5 (P = 1.86 x 10(-13)) and STAT4 (P = 3.37 x 10(-9)) gene regions as SSc genetic risk factors.
In a comparison using age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY), 16-week-old male spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) hearts were examined histologically and biochemically on the first and fourth day after administration of 20 mg/kg doxorubicin in order to examine whether membrane abnormalities in hypertrophied SHR myocardium are caused by lipid peroxidation. Morphological examination of the SHR revealed focal myocytolysis on the first day and severe cardiomyopathy involving diffuse myocytolysis and vacuolar degeneration in the left ventricle on the fourth day. The activity of a membrane-related enzyme, Na+/K(+)-ATPase, was already lower in control SHR than that of control WKY and was lower in both SHR and WKY than in the respective saline groups on the first day after administration, whereas the enzyme activity in the doxorubicin-treated SHR was not significantly different from that of the treated WKY. A thiobarbituric acid-reactant substance, a lipid peroxidation marker, was significantly higher in treated SHR than it was in the treated WKY on the first day. Furthermore, in comparison with WKY, alpha-tocopherol in the left ventricle in SHR was significantly lower on the fourth day after administration. These results show that a proneness to lipid peroxidation in the membrane system is closely associated with severity of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy in SHR and suggests that membrane lipid peroxidation may cause a higher degree of vulnerability in hypertrophied SHR myocardium.
Bromocriptine, a dopamine D2 receptor agonist, is widely used for treating prolactinoma, Parkinson's disease and galactorrhea. However, the influence of bromocriptine on the endocrine system, especially adrenal function, is not clear. The present study was aimed to investigate the effects of bromocriptine on corticosterone production in rats. Male rats were treated or not treated by bromocriptine (5 mg/kg, s.c.) twice per day for 2 days before decapitation. The adrenal zona fasciculata-reticularis cells were prepared and incubated with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), forskolin (an adenylyl cyclase activator), 8-bromo-adenosine 3':5' cyclic monophosphate (8-Br-cAMP, a membrane-permeable analogue of cAMP), and steroidogenic precursors including 25-OH-cholesterol and pregnenolone. The concentrations of prolactin, corticosterone and pregnenolone in the plasma and/or medium were measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA). The protein expression of cytochrome P450 side-chain cleavage (P450scc) enzyme and steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) was analyzed by Western blotting. Administration of bromocriptine in vivo resulted in a decrease in the levels of plasma prolactin and corticosterone. Basal--and ACTH--as well as forskolin-stimulated corticosterone secretion by zona fasciculata-reticularis cells was also lower in bromocriptine-treated rats than in control animals. The decreased production of corticosterone in zona fasciculata-reticularis cells could be reversed by administration of 8-Br-cAMP. The corticosterone and pregnenolone release induced by 25-OH-cholesterol in zona fasciculata-reticularis cells was reduced by administration of bromocriptine. The protein expression of both StAR protein and P450scc in zona fasciculata-reticularis cells was inhibited in the bromocriptine-treated group. Administration of bromocriptine in vitro reduced the release of corticosterone stimulated by ACTH and forskolin in rat zona fasciculata-reticularis cells. These results suggested that bromocriptine caused adrenal dysfunction through inhibition of ACTH action and of the activity of adenylyl cyclase, and impaired the early steps of corticosterone biosynthesis.
To investigate the effect of doxazosin on orthostatic blood pressure changes with daily activity, the relationship among blood pressure, physical position and physical activities using an ambulatory multibiomedical monitoring system(TM2425) were studied. The subjects were 22 patients with essential hypertension(EHT group), 23 patients with diabetic mellitus(DM group) and 17 healthy volunteers for the control. Patients were administered doxazosin at 2-8 mg/day for 0.5 month to 12 months. Twenty-four-hour blood pressure, posture and activity were monitored. Systolic blood pressure was higher in the standing position than that in the sitting position in the control group, but there were no differences between these values in the EHT group and DM groups. During the awake, sleep, and standing periods, doxazosin significantly decreased blood pressure in the EHT group; however, it significantly decreased only the standing systolic blood pressure in the DM group. Absolute changes in blood pressure after the administration of doxazosin were not significantly different between the standing and sitting periods in each group. These findings suggest that doxazosin decreases the blood pressure of both patients with essential hypertension and patients with diabetic mellitus without an excessive decrease in standing blood pressure.
Quinidine therapy is one of the most common causes of the acquired long QT syndrome and the morphologically distinctive tachyarrhythmia torsade de pointes. Clinical data from our institution and others have revealed a number of characteristic features: quinidine plasma concentrations are generally low, marked QRS prolongation is absent, hypokalemia is frequent and abrupt heart rate slowing just before the initiation of a paroxysm is almost invariable. The lack of correlation between plasma quinidine concentrations and this adverse drug effect raises the possibility either that external factors (for example, hypokalemia) modulate the response to quinidine in vivo or that one or more unmeasured active metabolites play a role. Therefore, the effect of alterations in extracellular potassium and stimulation rate on the electrophysiologic effects of quinidine were examined in canine Purkinje fibers. It was found that a form of triggered automaticity, early afterdepolarizations, is reliably produced in the presence of quinidine when extracellular potassium is lowered and the stimulation rate is slowed. More recently, the effects of a number of quinidine metabolites, as well as the commonly found impurity dihydroquinidine, were characterized in canine Purkinje fibers in a similar fashion. Although quinidine was the most potent of the substances tested, both dihydroquinidine and 3-hydroxyquinidine prolonged action potential and produced early afterdepolarizations as did quinidine at long cycle lengths. Quinidine-induced torsade de pointes is a potentially lethal adverse drug effect, occurring in 1 to 3% of patients. Hypokalemia and slow heart rates are commonly observed in a clinical setting and, in the tissue bath, quinidine and several of its metabolites induce abnormal automatic behavior when extracellular potassium is lowered and stimulation rate is slowed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A patient with penicillin sensitivity, who had never received a cephalosporin antibiotic previously, developed anemia and spherocytosis following the administration of cefazolin. Hemolysis abated when the drug was discontinued on the fourth day, and recurred on day six when cephalothin therapy was begun. IgG and complement components were present on the patient's erythrocytes, and IgG antibodies in her serum reacted with normal red blood cells which had been coated with benzylpenicillin, cefazolin or cephalothin. Antibodies to cephalothin-coated red blood cells were removed partially by incubating her serum with either benzylpenicillin or cefazolin. Complement-fixing IgG antibodies which reacted with red blood cells coated by cefazolin, cephalothin, and benzylpenicillin were considered to be responsible for hemolysis during the administration of cefazolin and, subsequently, cephalothin. The patient recovered completely following discontinuation of antibiotics, transfusion of red blood cells, and treatment with glucocorticoids. It is concluded that hemolysis may occur during therapy with cefazolin, as well as cephalothin, and may develop rapidly in a patient with penicillin sensitivity.
1. Dogs were exposed to hypoxemia followed by a coronary angiogram at three different times: under control conditions, after ischemia-reperfusion injury, then 30 min later. 2. In the study group, the dogs were treated with trandolapril (0.05 mg/kg) and verapamil (0.1 mg/ kg) just prior to the final hypoxic challenge. 3. Under control conditions, the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD) dilated in response to hypoxia. Following ischemia-reperfusion injury, however, it constricted significantly in response. 4. In the control group, repeat hypoxia 30 min later resulted in vasoconstriction of the LAD which was comparable to the preceding response. 5. However, in the study group, treatment with trandolapril plus verapamil inhibited the vasoconstriction in response to repeat hypoxia.
Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) irreversibly inhibits platelet cyclooxygenase (COX)-1, the enzyme that converts arachidonic acid (AA) to the potent platelet agonist thromboxane (TX) A2. Despite clear benefit from aspirin in patients with cardiovascular disease (CAD), evidence of heterogeneity in the way individuals respond has given rise to the concept of 'aspirin resistance.'
To evaluate the hypothesis that incomplete suppression of platelet COX as a consequence of variation in the COX-1 gene may affect aspirin response and thus contribute to aspirin resistance.
Aspirin response, determined by serum TXB2 levels and AA-induced platelet aggregation, was prospectively studied in patients (n = 144) with stable CAD taking aspirin (75-300 mg). Patients were genotyped for five single nucleotide polymorphisms in COX-1 [A-842G, C22T (R8W), G128A (Q41Q), C644A (G213G) and C714A (L237M)]. Haplotype frequencies and effect of haplotype on two platelet phenotypes were estimated by maximum likelihood. The four most common haplotypes were considered separately and less common haplotypes pooled.
COX-1 haplotype was significantly associated with aspirin response determined by AA-induced platelet aggregation (P = 0.004; 4 d.f.). Serum TXB2 generation was also related to genotype (P = 0.02; 4 d.f.).
Genetic variability in COX-1 appears to modulate both AA-induced platelet aggregation and thromboxane generation. Heterogeneity in the way patients respond to aspirin may in part reflect variation in COX-1 genotype.
The authors report the case of a nine-year-old girl admitted to hospital with signs of meningeal irritation during the course of hyperpyretic phlogosis of the upper airways who presented, after 6 days' treatment with CFTX, at a dose of 50 mg/kg/day (1.5 g/day), therefore at the maximum recommended dose for the antibiotic in question, symptomatic cholecystic "pseudolithiasis" which resolved two weeks after the suspension of the drug. This case appears to concord with recent reports of "pseudolithiasis" in childhood that appeared with doses not regarded as being at risk, and it draws attention to the etiopathogenetic importance of other factors, including familial recurrence. The authors recommend a reasonable use of CFTX and the need to be "vigilant" both in relation to the onset and evolution of the clinical condition described above.
Co-administration of ketoprofen was found in 4 of 118 cycles of high-dose methotrexate (MTX) analysed retrospectively in thirty-six patients. All 4 cycles were characterised by severe MTX toxicity, which was fatal in three cases. Simultaneous administration of ketoprofen was associated with prolonged and striking enhancement of serum MTX levels. There were no abnormalities in MTX kinetics or evidence of MTX toxicity when ketoprofen was given at least 12 h after completion of high-dose MTX infusion. The kidney may be the site of drug interaction. This high-risk association between MTX toxicity and ketoprofen may also apply to other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
A six-year-old child with coccidioidomycosis is reported. The patient was given amphotericin B, that brought about disturbances in renal function with renal failure, which turned reversible on discontinuance of treatment. The earliest manifestations of nephrotoxicity were observed following administration of a total dose of 1,000 mgs. The findings were: glycosuria, cylindruria, high urinary pH followed by metabolic acidosis, hypokalemia, decreased capacity of renal concentration and clearance of endogenous creatinine. Oral administration of postassium bicarbonate and interruption of amphotericin B were followed by reversal of kidney lesion manifestations.
The 1.5-benzodiazepine (clobazam), the 1,4-benzodiazepine (diazepam), and two nonbenzodiazepine antiepileptic drugs (phenobarbital and valproate) were evaluated in mice and rats with a battery of well-standardized anticonvulsant test procedures. The results obtained indicate that clobazam and valproate exhibit a wider range of experimental anticonvulsant activity than either diazepam or phenobarbital. Except for clobazam by the maximal electroshock seizure (MES) test in rats, clobazam and valproate are effective in nontoxic doses against MES and all four chemically induced seizures (Metrazol, bicuculline, picrotoxin, and strychnine). Clobazam is effective by the MES test in rats only in doses that exceed the median minimal toxic dose. Phenobarbital is effective against all of the above tests, but minimal toxic doses must be employed to prevent strychnine seizures. Diazepam, on the other hand, is effective in nontoxic doses against seizures induced by Metrazol, bicuculline, and picrotoxin, but protects animals from maximal electroshock and strychnine seizures only when given in toxic doses. When compared on the basis of protective indices (PI = TD50/ED50) calculated from intraperitoneal data, the PIs for clobazam were 1.6 to 13 times higher than those for diazepam. Overall, except for the MES test in rats, the PIs for clobazam were from 1.5 to 44 times higher than those for any of the other three substances. With respect to the MES test in rats, the PI for clobazam was 10.8 times higher than that for diazepam; however, the PIs for phenobarbital and valproate were 3.5 and 4.4 times higher, respectively, than that for clobazam. These data suggest that the spectrum of anticonvulsant activity for the 1,5-benzodiazepine (clobazam) is superior to that for the 1,4-benzodiazepine (diazepam). Also, the broad experimental profile of anticonvulsant activity of clobazam agrees well with its reported broad clinical efficacy.
Inflammatory pain, such as arthritis pain, is a growing health problem. Inflammatory pain is generally treated with opioids and cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors, but both are limited by side effects. Recently, resolvins, a unique family of lipid mediators, including RvE1 and RvD1 derived from omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid, have shown marked potency in treating disease conditions associated with inflammation. Here we report that peripheral (intraplantar) or spinal (intrathecal) administration of RvE1 or RvD1 in mice potently reduces inflammatory pain behaviors induced by intraplantar injection of formalin, carrageenan or complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), without affecting basal pain perception. Intrathecal RvE1 injection also inhibits spontaneous pain and heat and mechanical hypersensitivity evoked by intrathecal capsaicin and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). RvE1 has anti-inflammatory activity by reducing neutrophil infiltration, paw edema and proinflammatory cytokine expression. RvE1 also abolishes transient receptor potential vanilloid subtype-1 (TRPV1)- and TNF-alpha-induced excitatory postsynaptic current increases and TNF-alpha-evoked N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor hyperactivity in spinal dorsal horn neurons via inhibition of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathway. Thus, we show a previously unknown role for resolvins in normalizing the spinal synaptic plasticity that has been implicated in generating pain hypersensitivity. Given the potency of resolvins and the well-known side effects of opioids and COX inhibitors, resolvins may represent new analgesics for treating inflammatory pain.
Expression of thymidylate synthase (TS) in tumor cells is frequently suggested as an important prognostic factor for patients scheduled for chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). However, clinical evidence does not fully support such an anticipation. We studied the expression of rTSbeta, a reverse orientation gene of TS, as a 5-FU resistance marker in patients with primary breast cancer. Expression of rTSbeta was examined in 129 patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer and five breast cancer cell lines by immunohistochemistry, immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting. Clinically, expression of rTSbeta was found to correlate with survival of the patients (p=0.023) when patients received chemotherapeutic regimen containing 5-FU. In vitro, rTSbeta expression was found to correlate with 5-FU resistance in breast cancer cell lines. Notably, in the 5-FU-resistant cells, rTSbeta was identified in the nucleus, whereas in the 5-FU-sensitive cells, rTSbeta was found in the cytoplasm. Nuclear localization of rTSbeta was further found to be associated with protein farnesylation. Therefore, nuclear expression of rTSbeta could be a novel 5-FU resistance marker in patients with primary breast cancer.
Dibenzylphosphorobenzyl and phosphorobenzyl analogues of isophosphoramide mustard, an active metabolite of ifosfamide were synthesized. Phosphorobenzyl analogue posseses stronger cytotoxic activity than isophosphoroamide mustard against the cells of several cancer cell lines suggesting the possibility of the use of this compound in Gene-Directed Enzyme-Prodrug Therapy (GDEPT).
Mechanisms of hepatocyte proliferation triggered by tissue loss are distinguishable from those that promote proliferation in the intact liver in response to mitogens. Previous studies demonstrate that exogenous activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), a soluble ligand-activated transcription factor in the basic helix-loop-helix family of proteins, suppresses compensatory liver regeneration elicited by surgical partial hepatectomy. The goal of the present study was to determine how AhR activation modulates hepatocyte cell cycle progression in the intact liver following treatment with the hepatomitogen, 1,4-bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)] benzene (TCPOBOP). Mice were pretreated with the exogenous AhR agonist 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) 24h prior to treatment with TCPOBOP (3 mg/kg).). In contrast to the suppressive effects of AhR activation observed during compensatory regeneration, TCDD pretreatment resulted in a 30-50% increase in hepatocyte proliferation in the intact liver of TCPOBOP-treated mice. Although pretreatment with TCDD suppressed CDK2 kinase activity and increased the association of CDK2 with negative regulatory proteins p21Cip1 and p27Kip1, a corresponding increase in CDK4/cyclin D1 association and CDK4 activity which culminated in enhanced phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein, consistent with the increased proliferative response. These findings are in stark contrast to previous observations that the activated AhR can suppress hepatocyte proliferation in vivo and reveal a new complexity to AhR-mediated cell cycle control.
Currently there has been an increased interest globally to identify antioxidant compounds that are pharmacologically potent and have low or no side effects for use in preventive medicine. This study was designed to evaluate the protective effect of gallic acid on cardiac marker enzymes, troponin-T, LDH-isoenzyme pattern, lipid peroxidation products and antioxidant status in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction in male Wistar rats. Male albino Wistar rats were pretreated with gallic acid (15 mg/kg) daily for a period of 10 days. After the treatment period, ISO (100 mg/kg) was subcutaneously injected to rats at an interval of 24 h for 2 days. ISO-induced myocardial damage was indicated by increased activities of marker enzymes such as creatine kinase, creatine kinase-MB, aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase and lactate dehydrogenase in serum and the levels of troponin-T in the serum. Increased LDH-isoenzyme bands (LDH-1 and LDH-2) were also observed in serum of ISO-induced rats. In addition to these diagnostic markers, the levels of lipid peroxidation products in plasma and the heart were significantly (P<0.05) increased and the activities of enzymic antioxidants such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase and glutathione-S-transferase in the heart and non-enzymic antioxidants such as glutathione, vitamin C and E in plasma and the heart were significantly (P<0.05) decreased in ISO-induced rats. The level of uric acid in plasma was significantly (P<0.05) increased in ISO-treated rats. Gallic acid pretreatment showed significant protective effect on all the biochemical parameters studied. Histopathological findings of gallic acid pretreated myocardial infarcted heart confirmed the biochemical findings of this study. Thus, gallic acid protects the myocardium against isoproterenol-induced oxidative stress.
The authors review the literature on the rapid neuroleptization (titration) method with I.M. haloperidol. Most of the approximately 650 predominantly schizophrenic and manic patients represented in the studies calmed down rapidly on medication, and some demonstrated an early reduction in core psychotic symptoms. The initial doses varied widely, ranging from 1 to 30 mg, with a maximum total daily dosage of 100 mg. The medication seemed to have been well tolerated in all cases, with no reported major complications. The authors conclude that the method shows definite merit with agitated and belligerent patients. However, they make a number of specific recommendations for further research to clearly establish the effectiveness and safety of this method of neuroleptic administration.
The increase of Fos expression in the striatum induced by haloperidol, an antagonist of the dopamine D2 receptor, might be related to the activation of glutamatergic neurotransmission, especially that of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. In this study, using behavioral and immunohistochemical techniques, we examined the effects of a noncompetitive NMDA antagonist, (+)-MK-801, and an NMDA receptor NR2B subunit antagonist, ifenprodil, on catalepsy, an extrapyramidal symptom; in this context, we also considered the expression of Fos protein in the forebrain after the administration of haloperidol. Catalepsy in mice, induced by the administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg), was inhibited by pretreatment with (+)-MK-801 (0.2 mg/kg) or ifenprodil (10 mg/kg). Furthermore, pretreatment with (+)-MK-801 (0.2 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the induction of Fos-immunoreactive (IR) cells in the dorsomedial, dorsolateral, and ventrolateral striatum, but not in the shell region of the nucleus accumbens after the administration of haloperidol, whereas pretreatment with ifenprodil (10 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the induction of Fos-IR cells in all of these areas. It is known that ifenprodil binds sigma receptors and alpha-1 adrenergic receptors with high affinity. Pretreatment with the sigma receptor antagonist BD-1407 (3 mg/kg) or the alpha-1 adrenergic receptor antagonist prazosin (3 mg/kg) affected neither catalepsy nor the expression of Fos-IR cells after the administration of haloperidol. However, pretreatment with CP-101,606 (1 mg/kg), a selective antagonist for the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor, significantly attenuated catalepsy and the expression of Fos-IR cells in the forebrain after the administration of haloperidol. These results suggest that the NMDA receptor antagonists attenuated the induction of catalepsy and Fos-IR cells in forebrain after the administration of haloperidol. It was also suggested that haloperidol-induced expression of Fos-IR cells in the shell region of the nucleus accumbens might be differentially regulated by NMDA receptor subunits. Therefore, it appears that selective antagonists for the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor (e.g., CP-101,606) might be useful drugs for the treatment of extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) associated with the chronic use of typical antipsychotics such as haloperidol.
Tetralogy of Fallot (ToF) is the most common form of complex congenital heart disease, occurring in approximately 1 in 3000 live births. Evaluation of candidate loci in a large kindred segregating autosomal dominant ToF with reduced penetrance culminated in identification of a missense mutation (G274D) in JAG1, the gene encoding jagged1, a Notch ligand expressed in the developing right heart. Nine of eleven mutation carriers manifested cardiac disease, including classic ToF, ventricular septal defect with aortic dextroposition and isolated peripheral pulmonic stenosis (PPS). All forms of ToF were represented, including variants with pulmonic stenosis, pulmonic atresia and absent pulmonary valve. No individual within this family met diagnostic criteria for any previously described clinical syndrome, including Alagille syndrome (AGS), caused by haploinsufficiency for jagged1. All mutation carriers had characteristic but variable facial features, including long, narrow and upslanting palpebral fissures, prominent nasal bridge, square dental arch and broad, prominent chin. This appearance was distinct from that of unaffected family members and typical AGS patients. The glycine corresponding to position 274 is highly conserved in other epidermal growth factor-like domains of jagged1 and in those of other proteins. Its substitution in other proteins has been associated with mild or atypical variants of disease. These data support either a relative loss-of-function or a gain-of-function pathogenetic mechanism in this family and suggest that JAG1 mutations may contribute significantly to common variants of right heart obstructive disease.
Aplotaxene, (8Z, 11Z, 14Z)-heptadeca-1, 8, 11, 14-tetraene, is one of the major components of essential oil obtained from Inula helenium root, which is used in Oriental medicine. However, the effects of aplotaxene on immunity have not been investigated. Here, we show that aplotaxene inhibits T cell activation in terms of IL-2 and CD69 expression. Aplotaxene, at a concentration that optimally inhibits IL-2 production, has little effect on apoptotic or necrotic cell death, suggesting that apoptosis is not a mechanism for aplotaxene-mediated inhibition of T cell activation. Aplotaxene affects neither superantigeninduced conjugate formation between Jurkat T cells and Raji B cells nor clustering of CD3 and LFA-1 at the immunological synapse. Aplotaxene significantly inhibits PKC-θ phosphorylation and translocation to the immunological synapse, and blocks PMA-induced T-cell receptor internalization. Furthermore, aplotaxene leads to inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinases (JNK, ERK and p38) phosphorylation and NF-κB, NF-AT, and AP-1 promoter activities in Jurkat T cells. Taken together, our findings provide evidence for the immunosuppressive effect of aplotaxene on activated T cells through the modulation of the PKC-θ and MAPK pathways, suggesting that aplotaxene may be a novel immunotherapeutic agent for immunological diseases related to the overactivation of T cells.
Gamma tocotrienol (GT3) has been reported as a potent ameliorator of radiation-induced gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity when administered prophylactically. This study aimed to evaluate the role of GT3 mediated pro- and anti-apoptotic gene regulation in protecting mice from radiation-induced GI damage. Male 10- to 12-weeks-old CD2F1 mice were administered with a single dose of 200 mg/kg of GT3 or equal volume of vehicle (5% Tween-80) 24 h before exposure to 11 Gy of whole-body γ-radiation. Mouse jejunum was surgically removed 4 and 24h after radiation exposure, and was used for PCR array, histology, immunohistochemistry, and immunoblot analysis. Results were compared among vehicle pre-treated no radiation, vehicle pre-treated irradiated, and GT3 pre-treated irradiated groups. GT3 pretreated irradiated groups, both 4h and 24h after radiation, showed greater upregulation of anti-apoptotic gene expression than vehicle pretreated irradiated groups. TUNEL staining and intestinal crypt analysis showed protection of jejunum after GT3 pre-treatment and immunoblot results were supportive of PCR data. Our study demonstrated that GT3-mediated protection of intestinal cells from a GI-toxic dose of radiation occurred via upregulation of antiapoptotic and downregulation of pro-apoptotic factors, both at the transcript as well as at the protein levels.
