Based on reports of regression of superficial bladder tumors after urinary diversion, a study was designed to measure the effects of urine and continued exposure to carcinogen on the incidence of progression of N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide-induced early urinary bladder lesions to invasive tumor. After being fed 0.2% N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide diet for 14 weeks, one-half of the male Fischer rats had urinary diversion by ureterosigmoidostomy, and the remainder were sham operated. One-half of each of these two groups was continued on the N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide diet while the remaining animals were fed regular chow postoperatively. One-half of each of the four groups was sacrificed at 3 months, and the remainder were sacrificed at 6 months after ureterosigmoidostomy or sham-operation. The incidence and mean number of tumors as well as the incidence of invasive tumor were tabulated. The combined 3- and 6-month data indicate that excreted carcinogen in the urine influences progression of the preinvasive lesions more than urine alone or systemic carcinogen alone. However, urine alone had a significant effect (p < 0.025) on tumor incidence (8 of 19 sham-operated animals with tumor versus 1 of 18 diverted animals with tumor). Urine acts as a promoter in this experimental system. These findings may have clinical applications in the treatment of early transitional cell carcinoma.
Apoptosis is one of the major characteristics of delayed neuronal degeneration in neuronal injury following cerebral ischemia. Hypoxia-induced apoptosis may be co-regulated by HIF-1alpha as well as many other factors. In recent years, numerous studies concerning panaxynol (PNN) have been reported. However, whether PNN can show anti-hypoxia properties is still unknown. In this study, the protective effects of PNN on OGD-induced neuronal apoptosis and potential mechanisms were investigated. Pretreatment of the cells with PNN for 24h following exposure to OGD resulted in a significant elevation of cell survival determined by MTT assay, LDH assay, Hoechst staining and flow cytometric assessment. In addition to enhancing the expression of HIF-1alpha, PNN also normalized the caspase-3 expression/activation and increased the Bcl-2/Bax ratio. In our study, the increased level of HIF-1alpha with decreased cellular apoptosis suggested an important role for HIF-1alpha in hypoxic neurons. These results indicated that the neuroprotective effects of PNN on hypoxic neurons were at least partly due to up-regulation of HIF-1alpha and raised the possibility that PNN might reduce neurodegenerative disorders and ischemic brain diseases.
The emergence of visual field defects attributed to vigabatrin (VGB) treatment and intramyelinic edema in animal experiments has raised concerns about its future role in the treatment of childhood seizures.
We evaluated our experience with this antiepileptic agent with retrospective analysis of database and chart audit.
Of 73 patients, 43 girls and 33 boys were treated with VGB over a 7-year period. The mean age of patients at the introduction of VGB was 87 months (range, 5-257 months). In 12 of 73 cases, VGB was used as monotherapy; in 61 of 73 cases, it was used as an add-on drug. Seizure types included secondarily generalized seizures (21), mixed seizures (21), partial seizures (18), and generalized seizures (13). Seizure etiology was idiopathic/cryptogenic in 22 patients, symptomatic in 50, and undetermined in a single patient. The mean duration of therapy was 16 months (median, 10 months; range, 1-144 months). VGB was effective in 30 (seven seizure free, 23 with >90% reduction in seizures), partially effective in four (50-90% reduction in seizures), and ineffective in 38 (<50% reduction in seizures). Nearly 50% of patients with infantile spasms responded to VGB. All patients underwent ophthalmic evaluation; two (16%) of 12 patients who could undergo static threshold perimetry were demonstrated to have the characteristic visual field constriction.
VGB is effective in producing a significant reduction in seizure frequency in nearly half the patients with childhood seizures, including refractory epilepsy. Despite emerging concerns regarding visual side effects, this drug retains an important role in the medical management of childhood epilepsy.
Direct instillation of drug solutions into the bladder through a urethral catheter (i.e., intravesical therapy) evades systemic adverse effects of drugs used for bladder diseases. However, conventional vehicles for these drugs fail to extend duration of drug exposure in the bladder beyond the first voiding of urine postinstillation. The current study seeks to overcome the aforementioned inherent limitation of intravesical drug administration by using thermosensitive hydrogel as a matrix for sustained intravesical drug delivery.
Under halothane anesthesia, normal adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were catheterized with PE-50 tubing to instill either 0.02% w/v solution of fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) or the same amount of FITC in a 30% w/v dispersion of thermosensitive [Poly(ethylene glycol)-Poly[lactic acid-co-glycolic acid]-Poly(ethylene glycol)) (PEG-PLGA-PEG) polymer in a 0.1 M phosphate buffer. After instillations, rats were kept in metabolic cages for urine collection. Fluorescence emanating from FITC was measured in the urine at various time points up to 24 h after instillation. A rat model of cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis was chosen for the efficacy study using misoprostol as a model drug entrapped in the thermosensitive hydrogel in place of FITC. Efficacy of hydrogel containing misoprostol was compared against rat groups instilled with saline, hydrogel, and misoprostol independently.
Prolonged drug exposure to the bladder afforded by hydrogel was evident from the time course of FITC elimination in the urine and by the green fluorescence of FITC seen at the bladder surface when isolated 24 h after instillation. Rats instilled with free FITC voided almost all of the fluorescence in the urine within the first 8 h, whereas rats instilled with hydrogel encapsulated FITC showed sustained release up to 24 h after instillation. Using a cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis model, rats instilled with misoprostol, a synthetic PGE1 analog, showed significantly reduced frequency of urine voiding (p < 0.05) as compared to the rats instilled with saline. Histological examination of the urothelium showed near normal morphology in rats instilled with misoprostol in hydrogel, whereas extensive tissue damage was observed in rats instilled with saline.
Our study showed that PEG-PLGA-PEG polymer could be used as a viable sustained drug delivery system for intravesical therapy of diseases of the bladder such as cystitis using misoprostol.
The anticonvulsant activity of two competitive antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (APH) and 3-[2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonate (CPP), and two non-competitive NMDA antagonists, phencyclidine (PCP) and (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801), were compared in 4 models of induced seizures in mice. All 4 drugs protected against tonic extensor seizures induced by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), by submaximal (15 mA) electroconvulsive shock (ECS) and by maximal (50 mA) ECS. Similar orders of potency (i.e., MK-801 greater than PCP greater than or equal to CPP greater than APH) were seen in each of the 3 seizure models. All 4 drugs failed to block clonic seizures induced by picrotoxin in the dose ranges that protected from tonic seizures. These data are consistent with other data demonstrating that competitive and non-competitive NMDA antagonists have similar pharmacologic effects. These results also support the suggestion that the anticonvulsant effects of competitive and non-competitive NMDA antagonists are mediated by the NMDA receptor-ionophore complex.
We performed a clinical phase II trial of the combination of paclitaxel and cisplatin in patients with locally advanced (stage IIIB) or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) using a 3-h infusion of paclitaxel followed by a 1 to 2-h infusion of cisplatin, with a short premedication regimen. Treatment was repeated every 21 days for at least two cycles. The patients received paclitaxel 180 mg/m2 followed by cisplatin 80 mg/m2. Enrolled in the trial were 33 chemotherapy-naive patients with stage IIIB (15%) or stage IV (85%) NSCLC. Their median age was 61 years (range 43-71 years). Of the 33 patients, 10 (30%) were women and 23 (70%) were men, and 82% had adenocarcinoma. With 78 courses of chemotherapy administered, 32 patients were evaluable for toxicity and response. Hematologic toxicities were moderate: Japan Clinical Oncology Group (JCOG) grade 3 or 4 neutropenia occurred in 37% of the cycles (53% of patients). Other toxicities consisted mainly of grade 1 or 2 alopecia and nausea/vomiting, but also included grade 1 or 2 neuropathy (47%), hypotension (grade 1 in 6%, grade 3 in 3%) and allergic reactions (grade 1 or 2 in 16%, grade 3 in 3%). Of 32 patients evaluable for response, a partial response was achieved in 10 (31%; 95% confidence interval 16% to 50%), stable disease was seen in 16 (50%), and disease progression was seen in 2 (6%). The median survival time was 14.8 months and the 1-year survival rate was 56%. These results suggest that the combination of paclitaxel and cisplatin is a well-tolerated and active regimen in Japanese patients with advanced NSCLC. In view of the promising survival outcomes, further evaluation in prospective randomized trials with other regimens is warranted.
Dobutamine is a synthetic catecholamine developed as a relatively selective positive inotropic drug for short-term parenteral administration. Dobutamine's effects are mediated by strong beta 1 adrenergic receptor stimulation and mild stimulation of beta 2 and alpha 1 receptors. Dobutamine should be used to improve ventricular function and cardiac performance in patients in whom ventricular dysfunction has caused a reduced stroke volume and cardiac output, a mild to moderate drop in systemic blood pressure, diminished organ and tissue perfusion, and elevated ventricular filling pressures. When guidelines for patient selection and dosing are adhered to, ventricular dysfunction and cardiac decompensation secondary to atherosclerotic occlusive coronary artery disease can be improved without adversely affecting the myocardial oxygen supply and demand balance. Dobutamine has less vasopressor activity than norepinephrine and dopamine, and should not be the primary treatment in conditions characterized by marked hypotension and shock.
Acute, high-dose loading strategies (rapid neuroleptization) with the first-generation antipsychotics administered orally or parenterally, alone or combined with benzodiazepines, have been a commonly used treatment paradigm for controlling acutely agitated psychotic patients. The rationale was to achieve high plasma levels of drug within a shorter time period, resulting in rapid symptom mitigation. However, studies have shown that rapid neuroleptization with first-generation antipsychotics is associated with a greater incidence of side effects. To our knowledge, loading strategies with second-generation antipsychotics have not been investigated, primarily owing to a need for dose titration. Olanzapine, a second-generation antipsychotic, is well tolerated in doses ranging from 5 to 20 mg. The objective of this report was to determine experience with the use of up to 20 mg of an oral loading dose of olanzapine administered within 4 hours in the treatment of patients early in an acute psychotic phase of their illness. In the reported case series of 57 patients, olanzapine initiated at 15 to 20 mg/day was a safe and effective medication for rapidly calming the agitation of acutely agitated psychotic patients (rapid tranquilization). Furthermore, dose reduction over 2 to 3 weeks was achieved in a number of patients without appreciable loss of efficacy.
Oxcarbazepine is a commonly used antiepileptic and mood stabilizer medication with a considerably good safety profile. Medication-induced side effects are a common cause of morbidity in the geriatric population. We describe a patient presenting with hemolytic anemia attributed to oxcarbazepine that resolved after discontinuation of the drug. A 75-year-old male was brought into the hospital because of lethargy for the previous few days. His medical history included diet-controlled diabetes mellitus, mild essential hypertension, ischemic stroke with no residual deficit, seizure disorder, and dementia. He was taking only trileptal for the previous 3 months. His other history was insignificant. Physical examination was remarkable for generalized pallor and impaired memory. Laboratory results showed hemoglobin of 4.6 g/dL. Serum lactate dehydrogenase was 1314 u/L, and total bilirubin was 3.4 mg/dL, with indirect bilirubin of 2.9 mg/dL. Peripheral blood smear revealed microspherocytes, polychromasia, and a few nucleated red blood cells. Urinalysis showed 12RBCs/high power field (HPF), hemosiderinuria, and moderate bilirubin. Coombs test, cold agglutinins, antinuclear antibodies, and cultures were negative. Computerized tomographic scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis was also normal. After exclusion of other causes of hemolysis, drug-induced hemolytic anemia was suspected, and oxcarbazepine was discontinued. The patient's symptoms and laboratory parameters improved. He was in a usual state of health at 7 months follow-up. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of oxcarbazepine-induced hemolytic anemia in the medical literature, and it was reported to the manufacturing pharmaceutical company.
Drug-induced movement disorders are commonly seen in the inpatient setting and outpatient movement disorders centers. The most common acute reactions are dystonia, parkinsonism, and akathisia. Drug-induced movement disorders are classically associated with dopamine receptor blocking agents, most notably typical and atypical antipsychotic medications. However, extrapyramidal side effects can also be seen with antiemetics, promotility drugs, serotonergic agents, and opioid agonists. We describe a patient who developed an acute dystonic reaction shortly after the administration of intravenous foscarnet, an antiviral agent. Her work-up for secondary causes of dystonia was otherwise negative, and her symptoms resolved after receiving intravenous anticholinergic treatment.
Cocaine-associated cues can elicit incentive motivational effects that drive cocaine-seeking behavior and contribute to relapse. The extinction/reinstatement model is commonly used to measure these effects in animals. This study examined the influence of training and testing schedules of reinforcement on cue-elicited reinstatement. Lever presses during training resulted in cues and cocaine (0.75 mg/kg/IV) on either continuous or partial reinforcement schedules [fixed ratio (FR) 1 or 11, variable ratio (VR) 5 or 11]. Animals then underwent extinction training, followed by a test for cue-elicited reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior by response-contingent cue presentations on either a continuous (FR 1) or a partial reinforcement schedule (FR 11). Partial reinforcement during training resulted in higher response rates during cue-elicited reinstatement relative to continuous reinforcement. In contrast, delivery of cues on a continuous reinforcement schedule during testing yielded higher response rates relative to delivery on a partial reinforcement schedule. Finally, the shift from a partial to a continuous reinforcement schedule across training and testing phases did not alter response rates. These findings provide important information for choosing parameters for reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior that would allow the most sensitive method to detect changes in response rate after an experimental manipulation.
The phase I enzyme known as cytochrome P450 1B1 (CYP1B1) is involved in the metabolism of many endogenous and exogenous compounds, including carcinogens. CYP1B1 is overexpressed in a wide variety of human diseases ranging from diabetes to malignancies, such as invasive breast cancer. Because of its microsomal location in the cell, CYP1B1 could not be measured directly by existing methods but only assessed indirectly via the determination of the catalytic products. We report here a rapid, sensitive piezoimmunosensor for detection of CYP1B1 using single-chain fragment variable antibodies (scFv) as recognition elements and a quartz crystal microbalance (QCM) as the transducer. Three anti-CYP1B1 scFvs (designated B-66, D-23, and L-21) were biotinylated and used to capture and specifically detect CYP1B1 from samples in solution. ScFvs are smaller than most commonly used antibodies and can be coated onto QCM surfaces at much higher density to improve sensor sensitivity and specificity. The scFv-QCM biosensors showed excellent sensitivity (detection limit, 2.2 +/- 0.9 nM) and specificity with a dissociation constant K(d) = (1.54 +/- 0.59) x 10(-7) M. CYP1B1 were quantitatively detected in normal and malignant cell lysates (e.g., human T47D breast cancer cell microsomes). Results demonstrate that an anti-CYP1B1 scFv-QCM immunosensor could be used to detect P450 enzymes in biological samples.
Physical dependence was rapidly induced in mice by administering diazepam intraperitoneally twice daily using an incremental dosing regimen (50 to 450 mg/kg) for nine consecutive days. Withdrawal was induced (24 hr after the last dose) by administration of a benzodiazepine antagonist, RO-15-1788 (10 mg/kg, IP). All of the mice exhibited clear-cut withdrawal symptoms (i.e., convulsions) within minutes of antagonist treatment. This method offers a simple, reliable, high throughput procedure for the assessment of benzodiazepine-like physical dependence liability and withdrawal, and it would be useful for screening purposes.
In this article, we describe a novel autosomal recessive ichthyosis with hypotrichosis syndrome, characterized by congenital ichthyosis associated with abnormal hair. Using homozygosity mapping, we mapped the disease locus to 11q24.3-q25. We screened the ST14 gene, which encodes matriptase, since transplantation of skin from matriptase(-/-)-knockout mice onto adult athymic nude mice has been shown elsewhere to result in an ichthyosislike phenotype associated with almost complete absence of erupted pelage hairs. Mutation analysis revealed a missense mutation, G827R, in the highly conserved peptidase S1-S6 domain. Marked skin hyperkeratosis due to impaired degradation of the stratum corneum corneodesmosomes was observed in the affected individuals, which suggests that matriptase plays a significant role in epidermal desquamation.
Chromium(VI), a very strong oxidant, causes high cytotoxicity through oxidative stress in tissue systems. Our study investigated the potential ability of ethanolic Citrus aurantium L., family Rutaceae extract, used as a nutritional supplement, to alleviate lung oxidative damage induced by Cr(VI). A high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with a mass spectrometer method was developed to separate and identify flavonoids in C. aurantium L. Six flavonoids were identified, as (1) poncirin, (2) naringin, (3) naringenin, (4) quercetin, (5) isosinensetin, and (6) tetramethyl-o-isoscutellarein. Adult Wistar rats, used in this study, were divided into six groups of six animals each: group I served as controls which received standard diet, group II received via drinking water K2Cr2O7 alone (700 ppm), groups III and IV were pretreated for 10 days with ethanol extract of C. aurantium L. at doses of 100 and 300 mg/kg body weight/day, respectively, and then K2Cr2O7 was administrated during 3 weeks, and groups V and VI received during 10 days only C. aurantium L. ethanol extract at doses of 100 and 300 mg/kg/day, respectively. Ethanol extract of C. aurantium L. was administered orally. Rats exposed to Cr(VI) showed in lung an increase in malondialdehyde and protein carbonyl levels and a decrease in sulflydryl content, glutathione, nonprotein thiol, and vitamins C and E levels. Decreases in enzyme activities such as in Na(+)K(+) ATPase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase were noted. Pretreatment with C. aurantium L. of chromium-treated rats ameliorated all biochemical parameters. Lung histological studies confirmed the biochemical parameters and the beneficial role of C. aurantium L.
Inadequate blood perfusion and ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in the surgical skin flap are believed to be the major factors that cause harmful changes within the tissue and vasculature, resulting in flap necrosis. Reactive oxygen radical species (ROS), in part, are believed to play an important role in this injury. Melatonin, in many physiological conditions, has been shown to have direct and indirect antioxidative effects and free-radical-scavenging properties. Therefore, it may have a beneficial effect on I/R-induced flap injury. In this study, the possible protective effects of melatonin were investigated in I/R injury of rat epigastric (axial pattern) flaps. Ischemia was achieved for 12 h by occlusion of inferior epigastric artery. Melatonin or vehicle was administered 1 h before flap elevation and was continued for 6 days after ischemia. I/R injury elevated malondialdehyde (MDA), an end product of lipid peroxidation, and nitric oxide (NO) levels while the glutathione (GSH) content was reduced. Myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, which is known to be related to tissue neutrophil accumulation, was found to be statistically higher in the I/R group when compared with the sham group. Administration of melatonin significantly decreased MDA, NO and MPO levels and elevated the GSH content. Moreover, melatonin reduced the flap necrosis area, which was determined using a planimetric method. In conclusion, melatonin, a potent scavenger of free radicals, plays a major role in preventing the inferior epigastric arterial I/R-induced flap necrosis, based on planimetric flap survival and biochemical results. The beneficial effects of melatonin in I/R injury implies the involvement of free radicals in flap damage.
The current study examined the effects of Artemisia capillaris ethyl acetate (ACE) fraction on oxidative stress and antioxidant enzyme in high-fat diet induced obese mice. C57BL/6J mice were randomly assigned to normal diet group and high-fat diet groups. Normal diet groups were fed with an ACE fraction-free diet or 0.1 g ACE fraction/kg body weight. The high-fat diet groups were fed with an ACE fraction-free diet, 0.05 g ACE fraction, 0.1 g ACE fraction or 0.03 g rosiglitazone/kg body weight. ACE fraction strengthened the antioxidative defense system with an increased activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and decreased activities of glutathione-peroxidase (GSHpx) and catalase (CAT) and content of reduced glutathione (GSH). Accordingly, ACE fraction was found to reduce the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), such as superoxide radical and hydrogen peroxide which decrease the generation of oxidative stress damage substrates, such as the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and carbonyl value. ACE fraction was found to be excellent for strengthening the antioxidant defense system, reducing the generation of ROS and damaging oxidative substances in the liver of high-fat diet induced obese mice.
The essential oil from a lemon grass variety of Cymbopogon flexuosus was studied for its in vitro cytotoxicity against twelve human cancer cell lines. The in vivo anticancer activity of the oil was also studied using both solid and ascitic Ehrlich and Sarcoma-180 tumor models in mice. In addition, the morphological changes in tumor cells were studied to ascertain the mechanism of cell death. The in vitro cytotoxicity studies showed dose-dependent effects against various human cancer cell lines. The IC(50) values of oil ranged from 4.2 to 79 microg/ml depending upon the cell line. In 502713 (colon) and IMR-32 (neuroblastoma) cell lines, the oil showed highest cytotoxicity with IC(50) value of 4.2 and 4.7 microg/ml, respectively. Intra-peritoneal administration of the oil significantly inhibited both ascitic and solid forms of Ehrlich and Sarcoma-180 tumors in a dose-dependent manner. The tumor growth inhibition at 200 mg/kg (i.p.) of the oil observed with both ascitic and solid tumor forms of Ehrlich Ascites carcinoma was 97.34 and 57.83 respectively. In case of Sarcoma-180, the growth inhibition at similar dose of oil was 94.07 and 36.97% in ascitic and solid forms respectively. Morphological studies of the oil treated HL-60 cells revealed loss of surface projections, chromatin condensation and apoptosis. The mitochondria showed apparent loss of cristae in the cells undergoing apoptosis. The morphological studies of Sarcoma-180 solid tumor cells from animals treated with the oil revealed condensation and fragmentation of nuclei typical of apoptosis. Morphological studies of ascites cells from animals treated with the oil too revealed the changes typical of apoptosis. Our results indicate that the oil has a promising anticancer activity and causes loss in tumor cell viability by activating the apoptotic process as identified by electron microscopy.
Neuroleptics have been used to help control agitation, restlessness, and hostility in patients with traumatic brain injury. However, there are many reported side-effects with the use of neuroleptics after brain injury, including memory and other cognitive impairments, as well as slowed neural recovery. Alpha-1 adrenergic blockade with resultant hypotensive and sedating effects has also been reported. This is a case report of a 70-year-old gentleman with traumatic brain injury and cardiovascular disease. Thioridazine was used to control severe behavioural problems but had to be discontinued secondary to marked hypotension. This case illustrates the need for awareness of the significant alpha-1 receptor interaction of some neuroleptics, especially in the elderly population with pre-existing heart disease.
Aim of the study was to investigate whether the administration of gentamicin could restore dystrophin expression in striated muscles of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy caused by premature stop codon, as reported in mdx mice. Four Duchenne patients, still ambulant or in wheelchair stage for less than 4 months, selected among those with point mutations resulting in premature stop codons, received two 6-day cycles of gentamicin sulfate, at an interval of 7 weeks, according to the protocol approved by the Ethics Committee of the Second University of Naples. A muscle biopsy was performed after the second cycle of administration; the specimens were analysed by both immuno-histochemistry and Western blotting. Skeletal muscle changes were monitored by dynamic tests and Creatine Kinase values; at the beginning and end of treatment, cardiac and respiratory status was evaluated by electrocardiography, echocardiography, acoustic densitometry and vital capacity. Side-effects such as nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity were also monitored. Three out of four patients, who had the most permissive UGA as stop codon, showed positive results. In one patient, there was a dramatic re-expression of dystrophin by both immuno-histochemistry and Western blot; in two patients, dystrophin positive fibres were seen by the antibody to the rod domain with immuno-histochemistry; the fourth patient, with UAA as stop codon, showed no expression of dystrophin at all. These results suggest that gentamicin is able to recover dystrophin expression in a subset of Duchenne patients with nonsense mutations, raising the possibility of the first pharmacological treatment for muscular dystrophy.
Berberine, a natural product, has been widely used to treat hyperlipoidemia and intestinal diseases. In the present paper, berberine showed a significant anti-proliferative effect to human cervical carcinoma HeLa cells confirmed by 3-(4,5)-dimethyl-thiahiazo(-z-y1)-3,5-di-phenytetrazoliumromide (MTT), flow cytometry analysis (FCM) and so on. The methods including western blotting, radioimmunity assay (RIA), reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were used to investigate protein and mRNA expressions. We found that Bcl-2/Bax ratio was significantly decreased and cytochrome c was released from mitochondrion to cytosol, which indicated that the mitochondrial pathway was activated by berberine. The up-regulation of Fas, FasL, TNF-alpha and TRAF-1 indicated the involvement of the death receptor pathway in the process of berberine-induced apoptosis. Furthermore caspase-3 and caspase-8 were activated as a central event of apoptosis, and the levels of phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) were also investigated. In addition, the increased expression of p53 was also observed in berberine-treated HeLa cells, and as a node point of these different pathways in a protein-protein interaction network constructed by GeneGo software, p53 might be the possible drug-target of berberine's anti-cancer on HeLa cells, which was predicted by a flexible ligand-protein inverse docking program, INVDOCK. This study is benefit for clarifying the mechanism of berberine's anti-tumor effect and might be helpful to find therapy-target for treatment of human cervical carcinoma.
To determine if enzymatic evidence of acute myocardial injury is present in patients complaining of chest pain after cocaine use when the ECG is normal or nondiagnostic.
Serial ECG and creatinine kinase (CK) and CK isoenzymes (CK-ISO) determinations were performed at time of emergency department presentation and every six hours over 12 hours on individuals complaining of chest pain within six hours of last cocaine use.
ED of an urban tertiary care center.
Forty-two individuals with a mean age of 28.5 years.
Patients with positive CK-ISOs were admitted immediately to formally rule out myocardial infarction. Patients developing ECG changes during observation period also were admitted even if CK-ISOs were normal. Patients with unchanged ECGs and normal CK-ISOs were discharged after 12 hours of observation.
Eight patients (19%) had elevated CK and CK-ISO values at presentation. Two of these patients had elevated values on three sequential determinations and were believed to have sustained acute myocardial infarction. Six patients had elevated CK and CK-ISOs at presentation only. ECGs remained normal or nondiagnostic in all patients.
Enzymatic evidence of acute myocardial injury may occur in patients who develop chest pain after cocaine use and have normal or nondiagnostic ECGs. This injury may reflect acute infarction or transient ischemia. Single or serial normal or nondiagnostic ECGs do not rule out ischemia or injury in this group of patients.
To assess the effects of pinacidil (a KATP-channel opener) for the treatment of penile erectile dysfunction and to examine the role of the K+-channel in cavernosal smooth muscle contractility.
Using a feline model, the magnitude of penile erection caused by pinacidil was compared with that caused by erectogenic drugs, e.g. acetylcholine, prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) and L-arginine. The effects of K+-channel blockers (4-aminopyridine, glibenclamide and tetraethylammonium) and pinacidil on penile erections induced by the drugs were investigated.
The intra-arterial injection of pinacidil caused a dose-dependent increase in intracavernosal pressure (ICP) and the increase in ICP induced by pinacidil with acetylcholine, PGE1 or L-arginine was more pronounced than with the compounds alone. Furthermore, pinacidil (1 mmol/L) effectively reversed the inhibitory effects of the K+-channel blockers on the cavernosal relaxation induced by acetylcholine, PGE1 or L-arginine (P<0.01). Notably, pinacidil induced cavernosal relaxation after injecting the drugs even in cases refractory to higher concentrations (0.1 mol/L) of the drugs (n=11, P<0.01).
These results suggest that pinacidil is effective in relaxing feline erectile tissue in vivo, probably via increased K+ permeability and subsequent hyperpolarization. Further comparative studies with erectogenic compounds on human erectile tissue and clinical testing are required to determine whether K+-channel openers can be used in the diagnosis and treatment of erectile dysfunction. However, pinacidil seems promising as an intracavernosal agent combined with PGE1 to produce synergistic effects.
Vasculitis associated with anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies has been reported in patients treated with anti-thyroid drugs and especially propylthiouracil. We report here a case of granulomatous eosinophilic vasculitis mimicking gastric neoplasm and peripheral eosinophilia in a 27-year-old man who was treated with carbimazole for 5 months for Graves' disease. Clinical and morphologic features resolved within 2 months after stopping the drug, suggesting a causative role for the drug. To our knowledge, this is the first biopsy-proven granulomatous eosinophilic vasculitis associated with this drug.
Two cases of deferoxamine toxicity are reported. One affected with auditory toxicity (severe symmetric neurosensory deafness) and the other with anterior ocular pole toxicity (cataracts). A review of the subject is included.
Diuron, a substituted urea herbicide, is carcinogenic to the rat urinary bladder at high dietary levels (2500 ppm). To further elucidate the mode of action, this study aimed to determine the time course and sequence of bladder cytotoxic and proliferative changes induced by diuron treatment of male Wistar rats. Rats were randomized into two groups (control and 2500 ppm diuron) and treated for 28 days. Ten rats from each group were terminated on each of study days 1, 3, 7, or 28. Scanning electron micro scopy (SEM) showed urothelial cell swelling beginning on day 1, and by day 28, showed extensive necrosis, exfoliation and piling up of cells suggestive of hyperplasia. No difference in the bromo deoxyuridine labeling index was detected. In a second experiment, rats were randomized into control and diuron-treated groups and treated for 7 days or 8 weeks. After 7 days, transmission electron microscopy showed cell degenerative changes and distention of the cytoplasm, organelles, and nuclei characteristic of cytolysis. This resulted in protrusion of the superficial cells into the lumen, corresponding to the cell swelling observed previously by SEM. After 8 weeks, bladders in the diuron-treated group showed an increased incidence of simple hyperplasia by light microscopy (6/10, p < 0.05) compared with controls (0/10) and a significantly different SEM classification. In summary, our results support the hypothesis that urothelial cytotoxicity followed by regenerative cell proliferation are the sequential key events that occur with high-dose diuron exposure in rats.
Zebrafish embryos offer a unique opportunity to investigate the mechanisms by which nicotine exposure impacts early vertebrate development. Embryos exposed to nicotine become functionally paralyzed by 42 hpf suggesting that the neuromuscular system is compromised in exposed embryos. We previously demonstrated that secondary spinal motoneurons in nicotine-exposed embryos were delayed in development and that their axons made pathfinding errors (Svoboda, K.R., Vijayaraghaven, S., Tanguay, R.L., 2002. Nicotinic receptors mediate changes in spinal motoneuron development and axonal pathfinding in embryonic zebrafish exposed to nicotine. J. Neurosci. 22, 10731-10741). In that study, we did not consider the potential role that altered skeletal muscle development caused by nicotine exposure could play in contributing to the errors in spinal motoneuron axon pathfinding. In this study, we show that an alteration in skeletal muscle development occurs in tandem with alterations in spinal motoneuron development upon exposure to nicotine. The alteration in the muscle involves the binding of nicotine to the muscle-specific AChRs. The nicotine-induced alteration in muscle development does not occur in the zebrafish mutant (sofa potato, [sop]), which lacks muscle-specific AChRs. Even though muscle development is unaffected by nicotine exposure in sop mutants, motoneuron axonal pathfinding errors still occur in these mutants, indicating a direct effect of nicotine exposure on nervous system development.
The ability to effectively monitor gene mutation and micronucleated reticulocyte (MN-RET) frequency in short-term and repeated dosing schedules was investigated using the recently developed flow cytometric Pig-a mutation assay and flow cytometric micronucleus analysis. Eight reference genotoxicants and three presumed nongenotoxic compounds were studied: chlorambucil, melphalan, thiotepa, cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, 2-acetylaminofluorene, hydroxyurea, methyl methanesulfonate, o-anthranilic acid, sulfisoxazole, and sodium chloride. These experiments extend previously published results with seven other chemicals. Male Sprague Dawley rats were treated via gavage for 3 or 28 consecutive days with several dose levels of each chemical up to the maximum tolerated dose. Blood samples were collected at several time points up to day 45 and were analyzed for Pig-a mutation with a dual-labeling method that facilitates mutant cell frequency measurements in both total erythrocytes and the reticulocyte subpopulation. An immunomagnetic separation technique was used to increase the efficiency of scoring mutant cells. Blood samples collected on day 4, and day 29 for the 28-day study, were evaluated for MN-RET frequency. The three nongenotoxicants did not induce Pig-a or MN-RET responses. All genotoxicants except hydroxyurea increased the frequency of Pig-a mutant reticulocytes and erythrocytes. Significant increases in MN-RET frequency were observed for each of the genotoxicants at both time points. Whereas the highest Pig-a responses tended to occur in the 28-day studies, when total dose was greatest, the highest induction of MN-RET was observed in the 3-day studies, when dose per day was greatest. There was no clear relationship between the maximal Pig-a response of a given chemical and its corresponding maximal MN-RET response, despite the fact that both endpoints were determined in the same cell lineage. Taken with other previously published results, these data demonstrate the value of integrating Pig-a and micronucleus endpoints into in vivo toxicology studies, thereby providing information about mutagenesis and chromosomal damage in the same animals from which toxicity, toxicokinetics, and metabolism data are obtained.
