Selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors elicit anti-proliferative responses in various tumours, however the underlying anti-tumour mechanisms are unclear. Mutational inactivation of the tumour suppressor p53 gene is frequent in malignant gliomas. The role of p53 mutation in the anti-tumour responses of the selective COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib in human glioblastoma cells is unknown. In this study, we used human glioblastoma cells with various p53 status; U87MG (with high and low p53 functional levels), LN229 (functional p53) and U373MG (mutant p53) cells. Inhibition of p53 was achieved in U87MG cells transfected with E6 oncoprotein (U87MG-E6) and treated with pifithrin-alpha, a reversible inhibitor of p53 (U87MG-PFT). We investigated whether the anti-glioblastoma responses of celecoxib were p53-dependent, and whether celecoxib induced DNA damage leading to p53-dependent G1 cell cycle arrest, followed by autophagy or apoptosis.
Our findings demonstrated that celecoxib concentration-dependently reduced glioblastoma cell viability, following 24 and 72 hours of treatment. Inhibition of functional p53 in glioblastoma cells significantly reduced the anti-proliferative effect of celecoxib. In U87MG cells, celecoxib (8 and 30 muM) significantly induced DNA damage and inhibited DNA synthesis, corresponding with p53 activation. Celecoxib induced G1-phase cell cycle arrest, accompanied with p21 activation in U87MG cells. Cell cycle progression of U87MG-E6 and U87MG-PFT cells was not affected by celecoxib. In parallel, celecoxib induced G1 cell cycle arrest in LN229 cells, but not in U373MG cells. Autophagy was induced by celecoxib in U87MG and LN229 cells, as shown by the significantly greater population of acridine orange-stained cells and increased levels of LC3-II protein (in comparison with non-treated controls). Celecoxib did not induce significant autophagy in U87MG-PFT, U87MG-E6 and U373MG cells, which lack functional p53. Regardless of p53 status, celecoxib caused no significant difference in apoptosis level of U87MG, U87MG-PFT, U87MG-E6 and U373MG cells.
Our findings reveal that p53 increases human glioblastoma sensitivity to celecoxib. Celecoxib inhibits glioblastoma cell viability by induction of DNA damage, leading to p53-dependent G1 cell cycle arrest and p53-dependent autophagy, but not apoptosis.
Cutaneous complications of chronic parenteral narcotic use have been described. A 61-year-old man had severe joint restriction secondary to fibrous replacement of proximal muscles. Parenteral pentazocine lactate use was implicated in the cause of his condition.
Squads of rats were assayed at three intervals following MA-induced neurotoxicity to investigate the persistence of monoamine deficits, the potential for monoamine recovery, and spatial task abilities. At 48, 139, and 237 days postinjection, MA animals showed significant monoamine depletions compared with controls. Investigating percent depletions (MA/control) across time showed monoamine recovery in some structures. Initially, 5-HT within medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC), caudate (CdN), and hippocampus (HPC) was reduced to 30% of control levels. By 237 days, MPFC and CdN levels were elevated to 70%. Similarly, initial CdN DA reductions (30% of control levels) showed recovery to 80% by 237 days. These findings support neurochemical recovery following MA neurotoxicity. However, the persistent depression of HPC 5-HT suggests that not all structures recover equally. The HPC did show elevated turnover (metabolite/neurotransmitter) over time, suggesting a unique compensatory response. MA treatment also produced an impairment in the Morris water-maze place task at 65 days postinjection. No impairments were observed in water-maze moving platform or place task at 79 and 165 days postinjection, respectively, or in T-maze alternation. The possibility that partial recovery in tissue monamine levels underlies the sparing of function and behavioral improvement is discussed.
Urinary retention is uncommon in children and only one case has been described in literature with loperamide treatment. We report the occurrence of prolonged urinary retention in a 10-years-old girl after receiving oral loperamide for an acute gastroenteritis. The first episode of urinary retention lasted for 24 hours; radiological evaluation (Magnetic Resonance, cistography and renal ultrasound) did not find abnormality; it was necessary deplete bladder with catheterism. Previous to the gastroenteritis, diuresis has always been regular and she did not suffer for any neurological or urinary problems. Patient was submitted to, without success, percutaneous posterior tibial nerve stimulation (SANS) and recovered after one year clean intermittent catheterization.
In a period of increasing popularity of self-medical therapy for common children's diseases, paediatricians should be aware of the potential, rare and chronic effects of this type of treatment. Moreover our case suggests that reaction to loperamide should be added to the etiological list of prolonged urinary retention in young patients.
Metoclopramide hydrochloride is increasingly used as an antiemetic agent. Clinical and experimental studies have demonstrated dopamine antagonism, and extrapyramidal side effects have been reported in patients given the drug for gastrointestinal disorders. Multifocal myoclonic jerking developed in our patient after he received metoclopramide therapy for gastroparesis due to renal failure. He had had no previous neurologic symptoms, and no evidence of CNS abnormality was found; the myoclonic jerking subsided when metoclopramide therapy was discontinued. Multifocal myoclonus must be differentiated from seizure activity in patients with renal failure and other metabolic encephalopathies. Metoclopramide clearance is reduced in renal failure, and myoclonus or other neurologic complications may be precipitated in such patients by usual doses of this drug.
A 42-year-old man with generalized atherosclerosis underwent surgery of the left carotid artery with eventual placement of a Dacron graft bypassing the left carotid sinus. Subsequently, symptoms suggestive of pheochromocytoma developed, and 24-hour urine catecholamine levels were elevated. Clonidine testing resulted in suppression of plasma norepinephrine levels but was complicated by severe hypotension and a transient ischemic attack. Baroreceptor dysfunction may have been involved. Caution is advised and recommendations are offered for future usage of the clonidine suppression test.
Twenty-six patients receiving adriamycin for osteogenic sarcoma had serial echocardiographic assessments of their left ventricular function. A statistically significant deterioration of function was noted throughout the course. Ventricular function tended to normalize in the period following cessation of adriamycin. The velocity of circumferential fibre shortening (Vcf) and ejection fraction (EF) were the best parameters. Sudden declines in these values resulted in us withholding therapy until the parameters again improved. Fatal congestive heart failure was seen in only one patient. Echocardiography thus provides the clinician with a valuable tool enabling one to improve the therapeutic usefulness of adriamycin by removing much of the uncertainty over the development of cardiotoxicity.
To test the hypothesis that resistin is associated with insulin resistance and inflammation in pediatric patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD).
This study is a cross-sectional analysis of 319 children in the Chronic Kidney Disease in Children cohort, a large cohort of children with stage II-IV CKD. Univariate and multivariate regression modeling was used to evaluate the association of serum resistin level with glomerular filtration rate (GFR), demographic data, and cardiovascular risk factors, including inflammatory cytokines, insulin resistance, and serum lipids.
In univariate analyses, serum resistin level was negatively correlated with GFR (P < .01). Increased serum resistin was associated with elevated inflammatory cytokines, including interleukin (IL)-6 (P < .01), IL-10 (P < .01), and tumor necrosis factor-α (P < .01). Resistin level was not associated with insulin resistance, although it was positively correlated with serum triglycerides (P < .01) and negatively correlated with high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (P < .01). In multivariate analysis, GFR (β = -0.01; P < .001), IL-6 (β = 0.18; P < .001), IL-10 (β = 0.09; P = .01), and pubertal status (β = 0.18; P < .01) were significantly associated with serum resistin level.
These results indicate that serum resistin level increases with GFR decline and is involved in the inflammatory milieu present in CKD.
Individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) have a number of potentially modifiable risk factors, including dyslipidemia, hypertension, and hyperglycemia, that contribute to coronary artery disease risk. Elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) is a major contributor to coronary artery disease, and clinical trials have demonstrated significant macrovascular benefits associated with lowering LDL-C in individuals with T2DM, even in those with only a modest LDL-C elevation. Intensive glycemic control has been shown to reduce microvascular complications associated with T2DM. Therefore, it is important to treat both dyslipidemia and hyperglycemia to reduce complications. In this paper, the effect of elevated LDL-C and glucose concentrations on T2DM outcomes is reviewed.
Lipid and glucose homeostasis are linked in part through bile acid pathways. Recent clinical trials demonstrate that bile acid sequestrants, which significantly reduce LDL-C, can also significantly reduce glucose levels in patients with T2DM. These findings supported recent Food and Drug Administration approval of the bile acid sequestrant colesevelam HCl for reducing glycemia in patients with T2DM.
A multitargeted therapeutic approach using a bile acid sequestrant to improve both cholesterol and glucose management in patients with T2DM may be clinically beneficial.
We report on two families with Sengers syndrome and mutations in the acylglycerol kinase gene (AGK). In the first family, two brothers presented with vascular strokes, lactic acidosis, cardiomyopathy and cataracts, abnormal muscle cell histopathology and mitochondrial function. One proband had very abnormal mitochondria with citrate synthase crystals visible in electron micrographs, associated with markedly high citrate synthase activity. Exome sequencing was used to identify mutations in the AGK gene in the index patient. Targeted sequencing confirmed the same homozygous mutation (c.3G>A, p.M1I) in the brother. The second family had four affected members, of which we examined two. They also presented with similar clinical symptoms, but no strokes. Postmortem heart and skeletal muscle tissues showed low complex I, III and IV activities in the heart, but normal in the muscle. Skin fibroblasts showed elevated lactate/pyruvate ratios and low complex I+III activity. Targeted sequencing led to identification of a homozygous c.979A>T, p.K327* mutation. AGK is located in the mitochondria and phosphorylates monoacylglycerol and diacylglycerol to lysophosphatidic acid and phosphatidic acid. Disruption of these signaling molecules affects the mitochondria's response to superoxide radicals, resulting in oxidative damage to mitochondrial DNA, lipids and proteins, and stimulation of cellular detoxification pathways. High levels of manganese superoxide dismutase protein were detected in all four affected individuals, consistent with increased free radical damage. Phosphatidic acid is also involved in the synthesis of phospholipids and its loss will result in changes to the lipid composition of the inner mitochondrial membrane. These effects manifest as cataract formation in the eye, respiratory chain dysfunction and cardiac hypertrophy in heart tissue. These two pedigrees confirm that mutation of AGK is responsible for the severe neonatal presentation of Sengers syndrome. The identification of citrate synthase precipitates by electron microscopy and the presence of vascular strokes in two siblings may expand the cellular and clinical phenotype of this disease.
We have examined the effect of cycloheximide on bupivacaine-induced, macrophage-mediated muscle degeneration in rats and obtained the following results. Direct intramuscular injection of bupivacaine into soleus muscle caused uniform muscle degeneration (Ishiura, S. et al. (1983) J. Biochem. 94, 311-314). The degeneration was most prominent 48 h after injection, with many infiltrating macrophages. Intraperitoneal administration of cycloheximide prevented the bupivacaine-induced macrophage invasion and decrease of structural proteins 48 h after injection. Cycloheximide inhibited the increase in lysosomal enzymes in bupivacaine-treated muscle. The peritoneal macrophages increased in number immediately after bupivacaine injection, while cycloheximide inhibited their accumulation. These results indicated that cycloheximide inhibited muscle degradation by preventing macrophage proliferation.
The present investigation was undertaken to study the effect of chronic treatment with angiotensin (AT1) receptor antagonist losartan (2 mg/kg, p.o., 6 weeks) on streptozotocin (STZ) induced (45 mg/kg, i.v., single dose) renal dysfunctions in diabetic rats. Injection of streptozotocin produced not only the cardinal symptoms of diabetes mellitus like loss of body weight, hyperglycemia, and hypoinsulinemia but also the renal dysfunctions. Losartan treatment significantly prevented all these changes except STZ-induced hypoinsulinemia. There was a significant elevation of blood pressure in diabetic rats and treatment with losartan significantly brought it back to normal. Renal dysfunction in diabetic rats was characterized by a significant decrease in creatinine clearance, elevated levels of electrolytes and renal hypertrophy. Treatment with losartan prevented these changes. A good correlation was found between biochemical parameters and histopathological abnormalities. Our data suggests that, losartan may be considered as the drug of choice when there is a co-existence of diabetes mellitus and hypertension with compromised kidney function.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a street drug that is abused by young people. In previous studies, we demonstrated the effectiveness of alpha-7 nicotinic receptor antagonists in preventing the neurotoxicity induced by this amphetamine derivative. The present study seeks to determine whether pre-treatment with memantine (MEM) (an antagonist of both NMDA and alpha-7 nicotinic receptors) counteracts the memory impairment induced by METH administration in male Long Evans rats. Non-spatial memory was tested in the object recognition test and spatial learning memory was tested in the Morris water maze. In our experimental conditions, rats that received the MEM (5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) pre-treatment recovered the ability to discriminate between a familiar and a novel object. This ability had been abolished by METH (10 mg/kg, subcutaneously) at 72 h and 1 week after treatment. Moreover, MEM pre-treatment also inhibited the thigmotaxis behaviour induced by METH. Rats treated with METH showed impaired learning in the Morris water maze. The results of the probe trial demonstrated that METH-treated rats did not remember the location of the platform, but this memory impairment was also prevented by MEM pre-treatment. Moreover, MEM by itself improved the learning of the task. Finally, MEM significantly improved the learning and memory impairment induced by METH. Therefore, MEM constitutes the first successful approach to prevent the cognitive deficits induced by amphetamine derivatives which are frequently abused in western countries.
Plasma digitalis-like substance and altered function of arterial Na+,K(+)-ATPase have both been linked with elevated blood pressure, but the influence of antihypertensive therapy on these factors remains unknown. Therefore, we treated spontaneously hypertensive rats and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor quinapril for 10 weeks. The therapy markedly reduced blood pressure and plasma digoxin immunoreactivity, and it normalized the elevated plasma Na+:K+ ratio in the hypertensive animals. Relaxations of endothelium-denuded denervated arterial rings induced by return of potassium to the organ bath upon precontractions elicited by potassium-free solution were used to evaluate the function of vascular Na+,K(+)-ATPase. The rate of potassium relaxation was faster in quinapril-treated hypertensive rats and in both Wistar-Kyoto groups than in the hypertensive controls. Potassium relaxation was also effectively inhibited by the Na+,K(+)-ATPase inhibitor ouabain in all groups. In addition, arterial contractions to potassium chloride and relaxations to nitroprusside were examined. The contractions to lower concentrations of potassium chloride (20 mM) were enhanced in untreated hypertensive rats when compared with the other groups, although the maximal responses were corresponding in all groups. The time to reach base-line tension after washout of potassium chloride (125 mM) and the relaxations to nitroprusside did not differ in the study groups. In conclusion, the present results showed that long-term angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in parallel reduced plasma digoxin-like factor, enhanced arterial potassium relaxation (probably reflecting enhanced function of Na+,K(+)-ATPase) and normalized plasma Na+:K+ ratio in this type of genetic hypertension.
The Long-Evans cinnamon (LEC) rat, an authentic model for Wilson disease, is characterized by a mutation in the Atp7b gene leading to a defective copper excretion and, as a consequence, to an accumulation of the metal in the liver and copper-associated hepatotoxicity. In the present communication expression profiles of genes in the liver from wild-type Long-Evans agouti (LEA) and LEC rats at different stages of copper accumulation and liver disease were investigated. Disease states were defined according to serum aspartate aminotransferase activity and bilirubin levels in serum and from histopathology of the liver. Gene expression was determined with the Affymetrix RTU34 oligonucleotide array covering 1031 genes. Compared to the LEA rat, the nondiseased LEC rat with already increased hepatic copper level showed an enhanced expression of genes, particularly related to oxidative stress and DNA damage. During the progression of the liver disease, in particular genes related to oxidative stress, DNA damage, apoptosis and inflammation with acute-phase reaction were upregulated.
The synergistic effects of combining fish oil (FO) diet, which reduces thromboxane A production, with the free radical scavenger, dimethylthiourea (DMTU), were evaluated in acute adriamycin nephrosis, because proteinuria in adriamycin nephrosis is mediated by increased renal thromboxane A and free radical production. The effects of combined evening primrose oil (EPO) and DMTU were compared with the DMTU + FO combination because EPO increases prostaglandin E but not thromboxane A. After 7, 14, and 21 days, proteinuria was significantly (p < 0.05) reduced in rats receiving either DMTU + corn oil (CO) or DMTU + FO compared with untreated control rats. However, after 21 days, rats receiving DMTU + FO had significantly reduced urine protein excretion compared with those receiving DMTU + CO (103.9 +/- 20 mg daily vs 351.8 +/- 29.8 mg daily; P < 0.05). In contrast to FO, rats receiving EPO + DMTU had similar urine protein excretion to rats receiving DMTU + CO after 21 days (170.2 +/- 20.34 mg daily vs 179.45 +/- 26.38 mg daily). The mean serum cholesterol concentration was significantly (P < 0.01) reduced in rats receiving DMTU + FO (195.2 +/- 23.8 mg/dL) compared with DMTU + CO (377.9 +/- 28.5 mg/dL). Serum triglyceride levels also were significantly (P < 0.01) reduced in rats receiving DMTU + FO (52.5 +/- 26.4 mg/dL) compared with DMTU + CO (100.5 +/- 36.9 mg/dL). No significant differences in serum cholesterol concentrations or triglycerides occurred between rats receiving DMTU + CO and DMTU + EPO. Renal glutathione content was significantly (P < 0.05) increased by 23% in normal rats receiving FO diet and by 34% in rats receiving combined DMTU + FO compared with CO alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Certain Phthalate esters have been shown to produce reproductive toxicity in male rodents with an age dependent sensitivity in effects with foetal animals being more sensitive than neonates which are in turn more sensitive than pubertal and adult animals. While the testicular effects of phthalates in rats have been known for more than 30 years, recent attention has been focused on the ability of these agents to produce effects on reproductive development in male offspring after in utero exposure. These esters and in particular di-butyl, di-(2-ethylhexyl) and butyl benzyl phthalates have been shown to produce a syndrome of reproductive abnormalities characterized by malformations of the epididymis, vas deferens, seminal vesicles, prostate, external genitalia (hypospadias), cryptorchidism and testicular injury together with permanent changes (feminization) in the retention of nipples/areolae (sexually dimorphic structures in rodents) and demasculinization of the growth of the perineum resulting in a reduced anogenital distance (AGD). Critical to the induction of these effects is a marked reduction in foetal testicular testosterone production at the critical window for the development of the reproductive tract normally under androgen control. A second Leydig cell product, insl3, is also significantly down regulated and is likely responsible for the cryptorchidism commonly seen in these phthalate-treated animals. The testosterone decrease is mediated by changes in gene expression of a number of enzymes and transport proteins involved in normal testosterone biosynthesis and transport in the foetal Leydig cell. Alterations in the foetal seminiferous cords are also noted after in utero phthalate treatment with the induction of multinucleate gonocytes that contribute to lowered spermatocyte numbers in postnatal animals. The phthalate syndrome of effects on reproductive development has parallels with the reported human testicular dysgenesis syndrome, although no cause and effect relationship exists after exposure of humans to phthalate esters. However humans are exposed to and produce the critical phthalate metabolites that have been detected in blood of the general population, in children and also human amniotic fluid.
Present evidence from several secondary and primary preventive trials indicates that if antihypertensive treatment is initiated with a beta-blocker, a better preventive effect on total mortality, cardiovascular mortality, and atherosclerotic complications can be expected than if diuretics are used as initial therapy. Results from a recent large-scale multicenter international study (MEHP) have shown that a regimen initiating antihypertensive treatment with 100 mg metoprolol once daily is effective, safe, and well-tolerated in elderly hypertensive patients. This might be of particular importance since a steep increase in cardiovascular mortality and other atherosclerotic complications is seen with age.
Obesity is more linked to vascular disease, including atherosclerosis and restenotic change, after balloon angioplasty. The precise mechanism linking obesity and vascular disease is still unclear. Previously we have demonstrated that the plasma levels of adiponectin, an adipose-derived hormone, decreases in obese subjects, and that hypoadiponectinemia is associated to ischemic heart disease. In current the study, we investigated the in vivo role of adiponectin on the neointimal thickening after artery injury using adiponectin-deficient mice and adiponectin-producing adenovirus. Adiponectin-deficient mice showed severe neointimal thickening and increased proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells in mechanically injured arteries. Adenovirus-mediated supplement of adiponectin attenuated neointimal proliferation. In cultured smooth muscle cells, adiponectin attenuated DNA synthesis induced by growth factors including platelet-derived growth factor, heparin-binding epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like growth factor (HB-EGF), basic fibroblast growth factor, and EGF and cell proliferation and migration induced by HB-EGF. In cultured endothelial cells, adiponectin attenuated HB-EGF expression stimulated by tumor necrosis factor alpha. The current study suggests an adipo-vascular axis, a direct link between fat and artery. A therapeutic strategy to increase plasma adiponectin should be useful in preventing vascular restenosis after angioplasty.
Pain associated-anxiety induced by formalin, which resulted in a significant delay in the development of tolerance to morphine antinociception, failed to prevent the development of physical dependence as evidenced by naloxone challenge. Dependence also developed in mice rendered tolerant to morphine. Thus, the development of morphine dependence was observed in the absence and presence of tolerance to morphine antinociception; Our results further confirm the dissociation of opioid tolerance and dependence in the animal model of experimental pain/anxiety.
Although serum testosterone levels decrease acutely in critically ill patients, estrogen levels rise. We hypothesized that increased rates of aromatization of androgens to estrogens underlie the increase in serum estrogen levels. Eleven men and three women (age 42-69 yr) were prospectively studied before and again after elective coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). Each patient received priming doses of [(14)C]androgen and [(3)H]estrogen that were immediately followed by peripheral infusions for 210 min. Eight men and three women received androstenedione (A(4))/estrone (E(1)) and three men received testosterone (T)/estradiol (E(2)). Adipose tissue biopsies were obtained in another six men before and after CABG to evaluate levels of P450 aromatase mRNA. Serum T levels decreased postoperatively in all 17 men (P < 0.001), whereas E(1) levels rose (P = 0.004), with a trend toward a rise in E(2) (P = 0.23). Peripheral aromatization rates of androgens to estrogens rose markedly in all 14 patients (P < 0.0001). Estrogen clearance rates rose (P < 0.002). Mean serum A(4) levels increased slightly postoperatively (P = 0.04), although no increase in A(4) production rates (PRs) was observed. T PRs decreased in two of three men, whereas clearance rates increased in all three. Adipose tissue P450 aromatase mRNA content increased postoperatively (P < 0.001). We conclude that the primary cause of increased estrogen levels in acute illness is increased aromatase P450 gene expression, resulting in enhanced aromatization of androgens to estrogens, a previously undescribed endocrine response to acute illness. Both increased T clearance and decreased T production contribute to decreased serum T levels. Animal studies suggest that these opposing changes in circulating estrogen and androgen levels may be important to reduce morbidity and mortality in critical illness.
PTEN is a tumor suppressor gene mutated in many human cancers. We generated a bronchioalveolar epithelium-specific null mutation of Pten in mice [SP-C-rtTA/(tetO)(7)-Cre/Pten(flox/flox) (SOPten(flox/flox)) mice] that was under the control of doxycycline. Ninety percent of SOPten(flox/flox) mice that received doxycycline in utero [SOPten(flox/flox)(E10-16) mice] died of hypoxia soon after birth. Surviving SOPten(flox/flox)(E10-16) mice and mice that received doxycycline postnatally [SOPten(flox/flox)(P21-27) mice] developed spontaneous lung adenocarcinomas. Urethane treatment accelerated number and size of lung tumors developing in SOPten(flox/flox) mice of both ages. Histological and biochemical examinations of the lungs of SOPten(flox/flox)(E10-16) mice revealed hyperplasia of bronchioalveolar epithelial cells and myofibroblast precursors, enlarged alveolar epithelial cells, and impaired production of surfactant proteins. Numbers of bronchioalveolar stem cells (BASCs), putative initiators of lung adenocarcinomas, were increased. Lungs of SOPten(flox/flox)(E10-16) mice showed increased expression of Spry2, which inhibits the maturation of alveolar epithelial cells. Levels of Akt, c-Myc, Bcl-2, and Shh were also elevated in SOPten(flox/flox)(E10-16) and SOPten(flox/flox)(P21-27) lungs. Furthermore, K-ras was frequently mutated in adenocarcinomas observed in SOPten(flox/flox)(P21-27) lungs. These results indicate that Pten is essential for both normal lung morphogenesis and the prevention of lung carcinogenesis, possibly because this tumor suppressor is required for BASC homeostasis.
