1. A zebrafish M2 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) gene was cloned. It encodes 495 amino acids in a single exon. The derived amino acid sequence is 73.5% identical to its human homologue. 2. Competitive binding studies of the zebrafish M2 receptor and [(3)H]-NMS gave negative log dissociation constants (pK(i)) for each antagonist as follows: atropine (9.16)>himbacine (8.05)>/=4-DAMP (7.83)>AF-DX 116 (7.26)>/=pirenzepine (7.18)>/=tropicamide (6.97)>/=methoctramine (6.82)>/=p-F-HHSiD (6.67)>carbachol (5.20). The antagonist affinity profile correlated with the profile of the human M2 receptor, except for pirenzepine. 3. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Southern blotting analysis demonstrated that the M2 mAChR mRNA levels increased during the segmentation period (12 h post-fertilization; h.p.f.) in zebrafish. By whole-mount in situ hybridization, the M2 mAChR was first detectable in the heart, vagus motor ganglion, and vagus sensory ganglion at 30, 48 and 60 h.p.f., respectively. 4. The muscarinic receptor that mediates carbachol (CCh)-induced bradycardia was functionally mature at 72 h.p.f. The effect of CCh-induced bradycardia was antagonized by several muscarinic receptor antagonists with the order of potency (pIC(50) values): atropine (6.76)>methoctramine (6.47)>himbacine (6.10)>4-DAMP (5.72)>AF-DX 116 (4.77), however, not by pirenzepine, p-F-HHSiD, or tropicamide (<10 micro M). 5. The effect of CCh-induced bradycardia was abolished completely before 56 h.p.f. by M2 RNA interference, and the bradycardia effect gradually recovered after 72 h.p.f. The basal heart rate was increased in embryos injected with M2 mAChR morpholino antisense oligonucleotide (M2 MO) and the effect of CCh-induced bradycardia was abolished by M2 MO in a dose-dependent manner. In conclusion, the results suggest that the M2 mAChR inhibit basal heart rate in zebrafish embryo and the M2 mAChR mediates the CCh-induced bradycardia.
The effect of time of administration on excretion of two brush border enzymes--alanine aminopeptidase (AAP) and gamma-glutamyl transferase (gamma GT), and a lysosomal enzyme, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) with a single high dose of vancomycin, gentamicin or a combination of vancomycin and gentamicin was studied in male Wistar rats and compared with elimination of a control group. The rats received vancomycin intraperitoneally (200 mg.kg-1), gentamicin intramuscularly (100 mg.kg-1) or the combination of the drugs by the same route. A control group received isotonic NaCl solution. The four groups of animals received a single injection at 8 a.m., 2 p.m., 8 p.m., and 2 a.m. and urine excretion values for AAP, gamma GT and NAG were determined 24 hr later. The results show that the nephrotoxicity of gentamicin + vancomycin is greater than that observed with gentamicin, which again is greater than that observed with vancomycin. Furthermore, circadian variations in renal toxicity were observed, the least occurring at 8 a.m.
In continuation of an earlier study of our group (Neurology, 43 (1) (1993) 41-51), we present the results of an investigation of the adverse effects of carbamazepine versus phenytoin on cognitive function. Two groups of twenty-five patients are compared in an open, parallel group and non-randomized clinical investigation: a group of patients on carbamazepine (CBZ) monotherapy versus a group of similar size on phenytoin (PHT) monotherapy. The two groups do not show significant differences on variables that could confound the comparison of drug-specific adverse effects: age, gender, intelligence, type of epilepsy, seizure type, seizure frequency, EEG focus and age at onset of the epilepsy. All patients were investigated with a comprehensive neuropsychological test battery ('FePsy'), assessing the cognitive domains of 'speed factors', memory and attention. The results show lower performance in the PHT group compared to the CBZ group on all tests measuring motor speed. Additionally, there is evidence that PHT also affects the speed of central 'higher cortical' processing systems. Our investigation also shows slower performance in tasks that measure speed of information processing ('mental speed'). The other investigated areas, i.e. short-term memory, long-term (verbal and non-verbal) memory and selective attention, do not reveal statistically significant differences between the two groups. These results reconfirm that patients on PHT may suffer from cognitive side-effects even when the medication is sufficiently controlled and the drugs are given within the assumed therapeutical interval.
We reported a 6-year-old girl who developed torsade de pointes (TdP) after taking roxithromycin. The patient had congenital complete heart block and complex cyanotic heart disease. Before taking roxithromycin, her corrected QT interval (QTc) was 0.39 second with a ventricular rate of 55-60 beats/min. Repetitive bursts of TdP with prolonged QT interval (QTc = 0.55 s) developed after taking roxithromycin. After stopping the medication, her QT interval normalized (QTc = 0.38 s). This case demonstrated the potential of roxithromycin in causing TdP especially in a patient with other risk factors for prolong QT interval and TdP.
Prolactin (PRL)-secreting rat pituitary tumors were induced in female Fisher 344/Lis rats by s.c. implants of estrone (E1) pellets. Tumor growth was relatively fast and reached about 100 mg within 2 months. Ovariectomy at the time of E1 implants seemed to accelerate the growth of the tumors. Tumor cells in primary culture produced mainly PRL, while growth hormone (GH) release was about 2% of PRL production and the release of some other pituitary hormones did not exceed 1% of PRL values. Tumor cells were found to have high-affinity dopamine (DA) receptors. The addition of DA in vitro at 10(-10) M concentration stimulated PRL release, while at 10(-6) M concentration it inhibited the release of the hormone by more than 50% of control values. Histological, immunohistochemical and electron microscopical studies demonstrated the tumor to be composed mainly of maximally stimulated mammotrophs.
Doxorubicin hydrochloride is a chemotherapeutic agent highly effective against a wide range of neoplasms. A prime limiting factor to the administration of this drug is cardiotoxicity, which frequently develops when the cumulative dose exceeds 500 mg/sq m. Late cardiomyopathy, which may develop up to a year after therapy has been discontinued, was thought to be rapidly progressive and unresponsive to standard cardiac therapy. An adult who received 475 mg/sq m of doxorubicin hydrochloride experienced a cardiotoxic reaction one year after the completion of therapy. The patient responded to standard cardiac therapy. Resolution of left ventricular dysfunction was verified by echocardiography and radionuclide angiocardiography.
(+/-)-8-Hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), (+)-8-OH-DPAT, and (-)-8-OH-DPAT produced dose-related reversals of haloperidol-induced extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) in cebus monkeys, with all compounds producing similar almost complete reversals at 0.1 mg/kg i.m. These compounds were more potent than apomorphine, which reversed haloperidol-induced EPS at 0.3, but not 0.1, mg/kg i.m. The data indicate that the reversal of haloperidol-induced EPS by (+/-)-8-OH-DPAT and its enantiomers is mediated via effects at 5-HT1A receptors, not dopamine D2 receptors. Thus, inclusion of 5-HT1A agonist activity in novel antipsychotics may reduce EPS liability.
Endothelin (ET) may play a role in vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The aim of our study was to test whether the systemic administration of bosentan, a nonpeptidic ET(A) and ETB receptor antagonist, could reverse vasospasm without inducing hypotension. In rabbits (single-hemorrhage model) and in dogs (double-hemorrhage model), SAH was induced; after vasospasm was established, the animals received intravenously either saline or a 30 mg/kg bolus of bosentan. The cross-sectional area of the basilar artery was analyzed by quantitative angiography. In rabbits (n = 13), bosentan reversed basilar vasospasm to the same extent as did an intravertebral injection of sodium nitroprusside. In dogs (n = 10), bosentan reversed only 52 +/- 10% of the vasospasm reversible by papaverine. Bosentan did not alter the heart rate or the arterial blood pressure in either the rabbits or the dogs. In the cerebrospinal fluid, SAH increased endothelin-1 (ET1) and big ET1 by 6 and 3.8 times, respectively; in the basilar artery, SAH increased ET1 concentration, big ET1 concentration, and ET-converting enzyme activity by 1.3, 2, and 2.7 times, respectively. In addition, a local involvement of ET was also suggested by the relaxing effect of bosentan on basilar artery rings from rabbits with SAH and not from control rabbits. Receptor binding studies performed on dog basilar arteries revealed a shift in the phenotype expression of ET receptors from the A to the B type after SAH. We conclude that ET plays a major role in SAH and that systemic ET blockade might selectively dilate spastic arteries.
We evaluate the clinical, diagnostic and radiographic findings in patients on indinavir therapy who presented with renal colic, and propose appropriate treatment options for indinavir urolithiasis.
A total of 16 patients positive for human immunodeficiency virus on indinavir were evaluated for 18 episodes of severe renal colic requiring hospitalization. Laboratory evaluation was performed in all patients followed by an imaging study. Conservative treatment included intravenous hydration, narcotic analgesics and temporary cessation of indinavir. Intervention was elected only in patients with persistent fever or intractable pain. A month after hospital discharge an excretory urogram and metabolic stone evaluation were performed. Mean followup was 9.3 months and 2 patients had recurrent symptoms.
All patients presented with nausea or vomiting and hematuria. Imaging studies confirmed obstruction in all patients with 13 radiolucent (indinavir) and 3 radiopaque (calcium oxalate) stones. Patients with radiolucent and radiopaque stones demonstrated significant differences in urinary pH (p = 0.002) and serum creatinine (p = 0.03). Conservative therapy was successful in 11 patients (68.8%) within 48 hours and 4 patients (25%) with radiolucent calculi required endoscopic stenting for persistent fever. Metabolic stone evaluation demonstrated significant hypocitruria (less than 50 mg./24 hours) in all patients with radiolucent calculi.
The urologist should be familiar with this growing cause of renal colic in patients on indinavir therapy. Pure indinavir stones are radiolucent and have a soft, gelatinous endoscopic appearance. Conservative treatment is successful in most patients and if intervention is deemed medically necessary, endoscopic stent placement should be the procedure of choice.
It is reported that nitroglycerin (NTG) induces the elevation of intracranial pressure (ICP). Because of it, the use of NTG in patients exhibiting the increased ICP especially in the neurosurgical field is thought to be avoided. However, these reported cases dealt with normal patients. Few cases under the condition of exactly increased intracranial pressure were studied. Our 31 patients of the hemorrhagic intracranial lesion (subarachnoid hemorrhage and hypertensive intracranial hemorrhage) at the acute stage were treated by NTG infusion as an antihypertensive drug, and the ICP was measured using the epidural pressure transducer. The 31 patients were divided into three groups. Group 1 consists of the 14 patients exhibiting normal ICP (< 15mmHg). Group 2 consists of 9 patients showing elevated ICP (15mmHg < or =). Group 3 consists of 8 patients treated with glycerol before the NTG infusion. Group 1 demonstrates a statistically significant elevation of ICP corresponding with the blood pressure depression. Group 2 showed no significant elevation of it. Group 3 disclosed no remarkable elevation of it both in the elevated ICP cases and the normal ICP cases. As mentioned above, the intravenous NTG caused a remarkable increase of ICP in the normal compliance of the intracranial contents and no elevation of ICP in the poor compliance. We conclude that NTG can be used for blood pressure control at an acute stage even in hemorrhagic intracranial lesion as anti-depressor.
Hepatic injury during long term dantrolene sodium therapy occurred in 19 of 1044 patients (1.8%) monitored for at least 60 days. Six had icteric hepatitis (0.6%) and 3 died (0.3%). After the marketing of the drug, an additional 31 cases of dantrolene-associated liver disease were available for analysis. Of these 16 had icteric hepatitis with a favorable outcome, whereas 11 died. The injury was mainly hepatocellular with a pattern of acute or subacute hepatic disease or chronic active hepatitis. Analysis of total of 50 cases showed a 28% case fatality rate. All the fatalities occurred in patients above 30 years of age and after at least 2 months of therapy, with 57% cases exposed for at least 6 months. Eleven of the 14 fatalities occurred in females (P is less than 0.05). No cases of hepatic disease occurred in patients exposed for less than 1 month or under the age of 10. The majority of adverse reactions (71%) occurred between 1 and 6 months of therapy. Daily dosage of 300 mg or more is associated with higher incidenceof hepatotoxic reactions and with the majority (85%) of the fatalities. The idiosyncratic hepatic injury does not appear to involve hypersensitivity to the drug. A careful assessment of the benefit-risk ratio in the therapeutic use of dantrolene sodium is proposed.
Exposure to cadmium (Cd) can affect both DNA methylation and renal function, but there are few examples of the association between epigenetic markers and Cd-induced kidney damage. It has been suggested that hypermethylation of the genes RASAL1 and KLOTHO is associated with renal fibrogenesis. To investigate whether hypermethylation of RASAL1 and KLOTHO in peripheral blood DNA can be associated with Cd exposure and/or Cd-induced renal dysfunction, the degrees of methylation of RASAL1 and KLOTHO in peripheral blood DNA from 81 residents in Cd-polluted and non-polluted areas were measured using bisulfate-PCR-pyrosequencing. Changes in blood cadmium (BCd), urinary cadmium (UCd), and kidney parameters were measured, and the glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was estimated. The levels of BCd and UCd correlated positively with the levels of DNA methylation in RASAL1 and in KLOTHO. The more heavily exposed residents (BCd, 4.23-13.22μg/L; UCd, 8.65-32.90μg/g creatinine) exhibited obvious renal dysfunction. Notably, when Cd concentration in blood and urine was adjusted, the increased methylation level in RASAL1 was inversely correlated with eGFR (P<0.01) but the relationship between hypermethylation of KLOTHO and eGFR was not statistically significant. The methylation of RASAL1 increased along with the increased abnormal prevalence of eGFR. Our findings suggest that Cd exposure can induce the hypermethylation of RASAL1 and KLOTHO. Hypermethylation of RASAL1 may be an indicator of the progress for chronic kidney disease.
The nitric oxide (NO) donor, O(2)-vinyl 1-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate (V-PYRRO/NO), is metabolized by P450 enzymes to release NO in the liver and possibly other tissues. V-PYRRO/NO has been shown to be hepatoprotective, but little is known about its effect in the kidney, another organ rich in P450s. Thus, mice were given V-PYRRO/NO (0.4-5.4 mg/ml, 8 microl/h) before and/or after a nephrotoxic dose of acetaminophen (APAP; 600 mg/kg, i.p.) to examine its nephroprotective effects. V-PYRRO/NO administration significantly reduced APAP-induced nephrotoxicity in a dose- and time-dependent manner, as evidenced by mitigation of increased blood urea nitrogen levels and by amelioration of renal pathology, specifically interstitial congestion, proximal tubular cell degeneration and necrosis. The best protection was observed at the highest dose (5.4 mg/ml) and with V-PYRRO/NO pretreatment (4-16 h). Implanting V-PYRRO/NO pumps simultaneously with APAP also attenuated APAP nephrotoxicity. The protection is probably not due to a decreased APAP toxication metabolism, as similar depletion of renal glutathione levels was observed regardless of V-PYRRO/NO treatment. APAP-induced renal lipid peroxidation was reduced by V-PYRRO/NO, as determined by the concentrations of hydroxynonenals and malondialdehyde. In summary, this study demonstrates that the NO donor V-PYRRO/NO is effective in blocking APAP-induced nephrotoxicity in mice. The protection is probably due to multiple mechanisms involving attenuation of APAP-induced congestion and lipid peroxidation in the kidney.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) driven through altered immune responses with production of proinflammatory cytokines. Many therapies are used, but side effects and loss of response limit long-term effectiveness. New therapeutic strategies are thus needed for patients who don't respond to current treatments. Recently, there is suggested involvement of the proinflammatory hormone angiotensin II in inflammatory bowel disease. The aim of this study was to investigate the possible role of olmesartan medoxomil (OLM-M), an angiotensin II receptor blocker in ameliorating ulcerative colitis. Colitis was induced in male Wistar rats by administration of 5% dextran sodium sulphate (DSS) in drinking water for 5days. OLM-M (1, 3 and 10mg/kg) was administered orally during 21days prior to the induction of colitis, and for 5days after. Sulfasalazine (500mg/kg) was used as reference drug. All animals were tested for changes in colon length, disease activity index (DAI) and microscopic damage. Colon tissue concentration/activity of tumor necrosis alpha (TNF-α), myeloperoxidase (MPO), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), reduced glutathione (GSH) and malondialdehyde (MDA) were assessed. Results showed that the OLM-M dose-dependently ameliorated the colonic histopathological and biochemical injuries, an effect that is comparable or even better than that of the standard sulfasalazine. These results suggest that olmesartan medoxomil may be effective in the treatment of UC through its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects.
The extensive use of selective histamine H2 receptor antagonists provides a unique opportunity to describe very rare adverse drug reactions. Although mild elevation of serum creatinine level following the administration of cimetidine is relatively common, acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) is a rare hypersensitivity reaction. There have been 25 published reports of AIN associated with H2 antagonist therapy and we also identified 16 cases from the Australian Adverse Drug Reaction Advisory Committee (ADRAC) database. AIN was reported most commonly following cimetidine administration. AIN was supported by renal biopsy in 28 patients and by rechallenge in 6. H2 antagonist-induced AIN was more commonly reported in men older than 50 years. In the majority of cases the onset was within 2 weeks of initiation of therapy (1 day to 11 months). The clinical manifestations were nonspecific including sterile pyuria, elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate, fatigue, proteinuria and leucocytosis whereas rash, arthralgia and flank pain were rarely reported. There were 170 cases of hepatotoxicity following H2 antagonist administration reported to ADRAC. These were more common following ranitidine and included cholestatic, hepatocellular and mixed reactions. Hepatotoxicity was proven following liver biopsy in several cases published in the literature and in 15 cases reported to ADRAC. Hepatotoxicity recurred upon rechallenge in 6 cases. Generally, renal and hepatic adverse effects resolved quickly after cessation of H2 antagonist therapy and did not require specific treatment. Nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity following administration of an H2 antagonist is rare and a high index of suspicion is necessary for early detection. Now that many H2 antagonists are available over the counter, awareness of these conditions and early detection with cessation of H2 antagonist therapy would appear paramount.
The dose-response relations for efficacy and tolerance of the antiarrhythmic drug flecainide acetate were studied in 28 patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (Group 1) and 45 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation or flutter (Group 2). Recurrent symptomatic tachycardia was documented with use of transtelephonic electrocardiographic recording. Patients received flecainide in doses of 25, 50, 100 and 150 mg twice daily and placebo for 1 month treatment periods. Among 14 patients in Group 1 who qualified for efficacy analysis, 4 (29%) had no tachycardia while taking placebo. The number with no tachycardia increased with progressively larger flecainide doses; with the 150 mg twice daily dose, 12 (86%) of 14 patients had no tachycardia (p less than 0.01 for overall differences among all treatments). Among 28 patients in Group 2, 2 (7%) had no tachycardia while taking placebo. The number with no tachycardia also increased with progressively larger flecainide doses; with the 150 mg twice daily dose, 17 (61%) of 28 patients had no tachycardia (p less than 0.01 for overall differences among all treatments). Noncardiac adverse experiences were the leading cause of premature study discontinuation during flecainide treatment periods (five patients in Group 1 and six patients in Group 2).
Methysergide (Sansert) is known to cause mitral and aortic valvular fibrosis and dysfunction, but has generally not been known to damage right heart valves or the myocardium, and cardiac fibrosis has not been considered to be a risk if therapy is intermittently interrupted. The woman who is the subject of this case report developed catheterization-proven severe tricuspid and moderate aortic and mitral regurgitation during noncontinuous therapy with methysergide. In addition, right ventricular endomyocardial biopsy revealed extensive endocardial and intramyocardial fibrosis.
The abilities of 4 triazolobenzodiazepines, adinazolam, alprazolam, estazolam and triazolam, to inhibit thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) receptor binding and to antagonize the narcoleptic effects of TRH were examined. The IC50 values for inhibition of 3H-3-methyl-His-2-TRH (MeTRH) binding ranged from 19 microM to 477 microM, and the Hill coefficient from 0.53 to 0.98. Similar ranges of values were obtained from benzodiazepines of other structural classes. Thus, the inhibition of TRH receptor binding by the triazolobenzodiazepines is similar to that produced by other types of benzodiazepines. Furthermore, the triazolobenzodiazepine, alprazolam, antagonized the narcoleptic effect of TRH. However, this action is not necessarily linked to its inhibition of TRH receptor binding since alprazolam also inhibited the narcoleptic effect of amphetamine.
The teratogenicity of antiepilepsy drug valproic acid (VPA) mostly is found in genetic and somatic levels, causing teratogenesis involving neurotubular defects (NTDs), anencephaly, lumbosacral meningomyelocele, and leg dysfunction due to spina bifida aperta. A diversity of nutraceutics have been tried to alleviate the risk of VPA-teratogenicity. The effect was varying. In order to promote the preventive prescription, to find out its action mechanism can be rather crucial. We used chicken embryo model to try the effect of folic acid (FA), ascorbic acid (AA), and N-acetyl cysteine (NAC). VPA at 30mM showed the higher malformation rate (66.7%) with the least mortality (22.2%). Pathological findings indicated that the cervical muscle was more susceptible to VPA injury than the ankle muscle. VPA downregulated levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione (GSH), histone deacetylase (HDAC) and folate, and upregulated H(2)O(2) and homocysteine. FA, AA, and NAC significantly upregulated SOD, but only AA alone activated GSH. AA and NAC downregulated H(2)O(2), while FA was totally ineffective. All three nutraceutics comparably rescued HDAC with simultaneously suppressed homocysteine accumulation and folate re-elevation, although less effectively by NAC. Based on these data, we conclude VPA possesses "Multiple Point Action Mechanism". In addition to affecting the cited transcription and translation levels, we hypothesize that VPA competitively antagonize the glutamic acid to couple with pteroic acid in biosynthesis of dihydrofolic acid (DHFA). H(2)O(2) directly destroyed the NADPH reducing system at dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) levels, while completely restored by AA, an implication in preservation of intact apoenzymes. In addition, the GSH-GSSG system is sandwiched between the reducing systems NADPH/NADP and DHA-AA, its net balance is highly dependent on in situ in vivo Redox state, hence folic acid transformation is varying. To rescue the VPA-induced teratogenicity, simultaneous multiple prescriptions are suggested.
Flavin-containing monooxygenase 3 (FMO3) is a hepatic microsomal enzyme that oxidizes a host of drugs, xenobiotics and other chemicals. Numerous variants in the gene encoding FMO3 have been identified, some of which result in altered enzymatic activity and, consequently, altered substrate metabolism. Studies also implicate individual and ethnic differences in the frequency of FMO3 polymorphisms. In addition, new variants continue to be identified with potentially important clinical implications. For example, the role of FMO3 variants in the pathophysiology of gastrointestinal diseases is an evolving area of research. Two commonly occurring polymorphisms of FMO3, E158K and E308G, have been associated with a reduction in polyp burden in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis who were treated with sulindac sulfide, an FMO3 substrate. These findings suggest a potential role for prospective genotyping of common FMO3 polymorphisms in the treatment of disease states that involve the use of drugs metabolized by FMO3. This review summarizes the current state of research on the genetic polymorphisms of FMO3, with a focus on their clinical implications in gastrointestinal diseases.
Pathogenic variants in the glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA) encoding the enzyme deficient in Gaucher's disease (GD) are associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). To investigate the sequence variants, their association with PD and the related phenotypes in a large cohort of European, mostly French, patients and controls, we sequenced all exons of GBA in 786 PD patients from 525 unrelated multiplex families, 605 patients with apparently sporadic PD and 391 ethnically matched controls. GBA mutations were significantly more frequent (odds ratio=6.98, 95% confidence interval 2.54-19.21; P=0.00002) in the PD patients (76/1130=6.7%) than in controls (4/391=1.0%) and in patients with family histories of PD (8.4%) than in isolated cases (5.3%). Twenty-eight different mutations were identified in patient and control groups, including seven novel variants. N370S and L444P accounted for 70% of all mutant alleles in the patient group. PD patients with GBA mutations more frequently had bradykinesia as the presenting symptom and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The phenotype was similar in patients with one, two or complex GBA mutations, although the two patients with c.1263del+RecTL and N370S/RecΔ55 mutations had signs of GD. Segregation analyses in 21 multiplex families showed that 17% of the affected relatives did not carry GBA mutations found in the given family, indicating heterogeneity of the aetiology, but 46% of the unaffected relatives were GBA mutation carriers. These genotype and clinical analyses on the largest homogeneous sample of European patients studied to date confirmed that GBA mutations are the most common genetic risk factor for PD, particularly in familial forms.
The purpose of this study was to determine the maximum-tolerated dose of gemcitabine plus mitoxantrone in women with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) and to evaluate activity and toxicity of this combination in a phase II trial. Sixty-three patients with MBC, previously treated with chemotherapy including anthracycline and/or taxanes, were treated with mitoxantrone 10 or 12 mg m(-2) intravenously on day 1 plus gemcitabine in escalating doses from 600 to 1200 mg m(-2) intravenously on days 1 and 8, every 3 weeks. In phase I, on 23 patients entered on study, dose-limiting toxicity occurred at the dosage of 1200 mg m(-2) gemcitabine and 10 mg m(-2) mitoxantrone, with three out of five patients developing grade 4 neutropenia. In phase II, with gemcitabine administered at 1000 mg m(-2) and mitoxantrone at 10 mg m(-2), 12 (30%) out of 40 assessable patients responded, even if no complete response was obtained. Moreover, stable disease was observed in eight (20%) patients. The median time to treatment failure was 22 weeks (range, 2-33), and median survival was 42 weeks (range, 2-92). Grade 3 and 4 neutropenia were observed in 12 (30%) and one (2.5%) cases respectively; grade 3 thrombocytopenia was observed in two patients (5%), grade 2 mucositis in two patients (5%), grade 3 anaemia in two patients (5%), grade 3 alopecia in one patient (2.5%) and asymptomatic cardiotoxicity in three patients (8%), respectively. In conclusion, the doses of 10 mg m(-2) (day 1) for mitoxantrone and 1000 mg m(-2) for gemcitabine (days 1-8) every 3 weeks resulted active and safe in MBC. Further investigations in less heavily pretreated patients are warranted.
Nephrin is identified as a product of the gene mutated in a patient with congenital nephrotic syndrome of the Finnish type. However, its precise localization and function are not yet fully clarified.
To clone the rat homologue of nephrin, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was employed. To elucidate the localization and expression of nephrin, immunohistological analysis with a specific antirat nephrin antibody, reverse transcription-PCR, and RNase protection assay were performed.
Amino acid sequences of rat and human nephrin are highly homologous (82.2% identity). The domain structure of nephrin is also highly conserved between rats and humans. The rat nephrin was detected only in kidney glomeruli along glomerular capillary walls, and its localization was always identical to that of the anti-slit diaphragm monoclonal antibody (mAb) 5-1-6-recognized antigen in normal matured and fetal rat glomeruli and in the glomeruli of proteinuric states. The nephrin staining pattern was clearly distinguished from that of zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1), alpha3-integrin, or podocalyxin. mRNA expression for nephrin was first detected in the fetal rat kidneys at 18.5 embryonic days. Nephrin mRNA expression decreased just after injection of mAb 5-1-6 (47.4%) or puromycin aminonucleoside (51.2%), and the staining pattern of nephrin shifted from a linear to a granular pattern in both proteinuric states.
Nephrin is localized in slit diaphragm in the matured glomeruli and is identical with mAb 5-1-6 antigen. Nephrin is involved in the development of proteinuria not only in mAb 5-1-6 nephropathy, but also in puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy.
Nephrotoxicity is an inherent adverse effect of certain anticancer drugs. Renal dysfunction can be categorised as prerenal uraemia, intrinsic damage or postrenal uraemia according to the underlying pathophysiological process. Renal hypoperfusion promulgates prerenal uraemia. Intrinsic renal damage results from prolonged hypoperfusion, exposure to exogenous or endogenous nephrotoxins, renotubular precipitation of xenobiotics or endogenous compounds, renovascular obstruction, glomerular disease, renal microvascular damage or disease, and tubulointerstitial damage or disease. Postrenal uraemia is a consequence of clinically significant urinary tract obstruction. Clinical signs of nephrotoxicity and methods used to assess renal function are discussed. Mechanisms of chemotherapy-induced renal dysfunction generally include damage to vasculature or structures of the kidneys, haemolytic uraemic syndrome and prerenal perfusion deficits. Patients with cancer are frequently at risk of renal impairment secondary to disease-related and iatrogenic causes. This article reviews the incidence, presentation, prevention and management of anticancer drug-induced renal dysfunction. Dose-related nephrotoxicity subsequent to administration of certain chloroethylnitrosourea compounds (carmustine, semustine and streptozocin) is commonly heralded by increased serum creatinine levels, uraemia and proteinuria. Additional signs of streptozocin-induced nephrotoxicity include hypophosphataemia, hypokalaemia, hypouricaemia, renal tubular acidosis, glucosuria, aceturia and aminoaciduria. Cisplatin and carboplatin cause dose-related renal dysfunction. In addition to increased serum creatinine levels and uraemia, electrolyte abnormalities, such as hypomagnesaemia and hypokalaemia, are commonly reported adverse effects. Rarely, cisplatin has been implicated as the underlying cause of haemolytic uraemic syndrome. Pharmaceutical antidotes to cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity include amifostine, sodium thiosulfate and diethyldithiocarbamate. Dose- and age-related proximal tubular damage is an adverse effect of ifosfamide. In addition to renal wasting of electrolytes, glucose and amino acids, Fanconi syndrome, rickets and osteomalacia have occurred with ifosfamide treatment. High dose azacitidine causes renal dysfunction manifested by tubular acidosis, polyuria and increased urinary excretion of electrolytes, glucose and amino acids. Haemolytic uraemia is a rare adverse effect of gemcitabine. Methotrexate can cause increased serum creatinine levels, uraemia and haematuria. Acute renal failure is reported following administration of high dose methotrexate. Urinary alkalisation and hydration confer protection against methotrexate-induced renal dysfunction. Dose-related nephrotoxicity, including acute renal failure, are reported subsequent to treatment with pentostatin and diaziquone. Acute renal failure is a rare adverse effect of treatment with interferon-alpha. Haemolytic uraemic syndrome occurs with mitomycin administration. A mortality rate of 50 to 100% is reported in patients developing mitomycin-induced haemolytic uraemic syndrome. Capillary leak syndrome occurring with aldesleukin therapy can cause renal dysfunction. Infusion-related hypotension during infusion of high dose carmustine can precipitate renal dysfunction.
A total of 55 patients with histologically proven glioblastoma multiforme (total gross resection: n=24, subtotal resection: n=20, stereotactic biopsy: n=11) were treated with the combination of dacarbazine (D) (200 mg m(-2)) and fotemustine (F) (100 mg m(-2)) and concomitant radiotherapy (2 Gy day(-1), 5 days per week using limited fields up to 60 Gy) to assess efficacy and toxicity of this regimen. Survival (median survival, 12-, 18- and 24-month survival rates) and time to progression (median time to progression (TTP), 6-month progression-free survival) were analysed by Kaplan-Meier's method. A total of 268 (range 1-8, median: 5) cycles were administered. Median survival is 14.5+ (range: 0.5-40+) months, and the 12-, 18- and 24-month survival rates are 58, 29 and 23%, respectively. Median TTP from the start of D/F therapy is 9.5+ (range: 0.5-33+) months. The 6-month progression-free survival is 54%. Partial remissions were observed in 3.6%. Main toxicity was thrombocytopenia. Five patients were excluded from further D/F application, four patients because of prolonged thrombocytopenia NCI-CTC grades 3 and 4 and one patient because of whole body erythrodermia. One patient died because of septic fever during thrombocytopenia and leukopenia NCI-CTC grade 4 after the first cycle. No other toxicities of NCI-CTC grade 3 or 4 occurred. The treatment is feasible in a complete outpatient setting and the results of the D/F regimen justify further investigations with these compounds.
Previous epidemiologic findings suggest an association between exposure to trichloroethylene (TCE), a chlorinated solvent primarily used for vapor degreasing of metal parts, and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).
We investigated the association between occupational TCE exposure and NHL within a population-based case-control study using detailed exposure assessment methods.
Cases (n = 1,189; 76% participation rate) and controls (n = 982; 52% participation rate) provided information on their occupational histories and, for selected occupations, on possible workplace exposure to TCE using job-specific interview modules. An industrial hygienist assessed potential TCE exposure based on this information and a review of the TCE industrial hygiene literature. We computed odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) relating NHL and different metrics of estimated TCE exposure, categorized using tertiles among exposed controls, with unexposed subjects as the reference group.
We observed associations with NHL for the highest tertiles of estimated average weekly exposure (23 exposed cases; OR = 2.5; 95% CI, 1.1–6.1) and cumulative exposure (24 exposed cases; OR = 2.3; 95% CI, 1.0-5.0) to TCE. Tests for trend with these metrics surpassed or approached statistical significance (p-value for trend = 0.02 and 0.08, respectively); however, we did not observe dose–response relationships across the exposure levels. Overall, neither duration nor intensity of exposure was associated with NHL, although we observed an association with the lowest tertile of exposure duration (OR = 2.1; 95% CI, 1.0-4.7).
Our findings offer additional support for an association between high levels of exposure to TCE and increased risk of NHL. However, we cannot rule out the possibility of confounding from other chlorinated solvents used for vapor degreasing and note that our exposure assessment methods have not been validated.
Amphetamine (AMPH) is a psychostimulant whose chronic abuse may cause impairments in attention and memory in humans. These cognitive deficits might be related to neurotoxic effects of the drug. One such toxic effect is the well-described destruction of striatal dopaminergic terminals in mammals. In the present study, we investigated the possibility that AMPH might also cause neuronal apoptosis in the rodent striatum. Administration of a dose of the drug (10 mg/kg, 4 times, every 2 h) that is toxic to dopaminergic terminals resulted in the appearance of striatal cells that were positive for cleaved caspase-3 and for terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotin-dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL), observations that are indicative of an ongoing apoptotic process. Dual immunofluorescence staining revealed that cleaved caspase-3-positive cells express calbindin and DARPP-32, but not somatostatin, parvalbumin, or cholinergic markers. In addition, AMPH also caused increased expression of p53 and Bax at both transcript and protein levels; in contrast, Bcl-2 levels were decreased after the AMPH injections. Moreover, Bax knockout mice showed resistance to AMPH-induced apoptotic cell death but not to AMPH-induced destruction of dopaminergic terminals. When taken together, these observations indicate that injections of doses of AMPH that are known to destroy striatal dopamine terminals can also cause apoptotic death of postsynaptic medium spiny projection neurons via mitochondria-dependent mechanisms.
