Vardenafil is a new oral phosphodiesterase inhibitor used for erectile dysfunction. We report a case admitted with a first-detected, symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation in a healthy patient after self-medication with vardenafil.
A 49-year-old female took low-dose pergolide (625 microg daily) for approx. 5 years (approximately cumulative dose 1.140 g/5 years) for the treatment of restless legs syndrome. She developed moderate to severe mitral and aortic valve insufficiency, requiring semi-urgent double-valve replacement. The initial diagnosis of rheumatic valve disease was refuted on histological examination of the valves due to the lack of typical calcification and neovascularization. Valvular heart disease is associated with the use of dopamine agonists for the treatment of Parkinson's disease and obesity, typically at much higher doses.
Methoxychlor is an estrogenic pesticide currently used as a substitute for DDT. The estrogenic effects of 98% pure methoxychlor or base-washed pure methoxychlor were examined on reproductive organs of immature mice and compared to control and estradiol-treated mice. Within 24 hours of birth, neonatal mice received 14 daily intraperitoneal injections of one of the following chemicals: sesame oil only, 10.0 micrograms of 17-beta estradiol, or 0.05 mg, 0.5 mg, or 1.0 mg of 98% pure methoxychlor, or 1.0 mg base-washed 98% pure methoxychlor. Equal doses (1.0 mg) of 98% pure or base-washed methoxychlor stimulated the reproductive organs of immature females such that the effects closely resembled those seen after estradiol treatments. In comparison to control mice, these pesticide treatments also induced precocious vaginal opening, persistent vaginal cornification, increased reproductive tract weights, and epithelial hypertrophy in both the vagina and uterus. However, only estradiol treatments significantly elevated albumin levels in the uterine fluid of the immature mice while the highest methoxychlor doses significantly increased the uterine cell heights when compared to all other groups.
The clinical pattern of paracetamol-induced acute liver damage was studied with regard to whether the intoxication was acute or due to continuous use. This condition was found to be caused almost as often by accidental chronic medication as by acute intoxication, with annual incidences per 100,000 of 0.8 and 1.2 cases, respectively. The liver damage found in 18% of the cases of acute intoxication was generally mild, probably due to an early antidote treatment. In contrast, in the chronic intoxicated cases the liver damage was more pronounced and often accompanied by a severe renal dysfunction. Since all these patients were alcohol abusers, and the reported paracetamol intake was not remarkably high, it seems reasonable to recommend that paracetamol should be prescribed with great caution to alcoholics, and absolutely not for continuous use.
Gastric hypersecretion following administration of tolazoline resulted in severe hypochloremic alkalosis in an infant with persistent fetal circulation. An initial bolus injection of 2 mg/kg was followed by an infusion of 5 mg/kg/hr for 24 hours. The infusion was then maintained at 2 mg/kg/hr for the next four days. Volume of gastric secretions exceeded 25 ml/kg/24 hr. Weaning from tolazoline and replacement of chloride and potassium corrected the metabolic alkalosis.
The influence of high doses of two analgesic drugs, tramadol and flupirtine on the electromyographic activity in the gastrocnemius soleus muscles was examined. Tramadol (100-200 mg/kg po) dose-dependently induced a tonic electromyographic activity, which is generally accepted as a model of the opiate-induced muscle rigidity. That effect was antagonized by intraperitoneal injection of naloxone (0.8 mg/kg ip). On the other hand, flupirtine even in the high doses (100-200 mg/kg po) did not induce any tonic electromyographic activity. The obtained results confirm an opiate-like action of tramadol, but not that of flupirtine, on the muscle tension.
Some of the difficulties encountered in investigations of long-term drug nephrotoxicity are reviewed, and the evidence for acute and chronic renal damage induced by aspirin is discussed. Two studies were carried out to investigate the acute effects of diflunisal on the kidney, and to compare its effects with those of aspirin. Measurements were made before, during and after drug intake, of epithelial cells and lysosomal enzyme (beta-d-n-acetyl glucosaminidase) excretion in urine. Diflunisal caused no change in cell excretion and no increase in enzyme secretion in 6 normal volunteers. In a comparative study against aspirin, two groups of 12 patients being treated for osteoarthrosis were observed over an 8-week period. Enzyme excretion increased in both groups and appeared to be dose related. The increase, however, was relatively greater in the aspirin group. The possible significance of these findings is discussed.
Postictal immobility (IP) following chemically (pictrotoxin, metrazol) and electrically-induced (maximal electroshock, MES) convulsions has behavioral features close to neuroleptic-type catalepsy. EEG, monitored postictally, showed that catalepsy is accompanied by a variety of EEG patterns. Cataleptic behavior extended beyond the period of "postictal EEG depression". During PI rats had vivid righting and corneal reflexes. Like haloperidol-pretreated rats they were able to maintain uncomfortable postures on the vertical grid or horizontal bar; although signs of rigidity were noticed, the rats would fail to remain self-supporting when placed across metal bookends ("bridge" test). All rats reacted to the tail-pinch immediately when the seizure would halt. However, 10-15 min later when PI was minimal or not detectable, animals became totally unresponsive to pressure applied to the tail ("delayed analgesia"). Examination of VEP recovery after MES showed that the secondary slow negativity and sensory after discharge were well developed irrespective of the score of the tail-pinch test. Pharmacological profile of PI suggests that the endogenous opiate system might contribute to this syndrome. Similar to morphine-induced catalepsy/catatonia: (1) PI is insensitive to atropine and scopolamine; (2) neither haloperidol nor alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine was able to potentiate it; (3) PI is reduced by apomorphine, naloxone, and physostigmine. Also, drugs acting via GABA system (gamma-vinyl GABA, diazepam, sodium valproate) reduce PI intensity. It is hypothesized that PI system (1) is controlled by GABA carrying fibers and (2) uses neuropeptide with neuroleptic properties.
A report on a patient who developed profuse fasciculations following diphenylhydantoin therapy for 30 months with subsequent complete recovery on cessation of therapy is presented. In view of the considerable variability of spontaneous potentials generated in spinal motor neurones, in vitro studies and pathological states with respect to shape, amplitude, frequency and duration, caution is advised in the assessment of the clinical significance of fasciculations. The possibility that our patient represents an instance of a 'reversible form of motor neuron disease' is entertained.
The effects on baseline ventilation as well as beta 2-receptor stimulant-induced bronchodilation and tremor of atenolol and dilevalol, a beta-blocking agent with non-selective beta-antagonistic properties and intrinsic activity on the beta 2-receptor were evaluated in 8 patients with stable asthma. Both atenolol and dilevalol were found to significantly decrease both forced expiratory volume during 1 s (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC). This decrease was significantly more pronounced after atenolol. Both agents decreased systolic and diastolic blood pressure as well as heart rate to a similar degree. Increased activation of beta 2-adrenoceptors by terbutaline infusion resulted in increased FEV1 and FVC as well as beta 2-adrenoceptor mediated reflex tachycardia and skeletal muscle tremor. The dose response curves for all these parameters were significantly shifted to the right and a decrease of the maximum relative response was seen after atenolol pretreatment. This effect was more pronounced after treatment with dilevalol with a further shift to the right of the response curve and a decrease of the maximum relative response. The haemodynamic and ventilatory effects of dilevalol are consistent with a non-selective beta-adrenoceptor blockade combined with intrinsic activity on the beta 2-receptors.
Carcinogenicities of mutagenic heterocyclic amines in cooked foods have been tested in CDF1 mice and F344 rats of both sexes. Eight heterocyclic amines--Trp-P-1, Trp-P-2, Glu-P-1, Glu-P-2, MeA alpha C, A alpha C, IQ, and MeIQ--were given to mice and/or rats at 0.02 to 0.08% in the diet continuously. In mice, all heterocyclic amines tested were demonstrated to be carcinogenic. Hepatocellular carcinomas were induced in a high incidence in all groups treated with heterocyclic amines. Hemangioendothelial sarcomas were also induced by Glu-P-1, Glu-P-2, MeA alpha C, and A alpha C. Most hemangioendothelial sarcomas were located in the interscapular brown adipose tissue. In mice given IQ, forestomach and lung tumors were also observed in a high incidence. Carcinogenicity tests on MeIQ are ongoing, and interim data by week 83 show that MeIQ also induces forestomach tumors in addition to liver tumors. In rats, hepatocellular carcinomas were induced by Trp-P-1, Glu-P-1, Glu-P-2, and IQ. In rats given Glu-P-1, Glu-P-2, and IQ, adenocarcinomas in the small and large intestines, squamous cell carcinomas in the Zymbal gland and clitoral gland were also observed in a high incidence.
Docetaxel (Taxotere, DTX) is a promoter of apoptosis in cancer cells. Since cytotoxic mechanisms of DTX are not yet fully understood, we have investigated the effects of DTX on apoptosis and ras-->Erk-mediated signal transduction in human epidermoid KB, colon HT-29 and breast HCC1937 cancer cells. We have found that the exposure to 0.78 or 1.56 or 2.5 ng/ml DTX for 48 h induced apoptosis and growth inhibition in about 50 % of KB, HCC1937 and HT-29 cell population, respectively. In these experimental conditions, PARP and caspase 3 cleavage was also showed in all cell lines. KB and HCC1937 cells express a wild type p53 while HT-29 display a mutated form. Interestingly, we have found that DTX reduces the expression of mutated p53 in HT-29 and increases the expression of wild type in KB and HCC1937 cells. Moreover, DTX reduces ubiquitination of the wild type p53 in KB and HCC1937 cells and increases the ubiquitin-conjugated form of mutated p53 in HT-29 cells. Furthermore, exposure of cancer cells to DTX for 48 h increases the expression and activity of Ras and up-regulates Raf-1 and the phosphorylated isoforms of Erk-1/2. On the bases of these data, we have hypothesized that the increased activity of the ras-->erk-dependent pathway induced by DTX could be a protective signalling from the apoptosis caused by the drug. Therefore, we have used R115777, a farnesyl transferase inhibitor that inactivates ras, in combination with DTX. The combined treatment with DTX and R115777 resulted in a strong synergism in growth inhibition in the three cell lines. These data suggest the use of the combination in these therapeutic settings even if further experiments are required for the clinical translation.
The frequency of new primary cancers was studied in 1846 postmenopausal patients included in a randomised trial of tamoxifen as an adjunct to primary surgery for early breast cancer. The median follow-up was 4.5 years (range 0.5-10.5 years). The number of new cancers in the tamoxifen group (n = 57) did not differ significantly from that in the control group (n = 70). However, in tamoxifen patients second breast cancers occurred less often and endometrial cancer occurred more often than in the controls. The increase in endometrial cancers was probably related to the agonistic oestrogenic effects of tamoxifen and was most pronounced in those treated for over 2 years.
Neurotrophins such as nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are critically implicated in development and maintenance of function of neurons. Neurodevelopment is reported to be impaired in schizophrenia and vulnerable schizophrenic brains may be more sensitive to toxic influences. Thus, cannabis as a neurotoxin, may be more harmful to schizophrenic brains than to non-schizophrenic brains when used chronically. And neurotoxic events may promote disease-onset and lead to exaggerated release of neurotrophins. We investigated 157 drug-naive first-episode schizophrenic patients and found significantly elevated BDNF serum concentrations (by up to 34%) in patients with chronic cannabis abuse (n = 35, p < 0.001) or multiple substance abuse (n = 20, p < 0.001) prior to disease onset. Drug-naive schizophrenic patients without cannabis consumption showed similar results to normal controls and cannabis controls without schizophrenia. Thus, raised BDNF serum levels are not related to schizophrenia and/or substance abuse itself but may reflect a cannabis-related idiosyncratic damage of the schizophrenic brain. In line with this hypothesis, disease onset was 5.2 years earlier in the cannabis-consuming group (p = 0.0111).
The first step in metabolic activation of mutagenic and carcinogenic heterocyclic amines has been elucidated to be N-hydroxylation by cytochrome P-448. N-Hydroxyamino compounds are further activated to form N-O-acyl derivatives that readily react with DNA. The adducts between the metabolites of Trp-P-2 and Glu-P-1 and DNA were shown to have a C8-guanylamino structure. In the case of Glu-P-1, modification of guanine in GC clusters occurred preferentially. Glutathione transferases and myeloperoxidase were shown to inactivate some heterocyclic amines or their active metabolites. Hemin and fatty acids bind to and inactivate them. Fibers and other factors from vegetables also work to inactivate heterocyclic amines. Nitrite at low pH also degraded some heterocyclic amines, but those with an imidazole moiety were resistant. Glu-P-1 induced intestinal tumors in a high incidence when fed orally to rats. When 14C-Glu-P-1 was administered by gavage into rats about 50% and 35% were excreted into feces and urine, respectively, within 24 hr. When the bile was collected, around 60% of radioactivity was excreted into it within 24 hr. In the bile, N-acetyl-Glu-P-1 was identified as one of the metabolites of Glu-P-1. It showed a mutagenic activity of about one fourth that of Glu-P-1 with S9 mix. Some radioactivity was also detected in the blood. At 24 hr after administration, most of the radioactivity was found to be bound to erythrocyte beta-globins and serum proteins including albumin.
In a group of patients with clinically diagnosed drug hypersensitivity the in vitro lymphocyte response to the suspected drug was assessed by the lymphocyte transformation test. The test gave positive results in all 15 patients with penicillin-induced immediate or accelerated allergic reactions and positive immediate skin-test reactivity to the major or the minor antigenic determinant of penicillin, or both, but in only 3 of the 12 patients with delayed-onset maculopapular rashes induced by penicillin, despite positive immediate reactivity to the skin-test reagents.Lymphocyte stimulation greater than five times the control level was demonstrated for five patients with penicillin-induced erythroderma, Stevens-Johnson syndrome or a serum-sickness-like illness, or with methicillin-induced interstitial nephritis, all of whom had negative reactions to the appropriate skin-test reagents. A low level of stimulation was seen in eight other skin-test-negative patients with possible allergic reactions induced by penicillins. However, in all subjects tested the stimulation was significantly greater than the mean for control subjects.For 9 of 11 patients with isoniazid-induced hepatitis or maculopapular rashes, but for only 8 of 31 patients with eruptions induced by a variety of drugs other than penicillins and isoniazid, significant stimulation occurred in the lymphocyte transformation test.It is concluded that the lymphocyte transformation test is useful in the detection of hypersensitivity to the penicillins (although in IgE-mediated reactions skin testing is clearly preferable) and isoniazid but is of limited value in the demonstration of hypersensitivity to other drugs.
Topical therapy is an attractive approach for the treatment of Leishmania major cutaneous leishmaniasis (CL). WR279396, an expanded-spectrum aminoglycoside ointment, is now in phase 3 trials. Because the application of a cream is easier than the injection of pentavalent antimony, many patients with CL will likely be treated with WR279396 soon after the onset of a lesion. However, this new therapeutic approach may impair the acquisition of immunity. We evaluated the impact of early topical therapy on acquired immunity in an optimized mouse model of L. major-induced CL. The efficacy of the WR279396 ointment in this model has been established previously. Acquired immunity was defined as the absence of lesions upon reinoculation of the same parasite isolate at a different skin site. Bioluminescence-based follow-up of luciferase-expressing L. major loads was also performed. In this model, the control of L. major loads at the initial inoculation site and the acquisition of immunity are simultaneous (day 22 postinoculation). The clinical and parasitological efficacies of WR279396 applied as early as day 11 postinoculation, i.e., during the L. major multiplication phase, did not impair the acquisition of immunity to a second L. major challenge. This is reassuring from the perspective of the wide deployment of WR279396-based therapy in foci where L. major is endemic.
Voriconazole for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis (IA) shows superior clinical outcome and tolerability compared to conventional amphotericin B. However, the latter is often used as initial treatment due to lower drug acquisition costs. Therefore we performed a cost-effectiveness analysis.
A decision analytic model was designed to compare the cost-effectiveness of a regimen of voriconazole followed by conventional amphotericin B to a regimen of conventional amphotericin B followed by voriconazole. Patients initiated on treatment either completed initial therapy or switched to second line therapy due to toxicity or non-response. Probability of a switch was based on clinical trial data and local rates of renal toxicity. Resource use in the hospital was taken from the Global Comparative Aspergillosis (GCA) study. Costs were based on local drug acquisition costs, local cost estimates for hospitalisation and adjusted additional costs of amphotericin B-induced acute renal failure from the literature. Effectiveness was defined as survival at 12 weeks from the GCA study. An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was estimated as the incremental cost per life saved comparing voriconazole to conventional amphotericin B.
Based on this model, initial therapy of IA with voriconazole reduced total costs when compared to initial therapy with conventional amphotericin B (CHF 37 878/patient vs CHF 49 861/patient) and resulted in better survival at 12 weeks, making it the dominant treatment in terms of incremental cost-effectiveness. Results were most sensitive to alternative assumptions of the incidence of acute renal failure, but cost savings were sustained for voriconazole over a wide range of values.
Considering that initial therapy with voriconazole is both cost-saving and results in better clinical outcomes, voriconazole is the dominant cost-effective option for initial therapy of IA, despite very low drug acquisition costs of conventional amphotericin B.
Pharmacodynamics and disposition of amlodipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, were compared between elderly and young patients with hypertension. Elderly (mean +/- SD; age, 68 +/- 3 years) and young (35 +/- 5 years) patients received single intravenous amlodipine doses followed by oral administration once daily for a total of 12 weeks. After intravenous administration, elderly patients had prolonged elimination half-life values (58 +/- 11 versus 42 +/- 8 hours; p less than 0.01) caused by decreased clearance (19 +/- 5 versus 25 +/- 7 L/hr; p less than 0.01). After a 3-months oral treatment washout period, half-life tended to be prolonged in the elderly patients (69 +/- 20 hours for the elderly patients versus 53 +/- 14 hours for the young patients; difference not significant) and was not markedly different from the short-term intravenous measurement. Both systolic and diastolic blood pressure were significantly decreased from baseline throughout the treatment period, with greater decreases in elderly patients for both systolic and diastolic pressure. When amlodipine plasma concentration was correlated to change in mean blood pressure after short-term intravenous doses, elderly patients had a greater decrease than young patients at a given drug concentration. However, after long-term oral administration, elderly and young patients had comparable decreases in mean blood pressure at a given drug concentration, and the increased antihypertensive effect in the elderly was associated with somewhat higher amlodipine plasma concentration. Amlodipine administered once daily is an effective antihypertensive agent in elderly patients and young patients with essential hypertension.
HVA and 5-HIAA in CSF were determined in five patients with non-fluctuating progressive dystonia before and after treatment with L-Dopa. The response to L-Dopa was unequivocally favourable in one patient. The HVA-level in her CSF was significantly reduced before treatment, whereas in the other four non-responding patients the pre-treatment HVA was normal. It is postulated, that the biochemical delineation of clinical responsiveness to a neurotransmitter may provide useful clues towards the classification of extrapyramidal disease in childhood.
2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), a mutagen found in cooked meat, has been shown to induce mammary gland tumors in rats. Our laboratory recently observed that a high fat diet enhances the incidence and severity of PhIP-induced mammary gland cancer in rats. In the current study, reverse transcription followed by polymerase chain reaction amplification was used to determine whether EGFR, TGF-alpha, neu and c-myc are differentially expressed in PhIP-induced mammary gland tumors classified histologically as benign or malignant and to evaluate whether dietary fat intake influences the expression of these genes. Of 23 total PhIP-induced mammary tumors examined, 43%, 57% and 74% had increased expression of EGFR, TGF-alpha and neu mRNA respectively. Increased expression of these genes appeared to be consistently present in tumors displaying papillomatosis. In contrast, to the other three genes, c-myc mRNA levels were infrequently elevated. The percentage of dietary fat did not appear to influence the expression of EGFR, TGF-alpha or neu in either tumors or mammary gland from control rats. However, the levels of c-myc mRNA were 1.8- and 2.9-fold higher in the control mammary gland and benign PhIP-induced tumors respectively in rats fed the high-fat diet than in rats fed the low-fat diet, suggesting a slight effect of dietary fat (P < 0.08) on c-myc expression. These results suggest that increased expression of EGFR, TGF-alpha and especially neu is associated with PhIP-induced mammary gland cancer in rats.
The imidazopyridine zolpidem is a short-acting hypnotic chemically distinct from benzodiazepines (BZs). According to its peculiar neuropharmacologic activity (selectivity for the omega 1-BZ receptors), zolpidem is expected to be a pure hypnotic, without the other effects of BZs. In particular, it has been stressed that zolpidem is well tolerated in adults and in the elderly, and that tolerance, abuse, dependence, rebound insomnia, and other withdrawal effects do not develop in relation to zolpidem administration. However, despite these assumptions, zolpidem abuse, dependence, and withdrawal effects have been recently discussed and reviewed herein. In addition, the case of a 43-year-old woman who had an epileptic attack after abrupt interruption of an abused, high dose of zolpidem (600 mg/d), is reported and discussed. At the clinical level, it is stressed that the subjective effects ofzolpidem are comparable to those of other BZs, and that abuse, dependence, and withdrawal seizures cannot be avoided simply shifting the regimen of a BZ abuser to zolpidem. At the pharmacologic level, it is important to note that zolpidem's clinical effects cannot be explained on the basis of the old distinction between omega I and 2 receptors because this distinction is no longer valid; the new classification ofGABAA receptor subtypes is reported and zolpidem activity at this level is discussed herein.
Some recent studies have shown that clozapine (CLZ) has myopathic side effects and causes alterations in motor force control. The aim of this study was to evaluate the neurologic and electrophysiologic characteristics of patients with schizophrenia who are undergoing long-term CLZ treatment. Ninety-four patients with schizophrenia treated with CLZ for 18.2 +/- 15.5 months were studied retrospectively and prospectively (40% and 60%, respectively) for serum creatine kinase (CK) levels before and after initiation of CLZ treatment. An electrodiagnostic study was performed on patients with CK elevation above normal limits, complained of general weakness or muscle pains, and/or had abnormal clinically significant findings. In 13 patients (13.8%), abnormal CK levels were found. Six patients complained of some muscular weakness. In two patients, clinical assessment revealed mild general muscular weakness; one revealed decreased tendon reflexes and, in both, CK levels were above 1,750 IU/L. On electrophysiologic examinations performed in the six patients with abnormal neurologic findings, the motor and sensory nerve conduction velocity were within normal range in all but one patient, who exhibited some prolongation of distal latency in the lower limbs. In two patients, the electromyography demonstrated a myopathic pattern. In 2.1% of medically healthy patients with schizophrenia treated with clozapine on a long-term basis, signs of myotoxicity were found. It seems warranted to discontinue CLZ therapy in patients who exhibit abnormal CK levels and myopathic features during treatment. Further studies are needed to provide more objective data on the impact of CLZ treatment on muscle tissue.
The present pharmacoepidemiologic study was performed to characterize the profile of adverse drug reactions (ADRs) reported with selegiline, a monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitor used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and previously reported to induce an excess of mortality. The analysis was performed with use of the French Pharmacovigilance Database between 1989 and 1997. This database includes all ADRs reported by French practitioners (and especially "serious" and "unexpected" ADRs). Three different analyses were performed: identification of ADRs reported with selegiline, comparison with the ADR profile observed with other antiparkinsonian drugs, and a case/non-case study investigating the occurrence of cardiovascular ADRs with selegiline in comparison with other drugs in general and other antiparkinsonian drugs (e.g., levodopa [L-Dopa], dopamine agonists) in particular. The most often reported ADRs with selegiline were psychiatric (delirium, hallucinations, agitations), cardiovascular (orthostatic hypotension, arterial hypertension, etc.) and neurologic (sedation, abnormal movements, etc.). Psychiatric and cardiovascular ADRs were more frequently reported with selegiline than with L-Dopa or dopamine agonists. The case/ non-case study found an increased risk of cardiovascular ADRs (OR = 1.72; 95% Cl = 1.16-2.55)when selegiline was associated with L-Dopa. These data show that the profile of selegiline-induced ADRs differs from that of other antiparkinsonian drugs (L-Dopa, dopamine agonists) with more psychiatric and cardiovascular ADRs. We suggest that the higher frequency of cardiovascular ADRs could explain, at least partially, the previously reported increase in mortality rate.
This study was undertaken to compare the renal safety as well as cardiovascular (CV) effects and diagnostic image quality of iso-osmolar iodixanol vs. low-osmolar iopromide in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) undergoing coronary interventions.
With the growing number of contrast-enhanced procedures being performed for coronary artery disease management, the safety and efficacy of iodinated contrast media (CM) have come under increased scrutiny.
: Patients with CKD (CrCl < or =60 mL/min) were randomized to iodixanol (n = 106) or iopromide (n = 102). The primary endpoint was incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN), defined as an increase in serum creatinine (SCr) > or =25% or 0.5 mg/dL within 72 hr of CM administration. Secondary endpoints were mean SCr increase, a composite of CV events in-hospital and 30 days postdischarge, and diagnostic image quality.
: CIN incidence was significantly lower with iodixanol than iopromide (5.7% vs. 16.7%; P = 0.011). Baseline SCr (OR 2.21, 95% CI: 1.25-3.47; P = 0.031), iopromide use (OR 2.56, 95% CI: 1.18-5.76; P = 0.024), and CM volume (OR 2.01, 95% CI: 1.01-3.21; P = 0.038) were identified as independent risk factors for CIN. Cardiovascular events were reduced with iodixanol (1.9% vs. 8.8%; P = 0.025); diagnostic image quality was similar for both CM (P = 0.353).
: Consistent with several previous trials comparing iso-osmolar iodixanol and low-osmolar comparator CM, iodixanol was associated with a lower incidence of CIN and fewer CV events than iopromide.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the most common form of inherited intellectual disability and the leading known genetic cause of autism. Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), which is absent or expressed at substantially reduced levels in FXS, binds to and controls the postsynaptic translation of amyloid β-protein precursor (AβPP) mRNA. Cleavage of AβPP can produce β-amyloid (Aβ), a 39-43 amino acid peptide mis-expressed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Down syndrome (DS). Aβ is over-expressed in the brain of Fmr1(KO) mice, suggesting a pathogenic role in FXS. To determine if genetic reduction of AβPP/Aβ rescues characteristic FXS phenotypes, we assessed audiogenic seizures (AGS), anxiety, the ratio of mature versus immature dendritic spines and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated long-term depression (LTD) in Fmr1(KO) mice after removal of one App allele. All of these phenotypes were partially or completely reverted to normal. Plasma Aβ(1-42) was significantly reduced in full-mutation FXS males compared to age-matched controls while cortical and hippocampal levels were somewhat increased, suggesting that Aβ is sequestered in the brain. Evolving therapies directed at reducing Aβ in AD may be applicable to FXS and Aβ may serve as a plasma-based biomarker to facilitate disease diagnosis or assess therapeutic efficacy.
