A 32-year-old male with stage IIIA nodular sclerosing Hodgkin's disease and no cardiac risk factors presented with chest pain after receiving chemotherapy consisting of multiple drugs, including vinca alkaloids. He completed an uncomplicated anterior wall myocardial infarction. Coronary angiography documented the absence of significant coronary artery disease. Exercise stress testing with gated scan confirmed loss of anterior wall motion and a decreased left ventricular ejection fraction. Vascular toxicity, including, rarely, myocardial infarction, has been reported following antineoplastic regimens containing vinca alkaloids. Hypercoagulable states, cardiac invasion by tumor, and coronary artery spasm are possible etiologies. Of these, coronary artery spasm appears most likely. Management should include discontinuation of the offending drug and supportive care.
Idiosyncrasy to salicylic acid and related substances is well known, the most common symptoms being asthma, rhinorrhea and urticaria. We here describe two cases whose only symptoms were hoarseness and in which inspection revealed laryngeal edema when the patients ingested any of these substances. In cases of chronic recurring hoarseness, a history should be taken with respect to such hypersensitivity and suspect cases should be challenged, since a strict diet may improve the symptoms.
Oncoprotein inhibitory member of the ASPP family (iASPP) is a key inhibitor of tumor suppressor p53. Our previous study revealed that the expression of iASPP in acute leukemia (AL) patients was higher than that of normal control which implied that iASPP might play an important role in the pathogenesis and/or disease progression of AL. In this study, the iASPP expression was blocked by RNA interference (RNAi) in two leukemic cell lines, Nalm6 and K562, to explore the effects of iASPP on leukemia cells. The results indicated that down-regulation of endogenous iASPP increased p53-dependent apoptosis of leukemia cells. Thus, iASPP could be a molecular target in leukemia therapy.
Urocortin 2 (Ucn2) has potent cardiovascular actions and may participate in the pathophysiology of heart failure (HF). The integrated hemodynamic, endocrine, and renal effects of Ucn2 are unknown.
Eight sheep received incremental intravenous boluses of murine Ucn2 (10, 50, and 100 microg at 2-hour intervals) before (normal) and during pacing-induced HF. Compared with control data, Ucn2 induced rapid and dose-dependent increases in cardiac output (peak effects: normal 4.3+/-0.2 versus 6.1+/-0.2 L/min, P<0.001; HF 2.3+/-0.1 versus 4.5+/-0.2 L/min, P<0.001) and reductions in peripheral resistance (normal 20.2+/-1.0 versus 15.2+/-0.8 mm Hg/L per minute, P<0.01; HF 32.2+/-1.7 versus 13.6+/-0.5 mm Hg/L per minute, P<0.001) and left atrial pressure (normal 4.3+/-0.3 versus 0.5+/-0.2 mm Hg, P<0.01; HF 22.9+/-0.6 versus 5.1+/-1.8 mm Hg, P<0.001). Mean arterial pressure was minimally elevated in normals and decreased in HF (both P<0.01). In both states, Ucn2 reduced plasma atrial natriuretic peptide levels (normal 13+/-2 versus 10+/-2 pmol/L; HF 200+/-20 versus 72+/-10 pmol/L) and similarly increased corticotropin, cortisol, and Ucn1 (all P<0.001). In HF only, Ucn2 dose dependently decreased plasma vasopressin (3.09+/-0.36 versus 1.62+/-0.12 pmol/L, P<0.01), renin (2.98+/-1.17 versus 0.69+/-0.10 nmol/L per hour, P<0.001), aldosterone (1186+/-303 versus 364+/-122 pmol/L, P<0.001), endothelin-1 (3.39+/-0.23 versus 2.56+/-0.18 pmol/L, P<0.01), epinephrine (1633+/-260 versus 657+/-142 pmol/L, P<0.01), and brain natriuretic peptide (36+/-3 versus 18+/-4 pmol/L, P<0.001) concentrations. Renal effects, including increased urine volume (1.7-fold, P<0.05), sodium excretion (>12-fold, P<0.01), and creatinine excretion (1.3-fold, P<0.001), also occurred only in HF.
Ucn2 has marked and beneficial hemodynamic, hormonal, and renal effects in experimental HF. These results support a role for Ucn2 in pressure/volume homeostasis in HF and suggest that the peptide may have therapeutic potential in this disease.
Effects of ifenprodil (2-(4-benzyl-piperidino)-1-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-1-propanol) tartrate on the cardiovascular system were studied in mongrel dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium and with alpha-chloralose and in rabbits. Ifenprodil (12.5 to 5,000 mug/kg i.v.) lowered systemic blood pressure in a dose-dependent manner in association with increased heart rate and augmented myocardial contractile force in dogs. Fall in blood pressure and tachycardia caused by ifenprodil were inhibited by pretreatment with phenoxybenzamine (5 mg/kg). The pressor responses to adrenaline and bilateral carotid occlusion were moderately reduced by pretreatment with ifenprodil (5 mg/kg), while the response to noradrenaline was attenuated only slightly. Ifenprodil (less than 1 mg/kg i.v.) decreased the total peripheral resistance and resistances of common carotid, internal carotid, vertebral, coronary, superior mesenteric, renal and femoral vascular beds in dogs. Ifenprodil increased the vertebral and femoral blood flow consistently (93.6 and 174.0%, respectively) but decreased the renal blood flow. Intra-arterial injection of ifenprodil (0.01 to 5 mug/kg) produced a dose-dependent increase in blood flow of vascular beds tested. The femoral and vertebral arterial blood flows were in particular consistently increased. Increases in the vertebral and femoral blood flows following i.v. and i.a. injections of ifenprodil were only slightly attenuated by pretreatment with phenoxybenzamine. Intravenous injections of ifenprodil (12.5 to 5,000 mug/kg) produced tachycardia in conscious rabbits but caused bradycardia after pretreatment with reserpine. From these results it was revealed that ifenprodil causes a fall in systemic blood pressure and an increase in the blood flow particularly in vertebral and femoral vasculatures following the vasodilating action directly on vascular smooth muscle. Blocking action of alpha-adrenoceptors in vessels was also demonstrated.
This study was aimed to evaluate the preventive role of S-allylcysteine (SAC) on mitochondrial and lysosomal enzymes in isoproterenol (ISO)-induced rats. Male albino Wistar rats were pretreated with SAC (50, 100 and 150 mg/kg) daily for a period of 45 days. After the treatment period, ISO (150 mg/kg) was subcutaneously injected to rats at an interval of 24 h for two days. The activities of heart mitochondrial enzymes (isocitrate dehydrogenase, succinate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase and alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase) and respiratory chain enzymes (NADH dehydrogenase and cytochrome C oxidase) were decreased significantly (p<0.05) in ISO-induced rats. The activities of lysosomal enzymes (beta-glucuronidase, beta-N-acetyl glucosaminidase, beta-galactosidase, cathepsin-D and acid phosphatase) were increased significantly (p<0.05) in serum and heart of ISO-induced rats. Pretreatment with SAC (100 mg/kg and 150 mg/kg) for a period of 45 days increased significantly (p<0.05) the activities of mitochondrial and respiratory chain enzymes and decreased the activities of lysosomal enzymes significantly (p<0.05) in ISO-induced rats. Oral administration of SAC (50, 100 and 150 mg/kg) for a period of 45 days to normal rats did not show any significant (p<0.05) effect in all the parameters studied. The altered electrocardiogram (ECG) of ISO-treated rats was also restored to near normal by treatment with SAC (100 and 150 mg/kg). These results confirm the efficacy of SAC in alleviating ISO-induced cardiac damage.
A controlled, double-blind study was performed to compare the prior administration of intravenous saline 4 ml (n = 36), lignocaine 20 mg (n = 36) or thiopentone 100 mg (n = 43) on the pain produced by intravenous injection of propofol. One hundred and fifteen ASA 1 or 2 patients scheduled for minor surgery were studied using a randomised, double-blind design. Thiopentone was more effective than lignocaine in reducing the incidence of propofol injection pain (p < 0.03).
To determine whether the use of a diuretic would maintain the antianginal efficacy of isosorbide dinitrate during 1 week of therapy.
During continuous therapy, organic nitrates have a reduction in antianginal effectiveness and cause fluid retention. The study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover design examining the effect of 1 week of daily treatment with 50 mg hydrochlorothiazide/5 mg amiloride on the antianginal effectiveness of 30 mg isosorbide dinitrate administered every 6 hours. Exercise stress testing was performed before and 3 hours after administration of isosorbide dinitrate at the start and end of the placebo and diuretic treatment phases.
The time to onset of angina (475 +/- 35 versus 490 +/- 29 seconds, difference not significant) and to moderate angina after administration of isosorbide dinitrate (542 +/- 40 versus 566 +/- 37 seconds, difference not significant) were similar at the start and end of the diuretic phase of the study but were reduced at the end of the placebo phase (471 +/- 40 versus 410 +/- 40 seconds, p < 0.05 and 531 +/- 38 versus 466 +/- 39 seconds, p < 0.05, respectively). Total exercise time and time to onset of angina 3 hours after administration of isosorbide dinitrate were longer (p < 0.005) at the end of the diuretic phase compared with the end of the placebo phase. Patients gained weight during the placebo phase and lost weight during the diuretic phase of the study. The change in weight was inversely correlated to the change in total exercise time (r = -0.53, p < 0.05).
Patients using a diuretic with isosorbide dinitrate maintain an increased anginal threshold and total exercise time compared with placebo. Weight change is inversely related to exercise duration, and this result is consistent with fluid retention restoring cardiac preload during nitrate use. The increased anginal threshold during concurrent isosorbide dinitrate and diuretic use may be attributable to maintenance of the organic nitrate-induced reductions in cardiac preload.
Indole-3-carbinol (I3C), a natural autolysis product of a gluccosinolate present in Brassica vegetables such as broccoli and cabbage, has anti-proliferative and anti-estrogenic activities in human breast cancer cells. A new and significantly more potent I3C analogue, 1-benzyl-I3C was synthesized, and in comparison to I3C, this novel derivative displayed an approximate 1000-fold enhanced potency in suppressing the growth of both estrogen responsive (MCF-7) and estrogen-independent (MDA-MB-231) human breast cancer cells (I3C IC(50) of 52 microM, and 1-benzyl-I3C IC(50) of 0.05 microM). At significantly lower concentrations, 1-benzyl-I3C induced a robust G1 cell cycle arrest and elicited the key I3C-specific effects on expression and activity of G1-acting cell cycle genes including the disruption of endogenous interactions of the Sp1 transcription factor with the CDK6 promoter. Furthermore, in estrogen responsive MCF-7 cells, with enhanced potency 1-benzyl-I3C down-regulated production of estrogen receptor-alpha protein, acts with tamoxifen to arrest breast cancer cell growth more effectively than either compound alone, and inhibited the in vivo growth of human breast cancer cell-derived tumor xenografts in athymic mice. Our results implicate 1-benzyl-I3C as a novel, potent inhibitor of human breast cancer proliferation and estrogen responsiveness that could potentially be developed into a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment of indole-sensitive cancers.
To address issues resulting from α estrogen receptor-knockout (αERKO) residual N-terminal truncated estrogen receptor α, and to allow tissue-selective deletion of ERα, we generated loxP-flanked exon 3 mice. Initial characterization of global sox2 cre-derived exon 3-deleted Ex3αERKO mice indicated no ERα protein in uterine tissue and recapitulation of previously described female phenotypes, confirming successful ablation of ERα. Body weights of Ex3αERKO female mice were 1.4-fold higher than wild-tupe (WT) females and comparable to WT males. Microarray indicated the Ex3αERKO uterus is free of residual estrogen responses. RT-PCR showed Nr4a1 is increased 41-fold by estrogen in WT and 7.4-fold in αERKO, and not increased in Ex3αERKO. Nr4a1, Cdkn1a, and c-fos transcripts were evaluated in WT and Ex3αERKO mice following estrogen, IGF1, or EGF injections. All 3 were increased by all treatments in WT. None were increased by estrogen in Ex3αERKO. Nr4a1 increased 24.5- and 14.7-fold, Cdkn1a increased 14.2- and 12.3-fold, and c-fos increased 20.9-fold and 16.2-fold after IGF1 and EGF treatments, respectively, in the Ex3αERKO mice, confirming that growth factor regulation is independent of ERα. Our Ex3α ERα model will be useful in studies of complete or selective ablation of ERα in target tissues.
The authors report a case of endometrial carcinoma treated with tamoxifen introduced after normal initial uterine curettage. Based on recent experimental and clinical data, the importance of a gynecological follow-up in anti-estrogen therapy is emphasized.
Cardiac troponin T (cTnT) plasma concentration is considered a useful marker of anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy. In this study we used daunorubicin-treated Chinchilla rabbits as a model to investigate the relationship between left ventricular contractility and cTnT plasma concentrations.
Two groups of animals were used: a control group (n=8) received i.v. saline, and an experimental group (n=11) received daunorubicin (3 mg/kg, i.v.). The substances were administered once weekly for 10 weeks, and 5-7 days after the last administration, left ventricular cardiac contractility (dP/dtmax) was invasively measured as a contractility index and blood was sampled for cTnT concentration determination (Elecsys Troponin T STAT immunoassay).
Cardiac contractility was significantly lower in seven surviving daunorubicin-treated animals than in control animals (745.7+/-69.3 vs 1393.4+/-25.5 kPa/s; P<0.001), while cTnT plasma concentrations were significantly increased (medians 0.278 vs 0.000 ng/ml; P<0.001). When the dP/dtmax values of individual daunorubicin-treated animals were plotted against the corresponding cTnT plasma concentrations, a close negative linear correlation was found (R=-0.910; P<0.005; regression equation: dP/dtmax=-1861*cTnT+1234).
This study suggests that determination of cTnT plasma levels, which is simple and inexpensive, could be used in anthracycline-treated patients for left ventricular systolic function assessment and contractility estimation.
In order to examine whether antidepressants mediate their action by interacting with one of the key components of the phosphoinositide (PI) signaling pathway, i.e. PI-specific phospholipase C (PLC), and whether this represents a common mechanism of action of antidepressants, we determined the effects of antidepressants of various classes on PI-PLC activity and on the expression of PLC isozymes in rat brain. It was observed that chronic (21-day) but not acute (1-day) administration with desipramine (DMI), fluoxetine (FLX) and phenelzine (PHLZ), decreased PI-PLC activity in membrane and cytosol fractions of cortex and hippocampus. Similar changes were observed with alprazolam (ALP) and buspirone (BUS), who possess anxiolytic and antidepressant properties. On the other hand, an anxiogenic drug, metachlorophenylpiperazine (MCPP), increased PI-PLC activity in both membrane and cytosol fractions of cortex and hippocampus. The immunolabeling studies showed that all the antidepressants and anxiolytics that caused a decrease in PI-PLC activity also selectively decreased the protein levels of a specific isozyme of PLC, i.e. PLCbeta(1), in membrane and cytosol fractions of cortex and hippocampus, whereas MCPP increased the levels of this particular isozyme. These changes were accompained with changes in the mRNA levels of PLCbeta(1), as determined by quantitative RT-PCR. These antidepressants and anxiolytics did not cause significant changes in the expression of PLC delta(1) or gamma(1) isozyme. Our results thus suggest that modulation of PI-PLC may be common to all classes of antidepressants, which in turn, may be associated with their mechanisms of action.
Peroxisome proliferators such as the fibrates act via the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor (PPAR)-alpha as hypolipidemic agents. Many peroxisome proliferators are also nongenotoxic hepatic carcinogens and hepatotoxicants in rodents. We performed transcription profiling using cDNA microarrays on livers of rats treated for 5 days with 3 doses of the peroxisome proliferator clofibrate. All 3 doses had hepatic effects as assessed by liver to body weight ratio, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) increases and histopathology examination. Analysis of the transcription profiling data identified changes in the expression of many genes within several mechanistic pathways that support existing hypotheses regarding peroxisome proliferator mediated carcinogenicity. Additionally, the transcription profiling, histopathology, and clinical chemistry results suggested a biphasic response to clofibrate. These findings provide insight into the pathogenesis of toxic and carcinogenic effects of clofibrate in rodents and demonstrate the ability of cDNA microarrays to provide information regarding mechanisms of toxicity identified during the drug development process.
Reports on adverse reactions to nitrofurantoin today are common in Sweden and constitute 10 to 12 percent of all incoming reports. We present an analysis of 921 reports of adverse reactions received by the Swedish Adverse Drug Reaction Committee during the period 1966--1976. The two largest groups consist of reports of acute pulmonary reactions (43 percent) and allergic reactions (42 percent). The remaining reports fall into any of four smaller groups, chronic pulmonary reactions, liver damage, blood dyscrasias or neuropathy. Acute pulmonary and acute allergic reactions in all aspects are very similar and carry the characteristics of an acute hypersensitivity reaction. The increasing number of reports--even in relation to sales figures--would be best explained by a continuous sensitization. Chronic pulmonary reactions (interstitial pneumonitis) afflict older patients, often after prolonged treatment with relatively small doses. We suggest that these reactions are elicited by a toxic mechanism. Seventy-one percent of all reactions were severe enough to cause the patient's hospitalization; only 1 percent was fatal. The risk of an adverse reaction varies with sex and age, increases with age and is higher in women than in men. The time has come for a re-evaluation of nitrofurantoin and its role in the treatment of urinary tract infections.
To compare the safety, efficacy, tolerability and duration of the antihypertensive effect of an ACE-inhibitor spirapril 3 mg or 6 mg in elderly (> or = 60 y) hypertensive patients in a multicentre, observational, double-blind randomised study.
After a four-week placebo period, 39 patients were randomised to six weeks of treatment with spirapril 3 mg and 47 patients with spirapril 6 mg.
In the sitting position the mean (SD) decrease in systolic blood pressure (SBP) was 12(15) mmHg (95% confidence interval 7 to 17 mmHg) and in diastolic blood pressure (DBP) 10(7) mmHg (8 to 12 mmHg) in the 3-mg group and 10(13) mmHg (6 to 14 mmHg) and 9(7) mmHg (7 to 11 mmHg), respectively, in the 6-mg group (P < 0.001 compared to placebo period in both groups). Spirapril 3 mg and 6 mg produced DBP < or = 90 mmHg or a fall > or = 10 mmHg in 53% and 51% of the patients, respectively. DBP was < or = 90 mmHg in 36% and SBP < or = 160 mmHg in 67% of the patients taking 3 mg and in 26% and 63% of the patients taking 6 mg spirapril. The most commonly reported adverse effects were cough (13-17%), dizziness, headache and insomnia. A trend to a more frequent adverse effects was observed in patients receiving spirapril 6 mg. Spirapril was both cholesterol- and glucose-neutral.
According to our study, spirapril 3mg seems to be a suitable starting dose for the treatment of hypertension in the elderly patients.
Delayed ischemic neurological deficit (DIND) following cerebral vasospasm remains a cause for high morbidity and mortality in patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). There is experimental and clinical evidence of positive effects of nitric oxide (NO) donors on cerebral vasospasm. We therefore analysed the effect of transdermal nitroglycerin in patients with SAH measuring transcranial Doppler velocities (TCD), cerebral blood flow (CBF) and DIND. Nitroglycerin was used in a target dose of 14 microg/kg/h. TCD assessment was performed daily. CBF measurements were done using the perfusion CT-technique. Blood pressure, volume intake and vasopressor administration, were registered. Nine patients were randomly assigned either to the nitroglycerin group (N-group) and eight patients in the control group (C-group). Mean TCD values in the extracranial portion of the internal carotid artery (ICA) were lower in the N-group (p<0.005). Mean TCD in the middle cerebral arteries (MCA) showed no difference. The Lindegaard ratio was higher in the N-group (p<0.04). CBF in the N-group was higher than in the C-group (p<0.03). Even though nitroglycerin reduces blood pressure and lowers ICA TCD-values and increases the Lindegaard ratio, a higher CBF was measured in the N-group. Thus, nitroglycerin influences the cerebral vascular tone and increases CBF. SAH therapy with nitroglycerin is possible without increasing the risk of DIND. The exact timing of onset, duration and reduction of nitroglycerin administration in respect to the appearance of vasospasm may have a strong impact on the success of such a therapy.
A randomized double-blind controlled trial of doxapram versus placebo against late postoperative hypoxaemia was planned to include 40 patients (2 x 20).
After inclusion of 18 patients a serious adverse event was encountered with development of a brain stem infarction in a 90-year-old woman receiving doxapram. At this point the randomization code was broken and we decided to terminate the trial. Three of nine patients receiving doxapram had had an adverse event whereas none of the patients receiving placebo had adverse events (P = 0.2). In the 18 patients studied, there was an insignificant trend towards higher mean oxygen saturation in the doxapram group, and a significantly higher minimum oxygen saturation and reduced number of hypoxaemic events on the first postoperative night.
Although these preliminary data on the effect of doxapram on postoperative hypoxaemia seem promising, further studies on the effect of continuous nocturnal postoperative doxapram infusion on levels of arterial oxygen saturation should be postponed until more knowledge about the pharmacokinetics of doxapram in this particular clinical situation has been gathered.
To study the acute and long-term effects of local gut inflammation on the sensitivity of the spinal sensory neurons, the expressions of vanilloid receptor 1 (VR1) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the colon-innervated primary sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) were examined in rats with trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced experimental colitis. The neurons projecting to the distal colon were identified by DiI(3) retrograde labelling. Macroscopic examination, mean damage score and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity were determined to assess the inflammatory status of the colon tissue. The number of CGRP and VR1 immunoreactive neurons at different stages of inflammation (on days 7, 21 and 42 after TNBS treatment) were compared. On day 7 after TNBS treatment, macroscopic damage of the mucosa could be easily detected and the percentage of colon-innervated DRG neurons expressing CGRP and VR1 increased nearly two folds respectively [(95.38±9.45)% vs (42.86±.02)% for CGRP, (89.23±8.21)% vs (32.54±4.58)% for VR1]. When the colon inflammatory reaction was resolved on days 21 and 42 after TNBS treatment, the percentage of colon-innervated DRG neurons expressing CGRP and VR1 were still higher than that in the control group [(86.25±8.21)%, (68.28±7.12)% vs (42.86±5.02)% for CGRP; (67.22±6.52)%, (56.25±4.86)% vs (32.54±4.58)% for VR1]. These results suggest that the local gut inflammation increases the expressions of CGRP and VR1 in gut-innervated DRG sensory neurons. More importantly, this abnormal status persists even after the gut inflammatory reaction has been resolved for certain time.
It has been reported that oxidative stress, antioxidants, and neuropeptide Y (NPY) are involved in regulating the feeding behavior of phenylpropanolamine (PPA), a sympathomimetic drug. This study explored whether transcription factor NF-κB is involved in this effect. Rats were treated daily with PPA for 4 days. Changes in hypothalamic NF-κB, NPY, superoxide dismutase (SOD), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) levels during PPA treatment were assessed and compared. Results showed that NF-κB, SOD, and GPx increased, with a maximal response on Day 2, while the food intake and NPY decreased with the biggest reduction on Day 2 during PPA treatment. To further determine whether NF-κB was involved, intracerebroventricular infusion of antisense oligonucleotide was performed at 1 h before daily PPA in free-moving rats. Cerebral NF-κB knockdown could modify PPA anorexia and the expressions of NPY, SOD, and GPx. It is suggested that hypothalamic NF-κB participates in the reciprocal regulation of NPY and antioxidants, which mediated the appetite-suppressing effect of PPA. Results may further the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of PPA.
Acute doxorubicin-loaded nanoparticle (DXNP) renal toxicity was explored in both normal rats and rats with experimental glomerulonephritis. In normal rats, 2/6 rats given free doxorubicin (DX) (5 mg/kg) died within one week, whereas all control animals and all rats having received free NP or DXNP survived. A 3 times higher proteinuria appeared in animals treated with DXNP than in those treated with DX. Free NP did not provoke any proteinuria. Two hr post-injection, DXNP was 2.7 times more concentrated in kidneys than free DX (p < 0.025). In rats with immune experimental glomerulonephritis, 5/6 rats given DX died within 7 days, in contrast to animals treated by DXNP, NP, or untreated, which all survived. Proteinuria appeared in all series, but was 2-5 times more intense (p > 0.001) and prolonged after doxorubicin treatment (400-700 mg/day), without significant difference between DXNP and DX. Rats treated by unloaded NP behaved as controls. These results demonstrate that, in these experimental conditions, DXNP killed less animals than free DX, despite of an enhanced renal toxicity of the former. Both effects (better survival and nephrosis) are most probably related to an enhanced capture of DXNP by cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system, including mesangial cells.
Celecoxib was shown to regress colorectal adenomas in familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) patients relative to placebo. To address the mechanism of polyp regression, we determined whether celecoxib can modulate cell proliferation, apoptosis, and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) levels in colorectal epithelia from FAP trial participants and whether such alterations correlate with observed reductions in polyp number.
Colorectal mucosal biopsies were obtained at baseline and on last day of celecoxib (100 or 400 mg twice daily) or placebo administration (6 months). Residual paraffin-embedded adenomas and normal mucosa from the same patients (n = 17) or normal tissue alone (n = 15) were analyzed. Immunoperoxidase staining for Ki-67 was performed and apoptotic cells were identified by their morphology. Ki-67 and apoptotic labeling indices and their ratios were calculated in superficials (s) and nonsuperficial (ns) regions of adenomas and normal mucosa, and baseline to 6-month differences were calculated. PGE(2) levels were analyzed by mass spectroscopy (normal, n = 64; adenoma, n = 56). Biomarkers were analyzed by treatment arm and correlated with previously determined mean percentage reductions in colorectal polyp number.
In adenomas, a reduction in the superficial proliferative activity i.e., Ki-67(s) labeling index, accompanied polyp regression (r = -0.76, P = 0.006). An increase in the apoptotic ratio [i.e., superficial apoptotic index (AI(s))/nonsuperficial apoptotic index (AI(ns))] was found to correlate with reduced polyp counts in that higher apoptotic ratios correlated with better response to celecoxib (r = 0.71, P = 0.004). Furthermore, the AI(s)/Ki-67(s) ratio (r = 0.58, P = 0.026) accompanied polyp regression. In normal mucosa, a trend toward increased AI(s) (r = 0.33, P = 0.053) and polyp regression was found. PGE(2) levels did not significantly correlate with polyp regression. Changes in biomarker levels (baseline to 6 months) were correlated in adenomas and normal mucosa (AI(s), r = 0.29, P = 0.024; AI(ns), r = 0.34, P = 0.009; PGE(2), r = 0.50, P = 0.059) within individual patients.
Suppression of cell proliferation and an increased apoptotic ratio, as well as the ratio of apoptosis to cell proliferation, accompany polyp regression in a chemoprevention trial in FAP patients. These findings suggest potential mechanisms for the efficacy of celecoxib and warrant further study of these biomarkers as intermediate endpoints in FAP patients.
Apnea is a common complication in infants infected by respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). A recent study has shown that intranasal inoculation of RSV in conscious weanling rats strengthens the apneic responses to right atrial injection of capsaicin (CAP), leading to 66% mortality. The objectives of the present study were to determine 1) whether RSV infection changes baseline minute ventilation (Ve) and arterial blood gases in anesthetized rats; 2) what the effects of RSV infection are on the respiratory responses to CAP; and 3) whether the RSV-strengthened apneic responses are age dependent. Our experiments were conducted in anesthetized and spontaneously breathing rats divided into four groups of weanling and adult rats that received either intranasal inoculation of RSV or virus-free medium. Two days after RSV infection (0.7 ml/kg), animal blood gases, baseline Ve, and Ve responses to right atrial injection of three doses of CAP (4, 16, and 64 microg/kg) were measured and compared among the four groups. Our results showed that RSV infection increased respiratory frequency (approximately 25%, P<0.05) in weanling but not adult rats, with little effect on arterial blood gases. RSV infection amplified the apneic responses to CAP in weanling but not adult rats, characterized by increases in the initial (40%) and the longest apneic duration (650%), the number of apneic episodes (139%), and the total duration of apneas (60%). These amplifications led to 50% mortality (P<0.05). We conclude that RSV infection increases respiratory frequency and strengthens the apneic responses to CAP only in anesthetized weanling but not adult rats.
