patients undergoing electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) often receive succinylcholine as part of the anesthetic procedure. The duration of action may be prolonged in patients with genetic variants of the butyrylcholinesterase enzyme (BChE), the most common being the K- and the A-variants. The aim of the study was to assess the clinical significance of genetic variants in butyrylcholinesterase gene (BCHE) in patients with a suspected prolonged duration of action of succinylcholine after ECT.
a total of 13 patients were referred to the Danish Cholinesterase Research Unit after ECT during 38 months. We determined the BChE activity and the BCHE genotype using molecular genetic methods, the duration of apnea, time to sufficient spontaneous ventilation and whether neuromuscular monitoring was used. The duration of apnea was compared with published data on normal subjects.
in 11 patients, mutations were found in the BCHE gene, the K-variant being the most frequent. The duration of apnea was 5-15 min compared with 3-5.3 min from the literature. Severe distress was noted in the recovery phase in two patients. Neuromuscular monitoring was used in two patients.
eleven of 13 patients with a prolonged duration of action of succinylcholine had mutations in BCHE, indicating that this is the possible reason for a prolonged period of apnea. We recommend objective neuromuscular monitoring during the first ECT.
One hundred and sixty-six unipolar and bipolar out-patients (21-78 years) on long-term lithium treatment were studied on a prospective basis. Although there was a possible tendency for manic attacks to increase in prevalence and severity with age, it was difficult to demonstrate a general age-related decline in lithium efficacy. There was a tendency for the prevalence and severity of fine hand tremor to increase with age. This was not seen with polydipsia/polyuria, the other typical lithium side-effect.
Familial hemiplegic migraine and episodic ataxia type 2 (EA2) are allelic disorders with distinct types of mutations in the CACNA1A gene. EA2 attacks are remarkably sensitive to acetazolamide, a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor. The effectiveness of acetazolamide in migraine prophylaxis is unknown.
To evaluate the efficacy and the tolerability of acetazolamide in migraine prophylaxis.
We compared daily oral 500 mg acetazolamide and placebo in patients with migraine in a multicentre, double-blind, randomised trial of 12 weeks duration after a run-in period of 4 weeks without treatment. Frequency of attacks at the last trial period of 4 weeks was the primary efficacy criterion. Secondary efficacy criteria were the frequency of attacks per 4 weeks, the severity and duration of attacks, the number of hours with migraine as well as the number of responders with more than 50% reduction in attack frequency.
53 patients had been enrolled when the study was prematurely stopped because of a high number of withdrawals (34%), primarily linked to acetazolamide related side effects. Considering the primary and secondary efficacy criteria, among the 53 included patients (27 in the placebo group and 26 in the acetazolamide group), no difference between the 2 study groups could be demonstrated. The most frequent adverse events related to acetazolamide were paresthesias and asthenia.
In this trial, migraine sufferers poorly tolerated acetazolamide given in an oral dose of 500 mg daily. No obvious prophylactic beneficial effect of acetazolamide appeared on migraine attacks.
A randomized phase III trial in high-risk breast cancer patients was conducted, to further explore the impact of dose-density in the adjuvant treatment for breast cancer. The safety analysis is presented.
From October 2000 until June 2005, 1121 node-positive patients were randomized to sequential dose-dense epirubicin 110 mg/m(2) and paclitaxel (Taxol, Bristol Myers-Squibb, Princeton, New Jersey, USA) 250 mg/m(2) (group A), or concurrent epirubicin 83 mg/m(2) and paclitaxel 187 mg/m(2) (group B), both followed by three cycles of 'intensified' combination chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and fluorouracil (CMF). Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor was given prophylactically with the dose-dense treatments.
Median dose intensity of epirubicin and paclitaxel was double in group A, as designed, with significantly less cycles administered at full dose (P < 0.001). Median cumulative dose of all drugs and total treatment duration, however, were identical between groups. Severe taxane-related toxic effects were more frequent in group A, while severe thrombocytopenia was low and present only in group A. There were no differences in the rates of other hematological toxic effects, including febrile neutropenia. The rates of secondary malignancies were low.
Both regimens as used in the present study are well tolerated and safe. The rates of severe taxane-related toxic effects and thrombocytopenia, although low overall, are significantly increased with the dose-dense sequential regimen.
The selective alpha(2)-adrenergic agonist dexmedetomidine is used clinically for analgesia and sedation, but effects in early life are not well characterized. Investigation of age-related effects of dexmedetomidine is important for evaluating responses to exogenously administered analgesics and provides insight into postnatal function of noradrenergic pathways.
We examined effects of epidural dexmedetomidine in anaesthetized rat pups (3, 10 and 21 postnatal days) using a quantitative model of nociception and C-fibre induced hyperalgesia. Electromyographic recordings of withdrawal responses to hindpaw mechanical stimuli measured effects of dexmedetomidine upon the baseline reflex and the response to mustard oil application on the hindpaw (primary hyperalgesia) or hindlimb (secondary hyperalgesia). In addition, we compared epidural with systemic administration, examined effects of spinal transection and evaluated heart rate changes following dexmedetomidine.
Epidural dexmedetomidine dose-dependently prevented mustard oil-induced hyperalgesia at all ages but dose requirements were lower in the youngest pups. Higher doses also suppressed the baseline nociceptive reflex when given epidurally, but had no effect when given systemically. Analgesic efficacy was the same for primary and secondary hyperalgesia, and was not diminished by spinal cord transection.
Our laboratory studies predict that spinally mediated alpha(2)-agonist analgesia would be effective throughout postnatal development, dose requirements would be lower in early life and selective anti-hyperalgesic effects could be achieved with epidural administration at doses lower than associated with antinociceptive or cardiovascular effects. Clinical trials of alpha(2) agonists in neonates and infants should consider developmentally regulated changes.
Aldose reductase (AR) catalyzes the reduction of toxic lipid aldehydes to their alcohol products and mediates inflammatory signals triggered by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Beta-glucogallin (BGG), a recently described AR inhibitor, was purified from extracts of the Indian gooseberry (Emblica officinalis). In this study, we found that BGG showed low cytotoxicity in Raw264.7 murine macrophages and effectively inhibited AR activity as measured by a decrease in sorbitol accumulation. In addition, BGG-mediated inhibition of AR prevented LPS-induced activation of JNK and p38 and lowered ROS levels, which could inhibit LPS-induced apoptosis. Uveitis is a disease of the eye associated with chronic inflammation. In this study, we also demonstrated that treatment with BGG decreased the number of inflammatory cells that infiltrate the ocular media of mice with experimental uveitis. Accordingly, these results suggest BGG is a potential therapy for inflammatory diseases.
Topical anaesthesia of the trachea is used to avoid coughing during emergence from anaesthesia. This study was designed to compare the effects of an alkalinized lignocaine and plain lignocaine solution given intratracheally. After institutional approval and written informed consent, 30 patients were randomized into three groups and received in a double-blind fashion: lignocaine, alkalinized lignocaine and normal saline for control. After application of normal or alkalinized lignocaine the tolerance to the tube was significantly better during extubation (P = 0.001). Noradrenaline levels were significantly diminished in the lignocaine groups (P < 0.05). Plain and alkalinized lignocaine solutions for topical anaesthesia significantly improved tolerance to the tracheal tube during emergence from anaesthesia. Plain and alkalinized lignocaine given directly before intubation reduced the sympathomimetic stress response resulting in a lower noradrenaline concentration and a reduced heart rate.
Because multiple myeloma remains associated with a poor prognosis, novel drugs targeting specific signaling pathways are needed. The efficacy of selective estrogen receptor modulators for the treatment of multiple myeloma is not well documented. In the present report, we studied the antitumor activity of raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator, on multiple myeloma cell lines. Raloxifene effects were assessed by tetrazolium salt reduction assay, cell cycle analysis, and Western blotting. Mobility shift assay, immunoprecipitation, chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, and gene expression profiling were performed to characterize the mechanisms of raloxifene-induced activity. Indeed, raloxifene, as well as tamoxifen, decreased JJN-3 and U266 myeloma cell viability and induced caspase-dependent apoptosis. Raloxifene and tamoxifen also increased the cytotoxic response to vincristine and arsenic trioxide. Moreover, raloxifene inhibited constitutive nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) activity in myeloma cells by removing p65 from its binding sites through estrogen receptor alpha interaction with p65. It is noteworthy that microarray analysis showed that raloxifene treatment decreased the expression of known NF-kappaB-regulated genes involved in myeloma cell survival and myeloma-induced bone lesions (e.g., c-myc, mip-1alpha, hgf, pac1,...) and induced the expression of a subset of genes regulating cellular cycle (e.g., p21, gadd34, cyclin G2,...). In conclusion, raloxifene induces myeloma cell cycle arrest and apoptosis partly through NF-kappaB-dependent mechanisms. These findings also provide a transcriptional profile of raloxifene treatment on multiple myeloma cells, offering the framework for future studies of selective estrogen receptor modulators therapy in multiple myeloma.
Telavancin is a novel semi-synthetic lipoglycopeptide currently in late-stage clinical development for the treatment of serious infections due to Gram-positive bacteria. The objective of this study was to provide a baseline prospective assessment of its in vitro activity against a large and diverse collection of Gram-positive clinical isolates from Europe and Israel.
Gram-positive clinical isolates, collected between October 2004 and December 2005 from 36 hospital laboratories in 15 countries, were tested by broth microdilution using CLSI methodology.
In total, 3206 isolates were collected. Telavancin had potent activity against Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative staphylococci (MIC range < or =0.015 to 2 mg/L), independent of resistance to methicillin or to multiple drugs. Telavancin had particularly strong activity against streptococcal isolates (MIC range < or =0.001 to 0.5 mg/L), including penicillin-resistant and multiple drug-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae and erythromycin non-susceptible beta-haemolytic and viridans group streptococci. Telavancin also had excellent activity against vancomycin-susceptible enterococci (MIC(90) 0.5 mg/L), and although its MICs were elevated against VanA strains (Enterococcus faecalis MIC(90) 8 mg/L and Enterococcus faecium MIC(90) 4 mg/L), its MIC(90) was substantially lower than observed with available glycopeptides.
Telavancin has potent in vitro activity against contemporary Gram-positive clinical isolates from diverse geographic areas in Europe and Israel.
A 62-year-old man with non-topic severe persistent asthma and chronic obstructive disease suffered severe asthma exacerbation. Epinephrine was repeatedly injected subcutaneously (0.3mg x 8 times in four hours) in addition to intravenous methylprednisolone for his severe asthma. Despite these treatments, his symptoms steadily deteriorated and thus he was transferred to our hospital. He did not have chest pain or a sensation of compression, while ECG on admission demonstrated ST elevation, loss of R-wave progression, negative T waves and QT interval prolongation, suggesting ischemic heart disease. Nonetheless creatine kinase and its MB isozyme were within normal range and myosin light chain I and troponin T were only mildly elevated. Echocardiography demonstrated apical dyskinesia and hypersystole in the basal region of the heart. Finally this case was diagnosed as Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, probably due to catecholamine-mediated myocardial stunning by overuse of epinephrine for acute severe asthma exacerbation. Abnormal findings of ECG and echocardiography became normal without any specific treatments for the heart.
The influence of ethinyl estradiol (EE) treatment on the permeability of the biliary tree in rats has been assessed by the segmented retrograde intrabiliary injection (SRII) technique. Three pairs of compounds were studied, inert [14C]sucrose and [3H]inulin; [14C]taurocholic acid (TC) and [14C]glycocholic acid (GC) and the non-ionic bile acid derivatives [125I]cholyldiglycylhistamine (CG2H) and [131I]cholyltetraglycylhistamine (CG4H). In control rats recovery in bile after SRII was always greater for the larger of any pair of compounds, confirming that the biliary tree acts as a filter, and that decreased recovery from bile during this technique is an index of greater biliary permeability. After EE treatment recovery of all compounds was significantly reduced, thus confirming that EE increases biliary permeability. Recovery of sucrose and inulin fell from 55-65% of the administered dose in controls to 8-9% in EE rats. Recoveries of TC, GC, CG2H and CG4H was also reduced, but their biliary recovery profiles were consistent with marked re-excretion into bile of that portion which had initially passed out of the biliary system by filtration. During the later phase of the experiment excretion of the negatively charged bile acids TC and GC was greater than that of the non-ionic bile acid derivatives CG2H and CG4H. Although the site at which these permeability changes have occurred is unknown, our results are compatible with previous data implicating increased tight junction permeability as a mechanism of EE-induced cholestasis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Free radicals have been suggested to play an important role in the pathogenesis of interstitial lung diseases, the most important of which are chronic interstitial pneumonias such as usual interstitial pneumonia (UIP) and desquamative interstitial pneumonia (DIP) and granulomatous lung diseases such as sarcoidosis. Because manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and catalase are two important intracellular antioxidant enzymes that probably play a central role in lung defense, the localization and intensity of these two enzymes were assessed by immunohistochemistry in biopsies of UIP (n = 9), DIP (n = 11), pulmonary sarcoidosis (n = 14), and extrinsic allergic alveolitis (n = 6). The mRNA of these enzymes in selected samples of bronchoalveolar lavage was assessed by Northern blotting. Catalase, but not MnSOD, was constitutively expressed, especially in type II pneumocytes of the healthy lung of nonsmoking individuals. In contrast, manganese SOD immunoreactivity was markedly upregulated in all of the interstitial lung diseases investigated, whereas no increased expression of catalase could be detected in any case. Both enzymes were expressed, especially in type II pneumocytes and alveolar macrophages of DIP and UIP, in the well-preserved areas of the lung, in the acute fibromyxoid lesions of UIP, and in the granulomas of sarcoidosis and extrinsic allergic alveolitis. The simultaneous expression of MnSOD and catalase in the alveolar region suggests their protective role against the progression of lung disease.
Nalbuphine, a kappa-opioid agonist and mu-opioid partial agonist, has been widely used as an analgesic or an adjuvant with morphine in clinics. In rats, it attenuates tolerance and physical dependence caused by morphine, when co-administered. In this study, we investigated the effect of nalbuphine on morphine reward. Using the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm in rats, we demonstrated that co-administration of nalbuphine (1mg/kg, i.p.) with morphine (5mg/kg, i.p.) during conditioning could completely block the CPP induced by morphine. However, in experiments examining locomotor activity in rats, nalbuphine showed no effect on the development of behavioral sensitization induced by reported morphine administration. In microdialysis experiments, morphine induced a significant increase in the dopamine metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid in the shell region of the nucleus accumbens. Co-administration of nalbuphine blocked the increase in dopamine metabolites induced by morphine. These results may be due to the attenuating effect of nalbuphine on the dopaminergic activity of mesolimbic pathways. All of these results suggest nalbuphine could have a great potential as a pharmacotherapy for opiate abuse.
Myocardial infarction was induced in albino rats by the subcutaneous administration of isoproterenol. A significant was observed increase in weight of the myocardium, total protein, DNA levels, neutral salt soluble collagen content, serum and urinary hydroxyproline levels at peak infarction stage in treated rats while the body weight, insoluble and total collagen content of heart were found to be decreased. These results show an early degradation of collagen immediately after myocardial infarction and enhanced synthesis during the different stages of recovery. Histological studies confirmed the incidence of peak infarction after two doses of isoproterenol treatment and recovery to normalcy from the third day onwards.
Two neurophysins (NPs) that are thought to be the primary protein forms produced with the hormones vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) were isolated from 5000 human pituitary glands. In sucrose gradient centrifugation of human neural lobes, each of these NPs had a distribution similar to that of either VP or OT. Such differential localization of 1 human NP (HNP) with VP and the other HNP with OT suggests an association of their biosynthesis, and it is on the basis of this association that 1 NP has been named VP-associated HNP (VP-HNP) and the other OT-associated HNP (OT-HNP). The purified proteins were complexed to bovine thyroglobulin in order to develop specific antisera. RIAs developed with these antisera are effective for each HNP in the range of 5-320 pg. Reference standards in both assays were corrected for protein content using amino acid analysis to obtain absolute protein concentration; this type of correction is recommended for all RIAs that measure proteins. The RIAs were used to measure the concentrations of HNPs in unextracted human plasma. In healthy, sitting, normally hydrated subjects of both sexes, VP-HNP and OT-HNP were, respectively, 73 +/- 5 and 382 +/- 30 pg/ml (mean +/- SEM; n = 20); there was no significant difference between values in males and females, provided the latter were not taking medication. Women on oral contraceptives had elevated (> 3 times normal) levels of OT-HNP but normal levels of VP-HNP. Eleven patients who had the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone had elevated levels of VP-HNP but not necessarily of OT-HNP. Surgery was found to consistently increase plasma VP-HNP but not OT-HNP. In two of six subjects smoking caused a dramatic release of VP-HNP, as indexed by plasma levels which rose to more than 50 times the control values. One patient with lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus had elevated plasma concentrations of both NPs. The sensitivity and specificity of the RIAs may make them useful clinically in certain pathological states.
The susceptibility to renal perfusion pressure (RPP)-induced renal injury was investigated in angiotensin II (Ang II)- versus norepinephrine (NE)-infused hypertensive rats. To determine the magnitude of RPP-induced injury, Sprague-Dawley rats fed a 4% salt diet were instrumented with a servocontrolled aortic balloon occluder positioned between the renal arteries to maintain RPP to the left kidney at baseline levels whereas the right kidney was exposed to elevated RPP during a 2-week infusion of Ang II IV (25 ng/kg per minute), NE IV (0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 microg/kg per minute on days 1, 2, and 3 to 14, respectively), or saline IV (sham rats). Over the 14 days of Ang II infusion, RPP averaged 161.5+/-8.0 mm Hg to uncontrolled kidneys and 121.9+/-2.0 mm Hg to servocontrolled kidneys. In NE-infused rats, RPP averaged 156.3+/-3.0 mm Hg to uncontrolled kidneys and 116.9+/-2.0 mm Hg to servocontrolled kidneys. RPP averaged 111.1+/-1.0 mm Hg to kidneys of sham rats. Interlobular arterial injury and juxtamedullary glomerulosclerosis were largely RPP dependent in both models of hypertension. Superficial cortical glomerulosclerosis was greater and RPP dependent in NE- versus Ang II-infused rats, which was primarily independent of RPP. Outer medullary tubular necrosis and interstitial fibrosis were also primarily RPP dependent in both models of hypertension; however, the magnitude of injury was exacerbated in Ang II-infused rats. We conclude that elevated RPP is the dominant cause of renal injury in both NE- and Ang II-induced hypertensive rats and that underlying neurohumoral factors in these models of hypertension alter the pattern and magnitude of RPP-induced renal injury.
Toxic hepatitis secondary to amoxycillin-clavulanic acid is an infrequent clinical picture. Most of the cases are reported to have a benign course. We report two cases of severe hepatic failure following amoxycillin-clavulanic acid use. One of the cases had cholestatic features primarily, and the other had hepatocellular injury prominently. The first case had also findings of trombotic trombositic purpura and had a fatal course.
Exposure to contaminants in the environment has been suggested as a contributing cause of ongoing declines in populations of amphibians reported in certain locations around the world. In the current study, responses of the wood frog (Lithobates sylvaticus) to exposure to triphenyltin (TPT), a commonly used fungicide, during the larval period were characterized. Exposure of L. sylvaticus to 0.1, 1.0, or 5.0 μg TPT/L significantly affected survival, growth, days to metamorphosis (DTM), and abundances of transcripts of genes of interest. After seven days of exposure there were no significant effects on survival, but masses and snout-ventral length (SVL) of larvae exposed to 5.0 μg TPT/L were significantly lesser than controls. Mortality of larvae after exposure to 5.0 μg TPT/L was 100% nine days after initiation of the experiment. Larvae exposed to 0.1 or 1.0 μg TPT/L were allowed to grow for 100 days or until they reached metamorphic climax, whichever occurred earlier. Mortality of wood frogs exposed to 1.0 μg TPT/L was 80%. The LC20 or LC50 after 100 days of exposure was 0.12 or 0.34 μg TPT/L, respectively. However, DTM of larvae that survived exposure to 1.0μgTPT/L was significantly less than that of controls. Abundances of transcripts of retinoid-X-receptor (rxr) and perixosomal proliferation receptor gamma (pparγ) were significantly lesser in larvae exposed to either concentration of TPT for seven days. Also, abundances of transcripts of stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 (scd1), fatty acid synthase (fas), lipoprotein lipase (lpl), and β-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (β-hb-m) were lesser in larvae exposed to 5.0 μg TPT/L, which suggested that disruption of lipid metabolism might have affected survival in this exposure group. However, in larvae that survived to metamorphic climax during exposure to TPT for as long as 100 days, abundances of transcripts of perixosomal proliferation receptor alpha (pparα), pparγ, cytochrome p4504B1 (cyp4b1), fas, and lpl were greater than in controls, suggesting that an up-regulation of processes related to metabolism of lipids might have been important for survival and development of these animals. Overall, concentrations of TPT that are found in the environment had a significant effect on the survival and development of L. sylvaticus, and this might have been due, in part, to effects on metabolism of lipids.
Few studies have focused on the relationship between hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for postmenopausal women or those with breast cancer and the occurrence of cerebral embolism. Results are conflicting as to whether there is a link between the two. We describe three patients who experienced cerebral embolism during HRT. A 73-year-old woman had a transient ischemic attack (TIA) 6 years prior to the present admission. She then took HRT oestrogen plus medroxyprogesterone acetate for about 6 years. The HRT had been prescribed by a gynaecologist for amelioration of postmenopausal symptoms. Six years after beginning HRT, she experienced sudden onset left hemiparesis due to cerebral embolism. Two other patients had been taking HRT for breast cancers. One, a 47-year-old woman, had taken medroxyprogesterone acetate for more than one year, for recurrence of breast cancer. She had developed sudden complete left hemiparesis due to an embolism at the carotid bifurcation. The other patient, a 72-year-old woman who was taking tamoxifen citrate for prevention of breast cancer relapse, experienced cerebral embolism just 2 months after beginning tamoxifen. The risk of cerebral embolism in those on HRT should be emphasized, along with the beneficial effects in terms of postmenopausal symptoms and prevention of breast cancer recurrence.
Traumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage is a common finding following traumatic brain injury. Clinical studies revealed a positive influence of Nimodipine. However, till now no experimental studies have been performed. The aim of the present study was to determine the influence of early Nimodipine administration on outcome and histological findings in the rat:
Diffuse brain injury was produced in Sprague-Dawley rats using a brass weight falling from a predetermined height. Traumatic subarachnoidal hemorrhage was produced by administration of heparin before the injury. A total number of 52 animals were divided in 4 groups.
Mortality increased following administration of heparin. Mortality was not reduced following administration of Nimodipine. The histological investigation revealed less cell loss in animals with administration of Nimodipine as well as increased GFAP immunoexpression.
Administration of Heparin results in a marked traumatic subrachnoidal hemorrhage following diffuse traumatic brain injury. Administration of Nimodipine does not reduce overall mortality. However, histological investigations indicate a positive effect of Nimodipine on cell loss.
Congenital lipoid adrenal hyperplasia (CLAH) is caused by mutations to the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) gene associated with the inability to synthesize all adrenal and gonadal steroids. Inadequate treatment in an infant with this condition may result in sudden death from an adrenal crisis. We report a case in which CLAH developed in Korean siblings; the second child was prenatally diagnosed because the first child was affected and low maternal serum estriol was detected in a prenatal screening test. To our knowledge, this is the first prenatal diagnosis of the Q258X StAR mutation, which is the only consistent genetic cluster identified to date in Japanese and Korean populations.
8 cases of contact dermatitis from toluenesulfonamide formaldehyde resin in a nail hardener are presented. Most patients had used nail lacquers containing this resin for many years without trouble, but became sensitized to the resin shortly after the introduction of this particular nail hardener. A hypothesis concerning the possible mechanism is given.
Spinal anesthesia for surgical repair of hip fracture in the elderly is associated with a high incidence of hypotension. The synergism between intrathecal opioids and local anesthetics may make it possible to achieve reliable spinal anesthesia with minimal hypotension using a minidose of local anesthetic.
Twenty patients aged > or = 70 yr undergoing surgical repair of hip fracture were randomized into two groups of 10 patients each. Group A received a spinal anesthetic of bupivacaine 4 mg plus fentanyl 20 microg, and group B received 10 mg bupivacaine. Hypotension was defined as a systolic pressure of < 90 mmHg or a 25% decrease in mean arterial pressure from baseline. Hypotension was treated with intravenous ephedrine boluses 5-10 mg up to a maximum 50 mg, and thereafter by phenylephrine boluses of 100-200 microg.
All patients had satisfactory anesthesia. One of 10 patients in group A required ephedrine, a single dose of 5 mg. Nine of 10 patients in group B required vasopressor support of blood pressure. Group B patients required an average of 35 mg ephedrine, and two patients required phenylephrine. The lowest recorded systolic, diastolic, and mean blood pressures as fractions of the baseline pressures were, respectively, 81%, 84%, and 85% versus 64%, 69%, and 64% for group A versus group B.
A "minidose" of 4 mg bupivacaine in combination with 20 microg fentanyl provides spinal anesthesia for surgical repair of hip fracture in the elderly. The minidose combination caused dramatically less hypotension than 10 mg bupivacaine and nearly eliminated the need for vasopressor support of blood pressure.
The matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) contribute to cardiovascular remodeling, and MMPs, such as the gelatinases (MMP-9 and MMP-2), have been identified in thoracic aortic aneurysmal (TAA) tissue, but a cause-effect relationship has not been clearly established. Accordingly, this study examined TAA progression in mice devoid of the MMP-9 gene.
The descending thoracic aortas of wild-type (WT) FVB (n =17) and MMP-9 gene knockout (KO, n =11) mice were exposed to 0.5 mol/L of CaCl2 for 15 minutes with terminal studies performed at 4 weeks. Aortic lumen diameter was measured using video micrometry at baseline and at 4 weeks (TAA) followed by aortic tissue analysis. In WT mice, aortic diameter increased by 138+/-5% at 4 weeks (P<0.05), consistent with TAA formation. In the KO mice, aortic diameter increased from baseline by 120+/-4% (P<0.05) but was attenuated from WT TAA values (P<0.05). Gelatin zymography performed on TAA segments confirmed the absence of MMP-9 in the KO mice but a >8-fold relative increase in the active form of MMP-2 compared with WT (P<0.05). Despite this, MMP-2 activity was relatively increased (P<0.05) and colocalized to smooth muscle cell actin in a differential pattern favoring medial distruction in the WT TAA compared with the KO TAA segments.
These results demonstrate that MMP-9 gene deletion attenuated TAA formation despite an increase in the zymographic levels of MMP-2. These unique findings suggest that an interaction between these 2 MMPs is necessary to facilitate TAA progression.
Two children being treated with combination chemotherapy and irradiation for localized, rightsided Wilms' tumor developed sudden enlargement of the liver with defects on liver scintigram resembling liver metastases. One child also developed pancytopenia. When chemotherapy was temporarily withheld in both children, hepatomegaly and scintigram abnormalities resolved. The planned courses of chemotherapy were subsequently completed without complications. The clinical course in our patients is compared to previously published experiences. Awareness of this complication could prevent the mistaken diagnosis of metastatic disease and emphasizes the care necessary when administering cytotoxic drugs to children receiving irradiation to all or a portion of the liver.
