Mitochondrial dysfunction plays an important role in the pathology of myocardial infarction. We evaluated the combined protective effects of quercetin and α-tocopherol on mitochondrial damage and myocardial infarct size in isoproterenol-induced myocardia- infarcted rats. Rats were pretreated with quercetin (10 mg/kg) alone, α-tocopherol (10 mg/kg) alone, and combination of quercetin (10 mg/kg) and α-tocopherol (10 mg/kg) orally using an intragastric tube daily for 14 days. After pretreatment, rats were induced myocardial infarction by isoproterenol (100 mg/kg) at an interval of 24 h for 2 days. Isoproterenol treatment caused significant increase in mitochondrial lipid peroxides with significant decrease in mitochondrial antioxidants. Significant decrease in the activities of isocitrate, succinate, malate, and α-ketoglutarate and NADH dehydrogenases and cytochrome-c-oxidase, significant increase in calcium, and significant decrease in adenosine triphosphate were observed in mitochondria of myocardial infarcted rats. Combined pretreatment with quercetin and α-tocopherol normalized all the biochemical parameters and preserved the integrity of heart tissue and restored normal mitochondrial function in myocardial-infarcted rats. Transmission electron microscopic findings on heart mitochondria and macroscopic enzyme mapping assay on the size of myocardial infarct also correlated with these biochemical parameters. The present study showed that combined pretreatment was highly effective than single pretreatment.
Oxidative stress has been suggested to play an important role in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy because it increases under diabetic conditions and is known to induce cellular dysfunction in a wide variety of cells. To protect cells against oxidative stress, cells possess defensive mechanisms such as intracellular antioxidants. Although it has been reported that central enzymes in the antioxidative defense mechanisms of the cell are induced under hyperglycemic conditions, the oxidative stress level remains high. On the other hand, there are endogenous inhibitors of antioxidants, such as thioredoxin interacting protein (Txnip). In the present study, the relationship between diabetic nephropathy and Txnip was investigated using streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice. Eight-week-old male C57BL/6 mice were treated with either STZ or citrate vehicle. After 24 weeks of treatment, diabetic nephropathy and oxidative stress were assessed by biochemical analyses of urine and histological analyses of the kidneys. In addition, the expression of Type IV collagen alpha1 chain (Col4A1), Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), and Txnip were evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Albuminuria, renal hypertrophy, and expansion of the mesangial area, which are the hallmarks of diabetic nephropathy, were confirmed in the diabetic mice. The mRNA expression of COL4A1 and TGF-beta was dramatically increased in diabetic mice in comparison with the control mice. Moreover, associated with the increased renal expression of Txnip, diabetic conditions increased oxidative stress as determined by urinary excretion of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine and acrolein adduct, which are oxidative stress markers. Moreover, Txnip may be a therapeutic target in diabetic nephropathy.
The naturally-occurring compound, n-butylidenephthalide (BP), which is isolated from the chloroform extract of Angelica sinensis (AS-C), has been investigated with respect to the treatment of angina. In this study, we have examined the anti-tumor effects of n-butylidenephthalide on glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) brain tumors both in vitro and in vivo. In vitro, GBM cells were treated with BP, and the effects of proliferation, cell cycle and apoptosis were determined. In vivo, DBTRG-05MG, the human GBM tumor, and RG2, the rat GBM tumor, were injected subcutaneously or intracerebrally with BP. The effects on tumor growth were determined by tumor volumes, magnetic resonance imaging and survival rate. Here, we report on the potency of BP in suppressing growth of malignant brain tumor cells without simultaneous fibroblast cytotocixity. BP up-regulated the expression of Cyclin Kinase Inhibitor (CKI), including p21 and p27, to decrease phosphorylation of Rb proteins, and down-regulated the cell-cycle regulators, resulting in cell arrest at the G(0)/G(1) phase for DBTRG-05MG and RG2 cells, respectively. The apoptosis-associated proteins were dramatically increased and activated by BP in DBTRG-05MG cells and RG2 cells, but RG2 cells did not express p53 protein. In vitro results showed that BP triggered both p53-dependent and independent pathways for apoptosis. In vivo, BP not only suppressed growth of subcutaneous rat and human brain tumors but also, reduced the volume of GBM tumors in situ, significantly prolonging survival rate. These in vitro and in vivo anti-cancer effects indicate that BP could serve as a new anti-brain tumor drug.
Rhesus monkeys undergoing opioid withdrawal either due to withholding morphine administration for 14 h or due to administration of naloxone, were treated with or due to administration of naloxone, were treated with either morphine or clonidine. Morphine eliminated all of the withdrawal signs that developed when morphine was withheld for 14 h. Clonidine also eliminated some but not all signs that developed when morphine was withheld. The frequencies of individual signs prior to drug administration were directly related to the minimal doses necessary to eliminate signs for morphine but not for clonidine. Morphine also eliminated most of the signs precipitated by naloxone, whereas clonidine did not eliminate as many of the naloxone-precipitated signs. Additionally, some of the naloxone-precipitated signs that were eliminated by clonidine were not eliminated by morphine. The present results are consistent with clinical findings indicating an efficacy of clonidine in the treatment of opioid withdrawal through a non-opioid mechanism.
Arousal is regulated by the interplay between wakefulness- and sleep-promoting nuclei. Major wakefulness-promoting nuclei are the histaminergic tuberomamillary nucleus (TMN) of the hypothalamus and the noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) of the pons, which also play a role in autonomic regulation. First generation antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine, are likely to cause sedation by blocking excitatory H1 histamine receptors in the cerebral cortex, and the anti-narcolepsy drug modafinil may promote wakefulness by activating the locus coeruleus. We compared the effects of single doses of diphenhydramine (75 mg) and modafinil (200 mg) on arousal and autonomic functions in 16 healthy male volunteers, using a placebo-controlled, balanced, double-blind design. Arousal was assessed by critical flicker fusion frequency (CFFF), visual analogue scales (VAS) and pupillary fatigue waves (Pupillographic Sleepiness Test (PST)). Autonomic functions measured included resting pupil diameter, light and darkness reflex responses, blood pressure, heart rate and salivation. Data were analysed with ANOVA, with multiple comparisons. Diphenhydramine had sedative effects as shown by reductions in CFFF, VAS alertness ratings and increases of the indices of pupillary fatigue. Modafinil had alerting effects as indicated by reductions in the measures of pupillary fatigue. Comparison of pre-post medication changes in pupil diameter showed a decrease after diphenhydramine and an increase after modafinil. Diphenhydramine reduced salivation, and modafinil increased systolic blood pressure. In conclusion, diphenhydramine and modafinil evoked opposite effects on arousal and sympathetic functions, which are likely to reflect their interaction with the central histaminergic and noradrenergic systems. Hyposalivation by diphenhydramine is likely to be due to its additional anticholinergic property.
Ca and phenylephrine, both of which increase mean arterial pressure (MAP), are often administered concurrently during resuscitation of critically ill patients. To determine whether the response to phenylephrine is potentiated by Ca administration, we studied eight adult patients 24 h after aortocoronary bypass surgery. Each patient received three doses of phenylephrine (150, 300, and 450 ng/kg.min), administered both with and without CaCl2 (5 mg/kg bolus followed by a 2-mg/kg.h infusion). Phenylephrine alone at 150, 300, and 450 ng/kg.min increased MAP by 2%, 6%, and 17%, respectively. Ca alone increased serum ionized Ca levels from 1.00 +/- .03 (SEM) to 1.20 +/- .02 mM (p less than .05) and increased MAP from 84 +/- 1 to 90 +/- 2 mm Hg (p less than .05), but had no effect on cardiac index (CI). When administered concurrently with Ca, phenylephrine at 150, 300, and 450 ng/kg.min increased MAP by 6%, 7%, and 13%, respectively. Phenylephrine had no effect on CI, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, CVP, or heart rate whether or not it was administered with Ca. We conclude that concomitant Ca administration does not augment the hypertensive response to phenylephrine in normotensive patients recovering from open heart surgery.
Naringenin, a phytoalexin found in grapefruits and tomatoes, has been reported to exhibit a wide range of pharmacological properties. In this study, we investigated the protective effect of naringenin on hepatic injury induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) in rats. Oral administration of naringenin (20 and 50 mg/kg daily for 4 weeks) remarkably prevented the DMN-induced loss in body and liver weights and inhibited the elevation of serum alanine transaminase, aspartate transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin levels. Naringenin also restored serum albumin and total protein levels, and reduced the hepatic level of malondialdehyde. Furthermore, DMN-induced collagen accumulation, as estimated by histological analysis of liver tissue stained with Sirius red, was reduced in the naringenin-treated rats. A reduction in hepatic stellate cell activation, as assessed by alpha-smooth muscle actin staining, was associated with naringenin treatment. In conclusion, these results demonstrate that naringenin exhibited in vivo hepatoprotective and anti-fibrogenic effects against DMN-induced liver injury. It suggests that naringenin may be useful in preventing the development of hepatic fibrosis.
Five new cases of hemolytic uremic syndrome associated mitomycin C treatment in neoplastic patients are presented and clinical, biological, histological therapeutic and the evolution data of 92 other cases from the literature are analyzed. The results point out the high incidence of GI adenocarcinomas (65%), its rare appearance with total mitomycin doses below 50 mg/m2, its frequent clinical presentation with cardiovascular manifestations, the therapeutical difficulties and the possibility of a better prognosis with an early diagnosis.
A large body of evidence suggests that the inflammatory reaction plays an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Our previous studies described the neuroprotective effects of catalpol in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory models, in which catalpol was shown to prevent mesencephalic neuron death and ameliorate cognitive ability animals. To further investigate the protective effect and underlying mechanism of catalpol, astrocytes were pretreated with low (0.1mM) and high dose (0.5mM) catalpol for 1h prior to LPS plus interferon-γ stimulation. Biochemical analyses showed that NO and ROS production and iNOS activity were significantly reduced by catalpol. Data at transcriptional level also demonstrated that catalpol potently attenuated gene expressions involved in inflammation, such as iNOS, COX-2 and TLR4. In addition, our exploration further revealed that the suppressive action of catalpol on inflammation was mediated via inhibiting nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) activation. Collectively, these results suggest that catalpol can exert inhibitory effects on the inflammatory reaction in astrocytes and that inactivation of NF-κB could be the major determinant for its anti-inflammatory mechanism. Therefore, catalpol may potentially be a highly effective therapeutic agent in treating neurodegenerative diseases associated with inflammation.
2-N-Pentyl-4-pentynoic acid [pentyl-4-yn-valproic acid (VPA)] is an analogue of valproic acid that induces neuritogenesis and increases neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) prevalence in cultured neural cells. As memory consolidation involves synapse growth, aided by cell adhesion molecule function, we determined whether or not pentyl-4-yn-VPA had cognition-enhancing properties. Pentyl-4-yn-VPA (16-85 mg/kg) significantly improved water maze learning and task retention when given prior to each training session. Acute administration of pentyl-4-yn-VPA also influenced memory consolidation processes as, when given at 3 h post-passive avoidance training, the amnesia induced by scopolamine given 6 h post-training was prevented in a dose-dependent manner. Chronic administration of pentyl-4-yn-VPA (16.8 or 50.4 mg/kg) also significantly reduced escape latencies in the water maze task, 24 h following the last drug administration. This improved spatial learning was accompanied by enhanced neuroplasticity as the expression of NCAM polysialylated neurons in the infragranular zone of the dentate gyrus and in layer II of the perirhinal and piriform cortex was increased significantly following chronic drug treatment. The cognition-enhancing qualities of pentyl-4-yn-VPA, combined with its ability to attenuate the age-related loss of the NCAM polysialylation state, suggest that it may effectively slow the onset of cognitive decline.
Two patients with femoral neuropathy resulting from compression by spontaneous hematoma of the iliopsoas muscle while on anticoagulant therapy, were definitively diagnosed preoperatively by CT scan. Early decompression of the femoral nerve, after correcting the coagulopathy, is recommended to assure optimal chances for relief of pain and recovery of neurological function.
Due to the stimulation of central and peripheral 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors, the serotonin syndrome is a potentially lethal situation. The large variety of its clinical manifestations leads to a difficult diagnosis. We describe the case of a serotonin syndrome induced by the combined escitalopram and cyclosporine administration. An 84-year-old woman was hospitalized with a history of delirium associated with hyperthermia. The diagnosis of serotonin syndrome was suspected with the combination of the clinical features: the absence of infection, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor administration, and the absence of other metabolic and cerebral aetiology. After the discontinuation of escitalopram, the patient's condition improved rapidly. This report is a reminder of the clinical and pharmacological features of the serotonin syndrome from a recent literature review.
Four different series of triazole diamidines have been prepared by the Pinner method from the corresponding triazole dinitriles. Copper-catalyzed "click chemistry" was used for the synthesis of 1,4- and 4,5-substituted triazoles, aryl magnesium acetylide reagents for the 1,5-substituted triazoles, with a thermal dipolar addition reaction employed for the 2,4-substituted triazoles. In vitro antimalarial activity against two different PfCRT-modified parasite lines (Science 2002, 298, 210-213) of Plasmodium falciparum and inhibition of hemozoin formation were determined for each compound. Several diamidines with potent nanomolar antimalarial activities were identified, and selected molecules were resynthesized as their diamidoxime triazole prodrugs. One of these prodrugs, OB216, proved to be highly potent in vivo with an ED50 value of 5 mg kg(-1) (po) and an observed 100 % cure rate (CD100) of just 10 mg kg(-1) by oral (po) administration in mice infected with P. vinckei.
The causal relationship between early seizures and subsequent temporal lobe epilepsy has not yet been established. Prospective clinical studies reported that seizures occurring early in life rarely result in hippocampal sclerosis. Likewise, in most experimental models, early seizures occurring before the end of the second postnatal week do not lead to neuronal damage and subsequent epilepsy. In some models, this early event decreases latency sensitivity and threshold to seizures. In the present study, we induced lithium and pilocarpine status epilepticus (SE) in 10-day-old (P10) rats. The goal of this study was to determine whether this early life SE altered the sensitivity to convulsants such as pentylenetetrazol (20 and 25 mg/kg), picrotoxin (2.5 and 4.0 mg/kg) and kainate (5 and 8 mg/kg) during adulthood. The occurrence of electrographic seizures (spike-and-wave discharges, SWD) and/or of behavioral seizures was monitored. There was no difference in latency to and duration of SWDs and seizures between lithium-saline and lithium-pilocarpine exposed rats. Thus, SE induced by lithium and pilocarpine early in life does not change the sensitivity to limbic seizures or seizures induced by GABA(A) antagonists during adulthood.
The patients with severe and 10 with accelerated or malignant hypertension were treated with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril. Captopril acutely reduced blood pressure in all patients except two who had suppressed plasma renin activity. Four patients with encephalopathy showed immediate improvement after the first dose. Two patients could be withdrawn from nitroprusside infusion upon administration of captopril. Nineteen of 20 patients have remained on captopril for 12-32 months. Blood pressure is controlled in 18 and improved in two. Eleven required addition of diuretic and one addition of clonidine. The maximal antihypertensive effect of captopril with or without diuretics was evident after 3 months of continuous therapy and was associated with elevated plasma renin levels, normal aldosterone excretion and preservation of renal function. Captopril was well-tolerated, but produced occasional rash, loss of taste and proteinuria. We conclude that captopril, alone or in combination with other drugs, is effective in both the acute and long-term management of severe and malignant hypertension.
Patients with persistent fever and neutropenia often receive empirical therapy with conventional or liposomal amphotericin B for the prevention and early treatment of invasive fungal infections. Caspofungin, a member of the new echinocandin class of compounds, may be an effective alternative that is better tolerated than amphotericin B.
In this randomized, double-blind, multinational trial, we assessed the efficacy and safety of caspofungin as compared with liposomal amphotericin B as empirical antifungal therapy. At study entry, patients were stratified according to risk and according to whether they had previously received antifungal prophylaxis. A successful outcome was defined as the fulfillment of all components of a five-part composite end point.
Efficacy was evaluated in 1095 patients (556 receiving caspofungin and 539 receiving liposomal amphotericin B). After adjustment for strata, the overall success rates were 33.9 percent for caspofungin and 33.7 percent for liposomal amphotericin B (95.2 percent confidence interval for the difference, -5.6 to 6.0 percent), fulfilling statistical criteria for the noninferiority of caspofungin. Among patients with baseline fungal infections, a higher proportion of those treated with caspofungin had a successful outcome (51.9 percent vs. 25.9 percent, P=0.04). The proportion of patients who survived at least seven days after therapy was greater in the caspofungin group (92.6 percent vs. 89.2 percent, P=0.05). Premature study discontinuation occurred less often in the caspofungin group than in the amphotericin B group (10.3 percent vs. 14.5 percent, P=0.03). The rates of breakthrough fungal infections and resolution of fever during neutropenia were similar in the two groups. Fewer patients who received caspofungin sustained a nephrotoxic effect (2.6 percent vs. 11.5 percent, P<0.001), an infusion-related event (35.1 percent vs. 51.6 percent, P<0.001), or a drug-related adverse event or discontinued therapy because of drug-related adverse events.
Caspofungin is as effective as and generally better tolerated than liposomal amphotericin B when given as empirical antifungal therapy in patients with persistent fever and neutropenia.
It is unclear whether nitrous oxide (N(2)O) has a protective effect on cardiac function in vitro. In addition, little is known about the cardioprotective effect of anesthesia administered during hypoxia or ischemia. We therefore studied the cardioprotective effects of N(2)O and sevoflurane administered before or during hypoxia in isolated rat hearts. Rat hearts were excised and perfused using the Langendorff technique. For hypoxia-reoxygenation, hearts were made hypoxic (95% N(2), 5% CO(2)) for 45 min and then reoxygenated (95% O(2), 5% CO(2)) for 40 min (control: CT group). Preconditioning was achieved through three cycles of application of 4% sevoflurane (sevo-pre group) or 50% N(2)O (N(2)O-pre group) for 5 min with 5-min washouts in between. Hypoxic conditions were achieved by administering the 4% sevoflurane (sevo-hypo group) or 50% N(2)O (N(2)O-hypo group) during the 45-min hypoxic period. L-type calcium channel currents (I(Ca,L)) were recorded on rabbit myocytes. (1) Both 4% sevoflurane and 50% N(2)O significantly reduced left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP). Sevoflurane also increased left ventricular end-diastolic pressure, though N(2)O did not. (2) The recoveries of LVDP and pressure-rate product (PRP) after hypoxia-reoxygenation were better in the sevo-pre group than in the CT or N(2)O-pre group. (3) Application of either sevoflurane or N(2)O during hypoxia improved recovery of LVDP and PRP, and GOT release was significantly lower than in the CT group. (4) Sevoflurane and N(2)O reduced I(Ca,L) to similar extents. Although sevoflurane administered before or during hypoxia exerts a cardioprotective effect, while N(2)O shows a cardioprotective effect only when administered during hypoxia.
There is little experience with the use of various therapies in the end-stage renal disease patient who becomes pregnant. Erythropoietin for the treatment of anemia has become part of the standard treatment regimen of dialysis patients, but experience with its use in pregnancy is limited. We report five cases of its use in dialysis patients during pregnancy. We found no evidence that it crossed the placenta or that it made blood pressure control more difficult. We found that patients required a higher dose of erythropoietin to maintain hematocrit levels than they had before pregnancy. Another therapy involves the treatment for premature labor, which is the most common cause of pregnancy loss in dialysis patients. Two of our patients were successfully treated with indomethacin for premature labor. Both drugs are useful tools in the management of pregnant dialysis patients.
Cancer incidence among 8,004 patients hospitalized for epilepsy between 1933 and 1962 in the Filadelfia treatment community in Denmark was compared to that of the general population. Patients received powerful and prolonged treatment with phenobarbital, phenytoin, and other anticonvulsants. This new survey extends the follow-up from 1976 through 1984. Among 7,864 patients with epilepsy not known to have received radioactive Thorotrast, record linkage with national cancer incidence files identified 789 cancers, compared to 664 expected [relative risk (RR) = 1.19; 95% confidence interval = 1.11-1.27]. Significant risks were found for cancers of the brain and central nervous system (RR = 5.7; n = 118) and the lung (RR = 1.4; n = 106). The excess numbers of brain cancer were concentrated within 10 years of hospitalization (RR = 20.7; n = 80) and decreased significantly over time, which suggests that brain tumors account for the seizure disorder and are not due to phenobarbital exposure as suggested by some epidemiologic studies. No overall risk was apparent when brain cancers were excluded (RR = 1.03). Because bladder cancer was significantly decreased (RR = 0.6; n = 18), the excess risk of lung cancer may not have been related to the "anecdotal" heavy smoking reported among confined groups of epileptic patients in the early years of the study period. The incidence of malignant melanoma was also significantly low (RR = 0.5; n = 7), which suggested limited exposure to sunlight among confined patients. The risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was increased, but not significantly (RR = 1.4; n = 16), which is interesting in view of previous reports suggesting an association with phenytoin. Overall, these data provide little evidence that phenobarbital and phenytoin are carcinogenic to humans, but the excess risks of lung cancer and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma among epileptic patients in our study deserve further evaluation.
This study was performed to determine whether prenatal exposure to alprazolam affects offspring behavior in different strains of mice.
Eight to 11 gravid mice of the C3H/He, C57BL/6, A/J, and DBA/2 strains were given either an anxiolytic dose of alprazolam (0.32 mg/kg) or a placebo by gavage on day 18 of an anticipated 19- to 21-day gestation. Neurobehavior tasks were conducted to assess anxiety, learning and memory, and social interaction. Data were analyzed by analysis of variance or a Fisher exact probability test.
Anxiety in alprazolam-exposed offspring was reduced in C3H/He (P <.05) and A/J (P <.05) newborn infants by separation vocalization but may be increased in the C3H/He adult strain on the plus maze task. Learning was slower among C57BL/6 mice exposed to alprazolam (P <.01), whereas memory was reduced in exposed A/J and DBA/2 offspring (P <.05). Alprazolam exposure was associated with more aggression among C3H/He and C57BL/6 male offspring (P <.01) and with less group activity by C57BL/6 offspring (P <.05).
Altered behaviors in several mouse strains after prenatal exposure to alprazolam suggests a vulnerability of GABA-benozdiazepine receptor formation in fetal brain development.
Inflammation and oxidative stress take part in the development of the pathogenesis of acute coronary syndromes (ACS). The aim of this study was to analyze serum concentrations of high sensitivity C-reactive protein (PCR-as) and malondialdehyde (MDA) in cocaine consumer patients and ACS.
We carried out a retrospective analysis of 43 patients with ACS and a positive urine test for cocaine, who were compared to a sample of 49 patients with this diagnosis and a negative test. We evaluated the clinical, laboratory, electrocardiographic and hemodynamic features.
Both groups were similar in clinical, laboratory, electrocardiographic and hemodynamic features, except those patients with ACS and a positive cocaine test who were younger and had a predominantly transient ST-segment elevation. PCR-as values were lower in the ACS and cocaine positive group (4.82+/-0.67 versus 5.34+/-0.81mg/L, p <0.0035). In contrast, MDA concentrations were higher (0.66+/-0.50 versus 0.31+/-0.09nmol/ml, p <0.0001). Likewise, in the multivariate analysis, patients with ACS and cocaine positive test were related, on an independent form, to oxidative stress.
Oxidative stress plays a major role on inflammation in the different mechanisms involving cocaine in the pathogenesis of ACS, independently of the age and cardiovascular risk factors.
A case of severe water intoxication with convulsion and prolonged coma, following the use of a high dose Syntocinon infusion is described. The pathogenesis and treatment of the condition are discussed.
A case of severe vasospasm producing ischemia associated with the administration of dihydroergotamine and heparin for prophylaxis of deep venous thrombosis is presented. We feel that the intensity of the vasospasm was related to the ergot in combination with the use of pressors and the presence of an operative site contiguous to the spastic artery. Based on our experience and a review of the world's literature, we feel that risk of vasospasm in trauma patients outweighs the potential additional benefit of this combination of drugs over heparin prophylaxis alone.
Akinetic mutism is an uncommon clinical syndrome characterized by the inability to produce voluntary movements or speech without loss of awareness. Cerebrovascular diseases are the most frequent etiology. It has been reported in cyclosporine-related neurotoxicity, but it is exceptional as the presenting form of tacrolimus intoxication. We report the case of a 66-year-old man who underwent an orthotopic liver transplantation and was treated with intravenous methylprednisolone and tacrolimus. He had an uneventful postoperative course until the third day after surgery, when he developed acute onset mutism, akinesia, and waxy rigidity of passive limb movements. His arterial blood pressure and temperature were normal. Blood analysis and a magnetic resonance image of the brain showed no acute abnormalities. Serum levels of tacrolimus were 20.8 ng/mL, so it was substituted by cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil with progressive and complete recovery of akinetic mutism during the following days. Akinetic mutism is an exceptional manifestation of tacrolimus neurotoxicity, but early recognition of the syndrome and withdrawal of the drug are important to avoid persistent cerebral lesions.
A patient with prochlorperazine-induced cholestasis that persisted for more than 2 years is reported. The timing of the onset of jaundice, the clinical, biochemical and histological findings and the subsequent course of this patient were typical of chlorpromazine-induced chronic cholestasis. Despite subsequent resolution of jaundice, liver biopsy performed 2 years after the onset of clinical disease showed fibrous expansion of the portal tracts with focal porto-portal and centro-portal bridging fibrosis, and paucity of inter-lobular bile ducts, a picture simulating that of primary biliary cirrhosis. Long-term follow-up is required to determine whether this patient will progress to frank cirrhosis.
We report the case of a 24-year-old female patient who initially developed a neuroleptic malignant syndrome after haloperidol exposure and experienced 6 years later a serotonin syndrome after repeated fluoxetine exposure. The patient did not respond to symptomatic treatment and died in this latter episode. At necropsy, no gross or microscopic changes were seen with conventional histological stains, and immunohistochemical stains were negative. This is the first clinicopathologic case of a patient who experienced both neuroleptic malignant and serotonin syndromes. We speculate that this case argue in favor that both syndromes share some fundamental pathogenetic mechanisms.
Cocaine and nicotine have a number of similar behavioral and neurobiological effects. This study compared the acute effects of cocaine and cigarette smoking on luteinizing hormone (LH), testosterone (T), and prolactin. Twenty-four men who met American Psychiatric Association Diagnostic and Statistical Manual criteria for cocaine abuse or nicotine dependence were given intravenous cocaine (0.4 mg/kg) or placebo-cocaine, or smoked a low or high nicotine cigarette under controlled conditions. Placebo-cocaine or low nicotine cigarette smoking did not change LH, T, or prolactin. Peak plasma levels of 254 +/- 18 ng cocaine/ml and 22.6 +/- 3.4 ng nicotine/ml were measured at 8 and 14 min, respectively. LH increased significantly after both i.v. cocaine and high nicotine cigarette smoking (P < 0.01). These LH increases were significantly correlated with increases in cocaine and nicotine plasma levels (P < 0.001-0.003), and high nicotine cigarette smoking stimulated significantly greater increases in LH release than i.v. cocaine (P < 0.05). Testosterone levels did not change significantly after either cocaine or after high nicotine cigarette smoking. After i.v. cocaine, prolactin decreased significantly and remained below baseline levels throughout the sampling period (P < 0.05-0.01). After high nicotine cigarette smoking, prolactin increased to hyperpro-lactinemic levels within 6 min and remained significantly above baseline levels for 42 min (P < 0.05-0.03). The rapid increases in LH and reports of subjective "high" after both i.v. cocaine and high nicotine cigarette smoking illustrate the similarities between these drugs and suggest a possible contribution of LH to their abuse-related effects.
