A case of Coombs' positive anemia in a man who had procainamide-induced lupus erythematosus syndrome is reported. The patient had a hemoglobin of 4.3 gm/dl and reticulocytopenia (3.1% corrected). Serum lactate dehydrogenase and haptoglobin levels were normal, and total bilirubin was only slightly elevated. Two other reported cases of procainamide-induced hemolytic anemia have demonstrated similar findings. Apparently, procainamide occasionally may induce a reversible, reticulocytopenic, Coombs' positive anemia that is not associated with laboratory evidence of acute hemolysis.
We report a case of bilateral ocular deviation due to droperidol-induced acute dystonia that was initially undiagnosed. A 22-year-old, 72 kg, parturient at 42 weeks' gestation underwent emergency cesarean section for pregnancy-induced hypertension under combined spinal-epidural analgesia. The epidural catheter was inserted through the T11-12 interspace, followed by intrathecal hyperbaric bupivacaine with adjunctive fentanyl. The patient complained of nausea shortly after delivery, which subsided with intravenous droperidol 1.25 mg and metoclopramide 10 mg. After surgery, epidural infusion with a mixture of ropivacaine, fentanyl, and droperidol was started. Around 25 hours postoperatively, both of the patient's eyes rotated upwards, although she was fully conscious. Brain CT/MRI did not show any abnormalities. An ophthalmologist and a neurosurgeon were consulted but there was no definitive diagnosis. On subsequent consultation with anesthesiologists, it was assumed that the symptom was related to external ophthalmoplegia secondary to spinal anesthesia. Thereafter, a "wait and see" approach was adopted. After 8 hours, she gradually developed torticollis and increased muscle tone of the lower extremities, which facilitated a diagnosis based on extrapyramidal signs. Epidural infusion was discontinued without further treatment. Her symptoms completely disappeared within 5 hours. The estimated cumulative dose of intravenous and epidural droperidol was 4.6 mg over 34 hours.
We evaluated patients abruptly withdrawn from fluvoxamine, a serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor, for evidence of a discontinuation syndrome.
In an open-label study, 14 subjects were abruptly withdrawn from fluvoxamine after treatment lasting 8 months (7 months for 1 patient). Psychological, somatic, and perceptual symptoms were assessed at Day 5, Day 10, and Day 14 postdiscontinuation. Anxiety and depression were assessed using clinician and self-rated scales.
Twelve (86%) of 14 subjects developed new symptoms. The most frequent symptoms reported were dizziness/incoordination, headaches, nausea, and irritability. Symptoms peaked on Day 5 postdiscontinuation. Only 1 subject had a recurrence of panic, but another developed anxiety and depression; both were remedicated.
Abrupt fluvoxamine discontinuation is associated with a characteristic syndrome in many patients.
This study was designed to develop an animal model of Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes with persistent hypertension. Male spontaneously hypertensive rats were treated with 25.0, 37.5, 50.0, 62.5 or 75.0 mg/kg of streptozotocin given intraperitoneally at 2 days of age and maintained for 12 weeks. In the rats which received 50.0 mg/kg or more streptozotocin, overt hyperglycaemia gradually and consistently developed following incomplete recovery from an initial hyperglycaemia. Compared to vehicle-treated controls, body weight gain in these animals did not differ for the first 8 weeks; thereafter, it was slightly but significantly (p less than 0.05) reduced. The animals treated with 25.0 or 37.5 mg/kg streptozotocin developed mild to moderate hyperglycaemia, but their body weight gain was similar to controls. The relationships between streptozotocin dose and metabolic responses (plasma glucose, glycosylated haemoglobin, urinary glucose, food intake, etc.) were clearly demonstrated. Systolic blood pressure rose with progressing age in both controls and streptozotocin-treated rats, irrespective of dosage or metabolic response. This new rat model of Type 2 diabetes associated with persistent hypertension may be useful in studying these combined effects on small and large vessels.
The morbidity and mortality rate of cardiovascular diseases are increasing massively worldwide. The environmental pollutants especially agrochemicals are the most unrecognized cardiovascular risk factors. Monocrotophos (MCP), an organophosphate pesticide with acetylcholine esterase inhibition activity is widely used in India and other parts of the world. The present study investigated the cardiotoxicity of prolonged intake of MCP. Wistar rats were administered 1/50th of LD50 dosage of MCP (0.36mg/kg body weight) orally via gavage daily for three weeks. MCP administered animals exhibited mild-hyperglycemia and dyslipidemia in blood. Cardiac oxidative stress was conferred by accumulation of protein carbonyls, lipid peroxidation and glutathione production. The cardiac markers (cTn-I, CK-MB and LDH) were showed elevated expression in blood plasma, which signals the cardiac tissue damage. The histopathology of the heart tissue authenticated the MCP induced tissue damage by showing signs of nonspecific inflammatory changes and oedema between muscle fibres. Thus the findings of this preliminary study illustrate the cardiotoxic effect of prolonged MCP intake in rats and suggest that MCP can be a possible independent and potent environmental cardiovascular risk factor.
Mitomycin C (MMC) is an alkylating agent that has been recently associated with the hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS). Pulmonary impairment in the HUS is rarely reported in the literature, and no reports of pulmonary hemorrhage, as a clinical feature of the HUS, have been documented. We describe two women who developed HUS after MMC therapy and presented massive pulmonary bleeding. Pulmonary hemorrhage is an uncommon feature in the HUS, and seems to appear especially in the HUS associated with MMC therapy. It is extremely resistant to standard treatment, and confers a poor prognosis for this disease.
Renal injury caused by the injection of phenol in the lower pole of one kidney increases sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activity and blood pressure (BP), and these effects are mediated by increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) in brain nuclei involved in the noradrenergic control of BP. This suggests that therapy with antioxidants might be beneficial in this model. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that a vitamin (Vit)-E-enriched diet might decrease oxidative stress in the brain and result in reduced SNS activity and BP in animals with phenol-renal injury. To this end, we examined the effects of a Vit-E-fortified diet vs. a control diet on BP, norepinephrine (NE) secretion from the posterior hypothalamic nuclei (PH), and the abundance of several components of Nicotinamide Adenine Dinucleotide Phosphate (NADPH) oxidase in the brain of rats with phenol-induced renal injury. A Vit-E-fortified diet mitigated the formation of ROS in the brain, and this was associated with reduced SNS activity and BP in rats with phenol-induced renal injury. In conclusion, antioxidants appear to be beneficial in the management of hypertension caused by renal injury and increased SNS activity.
The morphology of early allergic contact dermatitis reactions was studied in formaldehyde allergic individuals exposed to a cream product preserved with 4 different concentrations of diazolidinyl urea. The study was made using a dose-escalating design in 3 different anatomical regions, the upper arm, neck and face. On the arm and neck, the dominant initial morphology was an eczematous papular eruption. In the face, the initial skin changes were more homogeneous and infiltrated erythema.
Recently, the preservative methyldibromo glutaronitrile (MDBGN) at 0.5% w/w in petrolatum was included in the European standard patch test series based on the studies on chemical stability and consideration of rates of contact allergy, doubtful and irritant reactions as well as information on clinical relevance represented by results of a repeated open application test (ROAT) and patch test concentrations required to diagnose allergic contact dermatitis from MDBGN in individual cases. In this report, a case with a clinically relevant contact allergy to MDBGN, which on the mandatory reading occasion on D3 only was traced by a patch test with MDBGN at 1.0% (0.32 mg/cm2), is presented. The patient suffered from a chronic hand dermatitis, and when the patient stopped using a liquid soap containing MDBGN, the hand dermatitis substantially improved. A ROAT performed in a blinded and controlled way with applications twice daily on the hands with 2 moisturizers with and without MDBGN resulted in a deterioration of the hand dermatitis on the hand to which the MDBGN-preserved moisturizer had been applied.
Three histamine H1-receptor antagonists, chlorpheniramine, diphenhydramine and tripelennamine, were tested alone or in combination with morphine on locomotor activity in C57BL/6 mice. All three antihistaminics, at some dosage levels, slightly increased activity when given alone, but strongly enhanced morphine-induced hyperactivity. The results demonstrate that locomotor activity represents a useful test to evidence stimulatory effects of antihistaminic-opiate combinations.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major health problem in the Asia-Pacific region, with high incidence and mortality rate. There is currently no effective treatment for inoperable cases that represent the vast majority of patients. In the present study, we report that in vitro treatment of primary hepatoma, HepG2 (wild-type p53), PLC/PRF/5 (p53-mutant), and Hep3B (p53-deleted) cells with 2-chloroethyl-3-sarcosinamide-1-nitrosourea (SarCNU) resulted in upregulation of p53, p21(Cip1/Waf1), phosphorylated cdc-2 at Tyr15 in wild-type p53 cells and phosphorylation of cdc-2 at Tyr15 in p53-mutant or p53-deleted hepatoma cells. This was accompanied by the reduction in cdc-2 kinase activity and G(2)/M cell cycle arrest. These findings indicate that SarCNU-induced G(2)/M growth arrest in hepatoma cells by a p53-independent phosphorylation of cdc-2. Our data suggest the potential use of SarCNU in treatment of HCC.
Because of the poor quality of mental health care received by minorities, analyses documenting comparable response to and tolerability of medications for anxiety and depression in large samples of minority and majority populations could increase the willingness of providers and patients to use medications in minority populations.
A pooled analysis of 14,875 adults who participated in 104 double-blind, placebo-controlled paroxetine clinical trials investigating major depression, panic disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder, or premenstrual dysphoric disorder from March 1984 through March 2002. An intent-to-treat analysis with last observation carried forward used the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) scale to measure dichotomous outcome, classified as either response (CGI score of 1 or 2) or more complete response (CGI score of 1) ("full response"). Minority group differences were examined using logistic regression for the entire sample and repeated for those with major depression. Adverse events greater than 5% and twice the rate of placebo were descriptively tabulated. Finally, a survival analysis examined group differences in speed of onset of response.
Hispanic and Asian subjects had a slightly lower response rate, while Asians had the highest rates and Hispanics had the lowest rates of "full response." The more consistent Hispanic outcome differences appeared to be due to a higher placebo response rate. There was no treatment by minority group interaction for depressed patients. Speed of response and adverse effects were similar across groups.
There were few consistent differences in medication response and tolerability. These findings may serve to counteract the greater rate of negative attitudes toward medication use among minorities and reinforce the value of medications used to treat anxiety and depression in minorities.
Cinnarizine is a calcium-entry blocker drug used in vertiginous disorders; among its most rare adverse effects appear extrapyramidal symptoms and depression, these effects can persist during weeks, months or years after the withdrawal of the drug and have been explained by the inhibition of the passage of calcium in striatal neurons and a direct antidopaminergic features because of the similar chemical structure with neuroleptic drugs. Clinical case. A case of cinnarizine-induced akathisia, parkinsonism and depression in a 25 years-old patient after 11 days of treatment is described. Sequential evaluation were done using the following instruments: Barnes' scale for akathisia, Simpson-Angus scale for extrapyramidal symptoms, Beck's depression scale, Zung's depression scale and SCID for major depression according to DSM-IV criteria. The patient was treated with benzodiazepines, propranolol and orphenadrine.
Although cinnarizine-induced extrapyramidal symptoms and depression have been associated with old age and prolonged time of treatment, it must be considered its apparition among young patients and after a short time of treatment.
The aims of this study were to compare erythrocyte antioxidant enzyme activities, lipid peroxidation, and nitric oxide levels (NO) in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO) and non-porotic postmenopausal healthy controls and to assess the relationship between bone mineral density and these oxidant/antioxidant parameters. Additionally, in vivo effects of three different anti-osteoporotic drugs, calcitonin, risedronate and raloxifene, on the erythrocyte oxidant-antioxidant status in women with PMO were also assessed.
Postmenopausal women aged 40-65 years and without previous diagnosis or treatment for osteoporosis and independent in activities of daily living were included. Bone mineral density was measured at the lumbar spine and proximal femur using DXA. Erythrocyte enzyme activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), catalase (CAT), and lipid peroxidation end-product malondialdehyde (MDA) and nitrite/nitrate levels, by product of NO, were assessed. Fifty-nine women with PMO were included (mean age 56.7 years), 44 completed course of therapy and were analyzed. Twenty-two non-porotic healthy women (mean age 55.8 years) were included as controls.
Patients had significantly lower CAT and GSH-Px enzyme activity and higher levels of MDA and NO than non-porotic healthy controls. Proximal femur BMD measurements significantly correlated with NO levels. QUALEFFO scores improved in different levels with these short-term treatments. In all treatment groups, erythrocyte MDA levels significantly decreased; moreover, risedronate reduced NO levels and raloxifene enhanced CAT enzyme activity.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of PMO. Studied drugs had ultimate effects on reducing lipid peroxidation. Raloxifene also had potent effects in the enhancement of antioxidant defense system.
GSK207040 (5-[(3-cyclobutyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepin-7-yl)oxy]-N-methyl-2-pyrazinecarboxamide) and GSK334429 (1-(1-methylethyl)-4-({1-[6-(trifluoromethyl)-3-pyridinyl]-4-piperidinyl}carbonyl)hexahydro-1H-1,4-diazepine) are novel and selective non-imidazole histamine H(3) receptor antagonists from distinct chemical series with high affinity for human (pK(i)=9.67+/-0.06 and 9.49+/-0.09, respectively) and rat (pK(i)=9.08+/-0.16 and 9.12+/-0.14, respectively) H(3) receptors expressed in cerebral cortex. At the human recombinant H(3) receptor, GSK207040 and GSK334429 were potent functional antagonists (pA(2)=9.26+/-0.04 and 8.84+/-0.04, respectively versus H(3) agonist-induced changes in cAMP) and exhibited inverse agonist properties (pIC(50)=9.20+/-0.36 and 8.59+/-0.04 versus basal GTPgammaS binding). Following oral administration, GSK207040 and GSK334429 potently inhibited cortical ex vivo [(3)H]-R-alpha-methylhistamine binding (ED(50)=0.03 and 0.35 mg/kg, respectively). Functional antagonism of central H(3) receptors was demonstrated by blockade of R-alpha-methylhistamine-induced dipsogenia in rats (ID(50)=0.02 and 0.11 mg/kg p.o. for GSK207040 and GSK334429, respectively). In more pathophysiologically relevant pharmacodynamic models, GSK207040 (0.1, 0.3, 1 and 3mg/kg p.o.) and GSK334429 (0.3, 1 and 3mg/kg p.o.) significantly reversed amnesia induced by the cholinergic antagonist scopolamine in a passive avoidance paradigm. In addition, GSK207040 (0.1, 0.3 and 1mg/kg p.o.) and GSK334429 (3 and 10mg/kg p.o.) significantly reversed capsaicin-induced reductions in paw withdrawal threshold, suggesting for the first time that blockade of H(3) receptors may be able to reduce tactile allodynia. Novel H(3) receptor antagonists such as GSK207040 and GSK334429 may therefore have therapeutic potential not only in dementia but also in neuropathic pain.
Quantitative assessments of vestibular hair cells and Scarpa's ganglion cells were performed on 17 temporal bones from 10 individuals who had well-documented clinical evidence of aminoglycoside ototoxicity (streptomycin, kanamycin, and neomycin). Assessment of vestibular hair cells was performed by Nomarski (differential interference contrast) microscopy. Hair cell counts were expressed as densities (number of cells per 0.01 mm2 surface area of the sensory epithelium). The results were compared with age-matched normal data. Streptomycin caused a significant loss of both type I and type II hair cells in all 5 vestibular sense organs. In comparing the ototoxic effect on type I versus type II hair cells, there was greater type I hair cell loss for all 3 cristae, but not for the maculae. The vestibular ototoxic effects of kanamycin appeared to be similar to those of streptomycin, but the small sample size precluded definitive conclusions from being made. Neomycin did not cause loss of vestibular hair cells. Within the limits of this study (maximum postototoxicity survival time of 12 months), there was no significant loss of Scarpa's ganglion cells for any of the 3 drugs. The findings have implications in several clinical areas, including the correlation of vestibular test results to pathological findings, the rehabilitation of patients with vestibular ototoxicity, the use of aminoglycosides to treat Meniere's disease, and the development of a vestibular prosthesis.
Combined hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIg) and lamivudine in prophylaxis of the recurrence of hepatitis B after liver transplantation has significantly improved the survival of HBsAg positive patients. This study was undertaken to evaluate the outcomes of liver transplantation for patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV).
A retrospective chart analysis and a review of the organ transplant database identified 51 patients (43 men and 8 women) transplanted for benign HBV-related cirrhotic diseases between June 2002 and December 2004 who had survived more than 3 months. HBIg was administered intravenously during the first week and intramuscularly thereafter.
At a median follow-up of 14.1 months, the overall recurrence rate in the 51 patients was 3.9% (2/51). The overall patient survival was 88.3%, and 82.4% after 1 and 2 years, respectively. A daily oral dose of 100 mg lamivudine for 2 weeks before transplantation for 10 patients enabled 57.1% (4/7) and 62.5% (5/8) of HBV-DNA and HBeAg positive patients respectively to convert to be negative. Intramuscular HBIg was well tolerated in all patients.
Lamivudine combined with intramuscular HBIg can effectively prevent allograft from the recurrence of HBV after liver transplantation.
The most common cardiotoxic effects of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) are chest pain and ischemic ECG abnormalities. Coronary vasospasm may be the underlying mechanism. If so, prophylactic treatment with calcium channel blockers might have a beneficial effect. In the present study, prophylaxis with verapamil (120 mg three times daily) was given to 58 patients with esophageal or advanced head and neck carcinoma during induction chemotherapy with cisplatin and continuous infusion with 5-FU. Signs of ischemia appeared in 12% of the patients as compared to 13% in a previously studied compatible group of patients not receiving prophylaxis. The study does not support the hypothesis that prophylactic treatment with verapamil reduces the incidence of ischemia in patients undergoing 5-FU treatment. Verapamil might, however, modify the adverse cardiac effects of 5-FU by preventing supraventricular tachyarrhythmia.
Treatment with glucocorticoids causes wasting of proximal skeletal muscles. There is evidence that physical training improves muscle mass and strength in glucocorticoid-treated rats. Whether this is also true in humans is not known. The present investigation was designed to establish in what respect moderate physical training may alter muscle mass and function as assessed quantitatively by computed tomography (CT) and an isokinetic dynamometer (Cybex II). Compared with matched normal subjects (n = 12), patients (n = 12) treated with prednisone [12.6 +/- 3.3 (+/- SD) mg/day] had a 20% lower midthigh muscle area and a 36% increase in midthigh fat to muscle ratio. The mean peak torque and the total work output of the thigh muscle were lower by more than 20%. Baseline measurements of total work output or peak torque at all tested velocities increased with midthigh muscle area (r = 0.73; n = 24; P less than 0.001). Fifty days of isokinetic training in 12 patients increased the thigh muscle area, decreased the thigh fat area, and normalized the mean peak torque and total work output. The increase in peak torque was inversely correlated with the daily dose of prednisone (r = 0.60; n = 12; P less than 0.05). Thus, glucocorticoid-induced muscle wasting can be reversed by increasing physical activity in patients taking a low to moderate dose of prednisone.
Accumulating evidence has indicated the implication of angiotensin II in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) via its proinflammatory features. Telmisartan (TLM) is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist with marked anti-inflammatory and antioxidant actions that mediated its cardio-, reno- and hepatoprotective actions. However, its impact on IBD has not been previously explored. Thus, we aimed to investigate the potential alleviating effects of TLM in tri-nitrobenezene sulphonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in rats. Pretreatment with TLM (10 mg/kg p.o.) attenuated the severity of colitis as evidenced by decrease of disease activity index (DAI), colon weight/length ratio, macroscopic damage, histopathological findings and leukocyte migration. TLM suppressed the inflammatory response via attenuation of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity as a marker of neutrophil infiltration besides restoration of interleukin-10 (IL-10). TLM also suppressed mRNA and protein expression of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) p65 and mRNA of cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) proinflammatory genes with concomitant upregulation of PPAR-γ. The alleviation of TLM to colon injury was also associated with inhibition of oxidative stress as evidenced by suppression of lipid peroxides and nitric oxide (NO) besides boosting glutathione (GSH), total anti-oxidant capacity (TAC) and the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx). With respect to apoptosis, TLM downregulated the increased mRNA, protein expression and activity of caspase-3. It also suppressed the elevation of cytochrome c and Bax mRNA besides the upregulation of Bcl-2. Together, these findings highlight evidences for the beneficial effects of TLM in IBD which are mediated through modulation of colonic inflammation, oxidative stress and apoptosis.
There have been no precise evaluations of the effects of different durations of exposure to estrogen and progesterone pregnancy levels on mammary carcinogenesis risk. We examined such effects on the development of N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU)-induced rat mammary carcinoma.
Female Lewis rats were administered a single intraperitoneal injection of 50 mg/kg MNU at 28 days of age, and then were either left hormone-untreated (control group), or underwent subcutaneous implantation of a 21-day release pellet containing 0.5 mg 17beta-estradiol and 32.5 mg progesterone (E/P pellet) at 42 days of age. The pellet was either replaced every 3 to 4 weeks throughout the experimental period (long-term E/P group), or was implanted only once (short-term E/P group). Circulating 17beta-estradiol and progesterone levels in the serum, and expression of estrogen receptor (ER) a and progesterone receptor (PgR) in the normal mammary gland were measured. The rats were sacrificed when they developed a mammary tumor with a diameter of > or =1 cm, or when they reached the age of 29 weeks.
In rats implanted with a single E/P pellet, circulating 17beta-estradiol and progesterone levels were significantly elevated 2 weeks after implantation, but returned to control levels 8 weeks after implantation; 17beta-estradiol transiently reached pregnancy levels. In normal mammary glands of rats sacrificed at 29 weeks of age, both long- and short-term E/P treatment decreased the percentage of ERalpha- and PgR-positive cells. Rats that received long- or short-term E/P treatment had a decreased incidence of mammary carcinoma with a diameter of > or =1 cm, compared to control rats. However, when histologically detected microcarcinomas (diameter <1 cm) were included for comparison, the E/P-treated groups exhibited an abrupt increase in the number of microcarcinomas from 22 to 25 weeks after MNU injection. Although short-term E/P treatment significantly suppressed mammary carcinomas of all sizes, long-term E/P treatment had no cancer-suppressing effect.
The duration of E/P treatment is an essential factor for the suppression of mammary carcinogenesis.
Two patients with epilepsy and diabetes mellitus developed encephalopathy while on valproate monotherapy. Low plasma carnitine levels were found. Discontinuation of valproate was followed by clinical recovery and normalization of carnitine levels. Both valproate treatment and diabetes mellitus may contribute to secondary carnitine deficiency, with resultant encephalopathy. Thus, diabetic patients may be at increased risk of developing valproate encephalopathy associated with hypocarnitinaemia.
Spontaneous motor activity, rotarod test and observational rating of sedation were employed to study effect of nifedipine on sedation produced by reserpine, clonidine and propranolol. Reserpine (2 mg kg-1), clonidine (4 mg kg-1), and propranolol (40 mg kg-1) significantly reduced spontaneous motor activity and staying capacity of animals on accelerating rotarod (P < 0.01). Observational sedation was also caused significantly as indicated by a higher score in test. Nifedipine (2 mg kg-1) produced no sedation or excitation on its own. Reduction in spontaneous motor activity produced by reserpine and clonidine was partially reversed in animals treated with nifedipine (P < 0.01). A similar effect of nifedipine was also evident on the observational sedation induced by reserpine and clonidine. Effect of these drugs on rotarod times was nearly totally antagonised by nifedipine. Nifedipine did not oppose the sedation produced by propranolol which actually became significantly greater in the animals pretreated with nifedipine in all three tests. It is concluded that nifedipine antagonizes the sedation produced by reserpine and clonidine, probably by blocking central alpha 2-adrenoceptors. The sedative effect of propranolol can be potentiated by nifedipine possibly because of a pharmacokinetic interaction.
To evaluate the effectiveness of intravenous (IV) ketorolac tromethamine in the treatment of children with sickle cell disease with moderate to severe acute vaso-occlusive pain (VOP) and to develop a predictive model that would determine who would need additional IV analgesics.
A prospective case series.
The emergency department of an urban children's hospital in the southeastern United States.
A convenience sample of 51 children aged 6 to 18 years, representing 70 distinct episodes of VOP requiring IV analgesics.
All patients were given 0.5 to 1 mg/kg IV ketorolac and IV fluids.
Patients, parents, nurses, and physicians assessed pain before and after ketorolac using a standard 100-mm visual analog scale (VAS).
Of the 70 episodes of VOP, 37 (53%) adequately resolved with IV ketorolac and IV fluids and required no IV opioids (group A). Thirty-one episodes (47%) required the addition of an IV opioid (group B). Group B had a significantly greater proportion of episodes reporting 4 or more painful sites than group A, 43% (12/28) vs 9% (3/33), respectively (P<.01). Group B also had significantly higher mean initial VAS scores than group A as assessed by the patient (81 vs 60; P<.01), parent (71 vs 54; P<.01), nurse (78 vs 51, P<.01), and physician (69 vs 53; P =.01). Of the patient assessments with an initial VAS score greater than 70, 69% (18/26) required the addition of an opioid.
First-line therapy with IV ketorolac and IV fluids resulted in adequate resolution of pain in 53% of episodes with acute VOP. A reported 4 or more painful sites and an initial VAS score greater than 70 were predictors of the likelihood to need additional IV analgesics.
