The role of routine antimicrobial treatment of acute middle-ear infections is under debate, because the efficacy of antimicrobials in the resolution of middle-ear fluid has not been unambiguously proven. Acute tube otorrhea is regarded as evidence of acute otitis media, and for methodologic reasons it was chosen to provide objectivity for diagnostics and outcome assessment. The objective of this study was to assess whether amoxicillin-clavulanate accelerates the resolution of acute tube otorrhea.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in outpatient setting.
Volunteer sample of basically healthy 6- to 72-month-old children with a tympanostomy tube. Eligibility required having acute tube otorrhea of <48 hours' of duration and no prior treatment within the last 2 weeks. The mean age of the participants was 25 months; they had a history of 3 episodes of acute otitis media (median), and 99% had manifestations of a concomitant respiratory infection. Of 79 randomized patients, 7 were withdrawn because of adverse events; 66 patients completed the study.
Amoxicillin-clavulanate (N = 34; 45 mg/kg/d) or matching placebo (N = 32) for 7 days and daily suction of middle-ear fluid through tympanostomy tube.
Duration of acute tube otorrhea and duration of bacterial growth in middle-ear fluid.
The median duration of tube otorrhea was significantly shorter in amoxicillin-clavulanate than in the placebo group (3 vs 8 days). At the end of the 7-day medication period, tube otorrhea was resolved in 28 of 34 children receiving amoxicillin-clavulanate compared with 13 of 32 children on placebo (treatment-control difference 41%; 95% confidence interval, 20%-63%; number needed to treat, 2.4). The median duration of bacterial growth in middle-ear fluid was shorter in amoxicillin-clavulanate than in the placebo group (1 vs 8 days).
Oral antibiotic treatment significantly accelerates the resolution of acute tube otorrhea by reducing bacterial growth in middle-ear fluid.
Fifty-six patients with enterococcal endocarditis received 4 weeks of antimicrobial therapy with penicillin G and streptomycin (36 patients) or, if infections were streptomycin resistant, penicillin and gentamicin (20 patients). Compared with patients who had symptoms for less than 3 months, patients with symptoms for more than 3 months had a higher relapse rate (0% versus 44%; p less than 0.001) and mortality (2.5% versus 25%; p less than 0.001). Patients with mitral valve endocarditis had a significantly higher relapse rate (25%) than patients with aortic valve infections (0%) (p less than 0.01). Gentamicin-associated nephrotoxicity was more frequent (p less than 0.001) among patients treated with greater than 3 mg/kg d of gentamicin than among those treated with 3 mg or less (100% versus 20%). Relapse and mortality rates did not differ significantly between patients treated with low-dose or high-dose gentamicin regimens. Patients who have had symptoms of enterococcal endocarditis for more than 3 months or patients with mitral valve infection should receive at least 6 weeks of antimicrobial therapy, but patients without these high-risk factors can be treated for 4 weeks.
As cellular proliferation is central to the carcinogenic process, pathways that regulate proliferation may be important. Therefore, genes in the insulin and the insulin-like growth factor signaling pathways are plausible candidates for susceptibility genes for prostate cancer. We hypothesized that functional polymorphisms in INS, IRS1, IRS2, and IGF1 may be associated with prostate cancer.
We studied 199 incident prostate cancer cases and 267 age-matched controls. Genotyping was performed for the INS +1127 Ins-PstI, IRS1 G972R, IRS2 G1079D, and the IGF1 CA-repeat polymorphisms. Outcomes were prostate cancer, Gleason score, and AJCC stage.
The IRS1 G972R GR/RR genotypes were associated with a significant 2.8-fold increased risk for prostate cancer (95% CI 1.5-5.1, P = 0.0007). The other variants were not significantly associated with prostate cancer. The IRS1 G972R GR/RR genotypes were also significantly associated with more advanced Gleason score (P = 0.001) and AJCC stage (P = 0.004).
These results support a role of the insulin and/or insulin-like growth factor pathways in the etiology of prostate cancer.
N-[4-(5-Nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) is metabolically activated by several enzyme systems, including prostaglandin H synthase. Aspirin is an inhibitor of prostaglandin H synthase and has been shown to inhibit FANFT-induced bladder carcinogenesis when coadministered in the diet. To further evaluate the effects of aspirin on bladder carcinogenesis in the rat, we have coadministered aspirin with FANFT during the initiation phase and with sodium saccharin during the promotion phase of carcinogenesis. FANFT was administered in the diet at a level of 0.2% for 6 weeks as the initiator and sodium saccharin was administered in the diet at a level of 5% for 61 weeks as promoting stimulus. Aspirin was administered at a level of 0.5% with FANFT or with sodium saccharin, and appropriate control groups were included. Weanling male Fischer 344 rats were utilized and the chemicals were added to Agway Prolab 3000 rat chow. A 1-week interval was included between the FANFT and sodium saccharin administration during which the rats received either aspirin containing diet or control chow, depending on the treatment regimen of the group. Thirty rats were included in each group at the beginning of the experiment, except for the control group which contained 40. Rats given FANFT followed by saccharin had a bladder carcinoma incidence of 83%. Rats given aspirin with FANFT but not with saccharin had a carcinoma incidence of 20% and the rats fed aspirin with the saccharin but not with the FANFT had an incidence of 28%. FANFT followed by control diet resulted in a bladder carcinoma incidence of 10%, as was true for the rats given FANFT plus aspirin followed by control diet. However, the hyperplastic effects induced in the bladder epithelium by saccharin without prior FANFT administration were inhibited by coadministration with aspirin. These results indicate that aspirin inhibits both FANFT initiation and sodium saccharin promotion of bladder carcinogenesis, but the mechanisms involved would most probably be different for each.
Doxorubicin (adriamycin) is an effective drug in the treatment of many malignancies. Its prolonged use is, however, limited by an irreversible, dose-dependent and progressive cardiomyopathy, which may become evident even years after completion of therapy. Data from rats and humans show that oxidative phosphorylation is impaired rapidly after acute doxorubicin-exposure. Such respiratory chain dysfunction is known to enhance the production of reactive oxygen species and may lead to quantitative and qualitative injury of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and its encoded respiratory chain subunits. MtDNA depletion, mtDNA mutations and respiratory defects then accumulate with time also in the absence of continued anthracycline exposure. Chronic cardiotoxicity then manifests, when the bioenergetic capacity of the organelles is severely impaired. The mitochondrial damage in late-onset doxorubicin cardiomyopathy is heart specific and not found in skeletal muscle. DOXO-EMCH, a 6-maleimidocaproyl hydrazone derivative of doxorubicin has evolved from the search for less cardiotoxic anthracyclines. At equieffective antitumor doses, DOXO-EMCH has a substantially lower heart toxicity than free doxorubicin.
Methylphenidate and dextroamphetamine are central nervous system stimulants used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorders in children. These medications have been associated with cerebral arteritis, renal necrotizing vasculitis, and systemic and pulmonary hypertension. We report 4 patients, 2 on methylphenidate and 2 on dextroamphetamine who presented with acral cyanosis, livedo reticularis, or Raynaud phenomenon. Two patients were found to have a positive ANA at low titers, 1 of whom had histopathologic evidence of stratum malgiphian necrosis with perivascular lymphocytic infiltration on skin biopsy. Two had positive antihistone antibodies. One patient improved after withdrawal of dextroamphetamine; others had worsening of their symptoms on higher doses of medications. These cases indicate the potential for development of acral cyanosis, livedo reticularis, or Raynaud symptoms with these medications and their potential contribution to a vasculopathy.
In the body, nanoparticles can be systemically distributed and then may affect secondary target organs, such as the central nervous system (CNS). Putative adverse effects on the CNS are rarely investigated to date. Here, we used a mixed primary cell model consisting mainly of neurons and astrocytes and a minor proportion of oligodendrocytes to analyze the effects of well-characterized 20 and 40 nm silver nanoparticles (SNP). Similar gold nanoparticles served as control and proved inert for all endpoints tested. SNP induced a strong size-dependent cytotoxicity. Additionally, in the low concentration range (up to 10 μg/ml of SNP), the further differentiated cultures were more sensitive to SNP treatment. For detailed studies, we used low/medium dose concentrations (up to 20 μg/ml) and found strong oxidative stress responses. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were detected along with the formation of protein carbonyls and the induction of heme oxygenase-1. We observed an acute calcium response, which clearly preceded oxidative stress responses. ROS formation was reduced by antioxidants, whereas the calcium response could not be alleviated by antioxidants. Finally, we looked into the responses of neurons and astrocytes separately. Astrocytes were much more vulnerable to SNP treatment compared with neurons. Consistently, SNP were mainly taken up by astrocytes and not by neurons. Immunofluorescence studies of mixed cell cultures indicated stronger effects on astrocyte morphology. Altogether, we can demonstrate strong effects of SNP associated with calcium dysregulation and ROS formation in primary neural cells, which were detectable already at moderate dosages.
Lead ion (Pb(2+)) is one of the most hazardous heavy metals to almost all life forms. The components of store-operated Ca(2+) entry as a molecular gateway have been previously found to participate in the cytotoxic entry of Pb(2+). However, the safe levels of intracellular Pb(2+) hiding in blood Pb(2+) levels are still not determined with full certainty. The present study aimed to construct protein-based Pb(2+) indicators to help establish a reliable setting for the content monitoring of intracellular Pb(2+). A series of Pb(2+) indicators based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer, Met-leads, were developed. The Pb(2+)-binding protein PbrR (from Cupriavidus metallidurans CH34) was applied between the fluorescent protein pair ECFP(ΔC11) and cp173Venus. The spectral patterns and sensing ranges of all Met-leads were characterized in vitro. Among these constructs, Met-lead 1.59 had relatively high ion selectivity and broad dynamic range (3.3-5.7). Consequently, this Met-lead was adopted in the cellular Pb(2+) biosensing. The intracellular Pb(2+) content in human embryonic kidney cells was successfully monitored using Met-lead 1.59 under both short- and long-term treatments. The existence of intracellular Pb(2+) can be significantly sensed using Met-lead 1.59 after 3 h 0.5μM (10 μg/dl) exposure, which is 200 times more improved than previous live-cell indicators. In summary, a new Pb(2+) indicator, Met-lead 1.59, was successfully developed for advanced research on Pb(2+) toxicology.
Cyclooxygenase, either the cox1 or cox2 isoform, controls synthesis of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), which regulates expression of matrix metalloprotease-9 (MMP-9). PGE2 and MMP-9 are elevated in aortic aneurysms. The mechanisms and time course of the inhibition of aneurysm expansion with a nonspecific cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin, were determined in an animal model.
Rats underwent aortic perfusion with saline (n = 40) as controls or with elastase. Elastase-treated animals received no treatment (n = 82) or received indomethacin (n = 73). Aortic diameters were determined at the time of aortic perfusion and when the rats were killed. The aortas were harvested and used for whole organ culture, substrate gel zymography, or histologic analysis.
The control group demonstrated little change in aortic diameter. All the elastase-only animals developed aneurysms (maximal aortic diameter, 5.27 +/- 2.37 mm on day 14). Indomethacin markedly decreased the rate of aortic expansion (maximum aortic diameter, 3.45 +/- 1.11 mm; P <.001 vs the elastase-only group). The enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay of aortic explant culture media showed that PGE2 synthesis paralleled aortic expansion, and indomethacin decreased PGE2 synthesis. Histologically, the aortic elastin architecture was destroyed in the elastase group, but was preserved with indomethacin treatment. In situ, hybridization for cox1 and cox2 showed that cox2, but not cox1, was expressed and was co-localized by immunohistochemistry to macrophages associated with the aortic wall. Decreased levels of MMP-9 activity with indomethacin were shown by means of substrate zymography. MMP-9 was also localized to macrophages.
Indomethacin attenuates aneurysm growth, and its effects are mediated via inhibition of the cox2 isoform of cyclooxygenase, which decreases PGE2 and MMP-9 synthesis.
The toxicology of nanoparticles (NPs) is an area of intense investigation that would be greatly aided by improved understanding of the relationship between NP structure and inflammogenicity. To evaluate how their physicochemical parameters influence toxicity, we assembled a panel of 15 metal/metal oxide NPs and attempted to relate various physicochemical parameters, including zeta potential (ζP) and solubility, to lung inflammogenicity. The acute pulmonary inflammogenicity of the 15 NPs showed a significant correlation with one of two structural parameters-ζP under acid conditions for low-solubility NPs and solubility to toxic species for high-solubility NPs. ζP is the electrical potential created between the surface of a particle, with its associated ions, and the medium it exists in and provides information concerning the particle surface charge. We suggest that inside the phagolysosome under acid conditions, a high positive ζP may allow NPs to damage the integrity of the phagolysosomal membrane leading to inflammation. In the case of high-solubility NPs, inflammogenicity depends on the ions that are produced during dissolution of NP inside the acidic phagolysosomes; if the ions are toxic, then phagolysosomes will be destabilized and cause inflammation. These two parameters may have utility in preliminary assessment of the potential lung inflammation hazard of the large number of NPs that require testing.
The highly toxic organophosphorus compound VX [O-ethyl S-[2-(diisopropylamino)ethyl]methylphosphonate] is an irreversible inhibitor of the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Prolonged inhibition of AChE increases endogenous levels of acetylcholine and is toxic at nerve synapses and neuromuscular junctions. We hypothesized that repeated exposure to sublethal doses of VX would affect genes associated with cell survival, neuronal plasticity, and neuronal remodeling, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We examined the time course of BDNF expression in C57BL/6 mouse brain following repeated exposure (1/day × 5 days/week × 2 weeks) to sublethal doses of VX (0.2 LD(50) and 0.4 LD(50)). BDNF messenger RNA expression was significantly (p < 0.05) elevated in multiple brain regions, including the dentate gyrus, CA3, and CA1 regions of the hippocampal formation, as well as the piriform cortex, hypothalamus, amygdala, and thalamus, 72 h after the last 0.4 LD(50) VX exposure. BDNF protein expression, however, was only increased in the CA3 region of the hippocampus. Whether increased BDNF in response to sublethal doses of VX exposure is an adaptive response to prevent cellular damage or a precursor to impending brain damage remains to be determined. If elevated BDNF is an adaptive response, exogenous BDNF may be a potential therapeutic target to reduce the toxic effects of nerve agent exposure.
Furan, a heat-generated food contaminant, is hepatotoxic and carcinogenic in rodents. Furan is oxidized by cytochrome P450 2E1 to cis-2-butene-1,4-dial, a chemically reactive α,β-unsaturated dialdehyde, which has been identified as the key toxic metabolite of furan based on its ability to interact with tissue nucleophiles. In addition to genotoxicity, sustained cytotoxicity mediated through covalent binding of cis-2-butene-1,4-dial to critical target proteins is thought to play a key role in furan carcinogenicity. To identify putative protein targets of reactive furan metabolites, male F344/N rats (n = 5 per dose) were administered a single dose of [3,4-(14)C]-furan (20 mCi/mmol) at doses associated with hepatotoxicity following long-term exposure (0.1 and 2 mg/kg body weight [bw]). Liver proteins were separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and protein spots carrying radiolabel were located by fluorography. In total, 83 discrete protein spots containing (14)C were consistently detected in livers of animals given [3,4-(14)C]-furan at 2.0 mg/kg bw, accounting for 4-5% of the proteome covered by our analyses. Protein spots were excised and digested in gel with trypsin for identification by protein mass spectrometry. Protein database search and subsequent pathway mapping identified 61 proteins localized predominantly in the cytosol and mitochondria, including structural proteins, mitochondrial enzymes involved in glucose metabolism, mitochondrial β-oxidation, and adenosine triphosphate synthesis, and proteins that participate in the maintenance of redox homeostasis and protein folding. Collectively, our data suggest that functional loss of several individual proteins and interference with pathways, most notably mitochondrial energy production, redox regulation, and protein folding, may combine to disrupt cell homeostasis and cause hepatocyte cell death.
The explosive development of nanotechnology has caused an increase in unintended biohazards in humans and in the ecosystem. Similar to particulate matter, nanoparticles (NPs) are strongly correlated with the increase in incidences of cardiovascular diseases, yet the mechanisms behind this correlation remain unclear. Within the testing concentrations of 0.1-10 μg/ml, which did not cause a marked drop in cell viability, zinc oxide NPs (ZnO-NPs) induced intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) messenger RNA, and protein expression in both concentration- and time-dependent manner in treated human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). ZnO-NPs treatment cause the activation of Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1)/cell division control protein 42 homolog (Cdc42) and protein accumulation of mixed lineage kinase 3 (MLK3), followed by c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and transcription factor c-Jun activation. Induction of ICAM-1 and phosphorylation of JNK and c-Jun could be inhibited by either JNK inhibitor SP600125 or Rac guanosine triphosphatase inhibitor NSC23766 pretreatment. In addition, pretreatment with NSC23766 significantly reduced MLK3 accumulation, suggesting the involvement of Rac1/Cdc42-MLK3-JNK-c-Jun signaling in the regulation of ZnO-NPs-induced ICAM-1 expression, whereas these signaling factors were not activated in zinc oxide microparticles (ZnO-MPs)-treated HUVECs. The increase of ICAM-1 expression on ZnO-NPs-treated HUVECs enables leukocytes to adhere and has been identified as an indicator of vascular inflammation. Our data are essential for safety evaluation of the clinical usage of ZnO-NPs in daily supplements, cosmetics, and biomedicines.
Safety attrition of drugs during preclinical development as well as in late-stage clinical trials continues to be a challenge for the pharmaceutical industry for patient welfare and financial reasons. Hepatic, cardiac, and nephrotoxicity remain the main reasons for compound termination. In recent years, efforts have been made to identify such liabilities earlier in the drug development process, through utilization of in silico and cytotoxicity models. Several publications have aimed to predict specific organ toxicities. For example, two large-scale evaluations of hepatotoxic compounds have been conducted. In contrast, only small cardiotoxic and nephrotoxic compound sets have been evaluated. Here, we investigated the utility of hepatic-, cardiac-, and kidney-derived cell lines to (1) accurately predict cytotoxicity and (2) to accurately predict specific organ toxicities. We tested 273 hepatotoxic, 191 cardiotoxic, and 85 nephrotoxic compounds in HepG2 (hepatocellular carcinoma), H9c2 (embryonic myocardium), and NRK-52E (kidney proximal tubule) cells for their cytotoxicity. We found that the majority of compounds, regardless of their designated organ toxicities, had similar effects in all three cell lines. Only approximately 5% of compounds showed differential toxicity responses in the cell lines with no obvious correlation to the known in vivo organ toxicity. Our results suggest that from a general screening perspective, different cell lines have relatively equal value in assessing general cytotoxicity and that specific organ toxicity cannot be accurately predicted using such a simple approach. Select organ toxicity potentially results from compound accumulation in a particular tissue, cell types within organs, metabolism, and off-target effects. Our analysis, however, demonstrates that the prediction can be improved significantly when human C(max) values are incorporated.
Angiotensin II is believed to play an important role in tissue repair and remodeling in lungs by the angiotensin type I (AT1) receptor via a number of potential mechanisms. However, the role of the AT1 receptor in early lung injury has not been characterized.
Bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis (PF) in rats was utilized to value the treatment with valsartan, an AT1 receptor antagonist, by measurement of body weight, wet weight of the left lung, hydroxy-proline content, mRNA expression of collagen I/III, and the degree of fibrosis in lung tissues on d 21. Tissue injury in the early phase was assessed on d 1, 3 and 7 by apoptosis, malondialdehyde content, myeloperoxidase activity, inflammatory cell count and protein content. Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity and the AT1 receptor in lung tissues were analyzed by biochemistry method and Western blotting, respectively.
Valsartan ameliorated PF induced by bleomycin in the rats on d 21. After bleomycin was injected intratracheally, increases in the lung AT1 receptor and ACE activity were observed by d 1, 3 and 7. Lung injury deteriorated in the early phase. Valsartan reduced the increase of the AT1 receptor, ACE activity and lung injury induced by bleomycin in the early phase.
These observations suggest that angiotensin II may play a potent role in early lung injury via the AT1 receptor. AT1 receptor antagonists should be assessed as potential new therapies for fibrotic lung disease.
The development of resistance to cisplatin during treatment of bladder cancer constitutes a major obstacle to curing bladder cancer. The identification of epigenetic biomarker molecules for cisplatin resistance and the elucidation of the function of the identified genes in bladder cancer will provide useful information. We found that the candidate gene TLX3 was unmethylated in cisplatin sensitive cells and methylated in resistant cells. The suppression of TLX3 expression using TLX3-specific shRNA in parental cells increased cisplatin resistance. Contrarily, overexpression of TLX3 in resistant cells induced increased sensitivity to cisplatin. We found that 22 (21%) out of 110 clinical samples of bladder cancer showed the methylated pattern using the COBRA assay in TLX3. We found a correlation between TLX3 methylation and the sensitivity to cisplatin in the clinical samples by SDI test. Cisplatin sensitivity was closely associated with the methylation status of TLX3. These findings showed that the TLX3 methylation may be useful as a novel biomarker for cisplatin resistance and can be used to design therapies to counteract the resistance against cisplatin in bladder cancer.
Epidemiological studies have linked environmental arsenic (As) exposure to increased type 2 diabetes risk. Periconceptional hyperglycemia is a significant risk factor for neural tube defects (NTDs), the second most common structural birth defect. A suspected teratogen, arsenic (As) induces NTDs in laboratory animals.
We investigated whether maternal glucose homeostasis disruption was responsible for arsenate-induced NTDs in a well-established dosing regimen used in studies of arsenic's teratogenicity in early neurodevelopment.
We evaluated maternal intraperitoneal (IP) exposure to As 9.6 mg/kg (as sodium arsenate) in LM/Bc/Fnn mice for teratogenicity and disruption of maternal plasma glucose and insulin levels. Selected compounds (insulin pellet, sodium selenate (SS), N-acetyl cysteine (NAC), l-methionine (L-Met), N-tert-Butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN)) were investigated for their potential to mitigate arsenate's effects.
Arsenate caused significant glucose elevation during an IP glucose tolerance test (IPGTT). Insulin levels were not different between arsenate and control dams before (arsenate, 0.55 ng/dl; control, 0.48 ng/dl) or after glucose challenge (arsenate, 1.09 ng/dl; control, 0.81 ng/dl). HOMA-IR index was higher for arsenate (3.9) vs control (2.5) dams (p=0.0260). Arsenate caused NTDs (100%, p<0.0001). Insulin pellet and NAC were the most successful rescue agents, reducing NTD rates to 45% and 35%.
IPGTT, insulin assay, and HOMA-IR results suggest a modest failure of glucose stimulated insulin secretion and insulin resistance characteristic of glucose intolerance. Insulin's success in preventing arsenate-induced NTDs provides evidence that these arsenate-induced NTDs are secondary to elevated maternal glucose. The NAC rescue, which did not restore maternal glucose or insulin levels, suggests oxidative disruption plays a role.
The pathogenic mutant (P174L) of human Sco1 produces respiratory chain deficiency associated with cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) assembly defects. The solution structure of the mutant in its Cu(I) form shows that Leu-174 prevents the formation of a well packed hydrophobic region around the metal-binding site and causes a reduction of the affinity of copper(I) for the protein. K(D) values for Cu(I)WT-HSco1 and Cu(I)P174L-HSco1 are approximately 10(-17) and approximately 10(-13), respectively. The reduction potentials of the two apo proteins are similar, but slower reduction/oxidation rates are found for the mutant with respect to the WT. The mitochondrial metallochaperone in the partially oxidized Cu(1)(I)Cox17(2S-S) form, at variance with the fully reduced Cu(4)(I)Cox17, interacts transiently with both WT-HSco1 and the mutant, forming the Cox17/Cu(I)/HSco1 complex, but copper is efficiently transferred only in the case of WT protein. Cu(1)(I)Cox17(2S-S) indeed has an affinity for copper(I) (K(D) approximately 10(-15)) higher than that of the P174L-HSco1 mutant but lower than that of WT-HSco1. We propose that HSco1 mutation, altering the structure around the metal-binding site, affects both copper(I) binding and redox properties of the protein, thus impairing the efficiency of copper transfer to CcO. The pathogenic mutation therefore could (i) lessen the Sco1 affinity for copper(I) and hence copper supply for CcO or (ii) decrease the efficiency of reduction of CcO thiols involved in copper binding, or both effects could be produced by the mutation.
Acute myocardial ischemia, cardiac arrhythmias, and conduction disturbances are the most common cardiovascular complications of cocaine and its alkaloidal freebase "crack." Cocaine abuse-related acute aortic dissection has been reported only rarely: three cases in the last 5 years. Described herein, to our knowledge, is the first case of cocaine intoxication-associated acute aortic dissection that also involved the coronary arteries, causing sudden death.
Leigh syndrome is an inherited, progressive neurodegenerative disorder of infancy and childhood. Mutations in the nuclear SURF-1 gene are specifically associated with cytochrome C oxidase-deficient Leigh syndrome. This report describes two patients with similar facial features. One of them was a 2(1/2)-year-old male, and the other was a 3-year-old male with a mutation in SURF-1 gene and facial dysmorphism including frontal bossing, brachycephaly, hypertrichosis, lateral displacement of inner canthi, esotropia, maxillary hypoplasia, hypertrophic gums, irregularly placed teeth, upturned nostril, low-set big ears, and retrognathi. The first patient's magnetic resonance imaging at 15 months of age indicated mild symmetric T2 prolongation involving the subthalamic nuclei. His second magnetic resonance imaging at 2 years old revealed a symmetric T2 prolongation involving the subthalamic nuclei, substantia nigra, and medulla lesions. In the second child, at the age of 2 the first magnetic resonance imaging documented heavy brainstem and subthalamic nuclei involvement. A second magnetic resonance imaging, performed when he was 3 years old, revealed diffuse involvement of the substantia nigra and hyperintense lesions of the central tegmental tract in addition to previous lesions. Facial dysmorphism and magnetic resonance imaging findings, observed in these cases, can be specific findings in Leigh syndrome patients with cytochrome C oxidase deficiency. SURF-1 gene mutations must be particularly reviewed in such patients.
To define the relative toxicities of ritodrine sulfate, terbutaline sulfate, hexaprenaline sulfate, and ritodrine with betamethasone mongrel dogs were treated with these agents for 19 hours. The maximum dose of ritodrine was 900 microgram/min (N = 5), terbutaline 120 micrograms/min (N = 4) and hexaprenaline 1.5 micrograms/min (N = 4). Betamethasone was given intramuscularly (12 mg) at initiation of ritodrine and repeated in 12 hours in four animals. Arrhythmias were responsible for five deaths; 2/4 terbutaline, 2/4 ritodrine and beta-methasone, 1/5 ritodrine, 0/4 hexaprenaline treated animals. Terbutaline-treated animals developed arrhythmias during more treatment cycles (50%) and at lower drug concentrations, whereas hexaprenaline-treated animals developed arrhythmias at higher drug concentrations, with an overall arrhythmia frequency of 14%. Terbutaline animals had the highest heart rate (P = 0.02) and lowest mean arterial pressure (P = 0.18); the least effect on these parameters being seen with hexaprenaline. Cardiac index was higher with terbutaline and hexaprenaline compared to ritodrine with or without beta-methasone (P = 0.02). Hypoxemia was most severe with terbutaline (pO2 = 58 mm Hg) and least severe with hexaprenaline (pO2 = 66 mm Hg); however, this does not explain the difference in the frequency of arrhythmias since the mean pO2 during the initial arrhythmias was 76 mm Hg in terbutaline treated animals compared to a baseline control of 85 mm Hg. Although all animals developed significant acidosis during Phases II-IV, hexaprenaline treated animals were the least acidotic (P = 0.036). Hypokalemia was most pronounced with terbutaline (P = 0.08 Phase II, P = 0.07 Phase III).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Bradykinin and nitric oxide (NO) are potent hypotensive agents. In the present study, the role of K+-channels in the signalling pathways responsible for their hypotensive action was investigated in normotensive, anaesthetized rats. The rats were treated with ion-channel inhibitors before administration of bradykinin (2.8, 5.6, 28 and 56 nmol kg(-1), i.v.) followed in some of the protocols by nitroprusside (1.1, 3.5, 7, 14, and 28 nmol kg(-1), i.v.). 2. No attenuation of the hypotensive response to bradykinin was detected for inhibitors of the Na-K-Cl-cotransporter (30 micromol kg(-1) furosemide), the ATP-sensitive K+-channel (40 micromol kg(-1) glibenclamide), high conductance Ca2+-activated K+-channel (180 micromol kg(-1) tetraethylammonium, 54 micromol kg(-1) tetrabutylammonium, 35 nmol kg(-1) iberiotoxin, 35 nmol kg(-1) charybdotoxin) or the low conductance Ca2+-activated K+-channel (74 nmol kg(-1) apamin). 3. However, the voltage-sensitive K+-channel (I(A)) inhibitor 4-aminopyridine (4.05-40.5 micromol kg(-1)) induced a concentration-dependent (P<0.0001) attenuation of the hypotensive response (P<0.0001). Bradykinin had no effect on heart rate in anaesthetized rats and this observation was not altered by pretreatment with 4-aminopyridine. 4. 4-Aminopyridine (53 micromol kg(-1)) also significantly attenuated the hypotensive response to nitroprusside (P<0.0003) without altering the heart rate concentration-response curve. Of the two Ca2+-activated K+-channel inhibitors tested on nitroprusside-induced hypotension, tetrabutylammonium induced a slight attenuation (P<0.0101), whereas iberiotoxin had no effect. 5. We therefore concluded that, although the acute hypotensive response to bradykinin in the normotensive rat is not mediated through nitric oxide synthesis, the hypotensive response to both agents was mediated through opening of voltage-sensitive K+-channels (I(A)), resulting in a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance.
Screening for mutations in the entire Cystic Fibrosis gene (CFTR) of Brazilian infertile men with congenital absence of vas deferens, in order to prevent transmission of CFTR mutations to offspring with the use of assisted reproductive technologies.
Specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers were designed to each of the 27 exons and splicing sites of interest followed by single strand conformational polymorphism and Heteroduplex Analysis (SSCP-HA) in precast 12.5% polyacrylamide gels at 7 masculineC and 20 masculineC. Fragments with abnormal SSCP migration pattern were sequenced.
Two novel missense mutations (S753R and G149W) were found in three patients (two brothers) together with the IVS8-5T allele in hetrozygosis.
The available screenings for CF mutations do not include the atypical mutations associated to absence of vas deferens and thus, when these tests fail to find mutations, there is still a genetic risk of affected children with the help of assisted reproduction. We recommend the screening of the whole CFTR gene for these infertile couples, as part of the work-up before assisted reproduction.
We previously identified a functional variant of KLOTHO (termed "KL-VS"), which harbors two amino acid substitutions in complete linkage disequilibrium and is associated with reduced human longevity when in homozygosity. Klotho-deficient mice display extensive arteriosclerosis when fed a normal diet, suggesting a potent genetic predisposition. To determine whether klotho influences atherosclerotic risk in humans, we performed cross-sectional studies to assess the association between the KL-VS allele and occult coronary artery disease (CAD) in two independent samples of apparently healthy siblings of individuals with early-onset (age <60 years) CAD (SIBS-I [N=520] and SIBS-II [N=436]). Occult CAD was defined as the occurrence of a reversible perfusion defect during exercise thallium scintigraphy and/or as an abnormal result of an exercise electrocardiogram (SIBS-I, n=97; SIBS-II, n=56). In SIBS-I, the KL-VS allele conferred a relative odds of 1.90 (95% confidence interval 1.21-2.98) for occult CAD, after adjusting for familial intraclass correlations (P<.005). Logistic regression modeling, incorporating known CAD risk factors, demonstrated that the KL-VS allele is an independent risk factor (P<.019) and that the imposed risk of KL-VS allele status is influenced by modifiable risk factors. Hypertension (P<.022) and increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels (P<.022) mask or reduce the risk conferred by the KL-VS allele, respectively, whereas current smoking (P<.004) increases the risk. Remarkably concordant effects of the KL-VS allele and modifying factors on the risk of occult CAD were seen in SIBS-II. These results demonstrate that the KL-VS allele is an independent risk factor for occult CAD in two independent high-risk samples. Modifiable risk factors, including hypertension, smoking status, and HDL-C level, appear to influence the risk imposed by this allele.
To describe the association between opioid administration in the newborn period and neurologic abnormalities.
Case reports of two infants who presented with seizure activity and abnormal electroencephalograms associated with opiate administration, and reversed by naloxone.
The first was a preterm infant who developed a burst-suppression pattern on the electroencephalogram while receiving a continuous infusion of morphine and muscle paralysis. Naloxone injection during the electroencephalogram recording reversed the burst-suppression pattern. The second was a term infant receiving fentanyl infusion for pain control following surgery, who presented with motor seizure that was only partially controlled with barbiturates. An abnormal electroencephalogram recording during the opiate infusion improved with naloxone administration.
Our observations indicate a potential for neurologic abnormalities, including induction of seizure activity and electroencephalogram abnormalities, suggesting caution when opiates are used for sedation and/or pain control in the newborn period.
The aim of this report is to describe the clinical and electroencephalographic findings seen in an elderly woman without previous history of seizures who developed a nonconvulsive generalized status epilepticus following acute withdrawal of lorazepam. Scalp video-EEG monitoring was obtained using the standard 10/20 system of electrode placement. Cognitive and speech functions were specifically tested during the evaluation. Continuous irregular rhythmic generalized 2.0-2.5 Hz sharp-and-slow wave complexes intermixed with spikes and polyspikes more prominent over the frontocentral areas were seen on the EEG. This epileptic activity was continuous and unmodified by sensory stimulation and eyes opening and closing. Intravenous injection of diazepam caused a rapid normalization of the EEG with disappearance of the clinical manifestations. De novo absence status is a specific epileptic condition that should be suspected in all elderly subjects on chronic treatment with psychotropic drugs presenting in a confusional state. An urgent EEG is essential to confirm the diagnosis.
The absence of ejaculation in two patients treated with risperidone is described. This side-effect has rarely been reported. The mechanism responsible for ejaculation dysfunction in risperidone treated patients is unclear, but might be due to the alpha1-adrenergic antagonist action of the drug.
The aim of this study was to investigate the factors associated with the response of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) during combination therapy with adefovir dipivoxil plus lamivudine.
Sixty-three patients with breakthrough hepatitis received a 10-mg once-daily dose of oral adefovir dipivoxil.
The rates of undetectable serum HBV-DNA were 49.2% after 24 weeks, 61.9% after 48 weeks, and 67.2% after 72 weeks. The cumulative hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) loss rates in patients with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels of more than twice the upper limit of normal (ULN) were significantly higher than in patients with ALT less than twice the ULN (P = 0.0145). Multivariate analysis revealed that baseline ALT level (P = 0.003) and HBeAg status (P = 0.049) were associated with early virological response.
Baseline ALT level was associated with HBeAg loss and seroconversion, and baseline ALT level and HBeAg status were associated with the virological response of lamivudine-resistant HBV during combination therapy with adefovir dipivoxil plus lamivudine.
