Currently, no agent has been confirmed as preventing the fibrosing progression of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). In this study, rosiglitazone was used in the clinical treatment of insulin resistance in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. However, its protective effect on non-alcoholic fibrosing steatohepatitis is not clear. The study aimed to elucidate the effect and the mechanism of rosiglitazone in inhibiting nutrition-related fibrosis in mice.
C57BL6/J mice were fed a high fat, methionine-choline deficient (MCD) diet for 8 weeks to induce hepatic fibrosis, and rosiglitazone was given in the treated group. The effect of rosiglitazone was assessed by comparing the severity of hepatic fibrosis in liver sections, the activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and the expression of TGF-beta1 and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF).
At week 8, MCD-diet-induced fibrosing NASH models showed increased serum ALT and AST levels, severe hepatic steatosis, and infiltration of inflammation and fibrosis which, associated with down-regulated PPAR gamma mRNA and protein expression, up-regulated alpha-SMA protein expression and enhanced TGF-beta1, CTGF mRNA and protein expression. Rosiglitazone significantly lowered serum ALT and AST and it reduced MCD-induced fibrosis by repressing levels of alpha-SMA protein expression and pro-fibrosis factors TGF-beta1 and CTGF. It also restored expression of PPAR gamma.
The present study provides clear morphological and molecular biological evidence of the protective role of rosiglitazone in ameliorating nutritional fibrosing steatohepatitis. Rosiglitazone may ameliorate hepatic fibrosis by activating PPAR gamma, which can inhibit HSC activation and suppress TGF-beta1 and CTGF expression.
To screen out the differentially methylated DNA sequences between gastric primary tumor and metastatic lymph nodes, test the methylation difference of gene PTPRG between primary gastric tumor and metastatic lymph nodes, and test the regulatory function of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine which is an agent with suppression on methylation and the level of methylation in gastric cancer cell line.
Methylated DNA sequences in genome were enriched with methylated CpG islands amplification (MCA) to undergo representational difference analysis (RDA), with MCA production of metastatic lymph nodes as tester and that of primary tumor as driver. The obtained differentially methylated fragments were cloned and sequenced to acquire the base sequence, which was analyzed with bioinformatics. With methylation-specific PCR (MSP) and RT-PCR, methylation difference of gene PTPRG was detected between primary tumor and metastatic lymph nodes in 36 cases of gastric cancer. Methylation of gene PTPRG and its regulated expression were observed in gastric cancer cell line before and after being treated with methylation-suppressive agent.
Nineteen differentially methylated sequences were obtained and located at 5' end, exons, introns and 3' end, in which KL59 was observed to be located at 9p21 as the first exon of gene p16 and KL22 to be located at promoter region of PRPRG. KL22, as the probes, was hybridized with driver, tester and 3-round RDA products respectively with all positive signals except with the driver. Significant difference was observed in both methylation rate of gene PTPRG and PTPRG mRNA expression rate between primary tumor and metastatic lymph nodes. Demethylation of gene PTPRG, with recovered expression of PTPRG mRNA, was observed after gastric cancer cell line being treated with methylation-suppressive agent.
Difference exists in DNA methylation between primary tumor and metastatic lymph nodes of gastric cancer, with MCA-RDA as one of the good analytical methods. Significant difference exists in methylation of gene PTPRG between primary tumor and metastatic lymph nodes of gastric cancer. Methylation level in gastric cancer cell line can be decreased by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, which is the methylation-suppressive agent, with PTPRG expression being recovered.
The study was performed to evaluate whether magnesium sulfate could alter the degree of disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) caused by hyperosmotic mannitol. Wistar adult female rats were infused with 25% mannitol into the left internal carotid artery. Each animal received intraperitoneally a 300 mg/kg loading dose of magnesium sulfate, dissolved in 0.9% saline, followed by a further 100 mg/kg dose. In the other group, intracarotid infusion of magnesium sulfate was performed at a dose of 150 mg/kg 10 min before mannitol administration. Evans blue (EB) dye was used as a marker of BBB disruption. The measured serum glucose and magnesium levels increased after mannitol and/or magnesium administration when compared with their initial values before treatment (P < 0.01). Water content of the left hemisphere was significantly increased by hyperosmotic mannitol (P < 0.01). The increased water content in the mannitol-perfused hemisphere was significantly decreased by magnesium treatment (P < 0.05). The content of EB dye in the mannitol-perfused hemisphere markedly increased when compared with the right hemisphere of the same brain (P < 0.01). The EB dye content in the mannitol-perfused hemisphere following both intraperitoneal and intraarterial administration of magnesium decreased when compared with mannitol alone (P < 0.01). We conclude that although magnesium sulfate administration by both intracarotid arterial and intraperitoneal routes attenuates BBB disruption caused by hyperosmolar mannitol, particularly intraperitoneal route of magnesium sulfate administration may provide a useful strategy to limit the transient osmotic opening of the BBB.
Salicylate (aspirin) can reversibly eliminate outer hair cell (OHC) electromotility to induce hearing loss. Prestin is the OHC electromotility motor protein. Here we report that, consistency with increase in distortion product otoacoustic emission, long-term administration of salicylate can increase prestin expression and OHC electromotility. The prestin expression at the mRNA and protein levels was increased by three- to four-fold. In contrast to the acute inhibition, the OHC electromotility associated charge density was also increased by 18%. This incremental increase was reversible. After cessation of salicylate administration, the prestin expression returned to normal. We also found that long-term administration of salicylate did not alter cyclooxygenase (Cox) II expression but down-regulated NF-kappaB and increased nuclear transcription factors c-fos and egr-1. The data suggest that prestin expression in vivo is dynamically up-regulated to increase OHC electromotility in long-term administration of salicylate via the Cox-II-independent pathways.
Interstitial nephritis with acute renal failure was observed in 5 cases out of 6 treated by the association of methicillin and gentamycin, wheras no case, was observed when each of these antibodies was used separately. The mechanisms which might explain the potentialisation of these two drugs are discussed.
Effects of bilateral injections of (+)-amphetamine (5 micrograms/0.5 microliter) into the nucleus accumbens were investigated in rats treated repeatedly with imipramine or amitriptyline. Repeated but not acute administration of either drug enhanced the locomotor hyperactivity induced by (+)-amphetamine given 2 or 72 h after the last dose of antidepressant. The results indicate that the increased responsiveness of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system may be involved in the action of antidepressant drugs.
Naringin is a flavanone with various bioactivities including expectorant effect, antitussive effect and inhibitory effects on asthma and acute lung injury. In present study we examined the effects of naringin on enhanced cough, airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) and airway inflammation in chronic cigarette smoke (CS) exposure-induced chronic bronchitis in guinea pigs. To achieve this, guinea pigs were exposed to CS for 8weeks (10cigarettes/day, 6days/week). Oral administration of naringin (9.2, 18.4 and 36.8mg/kg) significantly attenuated the enhanced cough and AHR in smoke-exposed guinea pigs, reduced the concentrations of interleukin-8 (IL-8), leukotriene B4 (LTB4) and tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and decreased the myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in both BALF and lung tissue, but did not significantly decrease the leukocytes in BALF. Naringin also improved superoxidase dismutase (SOD) activity in lung tissue and increased the content of lipoxin A4 (LXA4) in BALF in this guinea pig model of chronic bronchitis. These results suggested that naringin exhibited antitussive, anti-AHR and anti-inflammation effects on chronic CS exposure-induced chronic bronchitis in guinea pigs, and may possess novel therapeutic potential in the treatment of chronic bronchitis.
Morphological alterations in the brains of schizophrenia patients suggest that neurodevelopmental dysfunction is involved in the etiology of the disease.(1) Such dysfunction may be due to functional alterations of cell adhesion molecules, which play important roles in cell migration, axonal growth, fasciculation, synaptogenesis, and synaptic remodeling. We screened for mutations in the coding region of the close homologue to L1 gene (CHL1), which is located on human chromosome 3p26, in 24 Japanese patients with schizophrenia. A missense polymorphism (Leu17Phe) in the signal peptide region was identified. A case-control comparison revealed significantly higher frequencies of the Leu/Leu genotype (P = 0.004) and the Leu allele (P = 0.006) in 282 Japanese schizophrenic patients than in 229 Japanese control subjects. The estimated odds ratio for schizophrenia was 1.83 (95% CI, 1.28-2.26) for the Leu/Leu genotype compared with the other genotypes. An association between this CHL1 gene polymorphism and schizophrenia supports the notion that cell adhesion molecules are involved in the etiology of schizophrenia.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is an autism spectrum disorder with an incidence of ~1:10,000 females (reviewed in Bird, 2008; Chahrour et al., 2007; Francke, 2006). Affected individuals are apparently normal at birth. Between 6-18 months of age, however, RTT patients begin to exhibit deceleration of head growth, replacement of purposeful hand movements with stereotypic hand wringing, loss of speech, social withdrawal and other autistic features. RTT is caused by loss of function mutations in the gene that encodes methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (Mecp2) (Amir et al., 1999), a transcriptional repressor that targets genes essential for neuronal survival, dendritic growth, synaptogenesis, and activity dependent plasticity. MECP2 is X-linked, and males die soon after birth. Included in the RTT phenotype are cardiorespiratory disorders involving the autonomic nervous system. The respiratory disorders, including the roles of bioaminergic and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) signaling in the respiratory pathophysiology of RTT have been recently reviewed (Bissonnette et al., 2007a; Ogier et al., 2008; Katz et al., 2009). Here we will cover the work on RTT regarding respiration that has appeared since 2009 as well as cardiovascular abnormalities.
To investigate the antifibrotic effects of silymarin on hepatic fibrosis.
Sixty-one male Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups: control group (15 rats); DMN model group (23 rats), injected intraperitoneally with dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) 10 mg/kg twice per week for 8 weeks to induce hepatic fibrosis; and silymarin group (23 rats), injected intraperitoneally with DMN and given silymarin 50 mg/kg by gastric gavage daily for 8 weeks. Eight weeks late all rats were sacrificed. Blood samples were collected to measure the alanine transaminase (ALT), aspirate aminotransferase (AST), albumin, and total bilirubin (TBIL). The hydroxyproline (Hyp) content in the liver tissue was measured. The histopathological changes as well as the fibrosis stages and score were examined by microscopy.
The levels of ALT, AST, and TBIL of the silymarin groups were 59 U/L +/- 19 U/L, 159 U/L +/- 39 U/L, and mean rank 24 respectively, all significantly lower than those of the DMN model group (128 U/L +/- 25 U/L, 246 U/L +/- 61 U/L, and mean rank 37 respectively, P < 0.01, P = 0.001, and P = 0.003). Compared with DMN rats, the level of Hyp of the silymarin was lower by 42.6%, the hepatic score of the silymarin was 6.2 +/- 2.4, significantly than that of the DMN model group (12.8 +/- 4.4, P = 0.001), and more cases in the silymarin group were at the lower stages.
Silymarin markedly inhibits and reverse the progression of hepatic fibrosis induced by dimethylnitrosamine.
A 35-year-old previously healthy woman started using oral contraceptives in May 1965. In June ergotamine was prescribed for right temporal headaches. On November 4 she took 5 ergotamine tablets between 4-7 AM. By 9 AM she was confused and did not answer when spoken to. She was admitted to the hospital at 11 AM with an apoplexy picture. On November 6 carotid angiography on the right side showed a total occulsion of the internal carotid artery. An attempt at thrombectomy proved fruitless. In spite of intensive therapy, the patient died in cardiac arrest on the 3rd post operative day. Autopsy showed thrombotic masses in the right carotid artery and left ventricle. A contributory cause may have been the use of oral contraceptives in conjuction with ergotamine medication.
The possible discrepancy between the dose level required for promoting action (when given after the initiation process, and that needed to exert an anticarcinogenic effect when given simultaneously with a carcinogen) of hepatic promoters were investigated in an attempt to obtain a "practical" threshold dose of promoters. Phenobarbital (PB) and dichlorophenyltrichlorethane (DDT) were used as promoters and 3'-methyl-4-(dimethylamino)-azobenzene (3'-Me-DAB) was used as the carcinogen. Male weanling rats were treated with either 600 ppm 3'-Me-DAB for 3 weeks followed by a diet containing a promoter at various dose levels (5-500 ppm), or the animals were treated with a low dose (100 ppm) of 3'-Me-DAB plus a promoter at various dose levels (20-500 ppm). The effects of promoters were measured by scoring size and number of enzyme-altered islands (EAIs) at 12 and 24 weeks of age. The promoting effect of PB and DDT was demonstrated in dose-dependent fashion, in the dose range of 10-500 ppm and 20-500 ppm, respectively. On the other hand, promoters given simultaneously with a low dose of carcinogen enhanced carcinogenesis at all the dose levels tested, in contrast with the inhibitory effect on carcinogenesis when given together with relatively high doses of carcinogens.
The effects of mercury vapour on the production of nerve growth factor during development have been examined. Pregnant rats were exposed to two different concentrations of mercury vapour during either embryonic days E6-E11 (early) or E13-E18 (late) in pregnancy, increasing the postnatal concentration of mercury in the brain from 1 ng/g tissue to 4 ng/g tissue (low-dose group) or 11 ng/g (high-dose group). The effect of this exposure in offspring was determined by looking at the NGF concentration at postnatal days 21 and 60 and comparing these levels to age-matched controls from sham-treated mothers. Changes in the expression of mRNA encoding NGF, the low- and high-affinity receptors for NGF (p75 and p140 trk, respectively) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) were also determined. When rats were exposed to high levels of mercury vapour during early embryonic development there was a significant (62%) increase in hippocampal NGF levels at P21 accompanied by a 50% decrease of NGF in the basal forebrain. The expression of NGF mRNA was found to be unaltered in the dentate gyrus. The expression of p75 mRNA was significantly decreased to 39% of control levels in the diagonal band of Broca (DB) and to approximately 50% in the medial septal nucleus (MS) whereas no alterations in the level of trk mRNA expression were detectable in the basal forebrain. ChAT mRNA was slightly decreased in the DB and MS, significantly in the striatum. These findings suggest that low levels of prenatal mercury vapour exposure can alter the levels of the NGF and its receptors, indicating neuronal damage and disturbed trophic regulations during development.
The effects of thymosin alpha1 (Talpha1) on mammary carcinogenesis was investigated in Fisher rats. Mammary carcinomas were observed 3 months after N-nitrosomethylurea (NMU) injection (10mg, i.p.) into Fisher rats. Daily administration of Talpha1 (10 microg, s.c.) reduced mammary carcinoma incidence and prolonged survival time. Animals treated with exogenous Talpha1 had a significantly greater blood white cell density than control Fisher rats. These results suggest that Talpha1 prevents mammary carcinoma incidence as a result of stimulation of the immune system.
The present series of experiments examined the involvement of the sigma(1) receptor and related neuroactive steroids in the memory state induced by a very low dose of cocaine. Using a modified passive avoidance procedure in mice, we examined whether cocaine induces state-dependent (StD) learning. Animals trained and tested with saline or the same dose of cocaine (0.1 or 0.3 mg/kg) showed correct retention, measured using two independent parameters: the retention latency and a ratio between the retention latency and the last training latency. Animals trained with cocaine (0.1 mg/kg) and tested with saline or cocaine (0.03, 0.3 mg/kg), or trained with saline and tested with cocaine, showed altered retention parameters, demonstrating that StD occurred. Therefore, cocaine administered before training produced a chemical state used as an endogenous cue to insure optimal retention. Since sigma(1) receptor activation is an important event during the acquisition of cocaine reward, we tested several sigma(1) ligands and related neurosteroids. The sigma(1) agonist igmesine or antagonist BD1047 failed to produce StD, but modified the cocaine state. Among neuroactive steroids, pregnanolone and allopregnanolone, positive modulators of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor, produced StD. However, steroids also acting as sigma(1) agonists, dehydroepiandrosterone (3beta-hydroxy-5alpha-androsten-17-one (DHEA)), pregnenolone, or antagonist, progesterone, failed to induce StD but modified the cocaine state. Furthermore, optimal retention was observed with mice trained with (igmesine or DHEA)+cocaine and tested with a higher dose of cocaine, or with mice trained with (BD1047 or progesterone)+cocaine and tested with vehicle. This study demonstrated that: (i) low doses of cocaine induce a chemical state/memory trace sustaining StD; (ii) modulation of the sigma(1) receptor activation, although insufficient to provoke StD, modulates the cocaine state; (iii) neuroactive steroids exert a unique role in state-dependent vs state-independent learning, via GABA(A) or sigma(1) receptor modulation, and are able to affect the cocaine-induced mnesic trace at low brain concentrations.
Bone marrow suppression and anemia are frequent side effects of treatment of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) with zidovudine (formerly azidothymidine [AZT]). We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of recombinant human erythropoietin (100 U per kilogram of body weight thrice weekly by intravenous bolus) in 63 patients with AIDS treated with zidovudine (29 in the erythropoietin group and 34 in the placebo group). Reductions in the number of units of red cells transfused and the number of patients given transfusions per month became apparent in the second and third months of the trial. The reductions were observed in patients with endogenous erythropoietin levels less than or equal to 500 IU per liter at base line, but not in patients whose levels were greater than 500 IU per liter at the beginning of the study. Although the hematocrit and hemoglobin level were not used as the primary criteria of efficacy because the patients received transfusions when their physicians decided that they needed them, a significantly higher rate of increase in the hematocrit was observed in the patients treated with recombinant human erythropoietin whose levels of endogenous erythropoietin were less than or equal to 500 IU per liter (0.00353 points per week) than in the patients given placebo (0.00116 points per week). This effect was not seen in patients with higher levels of endogenous erythropoietin. Serious side effects did not occur more often in the group treated with erythropoietin than in the placebo group. We conclude that recombinant human erythropoietin may be useful in patients with AIDS treated with zidovudine, although the indicators for its use remain to be clarified.
Mount Sakurajima in Japan is one of the most active volcanoes in the world. This work was conducted to examine the effect of volcanic ash on the chronic respiratory disease mortality in the vicinity of Mt. Sakurajima.
The present work examined the standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) of respiratory diseases during the period 1968-2002 in Sakurajima town and Tarumizu city, where ashfall from the volcano recorded more than 10.000 g/m2/yr on average in the 1980s.
The SMR of lung cancer in the Sakurajima-Tarumizu area was 1.61 (95% CI=1.44-1.78) for men and 1.67 (95% CI=1.39-1.95) for women while it was nearly equal to one in Kanoya city, which neighbors Tarumizu city but located at the further position from Mt. Sakurajima, and therefore has much smaller amounts of ashfall. Sakurajima-Tarumizu area had elevated SMRs for COPDs and acute respiratory diseases while Kanoya did not.
Cristobalite is the most likely cause of the increased deaths from those chronic respiratory diseases since smoking is unlikely to explain the increased mortality of respiratory diseases among women since the proportion of smokers in Japanese women is less than 20%, and SPM levels in the Sakurajima-Tarumizu area were not high. Further studies seem warranted.
Renal alterations in hypothyroidism include decreased glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow. We herein report a case of amiodarone -induced hypothyroidism associated with a rapid decrease of renal function, reversible upon amiodarone withdrawal. A 72-year-old man presented to our clinic in August 2007 reporting a recent deterioration of renal function. Ten weeks before he was admitted to another hospital for a supraventricular tachyarrhythmia treated with carvedilol 12.5 mg/day and amiodarone 400 mg/day. On admission, laboratory tests revealed altered renal function (serum creatinine 6 mg/dl, blood urea nitrogen 78 mg/dl) and severe hypothyroidism (free T4 0.27 pg/ml, free T3 1.49 pg/ml, TSH 183.36 mU/l). Amiodarone and carvedilol were stopped, while levothyroxine 75 mcg/die was started. After three months renal function had completely recovered to 1.9 mg/dl, BUN 28 mg/dl, with concurrent improvement of thyroid function free T4 14.2 pg/ml, free T3 6.4 pg/ml, TSH 15.5 mU/l.
To determine whether synthetic retinoic acid receptor (RAR)-α/β-specific agonist Am80 reduces inflammation in experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis (EAU).
Naive CD4(+) T cells were activated with anti-CD3, anti-CD28, and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β, in the presence or absence of Am80. Intracellular expression of forkhead box p3 (Foxp3) and interleukin (IL)-17 in the activated CD4(+) T cells was assessed by flow cytometry. For induction of EAU, C57BL/6 mice were immunized with human interphotoreceptor retinoid binding protein (IRBP) peptide 1 to 20 (IRBP(1-20)). Am80 was administered orally every other day (3 mg/kg/time point) from day 0 to day 21. In vivo primed draining lymph node cells from vehicle-treated or Am80-treated mice were stimulated with IRBP(1-20), and culture supernatant was harvested for assay of interferon (IFN)-γ, IL-6, IL-10, and IL-17. The expression of Foxp3 and IL-6 receptor α in CD4(+) T cells of draining lymph node cells was assessed by a flow cytometer.
Am80 synergized with TGF-β to induce Foxp3(+) T regulatory cells (Treg) and reciprocally inhibited development of IL-17-producing T helper cells (Th17) induced by TGF-β and IL-6. Am80 treatment reduced the severity of EAU clinically, and IFN-γ and IL-17 production was significantly reduced in Am80-treated mice. In addition, the expression of IL-6 receptor α on CD4(+) T cells was downregulated in Am80-treated mice.
These findings demonstrate that Am80 treatment ameliorates severity of EAU and reduces the Th1/Th17 responses. The synthetic retinoid Am80 appears to be a promising agent for preventing autoimmune uveoretinal inflammation.
The objective of this study was to compare the beneficial effects of caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), vitamin C, vitamin E and N-acetylcysteine on vancomycin-induced nephrotoxicity. Thirty rats were randomly devided into six groups: (i) control; (ii) vancomycin, 200 mg/kg administrated via intraperitoneal route; (iii) vancomycin plus CAPE-vancomycin with 10 micromol/kg CAPE; (iv) vancomycin plus vitamin C-vancomycin (intraperitoneally) with 200 mg/dl vitamin C in drinking water; (v) vancomycin plus vitamin E-vancomycin with 1000 mg/kg body weight vitamin E (intramuscularly); and (vi) vancomycin plus N-acetylcysteine-vancomycin with 10 mg/kg body weight (intraperitoneally) of N-acetylcysteine. Vancomycin treatments were started 1 day after the first administrations of these agents and continued for 7 days. At the end of the experiments, catalase activity was significantly decreased by vancomycin in kidney homogenates (P < 0.05). Vitamin E, vitamin C, N-acetylcysteine and CAPE administrations decreased the blood urea nitrogen levels increased by vancomycin, although significant differences were detected only in the vitamins E and C groups (P < 0.05). Increased renal malondialdehyde and nitric oxide levels by vancomycin were significantly suppressed by agents used in the study (P < 0.05). Histopathological examination demonstrated prominent damages in the vancomycin-treated group. Vitamin E was the most beneficial agent on vancomycin-induced tubular damage, followed by vitamin C, N-acetylcysteine and CAPE treatments, respectively. The data suggest that vitamin E, as well as vitamin C, N-acetylcysteine and CAPE, could be useful for reducing the detrimental effects on vancomycin-induced toxicity in kidneys.
Observations were made in 5 healthy subjects who exercised before and 1, 3, 6, 8 and 24 h after the oral administration on separate occasions of 160 mg oxprenolol, 160 mg slow release oxprenolol, 160 mg long acting propranolol and 400 mg sotalol. Blood samples were obtained before and at 1, 2, 3, 6, 8, 10 and 24 h after drug administration and assayed for drug concentration. Although the plasma concentration of oxprenolol after S.R. oxprenolol was significantly less at 1 and 2 h and significantly greater at 24 h than after conventional oxprenolol, there was little difference between the effects of the two drugs on an exercise tachycardia. The plasma level of propranolol and the reduction in an exercise tachycardia after L.A. propranolol increased slowly to reach a peak at 6 h and then declined gradually to 24 h. The maximum plasma concentration and effect after sotalol occurred at 3 h and then declined with an elimination half-life of 12.1 h. At 24 h the percentage reduction in an exercise tachycardia was 8.3 +/- 2.5 after oxprenolol, 10.0 +/- 2.3 after S.R. oxprenolol, 18.0 +/- 3.2 after L.A. propranolol and 14.7 +/- 3.4% after sotalol.
The use of warfarin with a range INR of 2.0-3.0 is recommended in prevention of stroke for nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (AF) patients, in particular those older than 75 years. The risk of bleeding that is associated with this range of INR has led to evaluate lower ranges (low-dose or fixed minidose) in terms of risks and benefits. A meta-analysis of all randomized controlled trials evaluating 'low-intensity' 'minidose' or 'low-dose anticoagulant' treatment for prevention of thromboembolic events in AF was conducted by two independent reviewers. Study quality was evaluated in a blinded fashion. Four original studies were retrieved. Outcome events were determined in various treatment groups: ischemic stroke, systemic embolism, thromboses (ischemic stroke, systemic embolism or myocardial infarction), vascular death, major hemorrhage and hemorrhagic death. Results obtained with a random effects model were expressed as a common relative risk. Adjusted-dose warfarin compared with lower dose warfarin (INR < or = 1.6) in 2108 randomised patients significantly reduced the risk of any thrombosis: Relative risk (RR): 0.50 (95% CI; 0.25 to 0.97). The RR was 0.46 (95%CI; 0.2 to 1.07) for ischemic stroke. Inversely lower dose did not statistically decrease the risk for major hemorrhage compared to adjusted-dose: RR adjusted-dose vs lower dose: 1.23 (95% CI; 0.67-2.27). The RR was 0.97 (95 % CI 0.27-3.54) for hemorrhagic death. Our meta-analysis showed that adjusted-dose compared with low-dose or minidose warfarin therapy (INR < or =1.6) was more effective to prevent ischemic thromboembolic events in patients with atrial fibrillation.
Embryotoxicity of the oil dispersant Corexit 9500 was examined using fertilized mallard duck eggs. Corexit 9500 was topically applied below the air cell to eggs in volumes ranging from 0 to 100 μL on day 3 of incubation. The highest incidence of mortality occurred at developmental stage 4, one day post-Corexit 9500 application. Hatching success was significantly decreased among eggs treated with ≥ 20 μL of Corexit 9500 as compared to controls (P ≤ 0.047). No egg treated with ≥ 40 μL successfully hatched. The application volume resulting in 50% mortality (corrected for control survival) was determined to be 15.5 μL. Developmental stage at embryo death was also significantly decreased compared to controls in eggs exposed to 40 μL (P = 0.0042) and above.
Social anxiety disorder is a debilitating, highly prevalent disorder in children and adolescents. If left untreated, it can interfere with emotional, social, and school functioning.
To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of paroxetine in children and adolescents with social anxiety disorder.
Multicenter, 16-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, flexible-dose, parallel-group, outpatient study. Patients A total of 322 children (8-11 years of age) and adolescents (12-17 years of age) with social anxiety disorder as their predominant psychiatric illness. Intervention Eligible patients were randomized (1:1) to receive paroxetine (10-50 mg/d) or placebo.
Four hundred twenty-five patients were screened, and 322 were randomized to treatment. Of these, 319 were included in the intention-to-treat population (paroxetine, n = 163; placebo, n = 156). At the week 16 last observation carried forward end point, the odds of responding (Clinical Global Impression-Improvement score of 1 or 2) were statistically significantly greater for paroxetine (77.6% response [125/161]) than for placebo (38.3% response [59/154]) (adjusted odds ratio, 7.02; 95% confidence interval, 4.07 to 12.11; P<.001). The proportion of patients who were "very much" improved (Clinical Global Impression-Improvement score of 1) was 47.8% (77/161) for paroxetine compared with 14.9% (23/154) for placebo. Adverse events occurring at an incidence of 5% or greater for paroxetine and twice that for placebo were insomnia (14.1% vs 5.8%), decreased appetite (8.0% vs 3.2%), and vomiting (6.7% vs 1.9%). Withdrawals due to adverse events were infrequent (5.5% [9/163] for paroxetine and 1.3% [2/156] for placebo).
Paroxetine is an effective, generally well-tolerated treatment for pediatric social anxiety disorder.
Serotonin neurotransmission and limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (LHPA) axis hormones are thought to be involved in the reinforcement of alcohol intake and contribute to the risk for alcoholism. In humans and macaques, a promoter polymorphism that decreases transcription of the serotonin transporter gene is associated with anxiety and altered LHPA-axis responses to stress, and in female macaques, exposure to early-life stress alters LHPA-axis activation in response to alcohol. We wanted to determine whether serotonin transporter gene promoter variation (rh-5HTTLPR) and rearing condition would interact to influence alcohol preference in female rhesus macaques. Because of the involvement of stress and LHPA-axis activity in symptoms of withdrawal and relapse, we also wanted to determine whether serotonin transporter gene variation and rearing condition would influence changes in the patterns of alcohol consumption across a 6-week alcohol consumption paradigm.
Female macaques were reared with their mothers in social groups (n = 18) or in peer-only groups (n = 14). As young adults, they were given access to an aspartame-sweetened 8.4% alcohol solution and vehicle for 1 hour per day, and volumes of consumption of alcoholic and nonalcoholic solutions were recorded. Serotonin transporter genotype (l/l and l/s) was determined using polymerase chain reaction followed by gel electrophoresis.
We found interactions between rearing condition and serotonin transporter genotype, such that l/s peer-reared females demonstrated higher levels of ethanol preference. We also found an effect of rearing condition on the percentage change in alcohol consumed during the 6 weeks as well as a phase by rearing interaction, such that peer-reared animals progressively increased their levels of consumption across the course of the study. This was especially evident for peer-reared females with the l/s rh5-HTTLPR genotype.
These data suggest a potential interaction between serotonin transporter gene variation and early experience in vulnerability to alcoholism.
To investigate the role of corticosteroids in the initial treatment of Kawasaki disease (KD).
Between September 2000 and March 2005, we randomly assigned 178 KD patients from 12 hospitals to either an intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) group (n = 88; 1 g/kg for 2 consecutive days) or an IVIG plus corticosteroid (IVIG+PSL) group (n = 90). The primary endpoint was coronary artery abnormality (CAA) before a 1-month echocardiographic assessment. Secondary endpoints included duration of fever, time to normalization of serum C-reactive protein (CRP), and initial treatment failure requiring additional therapy. Analyses were based on intention to treat.
Baseline characteristics of groups were similar. Fewer IVIG+PSL patients than IVIG patients had a CAA before 1 month (2.2% vs 11.4%; P = .017). The duration of fever was shorter (P < .001) and CRP decreased more rapidly in the IVIG+PSL group than in the IVIG group (P = .001). Moreover, initial treatment failure was less frequent (5.6% vs 18.2%; P = .010) in the IVIG+PSL group. All patients assigned to the IVIG+PSL group completed treatment without major side effects.
A combination of corticosteroids and IVIG improved clinical course and coronary artery outcome without causing untoward effects in children with acute KD.
To evaluate the decrease in nocturnal polyuria and the tolerability of three different doses of oral desmopressin in elderly subjects.
Subjects were included in the study if they; (i) were healthy and free from medication with possible influence on their diuresis or voiding pattern: (ii) had an increased nocturnal frequency (> or = 2 nocturnal voids, as reported in the pre-screening period); and (iii) had a nocturnal urinary output of > or = 0.9 mL/min. Seventeen men and six women (mean age 68.1, SD 4.7 years) met these criteria and were treated with 0.1, 0.2 and 0.4 mg oral desmopressin given at bedtime, each dose taken for one week on three consecutive weeks.
The mean (SD) nocturnal diuresis before treatment was 1.6 (0.7) mL/min, which decreased significantly to 1.1 (0.4) mL/min when 0.1 mg desmopressin was given. A dose of 0.2 mg desmopressin resulted in a further small decrease in the nocturnal diuresis to 0.9 (0.4) mL/min, whereas the 0.4 mg dose produced no additional effect. The reduction in nocturnal diuresis occurred almost exclusively in the group with a nocturnal urinary output of > or =1.3 mL/min. After treatment, diuresis returned to pretreatment levels. There was no change in body weight or in ankle circumference during desmopressin treatment and no serious adverse effects were observed.
Desmopressin reduces nocturnal diuresis in polyuric elderly subjects and this reduction, occurring with doses of 0.1 mg given at bedtime, does not increase in a dose-dependent way.
We report two cases of bilateral papilledema in young women. The first patient was 15 years old and had experienced headaches and vomiting for one month, but no visual loss. Cerebral tomodensitometry results were normal, but lumbar puncture showed increased pressure and normal biology. Benign intracranial hypertension was diagnosed. Recent treatment with minocycline for acne vulgaris was the only etiology. Papilledema was totally regressed at 6 weeks, after interruption of the antibiotic treatment. A prescription of acetazolamide was added for a short period of 10 days. The second patient, aged 29 years, presented bilateral papilledema with severe visual loss, with vision limited to light perception with mydriasis of the right eye. Lumbar puncture was not indicated because of a hypophyseal microadenoma revealed on MRI investigation. No other associated abnormalities were observed, in particular, no cerebral sinus thrombosis. Corticotherapy using prednisolone for 72 hours had no clinical effect. Fast visual recovery was obtained with intravenous acetazolamide therapy and was completely resolved at 2 months. Right visual field defects persisted. Minocycline and obesity are recognized as precipitating factors in pseudotumor cerebri syndrome. The literature advocates consideration of surgical treatment by optic nerve sheath fenestration if antiedematous treatment has no effect and the eye is nearly blind.
