We have extended our earlier observations on pain relief produced by intravesical instillation of capsaicin (10 microM in saline) in patients with hypersensitive disorders of the lower urinary tract. Patients in group A (n = 15) received intravesical capsaicin on days 0, 14 and 28: on each occasion the drug produced a warm or burning sensation, reduction in bladder capacity and a delayed, transient improvement or disappearance of symptoms. Patients in group B (n = 5) received intravesical capsaicin (10 microM at cystometry) 3 times on day 0. The initial sensation of warmth was experienced on each occasion, indicating that no significant desensitisation has been produced by the first instillation. Clinical improvement similar to that found in group A was observed. Three patients (group C) received warm saline (42 degrees C) at cystometry. This produced a pricking sensation, no change at cystometry and no subjective clinical improvement. Apart from the initial sensation of warmth, no patient in group A or B experienced side effects, either local or systemic. These findings confirm that intravesical instillation of capsaicin has a beneficial effect on patients with hypersensitive bladder disorders. Counter-irritation rather than desensitisation of primary afferents could be a possible mechanism of action. Further studies are needed to establish whether the intravesical administration of capsaicin or capsaicin-like agents represents a new form of treatment for relief of bladder pain.
The objective was to test the hypothesis that dietary copper inhibits atherosclerosis by inducing superoxide dismutase (SOD) and potentiating nitric oxide (NO). New Zealand White rabbits were fed either a cholesterol diet (n = 8) or a cholesterol diet containing 0.02% copper acetate (n = 8) for 13 weeks. We found that the intimal area was significantly smaller in the animals supplemented with copper (P < 0.005), although integrated plasma cholesterol levels were not significantly different. This was associated with a significant increase in aortic copper content (P < 0.05), SOD activity (P < 0.05) and Cu/Zn SOD mRNA (P < 0.05) and a significant decrease in nitrotyrosine content (P < 0.05). Furthermore, there was a positive correlation between aortic copper content and SOD activity (P < 0.005, R(2) = 0.83) and a negative correlation between aortic superoxide dimutase activity and nitrotyrosine content (P < 0.005, R(2) = 0.93). In organ bath experiments, the relaxation of precontracted carotid artery rings to calcium ionophore was greater in animals supplemented with copper. No difference in response to sodium nitroprusside was observed. These data suggest that in the cholesterol-fed rabbit, copper supplements inhibit the progression of atherosclerosis by increasing SOD expression, thereby reducing the interaction of NO with superoxide, and hence potentiating NO-mediated pathways that may protect against atherosclerosis.
Molecular defects in erythroid 5-aminolevulinate synthase (ALAS-E), the first enzyme in the heme biosynthetic pathway, cause X-linked sideroblastic anemia (XLSA). However, ring sideroblasts, the hallmark of XLSA, were not found in ALAS-E-deficient mouse embryos, indicating that simple ALAS-E-deficiency is not sufficient for ring sideroblast formation. To investigate the developmental stage-specific pathogenesis caused by heme-depletion, we attempted a complementation rescue of ALAS-E-deficiency. We exploited transgenic mouse lines expressing human ALAS-E at approximately half that of wild-type levels. In these hypomorphic embryos, most of the primitive erythroid cells were transformed into ring sideroblasts. The majority of the circulating definitive erythroid cells became siderocytes, enucleated erythrocytes containing iron deposits, and definitive ring sideroblasts were also observed. These iron-overloaded cells suffered from an alpha/beta globin chain imbalance. Despite the iron overload, transferrin receptors were highly expressed in the erythroid cells, suggesting they contribute to the formation of ring sideroblasts and siderocytes. These results indicate that a partially depleted heme supply provokes ring sideroblast formation. The experimental generation of ring sideroblasts in animals would contribute to our understanding of the iron metabolism and its disorder in erythroid cells.
To examine the cost-effectiveness of modafinil (200 mg daily) plus counselling compared with placebo for the treatment of psychostimulant dependence.
Cost and outcome data were collected alongside two randomised controlled trials of modafinil 200 mg daily over 10 weeks for methamphetamine (n = 74) and cocaine dependence (n = 8), respectively. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios representing the additional costs to achieve a given outcome were calculated for both the change in the number of stimulant-free days and quality-adjusted life years 12 weeks post-treatment.
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio indicated that it would cost an additional $AUD79 to achieve an extra stimulant-free day with modafinil compared with placebo. This result was not statistically significant, but appeared to be a robust estimate after sensitivity analysis. Counselling, whether received within program or from other services, improved the cost-effectiveness of modafinil relative to placebo.
Strategies to improve the uptake of counselling are recommended as cost-effective.
Although extensive evidence exists for the reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse such as cocaine, relatively less research has addressed the functional neuroanatomical correlates of the cognitive sequelae of these drugs. We present a functional magnetic resonance imaging study of a GO-NOGO task in which successful performance required prepotent behaviors to be inhibited. Significant cingulate, pre-supplementary motor and insula hypoactivity was observed for both successful NOGOs and errors of commission in chronic cocaine users relative to cocaine-naive controls. This attenuated response, in the presence of comparable activation levels in other task-related cortical areas, suggests cortical and psychological specificity in the locus of drug abuse-related cognitive dysfunction. The results suggest that addiction may be accompanied by a disruption of brain structures critical for the higher-order, cognitive control of behavior.
In myeloma patients resistance to both melphalan- and doxorubicin-containing regimens has been related to very short survival (approximately 6 months). The development of effective regimens combined with a low toxicity rate is mandatory in this patient subgroup.
Fourteen resistant myeloma patients were treated with cyclophosphamide (a total of 3.6 g/m2 was delivered in 2 doses on days 1 and 3) and prednisone (2 mg/kg, days 1-4) every month for 4 cycles. G-CSF support was administered to reduce myelosuppression.
This combination was well tolerated. Granulocyte levels fell below 0.1 x 10(9)/L in all patients after a median of 9 days (range 8-11), followed by recovery to 0.5 x 10(9)/L after a median of 12 days from the start of treatment (range 10-13 days). Platelets never fell below 50 x 10(9)/L. All patients were treated on an outpatient basis and only 2 required hospitalization for major complications (pneumonia and heart failure). Response to cyclophosphamide was observed in 6/14 patients: 2 achieved complete remission, 4 showed a 50% or greater reduction of the M-component. Five patients are still in remission after 2, 6, 7, 9 and 10 months; 1 relapsed after 10 months. All patients except one are alive 4-16 months from the start of treatment.
This schedule may represent a new approach for resistant myeloma, and its very low toxicity allows it to be delivered on an outpatient basis.
Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism reduces mortality associated with heart failure by mechanisms that remain unclear. The effects of the mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist spironolactone on left ventricular (LV) function and chamber stiffness associated with myocardial fibrosis were investigated in mildly symptomatic patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM).
Twenty-five DCM patients with a New York Heart Association functional class of I or II were examined before and after treatment with spironolactone for 12 months. LV pressures and volumes were measured simultaneously, and LV endomyocardial biopsy specimens were obtained. Serum concentrations of the carboxyl-terminal propeptide (PIP) and carboxyl-terminal telopeptide (CITP) of collagen type I were measured. The patients were divided into 2 groups on the basis of the serum PIP/CITP ratio (< or =35, group A, n=12; >35, group B, n=13), an index of myocardial collagen accumulation. LV diastolic chamber stiffness, the collagen volume fraction, and abundance of collagen type I and III mRNAs in biopsy tissue were greater and the LV early diastolic strain rate (tissue Doppler echocardiography) was smaller in group B than in group A at baseline. These differences and the difference in PIP/CITP were greatly reduced after treatment of patients in group B with spironolactone, with treatment having no effect on these parameters in group A. The collagen volume fraction was significantly correlated with PIP/CITP, LV early diastolic strain rate, and LV diastolic chamber stiffness for all patients before and after treatment with spironolactone.
Spironolactone ameliorated LV diastolic dysfunction and reduced chamber stiffness in association with regression of myocardial fibrosis in mildly symptomatic patients with DCM. These effects appeared limited, however, to patients with increased myocardial collagen accumulation.
Dissociating glucocorticoid receptor (GR) ligands hold great promise for treating inflammatory disorders since it is assumed that they exert beneficial activities mediated by transrepression but avoid adverse effects of GR action requiring transactivation. Here we challenged this paradigm by investigating 2-(4-acetoxyphenyl)-2-chloro-N-methyl-ethylammonium chloride (CpdA), a dissociating non-steroidal GR ligand, in the context of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis (MS).
CpdA inhibited pro-inflammatory mediators in myelin-specific T cells and fibroblasts in a GR-dependent manner while gene activation was abolished. However, it also induced massive apoptosis in various cell types even in the absence of the GR by engaging a Bcl-2- and caspase-dependent pathway. (1)H NMR spectroscopy corroborated these findings by revealing that CpdA dissolved in buffered solutions rapidly decomposes into aziridine intermediates known to act as alkylating pro-apoptotic agents. Importantly, the dichotomy of CpdA action also became evident in vivo. Administration of high-dose CpdA to mice was lethal while treatment of EAE with low to intermediate amounts of CpdA dissolved in water significantly ameliorated the disease. The beneficial effect of CpdA required expression of the GR in T cells and was achieved by down regulating LFA-1 and CD44 on peripheral Th cells and by repressing IL-17 production.
CpdA has significant therapeutic potential although adverse effects severely compromise its application in vivo. Hence, non-steroidal GR ligands require careful analysis prior to their translation into new therapeutic concepts.
Pancreatitis is a rare adverse effect of codeine. We report the case of a 42-year-old man who suffered from epigastric pain 1 hour after taking a tablet containing amoxicillin plus clavulanic acid (500/125 mg) and another tablet containing acetaminophen plus codeine (500/30 mg) for a respiratory infection. He was admitted to the emergency room and was treated with metamizol and pantoprazole. A few minutes after receiving intravenous doses of both drugs he developed a maculopapular and itching eruption with facial angioedema. Laboratory tests showed high levels of serum amylase, GOT, GPT and total bilirubin. Serological tests for several viruses showed no evidence of recent infection. Ultrasonography was negative for biliary lithiasis and showed only cholecystectomy performed in 2000. The patient was sent to our department where skin prick and oral challenge tests were performed with negative results. For ethical reasons, oral challenge with codeine was not carried out. We believe that our patient had codeine-induced pancreatitis. The most likely underlying pathophysiological mechanism was probably codeine-induced spasm of the sphincter of Oddi combined with sphincter of Oddi dysfunction related to a previous cholecystectomy. Allergy departments should be aware of possible non-immunological adverse.
Intracavernosal injection of phenoxybenzamine or papaverine has been tried on 127 men suffering from erectile impotence. In 113 of them it caused an erection which should have sufficed for coitus. Seventy-three men have used such injections, given at home by themselves or their wives, fortnightly or less often, to make coitus possible after each injection; 54 of them still do so.
Authors describe a case of grand mal seizure associated with administration of desipramine and haloperidol. Neuroleptic induced inhibition of desipramine metabolism is discussed as a possible explanation of unusually high desipramine plasma level of 610 ng/ml at the day of seizure.
The influence of chronic treatment of mice with methamphetamine, an indirect dopamine agonist, on the cataleptic effects of R-(+)-chloro-2,3,4,5,-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1H-3-benzazepin -7ol hydrochloride (SCH23390), a D1 receptor agonist, or haloperidol, a mainly D2 antagonist, was investigated. Once every other day treatment with 3 mg/kg SC methamphetamine for 15 days resulted in an increase in the catalepsy produced by haloperidol (0.3 mg/kg IP) (haloperidol catalepsy), but in a decrease in the catalepsy produced by SCH23390 (0.3 mg/kg IP) (SCH23390 catalepsy), 24 h and 7 days after withdrawal of methamphetamine. These effects of chronic methamphetamine were antagonized by coadministration of either SCH23390 (0.5 mg/kg SC) or haloperidol (1.0 mg/kg SC). These results suggest that the decreased responsiveness to SCH23390 in chronic methamphetamine-pretreated mice results from a supersensitivity of D1 receptors, and that the increased responsiveness to haloperidol catalepsy results from a subsensitivity of D2 receptors. The attenuated response to SCH23390 may be interpreted as an example of sensitization to methamphetamine, and the enhanced haloperidol response as an example of tolerance to methamphetamine, based on the development of supersensitivity and subsensitivity of D1 and D2 receptors, respectively, after chronic methamphetamine administration. Furthermore, it is suggested that coadministration of either SCH23390 or haloperidol could prevent the development of D1 receptor supersensitivity and D2 receptor subsensitivity induced by chronic methamphetamine.
Menkes disease is an X-linked recessive copper deficiency disorder caused by mutations in the ATP7A (MNK) gene. The MNK gene encodes a copper-transporting P-type ATPase, MNK, which is localized predominantly in the trans-Golgi network (TGN). The MNK protein relocates to the plasma membrane in cells exposed to elevated copper where it functions in copper efflux. A role for MNK at the TGN in mammalian cells has not been demonstrated. In this study, we investigated whether the MNK protein is required for the activity of tyrosinase, a copper-dependent enzyme involved in melanogenesis that is synthesized within the secretory pathway. We demonstrate that recombinant tyrosinase expressed in immortalized Menkes fibroblast cell lines was inactive, whereas in normal fibroblasts known to express MNK protein there was substantial tyrosinase activity. Co-expression of the Menkes protein and tyrosinase from plasmid constructs in Menkes fibroblasts led to the activation of tyrosinase and melanogenesis. This MNK-dependent activation of tyrosinase was impaired by the chelation of copper in the medium of cells and after mutation of the invariant phosphorylation site at aspartic acid residue 1044 of MNK. Collectively, these findings suggest that the MNK protein transports copper into the secretory pathway of mammalian cells to activate copper-dependent enzymes and reveal a second copper transport role for MNK in mammalian cells. These findings describe a single cell-based system that allows both the copper transport and trafficking functions of MNK to be studied. This study also contributes to our understanding of the molecular basis of pigmentation in mammalian cells.
Dipyridamole-associated adverse neurological side effects have not been extensively described. We present two cases of dipyridamole-associated transient motor neurological events with no evidence of residual neurological deficits detected clinically or by head CT. The patients showed no evidence of significant extracranial (internal carotid) artery disease. We propose the presence of a regional cerebral perfusion disturbance due to an intracranial vascular steal phenomenon as the mechanism for the above side effects of dipyridamole.
A 23-year-old Japanese woman was diagnosed with lupus nephritis on May 2007. The patient was prescribed 30 mg/day of prednisolone, but developed a pulmonary abscess and was admitted to Sapporo Medical University Hospital in March 2008. Antibiotics improved the symptoms. We prescribed trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole as prophylaxis for pneumocystis pneumonia; however, the patient developed fever and thrombocytopenia with hyperferritinemia after a week of this prophylaxis. We considered that she was developing hemophagocytic syndrome, and administered methylprednisolone pulse therapy. The clinical findings soon improved. However, when the prophylaxis was restarted, the patient developed fever, headache, and anaphylaxis the same day. Symptomatic therapy resolved these symptoms after three days, but they recurred on recommencing trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid revealed aseptic meningitis. These episodes were thought to be induced by trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. As trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is frequently used as prophylaxis for pneumocystis infection in immunosuppressed patients, clinicians should be vigilant regarding the complications of this treatment, particularly the rare occurrence of aseptic meningitis and anaphylaxis.
Five, 30, and 60 min pretreatment of 1000 mg/kg and not 500 mg/kg of L-arginine inhibited convulsions induced by picrotoxin. The concentrations of nitric oxide (NO) and gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) were increased in the brain 5, 30, and 60 min after administration of 1000 mg/kg and not 500 mg/kg of L-arginine. A much higher dose of L-arginine (2000 mg/kg), 30 min after administration, produced a lesser anticonvulsant and NO and GABA increasing actions as compared to that produced by 1000 mg/kg of L-arginine. The same dose of L-arginine, 60 min after administration, decreased the concentrations of both NO and GABA and increased the convulsion frequency of picrotoxin. An NO decreasing dose of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) decreased brain GABA concentration and increased the convulsant action of picrotoxin. Further, L-NAME pretreatment prevented L-arginine (1000 mg/kg) from producing anticonvulsant and NO and GABA increasing effects. An interpretation of these results suggests that NO synthesized from systemically administered L-arginine inhibits convulsions by increasing the concentration of GABA in the brain. However, the effects of L-arginine are reversible, if it is administered at a higher dose (2000 mg/kg) 60 min prior to the test. It is concluded that L-arginine produces anticonvulsant or proconvulsant action depending upon the dose and time of its administration-related changes in the concentrations of NO and GABA in the brain.
Partial fatty acid oxidation inhibitors have raised great interest since they are expected to counteract a dysregulated gene expression of hypertrophied cardiocytes. Some of these compounds have been developed for treating non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and stable angina pectoris. A shift from fatty acid oxidation to glucose oxidation leads to a reduced gluconeogenesis and improved economy of cardiac work. An increased glucose oxidation can be achieved with the following enzyme inhibitors: etomoxir, oxfenicine, methyl palmoxirate, S-15176, metoprolol, amiodarone, perhexiline (carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1); aminocarnitine, perhexiline (carnitine palmitoyltransferase-2); hydrazonopropionic acid (carnitine-acylcarnitine translocase); MET-88 (gamma-butyrobetaine hydroxylase); 4-bromocrotonic acid, trimetazidine, possibly ranolazine (thiolases); hypoglycin (butyryl-CoA dehydrogenase); dichloroacetate (pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase). CLINICAL TRIALS with trimetazidine and ranolazine showed that this shift in substrate oxidation has an antianginal action. Etomoxir and MET-88 improved the function of overloaded hearts by increasing the density of the Ca(2+) pump of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SERCA2). The promoters of SERCA2 and alpha-myosin heavy-chain exhibit sequences which are expected to respond to transcription factors responsive to glucose metabolites and/or peroxisome proliferator-responsive element (PPAR) agonists. Further progress in elucidating novel compounds which upregulate SERCA2 expression is closely linked to the characterization of regulatory sequences of the SERCA2 promoter.
Diesel exhaust particles (DEP) have been reported to worsen allergic airway inflammation in mice. Recently, the organic chemical components of DEP (DEP-OC) were found to be important contributors to the aggravation of allergic airway inflammation in mice. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of DEP-OC on atopic dermatitis (AD)-like skin lesions induced by picryl chloride (PiCl) in NC/Nga mice.
DEP were extracted with benzene/ethanol, and the soluble organic fraction formed the DEP-OC. NC/Nga male mice received simultaneous application of DEP-OC and/or PiCl on their ears once a week for 9 or 3 weeks. We evaluated skin lesions by noting scaling, eruption, excoriation, erosion, hemorrhage, pathologic changes, production of cytokines, and IgE level in the serum.
PiCl application alone produced progressively severe AD-like skin lesions. The application of PiCl plus DEP-OC resulted in a marked worsening of skin lesions in the early stages of AD. Moreover, mast cell counts significantly increased in the subcutaneous tissue. Administration of PiCl combined with DEP-OC resulted in a greater increase in the local expression of interleukin-4, keratinocyte chemoattractant, and neutrophils in subcutaneous tissue compared with PiCl treatment alone. In contrast, the combination treatment produced lower levels of IFN-γ compared with PiCl treatment alone.
DEP-OC application to the skin aggravated PiCl-induced AD. This aggravation may be due to activation of the Th2-associated immune responses by the organic chemicals in DEP.
Nine patients suffering from Parkinson's disease and 2 cases of Parkinsonian syndrome were treated with bromocriptine, for 41 to 117 days, with a daily dose of 20 to 40 mg. The results were very good in 4 cases, satisfactory in 6 and nil in one case. Improvement concerned akinesias, rigidity and tremor, and was more marked in patients with more advanced signs. In 2 patients, amantadine was stopped. The dose of L-dopa was decreased by 2/3 without any change in clinical condition and L-dopa could be withdrawn in 5 cases out of 8. Bromocriptine appears to be an interesting development in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Propofol is a relatively new anesthetic agent used in outpatient surgery. Some investigators use it in the treatment of status epilepticus and in epilepsy surgery and have concluded that propofol has an anticonvulsant effect. Cases of seizure-like behaviors, myoclonus and opisthotonus following propofol anesthesia have been reported. Although rare, official warnings about this association have been issued. Different EEG abnormalities, and no abnormality, have been associated with propofol. We report a case of a healthy man who developed nonconvulsive seizures and generalized paroxysmal fast activity in his EEG following use of propofol for anesthesia.
This multicenter study evaluated the association of 11 candidate polymorphisms in eight genes with outcome of pancreatic cancer patients treated with the equivalent polychemotherapeutic regimens: cisplatin/epirubicin/capecitabine/gemcitabine, cisplatin/docetaxel/capecitabine/gemcitabine and gemcitabine/capecitabine plus epirubicin/cisplatin intra-arterial infusion.
Towards this end, polymorphisms were assessed in DNA from 122 pancreatic cancer stage-III/IV patients, and their associations with toxicity/response and progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival were evaluated using Pearson-χ(2) and log-rank test.
Patients harboring XPD Gln751Gln, XPD Asp312Asn + Asn312Asn or XRCC1 Arg399Gln + Gln399Gln genotypes had a worse prognosis. XPD Gln751Gln (hazard ratio: 1.9; p = 0.003), as well as a combination of over two risk genotypes (hazard ratio: 2.7; p < 0.001), emerged as independent predictors for death risk at multivariate analysis. No correlations were observed with toxicity. Conversely, XPD Gln751Gln was associated with shorter PFS, while the lack of association with overall survival/PFS in gemcitabine monotherapy-treated patients suggested its role only for platinum-based regimens.
Polymorphisms of DNA-repair genes appear to be candidate biomarkers of primary resistance to gemcitabine/cisplatin-based polychemotherapeutic regimens. The relatively small sample size, coupled with the retrospective and exploratory design of the present study, imply that these results should be considered as hypothesis generators, and should be further evaluated in larger and adequately designed retrospective/prospective studies.
Medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), a potent progestagen, is used as a very efficient contraceptive agent. The method of administration is by a threemonthly or sixmonthly intramuscular injection. The method is particularly convenient when the desired number of children has been reached. Fertility is sometimes reestablished only slowly after stopping the injections. The main side effects are linked to endometrial atrophy (blood loss, amenorrhoea). Other side effects are infrequent and subjective. A controversy has risen over the product, by reference to its effects on beagle dogs. We have reviewed the literature. We also present the characteristics of 313 patients treated during (all together) 8,000 months. These patients belong to a rather poor sample of the population (amongst them many immigrant women), aged about 30, with above average pregnancy and parity rates. We also studied, in 31 patients, serum levels of glucose and lipids, and haemostasis. Side effects and reasons for discontinuing the drug are reported. The Pearl index was 0,75% women-years. There was no average effect on weight, blood tension, glycemia. Triglycerides increased slightly, and there was a discreet activation of coagulation with inhibition of the fibrinolytic activity, but without clinical consequences. We conclude that we can go on prescribing the drug, in view of our study and after reviewing the literature.
In the brain, injury-induced gliosis and axonal sprouting have been regarded as age-dependent repairing processes with, unfortunately, epileptogenic effects. The present study examines whether brains injured at different developmental stages become more or less susceptible to experimentally-induced status epilepticus. In 6- and 30-day-old Wistar rats (P6s and P30s, respectively), a mechanical injury was performed in the cortex of the left cerebral hemisphere. On postnatal day 60, all the animals and naïve controls received single intraperitoneally pilocarpine injections to evoke status epilepticus. During a 6-h period following the injection, the animals were observed continuously and motor manifestations of seizure activity were recorded and rated. Seven days after pilocarpine injection, the animals were perfused and their body and brain weights recorded. When compared to controls, P6s showed neither significant variations in their epileptic behavior nor in brain and body weights. In relation to controls and to P6s, P30s presented an extremely high mortality, a significant loss of body weight and much longer-lasting seizures of much higher intensity. The data provide evidence that the long-term variations in susceptibility to experimentally-induced status epilepticus are determined by differences in the brain response to injury at different stages of postnatal development.
Our case report of acute cholestatic liver injury highlights the potential hepatotoxicity of nimesulide treatment in combination with oral contraception. Rarely occuring histological findings of "pure" cholestasis without any inflammatory or necrotic changes with favourable outcome following ursodeoxycholic acid administration are described. It was not possible to distinguish the separate role of any of these two drugs on hepatotoxicity according to the available information. Based on the known similarities in hepatotoxic profile of nimesulide and oral contraceptives, it can be assumed that their interaction could increase the risk of liver damage, although the precise mechanisms are not ellucidated yet. Nimesulide toxicity however is often reported in cases taking several potentially hepatotoxic drugs. It is therefore prudent to reconsider any concommitant treatment and closely monitor liver function tests in patients requiring nimesulide treatment.
Feline kidney cells were transfected with a vector overexpressing cytochrome P450 2B1 (CYP2B1). Transfected cells acquired a new specific biochemical activity, which could be demonstrated by a rapid CYP2B1 detection assay and showed selective sensitivity to the antitumorigenic prodrug ifosfamide (IFO). Further, the cell-killing effect was also mediated on nonmodified cells like feline kidney cells, mouse lymphoma, and human pancreatic cells in the vicinity of the CYP2B1-expressing cells due to the diffusible nature of the activated IFO metabolites. One of these, phosphoramide mustard, causes interstrand DNA cross-linking and it has been thought that the inability to repair this damage results in apoptosis. Surprisingly, our results clearly demonstrate a necrotic mechanism of IFO-induced cell death. This may have important implications for the activation of the immune system during CYP2B1/IFO suicide gene therapy of cancer.
Although the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unclear, ample empirical evidence suggests that oxidative stress is a major player in the development of PD and in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) neurotoxicity. Nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a redox-sensitive transcription factor that upregulates a battery of antioxidant response element (ARE)-driven antioxidative and cytoprotective genes that defend against oxidative stress.
We evaluated whether the strategy of activation of Nrf2 and its downstream network of cytoprotective genes with small molecule synthetic triterpenoids (TP) attenuate MPTP-induced PD in mice.
We show that synthetic TP are thus far the most potent and direct activators of the Nrf2 pathway using a novel Neh2-luciferase reporter. They upregulate several cytoprotective genes, including those involved in glutathione biosynthesis in vitro. Oral administration of TP that were structurally modified to penetrate the brain-induced messenger RNA and protein levels for a battery of Nrf2-dependent cytoprotective genes reduced MPTP-induced oxidative stress and inflammation, and ameliorated dopaminergic neurotoxicity in mice. The neuroprotective effect of these TP against MPTP neurotoxicity was dependent on Nrf2, since treatment with TP in Nrf2 knockout mice failed to block against MPTP neurotoxicity and induce Nrf2-dependent cytoprotective genes.
Extremely potent synthetic TP that are direct activators of the Nrf2 pathway block dopaminergic neurodegeneration in the MPTP mouse model of PD.
Our results indicate that activation of Nrf2/antioxidant response element (ARE) signaling by synthetic TP is directly associated with their neuroprotective effects against MPTP neurotoxicity and suggest that targeting the Nrf2/ARE pathway is a promising approach for therapeutic intervention in PD.
