Doxorubicin (Adriamycin) is an autofluorescent anthracycline antibiotic that acts as a DNA intercalator. Following intraneural microinjection of 3 micrograms of doxorubicin into rat tibial nerve, fluorescence microscopy indicated that it is transported retrogradely to anterior horn cell bodies. Subsequently, these motor neurons underwent a progressive subacute degeneration that occurred over a period of 35-39 days. Combined electrophysiological and neuropathological methods indicated that dorsal root ganglion cells were relatively unaffected by this dose of toxin. The selective motor neuron degeneration produced by this agent raises the possibility that abnormalities of nucleic acid metabolism may be involved in the aetiology of motor neuron diseases.
We present a pharmacogenetic study of acute antipsychotic (AP)-induced extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) using an extensive linkage disequilibrium mapping approach in seven-candidate genes with a well-established link to dopamine (DRD2, DRD3, ACE, COMT, DAT, MAO-A, MAO-B). From a cohort of 321 psychiatric inpatients, 81 cases presenting with EPS (Simpson-Angus > 3) and 189 controls presenting without EPS (Simpson-Angus < or = 3) took part. Eighty-four-tag single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in candidate genes were genotyped. After extensive data cleaning, 70 SNPs were analyzed for association of single markers and haplotypes. AP dosage, AP-DRD2 blockade potency and age were identified as susceptibility factors for AP-induced EPS. One SNP of the DRD3 gene, rs167771, achieved significant association with EPS risk after Bonferroni correction (nominal P-value 1.3 x 10(-4)) in the patients treated with risperidone (132 patients). AP-induced EPS remains a serious public health problem. Our finding of a common SNP (rs167771) in the DRD3 gene provides a strong new candidate gene for risperidone-induced EPS.
We previously reported the presence of endoneurial hypoxia, ischemia, impairment of the blood-nerve barrier, and reduction of norepinephrine and 6-ketoprostaglandin F1 alpha in chronic streptozocin-induced diabetic neuropathy (SDN) and interpreted these findings as suggesting the involvement of oxygen free radicals (OFRs) but did not directly measure indices of OFR activity. In this study, we report on sciatic nerve conjugated dienes, hydroperoxides, norepinephrine, and malondialdehyde in SDN at 1, 4, and 12 mo in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Severe hyperglycemia was present throughout in diabetic rats. Conjugated dienes were consistently increased at all time points, hydroperoxides were consistently reduced, and malondialdehyde was not significantly different in diabetes compared with controls. These findings are consistent with increased OFR activity in experimental diabetes. It is necessary to monitor several indices of OFR activity in a metabolically active tissue such as the peripheral nerve.
Cardiac sodium channel β-subunit mutations have been associated with several inherited cardiac arrhythmia syndromes.
To identify and characterize variations in SCN1Bb associated with Brugada syndrome (BrS) and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS).
All known exons and intron borders of the BrS-susceptibility genes were amplified and sequenced in both directions. Wild type (WT) and mutant genes were expressed in TSA201 cells and studied using co-immunoprecipitation and whole-cell patch-clamp techniques.
Patient 1 was a 44-year-old man with an ajmaline-induced type 1 ST-segment elevation in V1 and V2 supporting the diagnosis of BrS. Patient 2 was a 62-year-old woman displaying a coved-type BrS electrocardiogram who developed cardiac arrest during fever. Patient 3 was a 4-month-old female SIDS case. A R214Q variant was detected in exon 3A of SCN1Bb (Na(v)1B) in all three probands, but not in any other gene previously associated with BrS or SIDS. R214Q was identified in 4 of 807 ethnically-matched healthy controls (0.50%). Co-expression of SCN5A/WT + SCN1Bb/R214Q resulted in peak sodium channel current (I(Na)) 56.5% smaller compared to SCN5A/WT + SCN1Bb/WT (n = 11-12, P<0.05). Co-expression of KCND3/WT + SCN1Bb/R214Q induced a Kv4.3 current (transient outward potassium current, I(to)) 70.6% greater compared with KCND3/WT + SCN1Bb/WT (n = 10-11, P<0.01). Co-immunoprecipitation indicated structural association between Na(v)β1B and Na(v)1.5 and K(v)4.3.
Our results suggest that R214Q variation in SCN1Bb is a functional polymorphism that may serve as a modifier of the substrate responsible for BrS or SIDS phenotypes via a combined loss of function of sodium channel current and gain of function of transient outward potassium current.
Syncope and sudden death are associated with sympathetic stimulation in LQT1 while LQT2 patients are more susceptible to arrhythmias during nonexertional states. Abnormal spatial (QTd)- and transmural (TDR)-dispersion of repolarization may indicate increased arrhythmogenicity. This study compares the effect of phenylephrine on QTd and TDR in genotyped LQTS to control (C).
Seventeen LQT1, 12 LQT2, and 18 age- and sex-matched normal controls received 2 mcg/kg of phenylephrine intravenously. At baseline and peak phenylephrine effect, BP, QT, RR, Bazett's QTc, precordial QTd (QTmax-QTmin), and T-peak to T-end (Tp-e) intervals were determined blinded to the patient's clinical and genotype status. Baseline QT intervals and QTc were significantly longer in LQT1 and LQT2 compared to C. Baseline QTd and Tp-e were greater in LQT2 than either LQT1 or C: QTd=79+/-29 ms (LQT2), 53+/-26 (LQT1), and 45+/-15 (C) and Tp-e=120+/-30 ms (LQT2), 99+/-20 (LQT1), and 90+/-11 (C). Overall, phenylephrine exerted no significant effect on either QTd or Tp-e except with subgroup analysis of symptomatic LQTS where LQT1 and LQT2 patients had a divergent response with TDR.
Phenylephrine-induced bradycardia decreased TDR in symptomatic LQT1 but increased TDR in symptomatic LQT2. The observed effects of phenylephrine are consistent with the protective effect of beta-blocker in LQT1 and the increased arrhythmogenicity noted during nonexertional states in LQT2.
Significant inhibition of tricyclic antidepressant metabolism by beta blockers has not often been cited in the literature and never in a clinical setting. We will describe two cases involving 9-year-old patients who experienced apparent inhibition of imipramine metabolism and near-toxic levels while receiving both propranolol and imipramine.
The case is described of a 38 year old woman who developed severe right upper quadrant abdominal pain that was associated with partial portal vein occlusion, as confirmed by flow Doppler ultrasonography and dynamic contrast computed tomography. The patient was a cigarette smoker and had taken combined oestrogen/progestagen oral contraceptive steroids (OCS) continuously for 24 years. There were no other risk factors for portal vein thrombosis or for thromboembolic disease. Following anticoagulant therapy and discontinuation of OCS complete recovery occurred. The case is reported to draw attention to portal vein thrombosis as an extremely rare complication of OCS.
A 38-year old unmarried, healthy woman presented at Westmead Hospital in Australia with moderately severe, epigastric and right upper abdominal pain of 4 days' duration. She had had infrequent attacks of crampy central abdominal pain at night for 6 years, but bloodless, loose, or watery bowel movement relieved the pain. She had no history of hematological or thromboembolic conditions. Her physical examination did not show any signs of chronic liver disease. She smoked 25 packs of cigarettes a year. She drank about 40 gm of ethanol each day. She had used combined oral contraceptives (OCs) for 24 years to treat dysfunctional uterine bleeding. The 1st OC consisted of 50 mcg ethinyl estradiol and 250 mcg levonorgestrel. For the last 3 years, the OC contained 50 mcg ethinyl estradiol and 200 mcg levonorgestrel. The hospital physicians examined the upper abdominal ultrasound with Doppler study performed the day before admission, which revealed a 1.2 x 3 cm nonuniform echogenic lesion partially blocking the portal vein and extending 6 cm along the superior mesenteric vein. This finding strongly suggested that the woman had a thrombus in the portal vein. Laboratory findings showed her blood component levels to be within normal ranges. Color flow Doppler studies and dynamic computed tomography confirmed that she indeed had partial portal vein occlusion (thrombus). The physicians then treated her with 35,000 units/day of iv heparin. 5 days later, they added enough warfarin to achieve the International Normalized Ratio of 1.6:2.3. The pain subsided steadily over 3 days. They discharged her on day 9. Repeat ultrasonographic studies at 17 and 44 days after beginning anticoagulant therapy revealed complete resolution of the thrombus with no damage to the portal and superior mesenteric veins. She stopped warfarin therapy 7 weeks after treatment began and she was still well 2 months after stopping this treatment. The physicians concluded that the portal vein thrombosis was associated with combined OC use. The risk of this thrombosis occurring among OC users is extremely small, however.
Five children with tuberculosis were treated with isoniazid (20 mg./Kg./day) and rifampin (15 mg./Kg./day). After five to twenty seven days of treatment they presented anorexia, vomiting and jaundice. Hepatomegaly was found in two of them. High indirect bilirubin, S.G.O.T. and S.G.P.T. and low prothrombin levels were present in all of them. Eight to thirty one days after withdrawal of rifampin, all patients were well and their laboratory data was normal.
Recently, our laboratory reported that exposure to nanoparticle-rich diesel exhaust (NRDE) for 3 months impaired hippocampus-dependent spatial learning ability and up-regulated the expressions of memory function-related genes in the hippocampus of female mice. However, whether NRDE affects the hippocampus-dependent non-spatial learning ability and the mechanism of NRDE-induced neurotoxicity was unknown. Female BALB/c mice were exposed to clean air, middle-dose NRDE (M-NRDE, 47 μg/m(3)), high-dose NRDE (H-NRDE, 129 μg/m(3)), or filtered H-NRDE (F-DE) for 3 months. We then investigated the effect of NRDE exposure on non-spatial learning ability and the expression of genes related to glutamate neurotransmission using a novel object recognition test and a real-time RT-PCR analysis, respectively. We also examined microglia marker Iba1 immunoreactivity in the hippocampus using immunohistochemical analyses. Mice exposed to H-NRDE or F-DE could not discriminate between familiar and novel objects. The control and M-NRDE-exposed groups showed a significantly increased discrimination index, compared to the H-NRDE-exposed group. Although no significant changes in the expression levels of the NMDA receptor subunits were observed, the expression of glutamate transporter EAAT4 was decreased and that of glutamic acid decarboxylase GAD65 was increased in the hippocampus of H-NRDE-exposed mice, compared with the expression levels in control mice. We also found that microglia activation was prominent in the hippocampal area of the H-NRDE-exposed mice, compared with the other groups. These results indicated that exposure to NRDE for 3 months impaired the novel object recognition ability. The present study suggests that genes related to glutamate metabolism may be involved in the NRDE-induced neurotoxicity observed in the present mouse model.
We describe eosinophilic meningitis associated with ibuprofen therapy in a young woman who had no evidence of underlying illness. Discontinuation of ibuprofen was followed by prompt resolution of symptoms and disappearance of eosinophils from the CSF. Ibuprofen has been implicated previously in only five cases of aseptic meningitis--all in patients with an underlying autoimmune disease. No drug has been implicated previously as a cause of eosinophilic meningitis to our knowledge.
Levosulpiride is a substituted benzamide that is widely used for the management of dyspepsia and emesis. However, little is known about levosulpiride-induced movement disorders (LIM). The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical characteristics of patients with LIM. Among 132 consecutive patients who were diagnosed with drug-induced movement disorders between January 2002 and March 2008, 91 patients with LIM were identified and their medical records reviewed. Seventy-eight (85.7%) patients were aged more than 60 years. The most common LIM was parkinsonism (LIP) (n = 85, 93.4%), followed by tardive dyskinesia (n = 9, 9.9%) and isolated tremor (n = 3, 3.3%). Twenty-one (24.7%) of the 85 patients with LIP were rated as Hoehn and Yahr stage III-V. The oro-lingual area was the only body part that was involved by tardive dyskinesia. LIM persisted after withdrawal of levosulpiride in 48.1% of patients with LIP, 66.7% with dyskinesia, and none with isolated tremor. None of clinical and MRI features predicted the reversibility of LIP. Levosulpiride frequently causes drug-induced movement disorders, presenting mainly with LIP followed by lower face dyskinesia. The symptoms are often severe, and irreversible even after the withdrawal of levosulpiride. Physicians should be cautious in using levosulpiride, especially in elderly patients.
We studied a man with cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea due to bromocriptine-induced shrinkage of a prolactin-secreting pituitary tumor. Unlike other reported cases with pituitary tumors and rhinorrhea, our patient never had previous radiotherapy or surgery. The fistula was clearly demonstrated by CT. The original signs included homonymous hemianopia due to a left optic tract compression. Bromocriptine treatment is an invaluable adjunct in long-term management of invasive prolactinomas, but surgical intervention is indicated if a CSF fistula results.
Skeletal muscle atrophy commonly occurs in acute and chronic disease. The expression of the muscle-specific E3 ligases atrogin-1 (MAFbx) and muscle RING finger 1 (MuRF1) is induced by atrophy stimuli such as glucocorticoids or absence of IGF-I/insulin and subsequent Akt signaling. We investigated whether glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β), a downstream molecule in IGF-I/Akt signaling, is required for basal and atrophy stimulus-induced expression of atrogin-1 and MuRF1, and myofibrillar protein loss in C(2)C(12) skeletal myotubes. Abrogation of basal IGF-I signaling, using LY294002, resulted in a prominent induction of atrogin-1 and MuRF1 mRNA and was accompanied by a loss of myosin heavy chain fast (MyHC-f) and myosin light chains 1 (MyLC-1) and -3 (MyLC-3). The synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (Dex) also induced the expression of both atrogenes and likewise resulted in the loss of myosin protein abundance. Genetic ablation of GSK-3β using small interfering RNA resulted in specific sparing of MyHC-f, MyLC-1, and MyLC-3 protein levels after Dex treatment or impaired IGF-I/Akt signaling. Interestingly, loss of endogenous GSK-3β suppressed both basal and atrophy stimulus-induced atrogin-1 and MuRF1 expression, whereas pharmacological GSK-3β inhibition, using CHIR99021 or LiCl, only reduced atrogin-1 mRNA levels in response to LY294002 or Dex. In conclusion, our data reveal that myotube atrophy and myofibrillar protein loss are GSK-3β dependent, and demonstrate for the first time that basal and atrophy stimulus-induced atrogin-1 mRNA expression requires GSK-3β enzymatic activity, whereas MuRF1 expression depends solely on the physical presence of GSK-3β.
Adrenal medullary hyperplasia and pheochromocytomas are induced in rats by a variety of non-genotoxic agents, and we have hypothesized that these agents induce lesions indirectly by stimulating chromaffin cell proliferation. Vitamin D3, which has not been previously associated with adrenal medullary proliferative lesions, is the most potent in vivo stimulus to chromaffin cell proliferation yet identified. The present investigation utilized the vitamin D3 model to prospectively test the relationship between mitogenicity and focal proliferative lesions in the adrenal medulla and to determine early events in the pathogenesis of these lesions. Charles River Crl:CD BR rats were treated with 0; 5000; 10,000; or 20,000 IU/kg/day of vitamin D3 in corn oil (5 ml/kg) by oral intubation. Rats were killed after 4, 8, 12, or 26 weeks of treatment, following a final week of labeling with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) using a mini-pump. Adrenal sections were double-stained for BrdU and phenylethanolamine-N-methyl transferase (PNMT) to discriminate epinephrine (E) from norepinephrine (NE) cells or for vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAchT) to identify cholinergic nerve endings. Vitamin D3 caused a 4-5-fold increase in BrdU labeling at week 4, diminishing to a 2-fold increase by week 26. An initial preponderance of labeled E cells gave way to a preponderance of labeled NE cells. By week 26, 17/19 (89%) animals receiving the 2 highest doses of vitamin D3 had focal adrenal medullary proliferative lesions, in contrast to an absence of lesions in control rats. The lesions encompassed a spectrum including BrdU-labeled "hot spots" not readily visible on H and E sections, hyperplastic nodules, and pheochromocytomas. Lesions were usually multicentric, bilateral, and peripheral in location, and almost all were PNMT-negative. The lesions were not cholinergically innervated, suggesting autonomous proliferation. Hot spots, hyperplastic nodules, and pheochromocytomas appear to represent a continuum rather than separate entities. Their development might involve selective responses of chromaffin cell subsets to mitogenic signals, influenced by both innervation and corticomedullary interactions. A number of non-genotoxic compounds that induce pheochromocytomas in rats are known to affect calcium homeostasis. The results of this study provide further evidence to support the hypothesis that altered calcium homeostasis is indirectly involved in the pathogenesis of pheochromocytomas, via effects on chromaffin cell proliferation.
Oxidative stress is one of the causes of cardiomyopathy. In the present study, NecroXs, novel class of mitochondrial ROS/RNS scavengers, were evaluated for cardioprotection in in vitro and in vivo model, and the putative mechanism of the cardioprotection of NecroX-7 was investigated by global gene expression profiling and subsequent biochemical analysis. NecroX-7 prevented tert-butyl hydroperoxide (tBHP)-induced death of H9C2 rat cardiomyocytes at EC(50)=0.057 μM. In doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiomyopathy in rats, NecroX-7 significantly reduced the plasma levels of creatine kinase (CK-MB) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) which were increased by DOX treatment (p<0.05). Microarray analysis revealed that 21 genes differentially expressed in tBHP-treated H9C2 cells were involved in 'Production of reactive oxygen species' (p=0.022), and they were resolved by concurrent NecroX-7 treatment. Gene-to-gene networking also identified that NecroX-7 relieved cell death through Ncf1/p47phox and Rac2 modulation. In subsequent biochemical analysis, NecroX-7 inhibited NADPH oxidase (NOX) activity by 53.3% (p<0.001). These findings demonstrate that NecroX-7, in part, provides substantial protection of cardiomyopathy induced by tBHP or DOX via NOX-mediated cell death.
Hemorrhages occurred in 16 (3.1%) of 510 patients treated with continuous intravenous heparin for acute cerebral infarction (269), reversible ischemic neurologic deficit (81), or transient ischemic attack (160). Three patients (0.6%) had intracerebral hematomas. Risk factors included abnormal CT within 24 hours of onset of symptoms (3.2%), severe neurologic deficit (2.8%), two acute infarcts by CT (2.1%), known source of embolus (1.3%), and final diagnosis of cerebral infarction (1.1%). The only identifiable risk factor for systemic hemorrhage (GI 1.0%, GU 0.8%, muscle 0.4%, skin 0.1%) was age over 60 years. The incidence of intraspinal hematoma was 0.6%. Two of the intracerebral hematomas were fatal, and mortality was 31% in patients with hemorrhagic complications; however, the risk of CNS hemorrhage was only 0.8%.
We report 2 cases of hypertension associated with unilateral hydronephrosis. Lateralization of renal vein renins and exaggerated hyperreninemia following captopril suggested renin-mediated hypertension in 1 case, which responded well to nephrectomy.
Amitraz, a formamidine insecticide and acaricide used in veterinary practice, presents side effects in humans related to its pharmacological activity on alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. There is little information available in the literature about the toxicology of the product in man and the treatment of this poisoning. In this report, the clinical and laboratory features of amitraz poisoning in two patients by a veterinary formulation also containing xylene are presented. The major clinical findings were unconsciousness, drowsiness, respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation, miosis, hypothermia and bradycardia. The laboratory findings were hyperglycemia, hypertransaminasemia and increased urinary output. Supportive management of this poisoning in humans is suggested in only a few articles and there is no specific antidote for the subsequent possible pharmacological effects of amitraz. In our two cases, we performed supportive treatment such as mechanical ventilation, atropine, gastric lavage, active carbon, oxygen and fluid administration. We concluded that the basic approach to the patient with amitraz poisoning, including initial stabilization to correct immediate life-threatening problems, treatment to reduce absorption and measures to improve elimination of the toxin, is effective.
Helicobacter pylori infection is the most common cause of gastroduodenal ulcerations worldwide. Adaptation of H. pylori to the acidic environment is mediated by urease splitting urea into carbon dioxide and ammonia. Whereas neutralization of acid by ammonia is essential for gastric H. pylori colonization, the catalytic activity of urease is mediated by nickel ions. Therefore, nickel uptake and metabolism play key roles in H. pylori infection and urease is considered first line target for drug development and vaccination. Since nickel binding within H. pylori cells is mediated by the Histidine-rich protein designated Hpn, we investigated whether nickel binding by a synthetic Hpn is capable of abrogating urease activity of live H. pylori in liquid cultures. Supplementation of growth media with synthetic Hpn completely inhibited urease acitivity in live cells, indicating that H. pylori nickel uptake is effectively blocked by Hpn. Thus, nickel chelation by Hpn is stronger than nickel uptake of H. pylori offering therapeutic use of Hpn. Although the nickel binding of Hpn was confirmed by binding assays in vitro, its use in anti-H. pylori directed strategy will further need to be adapted to the gastric environment given that protons interfere with nickel binding and Hpn is degraded by pepsin.
This case study investigates trans-phenylpropene as a potential marker for smoked methamphetamine. The decedent, a 31-year-old male, was found with paraphernalia that indicated that he may have been smoking abused drugs prior to death. Methamphetamine and cocaine were detected in the residue remaining in the paraphernalia. Markers of thermal degradation of methamphetamine and cocaine were also detected in the paraphernalia. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis detected trans-phenylpropene as a marker of smoked methamphetamine and anhydroecgonine methyl ester as a marker of smoked cocaine. Both trans-phenylpropene and anydroecgonine methyl ester were detected in the urine of the decedent, connecting the link between the paraphernalia for smoking and the ingestion of the pyrolysis products of methamphetamine and cocaine. Several other drugs of abuse were identified either in blood and urine or in hexane extracts of the paraphernalia, including phenylacetone, fentanyl, norfentanyl, amphetamine, ecgonine methyl ester, oxycodone, acetaminophen, chlorpheniramine, and caffeine. Using a pyrolysis GC-MS, the characteristic pyrolytic products of cocaine HCl, methamphetamine HCl, and combinations of the two were evaluated and the results showed that combining the drugs in a single run did not alter the pyrolysis pattern. The detection of trans-phenylpropene in both biological specimens and in paraphernalia is the first example of this analyte being applied as evidence of smoked methamphetamine.
In neurosurgery, ceftriaxone is a widely used, third generation cephalosporin for the treatment of CNS infections and perioperational prophylaxis. Recent studies have demonstrated that ceftriaxone induces reversible precipitates in the gallbladder. This complication is referred to as "biliary pseudolithiasis", and it has symptoms similar to the raised intracranial pressure (ICP) symptoms of the perioperative period. Symptomatic biliary pseudolithiasis should be kept in mind in all pediatric neurosurgery cases under ceftriaxone therapy in order to prevent unnecessary postoperative investigations and surgery.
Benzene is a clastogenic and carcinogenic agent that induces acute myelogenous leukemia in humans and multiple of tumors in animals. Previous research has indicated that benzene must first be metabolized to one or more bioactive species to exert its myelotoxic and genotoxic effects. To better understand the possible role of individual benzene metabolites in the leukemogenic process, as well as to further investigate inhibition of topoisomerase II by benzene metabolites, a series of known and putative benzene metabolites, phenol, 4,4'-biphenol, 2,2'-biphenol, hydroquinone, catechol, 1,2,4-benzenetriol, 1,4-benzoquinone, and trans-trans-muconaldehyde were tested for inhibitory effects in vitro on the human topoisomerase II enzyme. With minor modifications of the standard assay conditions, 1,4-benzoquinone and trans-trans-muconaldehyde were shown to be directly inhibitory, whereas all of the phenolic metabolites were shown to inhibit enzymatic activity following bioactivation using a peroxidase activation system. The majority of compounds tested inhibited topoisomerase II at concentrations at or below 10 microM. These results confirm and expand upon previous findings from our laboratory and indicate that many of the metabolites of benzene could potentially interfere with topoisomerase II. Since other inhibitors of topoisomerase II have been shown to induce leukemia in humans, inhibition of this enzyme by benzene metabolites may also play a role in the carcinogenic effects of benzene.
Localized scleroderma has no recognized internal organ involvement but may be disfiguring and disabling when the cutaneous lesions are extensive or affect children. There is no accepted or proven treatment for localized scleroderma. Case reports of 11 patients with severe, extensive localized scleroderma who were treated with D-penicillamine are summarized in this article. This drug was judged to have a favorable effect on the disease course in 7 (64%) of 11 patients. Improvement began within 3 to 6 months and consisted of cessation of active cutaneous lesions in all 7 patients, skin softening in 5, and more normal growth of the affected limb in 2 of 3 children. Joint stiffness and contractures also improved. The dose of D-penicillamine associated with a favorable response was as low as 2 to 5 mg/kg per day given over a period ranging from 15 to 53 months. D-Penicillamine caused nephrotic syndrome in 1 patient and milder reversible proteinuria in 3 other patients; none developed renal insufficiency. These data suggest that D-penicillamine may be effective in severe cases of localized scleroderma.
Nifedipine, a calcium channel blocker currently indicated for vasospastic and chronic stable angina, undoubtedly will have many other uses because of its potent peripheral vasodilatory activity and minimal effects on cardiac contractility. These effects of the drug have proved beneficial in treatment of malignant hypertension and Raynaud's phenomenon. Single oral doses of nifedipine 10-20 mg have rapidly and smoothly reduced blood pressure in malignant hypertension, suggesting its use in the emergency room or office setting. Continuous monitoring of the patient is not required. Studies also have demonstrated the efficacy of nifedipine in Raynaud's phenomenon, and the drug should be considered as an initial agent of choice.
