Osteogenic sarcoma developed in a 14-year-old boy 13 years after he had partially recovered from chloramphenicol-induced aplastic anemia. A possible relationship is considered between aplastic anemia, chloramphenicol, testosterone, prednisone, and osteogenic sarcoma. Leukemia has been reported following chloramphenicol-induced aplastic anemia and liver tumors have been associated with testosterone therapy. Certain chemicals have caused osteogenic sarcoma in animals. Thus, we believe there are sufficient a priori reasons to question an etiologic relationship between the cause or treatment of aplastic anemia and osteogenic sarcoma.
Lower urinary tract function was studied in patients with Parkinson's disease. A significant proportion of patients receiving levodopa manifested clinical and radiological evidence of bladder outlet obstruction. We believe that neuropharmacologic bladder neck obstruction may be caused by the alpha-adrenergic properties of the metabolites of levodopa.
To determine plasma phenytoin levels and seizure outcome in women given phenytoin for seizure prophylaxis in severe pre-eclampsia and eclampsia.
Prospective observational study comparing two phenytoin loading regimens.
Two UK teaching hospitals.
Sixty-seven consecutive women with severe pre-eclampsia and five with eclampsia.
The first 29 women were given a 15 mg/kg intravenous loading dose of phenytoin. The next 43 received 17.5 mg/kg. All were given 500 mg phenytoin 12 h after completion of the loading dose and then 250 mg every 12 h for four doses.
Total plasma phenytoin levels at 30 min, 6 h and 12 h after loading dose, 6 h after first maintenance dose and on days 2 and 3 of maintenance therapy; eclamptic seizures after starting phenytoin.
Mean plasma phenytoin levels were higher at 30 min and 6 h after the 17.5 mg/kg loading dose. Nine of 29 (31%) phenytoin levels 30 min after the loading dose were above the therapeutic range in the 15 mg/kg group compared with 26/38 (68%) in the 17.5 mg/kg group (P < 0.01). Six of 27 (22%) phenytoin levels 12 h after the loading dose were subtherapeutic in the 15 mg/kg group compared with 2/38 (5%) in the 17.5 mg/kg group (P < 0.05). Three women, two in the 17.5 mg/kg group, developed seizures after starting phenytoin. All three had plasma levels within the therapeutic range.
Compared with a loading dose of 17.5 mg/kg, loading with 15 mg/kg phenytoin was associated with a lower incidence of high plasma levels at 30 min but a higher incidence of subtherapeutic levels at 12 h. Seizures occur in 2 to 3% of pre-eclamptics despite apparently therapeutic phenytoin levels.
Altered membrane integrity and inflammation play a key role in cardiovascular damage. We investigated the salubrious effect of exogenously administered alpha-mangostin against beta-adrenergic cathecolamine-induced cardiovascular toxicity with special reference to membrane ATPases, lysosomal hydrolases and inflammatory mediators TNF-alpha and Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expressions in albino rats. Induction of rats with isoproterenol (150mg/kg body wt, i.p.) for 2 days resulted in a significant increase in the activities of serum and cardiac lysosomal hydrolases (beta-d-glucuronidase, beta-d-galactosidase, beta-d-N-acetylglucosaminidase, acid phosphatase and cathepsin-D). A significant increase in cardiac levels of sodium, calcium with a decrease in the level of potassium paralleled by abnormal activities of membrane-bound phosphatases (Na(+)-K(+) ATPase, Ca(2+) ATPase and Mg(2+) ATPase) were observed in the heart of ISO-administered rats. Cardiac TNF-alpha and COX-2 expressions were assessed by Western blotting. Cardiac TNF-alpha and COX-2 expressions were significantly elevated in ISO-intoxicated rats. Pre-co-treatment with alpha-mangostin (200mg/kg body wt.) orally for 8 days significantly attenuated these abnormalities and restored the levels to near normalcy when compared to ISO intoxicated group of rats. In conclusion, alpha-mangostin preserves the myocardial membrane integrity and extenuates anomalous TNF-alpha and COX-2 expressions by mitigating ISO-induced oxidative stress and cellular damage effectively. Restoration of cellular normalcy accredits the cytoprotective role of alpha-mangostin.
Cilia in ciliated cells consist of protruding structures that sense mechanical and chemical signals from the extracellular environment. Cilia are assembled with variety molecules via a process known as intraflagellar transport (IFT). What controls the length of cilia in ciliated cells is critical to understand ciliary disease such as autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease, which involves abnormally short cilia. But this control mechanism is not well understood. Previously, multiple tubular cysts have been observed in the kidneys of max-interacting protein 1 (Mxi1)-deficient mice aged 6 months or more. Here, we clarified the relationship between Mxi1 inactivation and cilia disassembly. Cilia phenotypes were observed in kidneys of Mxi1-deficient mice using scanning electron microscopy to elucidate the effect of Mxi1 on renal cilia phenotype, and cilia disassembly was observed in Mxi1-deficient kidney. In addition, genes related to cilia were validated in vitro and in vivo using quantitative PCR, and Ift20 was selected as a candidate gene in this study. The length of cilium decreased, and p-ERK level induced by a cilia defect increased in kidneys of Mxi1-deficient mice. Ciliogenesis of Mxi1-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) decreased, and this abnormality was restored by Mxi1 transfection in Mxi1-deficient MEFs. We confirmed that ciliogenesis and Ift20 expression were regulated by Mxi1 in vitro. We also determined that Mxi1 regulates Ift20 promoter activity via Ets-1 binding to the Ift20 promoter. These results indicate that inactivating Mxi1 induces ciliary defects in polycystic kidney.
Reports of community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) isolates carrying Panton-Valentine leukocidin (PVL) gene that causes infective endocarditis in injection drug users (IDUs) with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection are rare in the English language literature. We present a case of CA-MRSA infective endocarditis with bilateral septic lung emboli in a previously healthy 45-year-old IDU. This case suggests that PVL gene-positive CA-MRSA should be considered as a potential pathogen in IDUs with infective endocarditis.
Pregabalin is used for treatment of neuropathic pain conditions. The present study evaluated effects of pregabalin in 2 rat models of muscle-induced hyperalgesia: Inflammatory and noninflammatory. Muscle hyperalgesia (withdrawal threshold to compression of the muscle) and cutaneous hyperalgesia of the paw (withdrawal threshold to von Frey filaments) were measured before and after induction of hyperalgesia and after treatment with pregabalin (saline, 10 to 100 mg/kg i.p.). In the inflammatory model, 3% carrageenan injected into 1 gastrocnemius muscle decreased the mechanical withdrawal threshold of the paw bilaterally and the compression withdrawal threshold of the muscle ipsilaterally 2 weeks later. Pregabalin (10 to 100 mg/kg) increased the compression withdrawal threshold of the inflamed muscle when compared with vehicle controls. Pregabalin also increased the mechanical withdrawal threshold of the paw bilaterally, but only with 100 mg/kg. In the noninflammatory model, 2 unilateral injections of acidic saline into the gastrocnemius muscle produced bilateral cutaneous and muscle hyperalgesia 24 hours after the second injection. Pregabalin (10 to 100 mg/kg i.p.) significantly increased the compression withdrawal thresholds of the muscle and the mechanical withdrawal threshold of the paw bilaterally when compared with vehicle. However, pregabalin also has significant motor effects at the higher doses (60 to 100 mg/kg). Therefore, pregabalin reduces both muscle and cutaneous hyperalgesia that occurs after muscle insult in 2 animal models of muscle pain at doses that do not produce ataxia.
This study shows that pregabalin reduces both cutaneous and muscle hyperalgesia in inflammatory and noninflammatory models of muscle pain. Thus, pregabalin may be an effective treatment for people with chronic muscle pain.
Most nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs can produce hepatotoxicity. We report a 22 years old female who presented with an acute cholestatic hepatitis after a prolonged period of piroxicam use. Hepatitis was attributed to this drug since all markers for hepatitis virus (A, B, C, E, Epstein Barr, Cytomegalovirus and Herpex Simplex) were negative, autoimmune markers were negative, serum iron and ceruloplasmin were normal, there was a temporal relationship between the administration of piroxicam and the hepatitis, the histological picture was compatible with this etiology and the patient had a favorable evolution after the discontinuance of the drug. This type of hepatotoxicity is not common but it must be born in mind when patients must receive nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs for prolonged periods.
Combined chemohormonal therapy of metastatic prostate cancer has not been previously evaluated in patients failing primary hormones (estrogens and/or orchiectomy). The combination of Adriamycin and high-dose diethylstilbestrol diphosphate (Stilphostrol) was studied in 19 heavily pretreated patients, to document toxicity and patient acceptability. Major toxicity was myelosuppression, cardiac failure and venous thrombosis. Clinical improvement was noted in 10/16 (63%) of evaluable patients. Patients with pre-existing cardiac disease or venous thrombosis are not suitable for this therapy.
Hypotension is a common side effect associated with spinal anesthesia. However, there is no previous report comparing the incidence of hypotension between two commonly used local anesthetic agents, bupivacaine and lidocaine. The objective of this study was to compare the incidence of spinal hypotension induced by bupivacaine and lidocaine in parturients undergoing cesarean section. A double blind, randomized controlled trial was conducted in 142 parturients scheduled for cesarean section. The patients were randomized into two groups, 71 each. After receiving 10 ml/kg of normal saline intravenously, patients in the first group were given 2.2 ml of 0.5 per cent hyperbaric bupivacaine plus 0.2 mg of morphine as a spinal anesthetic agent while in the other group, 1.2 ml of 5 per cent hyperbaric lidocaine plus 0.1 mg of epinephrine and 0.2 mg of morphine were administered. Hypotension, defined as 30 per cent less systolic blood pressure than baseline value, was recorded and the patients were treated with 6 mg of ephedrine every 2 minutes until normotension was achieved. There was no statistically significant difference of incidence, onset, duration, and severity of hypotension between the two groups (p > 0.05). The amount of ephedrine used in both groups was also not significantly different. Late onset hypotension occurred after delivery (20-22 minutes after spinal anesthesia was performed) in 17 patients (12%). As such, the rate of hypotension in lidocaine group was comparable to bupivacaine group. Delayed onset hypotension occurring after delivery was noted and these events have never been described. However, the mechanism of late onset hypotension remains unidentified. Thus, bupivacaine and lidocaine can be used interchangeably for spinal anesthesia for elective cesarean section without significant difference in the incidence of hypotension.
The ysmptoms and findings in a patient after prolonged intake of excessive amounts of vitamin A for treatment of psoriasis are presentd. All the characteristic signs of chronic intoxication were reversible after withdrawal of the medication. Initially portal hypertension could be demonstrated, although histologically there was no cirrhosis of the liver. During the period of observation the disturbed liver function returned to normal and the signs of portal hypertension disappeared completely. Reversibility of portal hypertension is a unusual observation and is discussed in relation to similar situations in toxic liver disease.
A 77-year-old man who for 5 months had been being treated with galantamine for early Alzheimer's disease, suddenly became unwell. He was bradycardic and his ECG showed a complete atrioventricular block. This was treated by implantation of a pacemaker. Treatment with galantamine was continued. A month later he had no cardiac symptoms and his dementia score on a cognitive scale had improved. Cholinesterase inhibitors may have adverse effects on the heart. Patients starting treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors should be screened for an increased risk of cardiac arrhythmias by investigating their potassium concentrations and running an ECG.
In breast cancer patients, it is not the primary tumour, but its metastases at distant sites that are the main cause of death. Circulating breast cancer tumour markers such as carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen 15-3 (CA 15-3) are reliable indicators of impending relapse, in which an increasing tumour marker level is associated with a very likelihood of developing recurrence. In the present study, 84 breast cancer patients were randomized to receive a daily supplement of 100 mg coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), 10 mg riboflavin and 50 mg niacin (CoRN) one dosage per day along with 10 mg tamoxifen (TAM) twice a day. Serum CEA and CA 15-3 levels were elevated in untreated breast cancer patients (group II) and their tumour marker levels significantly reduced upon tamoxifen therapy for more than 1 year (group III). Group III patients supplemented with CoRN for 45 d (group IV) and 90 d (group V) along with tamoxifen significantly reduced CEA and CA 15-3 levels. This study suggests supplementing CoRN to breast cancer patients along with tamoxifen reduces the serum tumour marker level and thereby reduce the risk of cancer recurrence and metastases.
Mutations affecting phosphorylation sites in the beta-catenin gene have been implicated in the development of human and rodent hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). To further investigate the involvement of this gene in hepatocarcinogenesis, we used several transgenic mouse models of hepatic tumors induced by overexpression of c-myc in the liver either alone or in combination with transforming growth factor (TGF) alpha or TGF-beta1. Activation of beta-catenin, as judged by the presence of mutations and/or nuclear translocation of the protein, was most frequent in liver tumors from c-myc (4/17; 23.5%) and c-myc/TGF-beta1 (6/18; 33.3%) transgenic mice. However, it was very rare in faster growing and histologically more aggressive HCCs developed in c-myc/TGF-alpha mice (1/20; 5%). Administration of diethylnitrosamine, phenobarbital, or 2-amino-3,8-diethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline did not significantly affect the occurrence of beta-catenin mutations. Notably, nuclear accumulation of beta-catenin was observed only in adenomas and highly differentiated carcinomas with eosinophilic phenotype. Furthermore, preneoplastic lesions with eosinophilic phenotype frequently displayed focal nuclear positivity, colocalized with areas of high proliferation. In contrast, basophilic and clear-cell foci, as well as pseudo-glandular and poorly differentiated HCCs, exhibited a normal or reduced membranous immunoreactivity for beta-catenin. These studies suggest that nuclear translocation of beta-catenin and activation of Wingless/Wnt signaling may represent an early event in liver carcinogenesis, providing a growth advantage in a subset of hepatic tumors with a more differentiated phenotype.
Infantile spasms represent a serious epileptic syndrome that occurs in the early infantile age. ACTH and Vigabatrin are actively investigated drugs in its treatment. This study describes the comparison of their efficacy in a large series of patients with infantile spasms from Pakistan.
All patients with infantile spasms who presented to Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan from January, 2006 to April, 2008 were included in this study. Inclusion criteria were clinical symptoms of infantile spasms, hypsarrythmia or modified hyparrythmia on electroencephalography, at least six months of follow-up period and receipt of any of the two drugs mentioned above. The type of drug distribution was random according to the availability, cost and ease of administration.
Fifty six cases fulfilled the inclusion criteria. 62.5% were males. Mean age at onset of seizures was 5 +/- 1.4 months. Fifty two (92.8%) patients demonstrated hypsarrythmia on electroencephalography. 64.3% cases were identified as symptomatic while 19.6% were cryptogenic and 16.1% were idiopathic. Eighteen patients received ACTH while 38 patients received Vigabatrin as first line therapy. Initial response to first line therapy was similar (50% for ACTH and 55.3% for Vigabatrin). Overall, the symptomatic and idiopathic groups responded better to Vigabatrin. The relapse rate was higher for ACTH as compared to Vigabatrin (55.5% vs. 33.3%) when considering the first line therapy. Four patients evolved to Lennox-Gastaut variant; all of these patients had initially received Vigabatrin and then ACTH.
Vigabatrin and ACTH showed no significant difference in the initial treatment of infantile spasms. However, patients receiving ACTH were 1.2 times more likely to relapse as compared to the patients receiving Vigabatrin when considering monotherapy. We suggest that Vigabatrin should be the initial drug of choice in patients presenting with infantile spasms. However, larger studies from developing countries are required to validate the therapeutic trends observed in this study.
Despite the development of highly effective treatment strategies for acute promyelocytic leukaemia around 10% of patients die in the presentation period as a consequence of the associated bleeding diathesis. The cause of the coagulopathy is complex resulting from a combination of tissue factor (TF) and cancer procoagulant (CP) induced disseminated intravascular coagulation, exaggerated fibrinolysis due predominantly to enhanced expression of annexin II on APL blast cell membranes and blast cell production of cytokines. All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) has revolutionised the treatment of APL. When combined with chemotherapy long term survival rates of up to 80% can be achieved. Commencement of ATRA induces APL blast cell differentiation and is associated with a rapid resolution of the bleeding tendency through a combination of effects which include up regulation of thrombomodulin and down regulation of TF and CP production and cell surface expression of annexin II.
The beneficial effects of dietary polyphenols on health are due not only to their antioxidant properties but also to their antibacterial, anti-inflammatory and/or anti-tumoral activities. It has recently been proposed that protection of mitochondrial function (which is altered in several diseases such as Alzheimer, Parkinson, obesity and diabetes) by these compounds, may be important in explaining the beneficial effects of polyphenols on health. The aim of this study was to evaluate the protective effects of dietary polyphenols quercetin, rutin, resveratrol and epigallocatechin gallate against the alterations of mitochondrial function induced by indomethacin (INDO) in intestinal epithelial Caco-2 cells, and to address the mechanism involved in such damaging effect by INDO, which generates oxidative stress. INDO concentration dependently decreases cellular ATP levels and mitochondrial membrane potential in Caco-2 cells after 20min of incubation. INDO also inhibits the activity of mitochondrial complex I and causes accumulation of NADH; leading to overproduction of mitochondrial O(2)()(-), since it is prevented by pyruvate. Quercetin (0.01mg/ml), resveratrol (0.1mg/ml) and rutin (1mg/ml) protected Caco-2 cells against INDO-induced mitochondrial dysfunction, while no protection was observed with epigallocatechin gallate. Quercetin was the most efficient in protecting against mitochondrial dysfunction; this could be due to its ability to enter cells and accumulate in mitochondria. Additionally its structural similarity with rotenone could favor its binding to the ubiquinone site of complex I, protecting it from inhibitors such as INDO or rotenone. These findings suggest a possible new protective role for dietary polyphenols for mitochondria, complementary of their antioxidant property. This new role might expand the preventive and/or therapeutic use of PPs in conditions involving mitochondrial dysfunction and associated with increased oxidative stress at the cellular or tissue levels.
To shed light on the association of lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status with the development of aberrant crypt foci (ACF), we studied the modulatory influence of resveratrol, supplemented in three dietary regimens (initiation, post-initiation and entire period) on 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH)-induced colon carcinogenesis. Rats were administered DMH (20 mg/kg body weight, s.c.) for 15 weeks and were supplemented with resveratrol (8 mg/kg body weight, p.o. everyday) in three dietary regimens. Intestines and colons were analyzed for the levels of diene conjugates (DC), lipid hydroperoxides (LOOHs) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). Enzymic antioxidants (superoxide dismutase, SOD; catalase, CAT; glutathione peroxidase, GPX; glutathione S-transferase, GST; and glutathione reductase, GR) and non-enzymic reserve (reduced glutathione, GSH; ascorbate; and alpha-tocopherol) were also assessed in the intestine and colon. Unsupplemented DMH exposed rats showed significantly decreased levels/activities of tissue DC, LOOHs, TBARS, SOD, CAT, GSH, GR and significantly elevated (P<0.05) GPX, GST, alpha-tocopherol and ascorbate as compared to control rats. Resveratrol supplementation during the entire period of the study resulted in significant (P<0.01) modulation of lipid peroxidation markers and antioxidants status, which were paralleled with ACF suppression, as compared to DMH-alone treated rats. These results indicate that resveratrol effectively inhibits DMH-induced ACF and colonic tumor development.
Mutations in the lipase member H (LIPH) gene cause autosomal recessive hypotrichosis with woolly hair. We report herein on five consanguineous families from Pakistan segregating hypotrichosis and woolly hair. Genetic investigation using polymorphic microsatellite markers revealed homozygosity for a region spanning the HYPT7 locus on chromosome 3 in affected individuals of all five families. Sequence analysis of the LIPH gene revealed a novel nonsense mutation (p.Arg260X) associated with hypotrichosis without woolly hair in one family. In the remaining four families we identified previously described mutations in a homozygous state in affected members. These findings extend the spectrum of known LIPH mutations in the Pakistani population.
To compare the effect of amiloride with that of oral potassium chloride (KCl) in hypokalemia, metabolic balance studies were carried out in hospitalized subjects with mild hypertension without edema who developed negative potassium balance after 4 days on hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ). Subjects' diets contained measured amounts of sodium and potassium. While HCTZ treatment continued, oral preparations of either KCl solution or amiloride was added for 5 additional days. Potassium balance in the KCl-treated group further decreased by -44.9 +/- 32.3 mEq K+, while subjects on amiloride went into positive balance that averaged +51.7 +/- 24.1 mEq K+. Hypokalemia after HCTZ did not respond to KCl, while K+ levels rose from 3.32 +/- 0.22 to 3.67 +/- 0.26 mEq/l after amiloride.
A middle-aged woman was admitted to the hospital after being found unconscious at home. A brain CT scan excluded an intracranial bleed or other focal abnormality. Laboratory analysis showed hyponatraemia (sodium: 121 mmol L(-1)) and a low plasma osmolality, with normal sodium excretion and urine osmolality. A diagnosis of hyponatraemic coma was made. The patient was treated with water restriction; 24 h later the sodium was 135 mmol L(-1) and the patient was neurologically fully recovered. The patient, who suffered from von Willebrand's disease, had received desmopressin and ibuprofen for analgesia 2 days before after a dental intervention. She had received desmopressin several times in the past without any complications. A few patients treated with desmopressin for coagulation abnormalities have been reported to develop water intoxication and severe hyponatraemia resulting in seizures and coma. By inhibiting prostaglandin synthesis, non-steroid anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) potentiate the effect of water reabsorption in the renal tubules of vasopressin, therefore enhancing water retention. Desmopressin and NSAIDs should not be used in combination in patients with bleeding disorders, but it is often followed in clinical practice. In addition, this is probably not an unusual situation in patients treated with desmopressin for other 'non-haemorrhagic' indications. This report emphasizes the need for practitioners to be aware of this rare but severe complication.
The analgesic effect and adverse events of the weak opioid codeine is assumed to be mediated by its metabolite morphine. The cytochrome P-450 enzyme CYP2D6 catalysing the formation of morphine exhibits a genetic polymorphism. Two distinct phenotypes, the extensive (EMs) and poor metabolisers (PMs), are present in the population. The prevalence of PMs in the Caucasian population is 7% to 10%. Since PMs do not express functional CYP2D6, they have a severely impaired capacity to metabolise drugs which are substrates of this enzyme. Provided the analgesic effect and the adverse events of codeine are mediated by its metabolite morphine, large phenotype-related differences are to be expected and PMs, as they form only trace amounts of morphine, can serve as a model to test the hypothesis whether the analgesia and adverse events of codeine are mediated by the parent drug or its metabolite morphine. Therefore we have studied in a randomised placebo-controlled double-blind trial the analgesic effect of 170 mg codeine (p.o.) compared to 20 mg morphine (p.o.) and placebo in 9 EMs and 9 PMs using the cold pressor test. The duration and intensity of the side effects were assessed using visual analogue scales (VAS). Codeine and morphine concentrations were measured in serum and urine. Compared to placebo, 20 mg morphine caused a significant increase in pain tolerance in both phenotypes, EMs and PMs (16.2+/-27.4 vs. -0.66+/-27.4 s x h, n=18). However, following administration of codeine, analgesia was only observed in EMs but not in PMs (EMs: 54.9+/-42.2 vs. 1.7+/-4.2 s x h, P < 0.01; PMs: 9.6+/-10.9 vs. 3.3+/-23.7 s x h, not significant). Adverse events were significantly more pronounced after morphine and codeine compared to placebo in both EMs and PMs. In contrast to the phenotype-related differences in the analgesic effect of codeine, however, no difference in adverse events between the phenotypes could be observed. In the pharmacokinetic studies, significant differences between the two phenotypes in the formation of morphine after codeine administration could be observed. Whereas morphine plasma concentrations were similar in PMs (Cmax: 44+/-13 nmol/l: AUC: 199+/-45 nmol x h/l) and EMs (Cmax: 48+/-17 nmol/l); AUC: 210+/-65 nmol x h/l) after morphine administration, following 170 mg codeine, morphine plasma concentrations comparable to those after morphine application were only observed in EMs (Cmax: 38+/-16 nmol/l; AUC: 173+/-90 nmol x h/l). In PMs only traces of morphine could be detected in plasma (Cmax: 2+/-1 nmol/l; AUC: 10+/-7 nmol x h/l). The percentage of the codeine dose converted to morphine and its metabolites was 3.9% in EMs and 0.17% in PMs. The interindividual variability in analgesia of codeine which is related to genetically determined differences in the formation of morphine clearly indicate that this metabolite is responsible for the analgesic effect of codeine. In contrast to the analgesic effect, frequency and intensity of the adverse events did not present significant differences between the two phenotypes. These findings have implications for the clinical use of codeine. Since side effects occurred in both EM and PM subjects, the use of codeine as an analgesic will expose 7% to 10% of patients who are PMs to the side effects of the drug without providing any beneficial analgesic effects.
Pain control is an important consideration after any surgical procedures. Especially in children, more attention and care are needed during the period of postoperative pain control, which must be both sufficiently safe and effective. In this respect, intravenous patient-controlled analgesia provides improved titration of analgesic drugs, thereby maintaining optimal analgesic status with few side effects. Thirty pediatric patients were randomly divided into two groups: the intravenous patient-controlled analgesia group (with nalbuphine HCl and ketorolac tromethamine) and the conventional pethidine HCl intramuscular group. The degree of analgesia was assessed every 4 hours until the second postoperative day. The intravenous patient-controlled analgesia group had significantly lower pain scores and took less time until they were able to walk to the bathroom, but as many side effects as the control group. We concluded that intravenous patient-controlled analgesia is safe and effective for pediatric patients who have moderate to severe pain after operations such as rib cartilage graft, iliac bone graft, and large flap surgeries.
delta 8-Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)- and 8 beta, 9 beta-epoxyhexahydrocannabinol (EHHC)-tolerant mice were tolerant to the hypothermia produced by morphine while 8 alpha, 9 alpha-EHHC-tolerant mice were not. Morphine-tolerant mice acquired partial tolerance to the hypothermic effect of 8 alpha,9 alpha-EHHC, but not to the effect of delta 8-THC and 8 beta,9 beta-EHHC. Cataleptogenic effects of all cannabinoids were enhanced in morphine-tolerant mice as compared to non-tolerant animals. It seems that morphine-tolerant mice exhibited hypersensitivity to the cataleptogenic effect of the cannabinoids without potentiation of the hypothermia. These results suggest that the morphine-tolerant mouse may acquire 'latent' cross-tolerance to the hypothermic effect of the cannabinoids.
