To report an interaction between all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and voriconazole resulting in pseudotumor cerebri.
Hospital in Huntsville, AL, in November 2007.Patient description: 21-year-old black woman admitted to the hospital for fever in the setting of pancytopenia.
The patient had been diagnosed with acute promyelocytic leukemia 5 months before admission and continued on ATRA throughout induction and two consolidation therapies. Voriconazole was started in view of persistent fever and pancytopenia despite adequate broad-spectrum antimicrobial therapy. On day 15 of voriconazole therapy, the patient complained of blurred vision, farsightedness, and dry skin with pruritus and was subsequently diagnosed with pseudotumor cerebri secondary to ATRA toxicity. All symptoms of pseudotumor cerebri resolved after discontinuation of ATRA.
Not applicable.
The development of pseudotumor cerebri after initiation of voriconazole may have been secondary to the inhibition of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. The interaction may have led to changes in ATRA serum concentrations, thus contributing to the observed adverse drug reaction.
To our knowledge, this is the first case report of pseudotumor cerebri in an adult patient secondary to metabolic inhibition of ATRA by voriconazole. This case illustrates the importance of monitoring for drug interactions when using medications metabolized via the CYP enzyme pathway.
Angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) are suggested to be protective against myocardial hypertrophy and fibrosis, although such beneficial effects remain to be elucidated in the human heart. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of a novel ARB, olmesartan, on myocardial function of the left ventricle in patients with mildto-moderate hypertension. We investigated 10 patients (6 men and 4 women, 62 +/- 7 years of age) who were stable with a single regimen of amlodipine, which was switched to olmesartan. Before and 8 months after changing medications, patients underwent echocardiographic examination and blood sampling, including measurement of the plasma high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) level. Peak velocities at the mitral annulus were determined by tissue Doppler imaging and used as measures of myocardial function. Olmesartan did not significantly alter blood pressure (BP) (systolic BP, 122 +/- 12 to 121 +/- 8 mmHg, P = 0.9; diastolic BP, 79 +/- 6 to 75 +/- 4 mmHg, P = 0.06) or parameters of global left ventricular systolic and diastolic function. Tissue Doppler imaging, however, revealed significant increases in the systolic (8.2 +/- 1.3 to 8.9 +/- 1.1 cm/s, P < 0.01) and early diastolic (6.7 +/- 0.9 to 7.6 +/- 1.0 cm/s, P = 0.02) velocities at the mitral annulus. This was associated with decreases in the left ventricular mass index (83 +/- 15 to 73 +/- 19 g/m2, P = 0.09) and hsCRP (683 +/- 555 to 655 +/- 450 ng/ml, P = 0.07). In conclusion, olmesartan improves myocardial function independent of BP reduction in hypertensive patients. Attenuated inflammatory changes as well as myocardial hypertrophy may play an important role.
Progesterone and estrogen are critical regulators of uterine receptivity. To facilitate uterine remodeling for embryo attachment, estrogen activity in the uterine epithelia is attenuated by progesterone; however, the molecular mechanism by which this occurs is poorly defined. COUP-TFII (chicken ovalbumin upstream promoter transcription factor II; also known as NR2F2), a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily, is highly expressed in the uterine stroma and its expression is regulated by the progesterone-Indian hedgehog-Patched signaling axis that emanates from the epithelium. To further assess COUP-TFII uterine function, a conditional COUP-TFII knockout mouse was generated. This mutant mouse is infertile due to implantation failure, in which both embryo attachment and uterine decidualization are impaired. Using this animal model, we have identified a novel genetic pathway in which BMP2 lies downstream of COUP-TFII. Epithelial progesterone-induced Indian hedgehog regulates stromal COUP-TFII, which in turn controls BMP2 to allow decidualization to manifest in vivo. Interestingly, enhanced epithelial estrogen activity, which impedes maturation of the receptive uterus, was clearly observed in the absence of stromal-derived COUP-TFII. This finding is consistent with the notion that progesterone exerts its control of implantation through uterine epithelial-stromal cross-talk and reveals that stromal-derived COUP-TFII is an essential mediator of this complex cross-communication pathway. This finding also provides a new signaling paradigm for steroid hormone regulation in female reproductive biology, with attendant implications for furthering our understanding of the molecular mechanisms that underlie dysregulation of hormonal signaling in such human reproductive disorders as endometriosis and endometrial cancer.
Stimulated sympathetic nervous system, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, vasopressin, and cortisol are thought to affect blood pressure in early withdrawal of alcoholics. Hyperactivity of sodium-retaining systems with consequent volume expansion also could interact with sodium sensitivity as previously found in long-term withdrawing alcoholics.
To investigate this hypothesis, blood pressure and sodium balance were measured during the first 8 days of withdrawal in 18 chronic alcoholics on a 150 mM Na diet. Results were related to the Salt Sensitivity Index of blood pressure as measured in the same alcoholics after 1 year of abstinence.
Early withdrawal study: there was a positive sodium balance (+288.6 +/- 45.6 mM; p < 0.0001) and rise in mean arterial pressure (+11.8 +/- 2.9 mm Hg; p = 0.001) during early withdrawal on 150 mM Na diet. Salt Sensitivity Study after long-term detoxification: the shift from low (55 mM) to high sodium (260 mM) intake produced a larger (p = 0.04) increase in mean arterial pressure in alcoholics (+9.3 +/- 2.0 mm Hg) than in 30 teetotal controls (+5.1 +/- 1.1) (Salt Sensitivity Index, 0.047 +/- 0.008 vs. 0.023 +/- 0.0053; p < 0.05). Changes in mean blood pressure during withdrawal were highly related to sodium sensitivity index (r = 0.8; p < 0.001).
Early withdrawing alcoholics exposed to a normal sodium intake experience positive Na balance and increase in blood pressure that is related to sodium sensitivity measured after long-term detoxification. This suggests that salt sensitivity plays a key role in blood pressure regulation in early withdrawing alcoholics.
Systemic inflammation affects the brain, resulting in fever, anorexia, lethargy, and activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis. How peripheral inflammatory signals reach the brain is still a matter of debate. One possibility is that, in response to inflammatory stimuli, brain endothelial cells in proximity to the thermoregulatory centers produce cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) and release prostaglandin E2, causing fever and sickness behavior. We show that expression of the MAP kinase kinase kinase TAK1 in brain endothelial cells is needed for interleukin 1β (IL-1β)-induced COX-2 production. Exploiting the selective expression of the thyroxine transporter Slco1c1 in brain endothelial cells, we generated a mouse line allowing inducible deletion of Tak1 specifically in brain endothelium. Mice lacking the Tak1 gene in brain endothelial cells showed a blunted fever response and reduced lethargy upon intravenous injection of the endogenous pyrogen IL-1β. In conclusion, we demonstrate that TAK1 in brain endothelial cells induces COX-2, most likely by activating p38 MAPK and c-Jun, and is necessary for fever and sickness behavior.
This study evaluated the psychological side-effects of clomiphene citrate (CC) and hMG in women undergoing fertility treatment.
This study was a cross-sectional, self-report survey of 454 women at various stages of treatment for infertility. At the time of study, 139 women had not taken fertility drugs and 315 women had taken one or more cycles of CC or hMG. All subjects were asked to complete the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). Women taking CC or hMG were also asked to complete a self-administered questionnaire on the side-effects of their medications.
In the CC group (n = 162) and hMG group (n = 153), 77.8% (126 of 162) and 94.8% (145 of 153) reported at least one side-effect, respectively. Irritability, mood swings, feeling down, and bloating had high frequencies in both CC and hMG groups, with a higher mean number of side effects reported in the hMG group (4.4 +/- 3.7 for the CC group and 6.8 +/- 3.7 for the hMG group, p < 0.001). There was no significant difference among the CC, hMG and no medication groups for mean state and trait anxiety scores. However, there were significant differences among the three side-effect groups (those who reported 1 to 4, 5 to 7, and more than 7 side-effects) for the mean scores of state (df = 2, F = 8.7, p < 0.001) and trait (df = 2, F = 11.9, p < 0.001) anxiety in women taking fertility drugs.
Women taking CC or hMG reported high frequencies of psychological side-effects, and should be advised of these before treatment.
The retinoids are teratogenic in a wide variety of species. In the rat, 13-cis-retinoic acid and retinyl palmitate are significantly less potent teratogens than all-trans-retinoic acid. This investigation questioned whether differing teratogenic potencies of these moieties can be correlated with the concentrations of these drugs and/or metabolites in the embryonic compartment. Approximately equipotent teratogenic doses of these three retinoids were administered and the pharmacokinetics in maternal plasma and embryo of the most prevalent vitamin A metabolites were measured. The glucuronides of the respective retinoids were the predominant metabolites in the maternal plasma, but were not detected in the embryo. Also, the transport of 13-cis-retinoic acid across the placenta occurred to a much lesser extent than the transport of all-trans-retinoic acid. Administration of either all-trans- or 13-cis-retinoic acid causes a depression in the endogenous retinol concentration. This depression is more pronounced in the maternal plasma than in the embryo. The depression of the retinol level in both plasma and embryo after 13-cis-retinoic acid administration (75 mg/kg/day) was greater than the depression after all-trans-retinoic acid (6 mg/kg/day), corroborating the inferential teratological data that the 13-cis-retinoic acid dose was more embryotoxic than the all-trans-retinoic acid dose. Although the dose of all-trans-retinoic acid was less embryotoxic than that of either 13-cis-retinoic acid or retinyl palmitate, the embryonic exposure to all-trans-retinoic acid was considerably larger, as determined by maximum concentration or area under the concentration-versus-time curve, after administration of all-trans-retinoic acid than after either retinyl palmitate or 13-cis-retinoic acid application. These results suggest that embryonic retinoids other than all-trans-retinoic acid--including the administered substances themselves--are important in the teratogenic process induced by 13-cis-retinoic acid and retinyl palmitate.
Two episodes of massive bleeding from a sutured arteriotomy were observed within 30 hours after carotid endarterectomy. The patient had received anticoagulation therapy with heparin for 72 hours prior to surgery. A platelet count of 93,000/cu mm was demonstrated following the second hemorrhage. The potential problem of drug-induced thrombocytopenia following vascular surgery is discussed.
Rats consistently reduce their food intake following injections of bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS). Because inhibition of serotonergic (5-HT) activity by 8-OH-DPAT (5-HT(1A) activation) attenuates LPS-induced anorexia, we conducted a series of studies to examine whether other 5-HT-receptors are involved in the mediation of peripheral LPS-induced anorexia. In all experiments, rats were injected with LPS (100 microg/kg body weight [BW] ip) at lights out (hour 0). Antagonists were administered peripherally at hour 4, shortly after the onset of anorexia, which presumably follows the enhanced cytokine production after LPS. Food intake was then recorded during the subsequent 2 h or longer. 5-HT receptor antagonists cyanopindolol and SB 224289 (5-HT(1B)), ketanserin (5-HT(2A)), RS-102221 (5-HT(2C)), and metoclopramide (5-HT(3)) failed to attenuate LPS-induced anorexia. In contrast, both ritanserin (5-HT(2A/C)-receptor antagonist) (0.5 mg/kg BW) and SB 242084 (5-HT(2C)) (0.3 mg/kg BW) attenuated LPS-induced anorexia at doses that did not alter food intake in non-LPS-treated rats (all P<.01). Our results suggest that at least part of the anorexia following peripheral LPS administration is mediated through an enhanced 5-HT-ergic activity and the 5-HT(2C) receptor.
Retinoid dehydrogenases/reductases catalyze key oxidation-reduction reactions in the visual cycle that converts vitamin A to 11-cis retinal, the chromophore of the rod and cone photoreceptors. It has recently been shown that mutations in RDH12, encoding a retinol dehydrogenase, result in severe and early-onset autosomal recessive retinal dystrophy (arRD). In a cohort of 1011 individuals diagnosed with arRD, we have now identified 20 different disease-associated RDH12 mutations, of which 16 are novel, in a total of 22 individuals (2.2%). Haplotype analysis suggested a founder mutation for each of the three common mutations: p.L99I, p.T155I and c.806_810delCCCTG. Patients typically presented with early disease that affected the function of both rods and cones and progressed to legal blindness in early adulthood. Eleven of the missense variants identified in our study exhibited profound loss of catalytic activity when expressed in transiently transfected COS-7 cells and assayed for ability to convert all-trans retinal to all-trans retinol. Loss-of-function appeared to result from decreased protein stability, as expression levels were significantly reduced. For the p.T49M variant, differing activity profiles were associated with each of the alleles of the common p.R161Q RDH12 polymorphism, suggesting that genetic background may act as a modifier of mutation effect. A locus (LCA3) for Leber congenital amaurosis, a severe, early-onset form of arRD, maps close to RDH12 on chromosome 14q24. Haplotype analysis in the family in which LCA3 was mapped excluded RDH12 as the LCA3 gene and thus suggests the presence of a novel arRD gene in this region.
Dicamba is a benzoic acid herbicide that has been detected in surface and ground water. The herbicide has been shown to have cytogeneic and DNA damaging effects and to cause organ damage in mammals; however, little is known about the endocrine disrupting effects of dicamba in fish. In this study, histological changes, plasma vitellogenin (VTG) and sex hormone levels, and mRNA expression of sex steroid hormone-related genes were determined in adult rare minnow exposed to environmentally relevant concentrations of dicamba (0, 0.05, 0.5, 5, and 50 μg/L) for 40 days. The results showed inhibition of spermatogenesis in male testes and ovarian degeneration in females. Plasma 17β-estradiol (E2) levels were significantly increased in both genders, and plasma VTG levels were significantly increased in males (p < 0.05). These results indicate that sex hormone homeostasis and normal reproduction of fish could be affected by dicamba. Moreover, the mRNA levels of vtg were significantly upregulated in the livers and gonads of both male and female rare minnows (p < 0.05). The downregulation of cytochrome P450c19a (cyp19a) and steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (star) mRNA levels, and the upregulation of cytochrome P450c17 (cyp17) mRNA levels were observed in the livers and ovaries (p < 0.05). The results of the mRNA analysis suggest that changes in steroid hormone-related gene expression could serve as a regulatory mechanism to maintain sex hormone homeostasis. Overall, dicamba exposure could result in histological lesions, plasma VTG increases, changes in sex hormone levels, and alterations of hormone-related gene expression. Therefore, dicamba should be considered to be a potential endocrine disruptor. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol 30: 693-703, 2015.
Injection of puromycin aminonucleoside to rats induces nephrotic syndrome characterized by hypoalbuminemia, proteinuria and hypercholesterolemia. In these rats, a low protein diet (6% casein diet) increased serum albumin by 26.3%, decreased proteinuria by 39% and reduced total cholesterol by 32%. Branched chain aminotransferase activity in kidney mitochondria of nephrotic rats fed 20 or 6% casein diet decreased by 30 and 24% with respect to their pair-fed groups and it was not modified by the protein content of the diet. Mitochondrial branched chain aminotransferase mRNA expression decreased by 67.3 and 72.5% in nephrotic rats fed 20 and 6% casein diet in comparison to their pair-fed groups. Total serum branched chain amino acids concentration (leucine, isoleucine, valine) in nephrotic rats was 30% higher than their pair-fed groups and it was associated with a decrease in the branched chain aminotransferase activity and mRNA expression suggesting that the catabolism of branched chain amino acid is reduced to conserve body nitrogen.
The authors have examined the effects of sulfonylurea drugs glibenclamide and glipizide and of their analogs manilil and minidiab on cholesterol levels in murine peritoneal macrophages. Both glibenclamide and glipizide had a direct atherogenic effect on cultured murine peritoneal macrophages. A similar effect was observed in vivo: blood sera of diabetics after a single intake of 5 mg of manilil or minidiab increased the atherogenic potential of cultured murine peritoneal macrophages.
Various malignant tumors of the liver, especially liver angiosarcoma, have been described after occupational exposure to vinyl chloride monomer. We present the case records and pathologic findings of two plastic industry workers who had been exposed to high concentrations of vinyl chloride. These workers developed hepatic neoplasms, angiosarcoma, or hemangiopericytoma. We discuss the histogenesis of these tumors; the common vascular origin and the mutual transformation of these two tumors suggest that the hemangiopericytoma may also have developed during occupational exposure to high concentrations of vinyl chloride monomer.
Resveratrol and pterostilbene exhibit diverse biological activities. MED28, a subunit of the mammalian Mediator complex for transcription, was also identified as magicin, an actin cytoskeleton Grb2-associated protein, and as endothelial-derived gene (EG-1). Several tumors exhibit aberrant MED28 expression, whereas the underlying mechanism is unclear. Triple-negative breast cancers, often expressing epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor (EGFR), are associated with metastasis and poor survival. The objective of this study is to compare the effect of resveratrol and pterostilbene and to investigate the role of MED28 in EGFR-overexpressing MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. Pretreatment of resveratrol, but not pterostlbene, suppressed EGF-mediated migration and expression of MED28 and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 in MDA-MB-231 cells. Moreover, overexpression of MED28 increased migration, and the addition of EGF further enhanced migration. Our data indicate that resveratrol modulates the effect of MED28 on cellular migration, presumably through the EGFR/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway, in breast cancer cells.
Diethylene glycol (DEG) is a solvent used in consumer products allowing the increased risk for consumer exposure. DEG metabolism produces two primary metabolites, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (2-HEAA) and diglycolic acid (DGA). DGA has been shown to be the toxic metabolite responsible for the proximal tubule cell necrosis seen in DEG poisoning. The mechanism of DGA toxicity in the proximal tubule cell is not yet known. The chemical structure of DGA is very similar to citric acid cycle intermediates. Studies were designed to assess whether its mechanism of toxicity involves disruption of cellular metabolic pathways resulting in mitochondrial dysfunction. First, DGA preferentially inhibited succinate dehydrogenase, including human kidney cell enzyme, but had no effect on other citric acid cycle enzyme activities. DGA produces a cellular ATP depletion that precedes cell death. Human proximal tubule (HPT) cells, pre-treated with increasing DGA concentrations, showed significantly decreased oxygen consumption. DGA did not increase lactate levels, indicating no effect on glycolytic activity. DGA increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in HPT cells in a concentration and time dependent manner. These results indicate that DGA produced proximal tubule cell dysfunction by specific inhibition of succinate dehydrogenase and oxygen consumption. Disruption of these processes results in decreased energy production and proximal tubule cell death.
Pronounced hypoaldosteronism was found in three young women with hypertension and symptoms of mineralocorticoid overproduction--i.e., hyporeninaemia, hypokalaemia, and a fall in blood-pressure after diuretic therapy. Plasma 11-deoxycorticosterone and 18-hydroxy-11-dooxycorticosterone concentrations were normal Treatment with dexamethasone induced a return to normal of blood-pressure and plasma-potassium and an increase in plasma-renin activity and urinary aldosterone excretion. The data suggest that hypertension in these patients is maintained by overproduction of an unknown adrenocorticotropindependent mineralocortocoid.
The effect of agonists and antagonists of the gabaergic system on catalepsy induced by morphine, fentanyl and haloperidol was investigated in the rat. The compounds inhibiting gabaergic neurotransmission, bicuculline and picrotoxin, given in subconvulsive doses (0.1-0.5 mg/kg) in general do not evidently affect cataleptogenic effects of the analgesics and haloperidol. Of the gabaergic agonists muscimol (0.2-0.5 mg/kg) potentiates only the haloperidol catalepsy, without changing the action of analgesics. Aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA, 25 mg/kg) markedly potentiated the catalepsy brought about by analgesics, while weakly and insignificantly facilitated that induced by haloperidol. Baclofen in a low dose (1 mg/kg) antagonized the action of haloperidol and fentanyl, whereas in higher doses (2-8 mg/kg) it did not visibly affect the action of any investigated drugs. Thus the action of gabaergic agonists and antagonists on the analgesic and haloperidol catalepsy varies, depending on the dose and kind of the agent affecting the gabaergic system.
Hypericum perforatum is used as a natural antidepressant, and other antidepressants have been marketed to aid in smoking cessation.
We investigated the effects of an extract of Hypericum perforatum (Ph-50) on withdrawal signs produced by nicotine abstinence in mice.
Nicotine (2 mg/kg, four injections daily) was administered for 14 days to mice. Different doses of Ph-50 (125-500 mg/kg) were administered orally immediately after the last nicotine injection. In another experiment, Ph-50 (500 mg/kg) was orally administered in combination with nicotine, i) starting from day 8 until the end of the nicotine treatment period, or ii) during nicotine treatment and after nicotine withdrawal, or iii) immediately after the last nicotine injection. On withdrawal from nicotine, all animals were evaluated for locomotor activity and abstinence signs.
The locomotor activity reduction induced by nicotine withdrawal was abolished by Ph-50, which also significantly and dose-dependently reduced the total nicotine abstinence score when injected after nicotine withdrawal.
These data show that treatment with Hypericum perforatum attenuates nicotine withdrawal signs in mice. Further studies are necessary to test the possibility that it may be used for smoking cessation treatment in humans.
Sertraline is used for the treatment of depression, and is also used for the treatment of panic, obsessive-compulsive, and post-traumatic stress disorders. Previously, we have demonstrated that sertraline caused hepatic cytotoxicity, with mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis being underlying mechanisms. In this study, we used microarray and other biochemical and molecular analyses to identify endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress as a novel molecular mechanism. HepG2 cells were exposed to sertraline and subjected to whole genome gene expression microarray analysis. Pathway analysis revealed that ER stress is among the significantly affected biological changes. We confirmed the increased expression of ER stress makers by real-time PCR and Western blots. The expression of typical ER stress markers such as PERK, IRE1α, and CHOP was significantly increased. To study better ER stress-mediated drug-induced liver toxicity; we established in vitro systems for monitoring ER stress quantitatively and efficiently, using Gaussia luciferase (Gluc) and secreted alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) as ER stress reporters. These in vitro systems were validated using well-known ER stress inducers. In these two reporter assays, sertraline inhibited the secretion of Gluc and SEAP. Moreover, we demonstrated that sertraline-induced apoptosis was coupled to ER stress and that the apoptotic effect was attenuated by 4-phenylbutyrate, a potent ER stress inhibitor. In addition, we showed that the MAP4K4-JNK signaling pathway contributed to the process of sertraline-induced ER stress. In summary, we demonstrated that ER stress is a mechanism of sertraline-induced liver toxicity.
Increasing resistance among the common respiratory pathogens has encouraged assessment of alternative agents, for example, levofloxacin. Unlike earlier quinolones, levofloxacin has excellent activity against Streptococcus pneumoniae, including strains resistant to penicillin. Clinical trials show levofloxacin to be as effective as cephalosporins in acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis and as effective as co-amoxiclav, cephalosporins or amoxycillin in community-acquired pneumonia. Levofloxacin is rarely associated with serious adverse events. Nausea, diarrhea, headache and rash are the most common adverse events but are observed less frequently than with some other new quinolones.
Mechanisms leading to ifosfamide (IF)-induced renal damage have not been fully elucidated. Recent work suggests that localized renal tubular metabolism of IF and the production of the nephrotoxic chloroacetaldehyde may lead to nephrotoxicity. Presently no pharmacological method to reduce IF nephrotoxicity has been identified. The objectives of this study were to establish a tubule cell model for IF nephrotoxicity, to verify whether renal proximal tubular cells have the necessary cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes to oxidize IF, and whether they can metabolize IF to chloroacetaldehyde. CYP3A, and 2B mRNA and protein were identified in LLCPK-1 cells. The cells metabolized the R- and S-IF enantiomers to their respective 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide metabolites, by-products of chloroacetaldehyde formation. Metabolite production was both time and concentration-dependent. IF did not affect cell viability. In contrast, glutathione-depleted cells showed time and dose-dependent damage. The presence of the relevant CYP enzymes in renal tubular cells along with their ability to metabolize IF to its 2- and 3-dechloroethylifosfamide metabolites suggests that nephrotoxic damage may result from the localized production of chloroacetaldehyde. Glutathione is a major defence mechanism against IF toxicity, thus pharmacological methods for replenishing intracellular glutathione may be effective in modulating IF-induced nephrotoxicity.
Recent studies have shown that the high affinity of mesothelin-CA125 interaction might cause intracavitary tumor metastasis. We examined the clinicopathologic significance and prognostic implication of mesothelin and CA125 expression in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
Tissue samples from 66 pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas were immunohistochemically examined. Proportion and intensity of constituent tumor cells with mesothelin and CA125 expression were analyzed and classified as high-level expression, defined as expression by more than 50% of tumor cells and/or moderate to strong staining, or low-level expression otherwise.
A high level of mesothelin was correlated with a higher histological grade (P = 0.049) and the level of blood vessel permeation (P = 0.0006), whereas a high level of CA125 expression was correlated with a higher recurrence rate (P = 0.015). The expression of mesothelin was strongly correlated with that of CA125 (P = 0.0041). Co-expression of mesothelin and CA125 were associated with an unfavorable patient outcome (P = 0.0062).
This is the first report showing that co-expression of mesothelin and CA125 were in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, and such co-expression is associated with a poor prognosis. Our finding suggests that co-expression of these two factors plays a significant role in the acquisition of aggressive clinical behavior.
The antiarrhythmic and hemodynamic effects of sotalol (160 to 480 mg/day), a beta-blocking agent that prolongs ventricular repolarization, were examined in 38 patients with complex symptomatic ventricular ectopic activity. During ambulatory monitoring, 24 patients (63%) exhibited a reduction of greater than 75% in single ventricular premature beats (VPBs) and greater than 90% reduction in repetitive arrhythmia. In contrast to the effects of other agents, left ventricular ejection fraction as determined by radionuclide angiography was not impaired, increasing slightly from 45 +/- 14% to 47 +/- 14% during therapy (p less than 0.05). Antiarrhythmic drug efficacy did not correlate with baseline ejection fraction or sotalol-induced changes in ventricular function. Late follow-up studies disclosed that antiarrhythmic efficacy and tolerance were maintained in the majority of patients. Repeat radionuclide angiography at 6 months revealed no late drug-induced depression of left ventricular function. Sotalol appears to be an effective and well tolerated agent for treatment of complex ventricular ectopic activity, even in the setting of compromised cardiac function.
Intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of betacytotoxic drug streptozotocin (STZ) produces long-term and progressive cognitive deficits in rats, as well as deficits in cerebral glucose and energy metabolism. These changes resemble those found in the brain of patients with sporadic Alzheimer's disease (sAD), and therefore, STZ-icv treated rats have been proposed as an experimental model of sAD. In this study the antioxidant capacity (AC), using manual oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) assay, was measured in the rat brain frontoparietal cortex (FC) and brainstem-cerebellum region (BS-CB) after administration of STZ and another betacytotoxic drug alloxan (AL). Region-specific differences of AC were found, which were more expressed when hydroxyl radical (ORAC(-OHo)) generator was used in the assay. AC against ORAC(-OHo) was significantly lower in BS-CB than in FC of the control rats. Furthermore, ORAC(-OHo) significantly decreased in BS-CB 3-months following the icv administration of AL, but significantly increased following the TG+AL combined treatment in comparison with the controls. However, 3-months following the icv treatment of AL combination with a different glucose transport inhbitor, 3-O-methyl-D-glucose, ORAC(-OHo) values in BS-CB and ORAC(-ROOo) values in FC were significantly decreased in comparison to the controls. Our results suggest that betacytotoxic-icv treatment alters antioxidant defense systems in the brain, which particularly regarding the STZ-icv treatment, could be a useful tool in search for possible new antioxidant treatments of the neurodegenerative disorders such as sAD.
Oleylethanolamide (OEA) is a natural fatty acid ethanolamide produced in the heart, but its biological actions in myocardium have not yet been defined. This study was carried out to determine whether OEA could be used to prevent the development of heart failure or improve evolving heart failure. We studied in vivo and in vitro actions of OEA in cardiac muscle. In an animal model of doxorubicin cardiomyopathy, OEA showed robust effects and attenuated the progression of systolic/diastolic dysfunction and ventricular remodeling. During evolving doxorubicin cardiomyopathy, a therapeutic course of OEA treatment partially restored myocardial function. The preventive and therapeutic effects of OEA were associated with significant improvement of survival. To investigate the mechanism of OEA action in cardiac muscle, we have carried out in vitro experiments in cultured cardiomyocytes. The results showed that OEA, through activation of Ras-Raf-1-Mek-Erk signaling, inhibited doxorubicin-induced apoptosis. Additional experiments showed that OEA activation of the Erk pathway involved activation of Neu/ErbB2 receptor, which suggests OEA actions in cardiac muscle might require activation of Neu/ErbB2. In summary, OEA improved ventricular remodeling and augmented cardiac function in doxorubicin cardiomyopathy, possibly involving activation of Neu/ErbB2 and Ras-Erk signaling. These findings suggest OEA is a novel cardioprotective compound that may be used to develop new strategies for the management of cardiomyopathy.
To evaluate whether lazabemide has proarrhythmic or hypotensive potency in Parkinson's disease (PD), we conducted an 8-week, double-blind, placcbo-controlled, parallel group study with use of 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring. Fifty-one patients with PD who did not have clinically apparent heart disease were randomized in a double-blind fashion to receive either lazabemide (n = 25) or placebo (n = 26) treatments. Lazabemide therapy did not induce clinically significant arrhythmias. A paroxysmal atrioventricular (AV) block, which progressed from first-degree AV block, was found in one patient in the lazabemide group. This was determined not to be a new AV block. However, the causality of lazabemide in prolongation of the pause was not ruled out completely. In addition, the asymptomatic fall in systolic blood pressure seen 3 minutes after standing up was observed to be more pronounced in the lazabemide group than in the placebo group. The mean decrease of systolic blood pressure was 10 mmHg greater in the lazabemide group than in the placebo group. In conclusion, lazabemide did not induce any clinically significant arrhythmias in patients without clinically apparent heart disease. However, it may increase the asymptomatic, orthostatic drop in systolic blood pressure.
T-614 is a novel oral antirheumatic agent for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Whether it has immunomodulatory or disease-modifying properties and its mechanism of action are largely undetermined.
Rats with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) were treated with T-614 (5 and 20 mg/kg) daily. Animals receiving methotrexate (1 mg/kg every 3 days) and the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent nimesulide (10 mg/kg per day) were used as controls. A combination therapy group was treated with both T-614(10 mg/kg per day) and methotrexate (1 mg/kg every 3 days). Hind paw swelling was evaluated and radiographic scores calculated. Serum cytokine levels were assessed by Bio-plex analysis. Quantitative PCR was used to evaluate expression of mRNA for interferon-gamma, IL-4 and IL-17. Serum IL-17 and anti-type II collagen antibodies (total IgG, IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b and IgM) were measured using ELISA.
Oral T-614 inhibited paw swelling and offered significant protection against arthritis-induced cartilage and bone erosion, comparable to the effects of methotrexate. CIA rats treated with T-614 exhibited decreases in both mRNA expression of IL-17 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and lymph node cells, and circulating IL-17 in a dose-dependent manner. T-614 also reduced serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6. A synergistic effect was observed for the combination of methotrexate and T-614. In addition, T-614 (20 mg/kg per day) depressed production of anti-type II collagen antibodies and differentially affected levels of IgG2a subclasses in vivo, whereas IgM level was decreased without any change in the IgG1 level. Together, the findings presented here indicate that the novel agent T-614 has disease-modifying effects against experimental arthritis, as opposed to nimesulide.
Our data suggested that T-614 is an effective disease-modifying agent that can prevent bone/cartilage destruction and inflammation in in CIA rats. Combination with methotrexate markedly enhances the therapeutic effect of T-614.
One hundred eighty-seven women between 13 and 49 years of age had ovarian function evaluated from 1 to 15 years (median, 4) after marrow transplant for aplastic anemia or leukemia. Among 43 women transplanted for aplastic anemia following 200 mg/kg cyclophosphamide (CY), all 27 less than 26 years of age, but only five of 16 greater than 26 years of age recovered normal ovarian function. Nine of the 43 have had 12 pregnancies, resulting in eight live births, and two elective and two spontaneous abortions. All eight children are normal. Nine of 144 women transplanted for leukemia following 120 mg/kg CY and 9.20 to 15.75 Gy total body irradiation (TBI) recovered ovarian function. Two of these nine have had three pregnancies, resulting in two spontaneous and one elective abortion. The probability of having ovarian failure was 0.35 by 7 years for patients receiving CY alone and was 1.00 at 1 year for patients receiving CY plus TBI (P less than .0001). By 7 years after transplant the probabilities of having normal ovarian function were 0.92 after CY alone and 0.24 after CY plus TBI (P less than .0001). Multivariate analysis showed that TBI was the only factor significantly influencing ovarian failure and that both TBI and greater patient age at transplant were significantly associated with a decreased probability of recovering normal ovarian function. These data demonstrate that after high-dose CY, recovery of ovarian function occurs in younger women and in a minority of older women, but after CY and TBI, recovery occurs in only a few younger women and none of the older women.
