Loss of full-length Brca1 in mammary epithelial cells of the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV)-Cre Brca1 conditional exon 11 deletion mouse model results in the development of mammary adenocarcinomas with similar genetic changes to those found in human BRCA1-mutation-related breast cancers. We used this experimental model to evaluate the chemopreventive effect of tamoxifen on the development of mammary preneoplasia and adenocarcinoma. No protective effects of tamoxifen administration on mammary cancer development were found. Instead, tamoxifen treatment significantly increased rates of mammary epithelial cell proliferation and the prevalence of mammary hyperplasia at 6 months of age. Tamoxifen-exposed mice developed adenocarcinomas at younger ages than control mice and a higher percentage of mice developed adenocarcinomas by 12 months of age. Both whole mouse and tissue culture cell models were used to test if loss of full-length Brca1 was associated with a relative increase in the agonist activity of tamoxifen. Tamoxifen induced increased ductal growth in MMTV-Cre Brca1 conditional mice compared to wild type. Estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) expression was downregulated in the tamoxifen-induced hyperplasias. Reducing BRCA1 levels in MCF-7 cells using siRNA resulted in a relative increase in the agonist activity of tamoxifen. Results suggest a model of mammary cancer progression in which loss of full-length Brca1 altered the agonist/antagonist activity of tamoxifen, resulting in tamoxifen-induced mammary epithelial cell proliferation with subsequent loss of ERalpha expression and development of ERalpha-negative hyperplasias and adenocarcinomas.
A case of a 22-year female patient with poly-symptomatic reversible dyskinetic syndrome following a single thiethylperazine (Torecan) dose is presented. The patient was 10 weeks pregnant. Detoxication abolished extrapyramidal symptoms within 7 hours. Possible mechanism of such an adverse reaction to thiethylperazine is discussed.
Cyclophosphamide (CP) has a range of adverse effects on liver tissue in humans and animals. Administering an antioxidant with CP might reduce such side effects. Therefore, we examined the role of vitamin E in CP-induced liver toxicity in rats. Male Wistar albino rats were divided into four groups, each of seven rats: control, CP only, CP + vitamin E, and vitamin E only groups. The rats were administered treatments intraperitoneally for 7 days. Then the serum malondialdehyde (MDA), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels were determined while the livers were removed, tissue was prepared using routine histological procedures, sections were stained using hematoxylin and eosin, and the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick end-labeling (TUNEL) method was applied. Histopathologically, CP caused hydropic degeneration, necrosis, pleomorphism, and mitotic activity. The number of TUNEL-positive cells and the MDA and ALT levels were significantly higher in the CP group. The antioxidant effects of vitamin E significantly decreased the number of TUNEL-positive cells and the ALT and MDA levels, and normalized the liver histopathology. CP induces apoptosis, has toxic effects on liver tissue, and changes the histological structure. The administration of vitamin E prevented the liver tissue damage caused by CP.
In the present study, we have tried to unravel the role of Selenium supplementation in containing hyperglycemia by regulating enzymes activities involved in carbohydrate metabolism in liver of diabetic animals. Male wistar rats were divided into four groups: normal control, diabetic, Selenium treated control and Selenium treated diabetic group. Diabetes was induced in the animals by injecting alloxan intraperitoneally at a dose level of 150 mg/kg body weight. Selenium in the form of sodium selenite was supplemented to rats at a dose level of 1 PPM in drinking water, ad libitum for two time durations of 2 and 4 weeks. Animals were sacrificed and livers were excised for the analyses of enzymes involved in carbohydrate metabolism as well as the levels of glycogen. In-vitro (14)C-d glucose uptake and its turnover were also assessed in liver slices of all the treatment groups using radiorespirometry. Selenium supplementation to the diabetic rats normalized the enzyme activities of glucose-6-phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase and glycogen phosphorylase as well as restored the glycogen levels to within the normal limits which were altered during diabetes. Interestingly, when Selenium was supplemented to diabetic rats, (14)C-d glucose uptake and its turnover showed a statistically significant increase in their values which however, were decreased in diabetic rats. In conclusion, Selenium mediates insulin-like role during diabetes by tending to normalize the altered activities of glucose metabolizing enzymes and also improves the glucose uptake and its metabolism by the liver.
The dose-dependence of di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) hepatocarcinogenicity was investigated in male F344 rats which were initially injected with diethylnitrosamine (200 mg/kg, i.p.) and subjected to partial hepatectomy at week 3. The animals were administered DEHP in the diet at concentrations of 30, 300, 3,000, or 12,000 ppm starting 2 weeks after the DEN injection for up to 46 weeks and killed at weeks 8, 24, 48 and 52. Additional groups were given clofibrate (3,000 ppm in diet) or basal diet instead of the DEHP diet. Incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas were 75% (9/12, P < 0.01) for 12,000 ppm, 10% (1/10) for 3,000 ppm, 7% (1/14) for 300 ppm, 0% (0/13) for 30 ppm, 15% (2/13) for clofibrate, and 8% (1/13) for the basal diet group at week 52, 4 weeks after cessation of chemical feeding. Development of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci was only slightly increased by clofibrate-administration at week 52 and consistently lower than the control level in the DEHP-treated groups after 24 weeks. In contrast, GST-P negative eosinophilic foci were dose-dependently increased in the more than 300 ppm DEHP and clofibrate treated groups. At the 30 ppm dose level, however, no morphological changes were apparent in the liver. Thus, the non-observed effect level regarding the promotional activity of hepatocarcinogenesis was demonstrated at 30 ppm, the effects being predictable on the basis of development of GST-P negative eosinophilic foci.
In order to assess the pathogenesis of myopathological alterations induced by zidovudine, we studied muscle samples from 21 patients infected by human immunodeficiency virus with zidovudine myopathy. Cytochrome c oxidase histoenzymatic reaction was evaluated in skeletal muscle fibres and arterial smooth muscle cells. Other investigations included immunocytochemistry for membrane attack complex and endomysial capillary counts. All patients had partial cytochrome c oxidase deficiency. A perifascicular distribution of cytochrome c oxidase-deficient fibres was found in 14 of 21 patients. Cytochrome c oxidase-deficient fibres were significantly more frequent in perifascicular areas than in the complete muscle sections (28% vs 12%, P < 0.001). Cytochrome c oxidase-deficient arteries were found in 11 patients, of whom 10 also had a perifascicular deficiency. Mononuclear microvascular inflammation was observed in four patients and membrane attack complex deposition in capillary walls in two patients. The capillary counts were not significantly different in the patients and in the controls. These results suggest that, in addition to a direct action of zidovudine on mitochondrial DNA, chronic muscle ischaemia related to zidovudine-induced vascular dysfunction might be implicated at the inception of muscle damage in zidovudine myopathy.
Mercury induces autoantibodies to the nucleolar protein fibrillarin (ANoA) in genetically susceptible (H-2AS) mouse strains. This study examines the importance of mercury toxicokinetics for the induction and strength (titer) of these autoantibodies. Female mice of the inbred strains A.SW and B10.S (H-2AS on the A and C57BL/10 genetic background, respectively) and A.TL and B10.TL (H-2Ak on the A and C57BL/10 background) were treated with 203HgCl2 in a dose of 1, 5, or 16 mg Hg/L drinking water for 56-70 days. Whole-body retention of 203Hg was monitored throughout the experimental period. Mercury accumulation in kidney, liver, heart, spleen, and brain was determined at end of the experiment when blood samples were also obtained for determination of ANoA. The drinking water consumption showed a limited variation between the strains and the dose groups. Therefore, intake of mercury did not vary much between the strains at a given dose level. The whole-body retention of mercury reached steady state after 4-5 weeks. In general, the B10.S and B10.TL strains showed a lower whole-body retention and deposition of mercury in the kidney and the liver, compared with the A.SW and A.TL strains given the same dose of mercury. The B10.S strain showed a threshold for induction of ANoA at 5 mg Hg/L, whereas ANoA were still seen in A.SW mice given 1 mg Hg/L. Taken together, this is compatible with a less efficient elimination of mercury in the A.SW and A.TL strains, which was also supported by the higher ratio between whole-body retention and intake of mercury in these strains. These findings indicate that genes residing outside the H-2 (MHC) complex play an important role for regulating mercury toxicokinetics, the A genes conferring higher accumulation of mercury in the body than the B10 genes. In mice congenic with regard to the susceptible H-2AS haplotype, a highly significant correlation (P<0.01) existed between on the one hand the whole-body retention and organ accumulation of mercury and on the other hand the titer of ANoA. We conclude that mercury toxicokinetics differs significantly among inbred mouse strains. The differences in toxicokinetics are regulated by non-H-2 genes and correlate with the autoimmune response in the genetically susceptible strains: quantitatively as the titer of the ANoA and qualitatively as different threshold doses for induction of ANoA by mercury.
Both nucleotide excision repair (NER) and the p53 tumor suppressor protein play crucial roles in the prevention of cells becoming cancerous. This is clearly demonstrated by the fact that NER-deficient xeroderma pigmentosum patients and Li-Fraumeni patients who carry a germ-line p53 mutation are highly tumor prone. The NER-deficient Xpa and the p53(+/-) mouse models clearly mimic their human counterparts, because they are both tumor prone as well. The aim of the study presented here was to analyze the relative contribution of these two pathways in tumor suppression and to analyze a possible link between NER and p53 activation in vivo. For this, we exposed Xpa, p53(+/-), and Xpa/p53(+/-) mice to 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF). We show that 2-AAF-induced urinary bladder tumor suppression is dependent on p53 status, because p53(+/-) mice were highly tumor prone. Xpa/p53(+/-) mice were even more tumor prone, whereas no increased tumor response was found in Xpa mice. Short-term assays revealed a decreased apoptotic response in Xpa/p53(+/-) mice, pointing in vivo toward a link between NER and p53-mediated apoptosis. In contrast, liver tumor response was primarily dependent on appropriate DNA repair, because Xpa-deficient mice were liver tumor prone. p53 heterozygosity had no influence on liver tumor incidences, in line with the results obtained from the short-term 2-AAF studies revealing no altered cellular response in p53(+/-) or Xpa/p53(+/-) mice. Interestingly, however, mice completely deficient in both NER and p53 (Xpa/p53(-/-) mice) showed a dramatic increase of hepatocellular proliferation accompanied by lacZ reporter gene mutations.
We evaluated the effect of controlled hypotension induced by PGE1 on evoked spinal cord potential (ESCP) and spinal cord blood flow (SCBF) in 14 patients undergoing laminectomy or laminoplasty. They were divided into two groups: hypotensive group (group H), non-hypotensive group (group N). Controlled hypotension was induced with PGE1 to maintain mean arterial blood pressure at 55-60 mmHg for 45 min. The amplitude and latency of the N 1 potential were analyzed, and the SCBF was estimated by laser doppler flowmeter. There were no significant differences in ESCP and SCBF. These results suggest that controlled hypotension by PGE1 maintained normal local spinal cord blood flow autoregulation.
Administration of improper drugs into epidural space is occasionally present in anesthetic practice. In most instances it would not contribute to significant neurological complications. There had not been severe hypotension reported in the literature in consequence of inadvertent epidural thiopental administration. Here we describe our experience in a case of inadvertent epidural administration of thiopental coinciding with induction of anesthesia with propofol, as a consequence of which profound hypotension was induced, necessitating aggressive inotropic and vasopressive agents to maintain blood pressure. Rapid vascular uptake of thiopental in the epidural space and synergistic action of propofol jointly contributed to the development of the hypotension. Attempts to forestall neurological sequela after the inadvertence seem unnecessary unless apparent symptoms or signs of neurological injury have come upon.
The association of cervicovaginal adenocarcinoma and in utero diethylstilbesterol exposure is well known. There is concern that offspring exposed in utero may be predisposed to develop other malignancies as well. Presented is a case of endometrial adenocarcinoma occurring in this clinical setting. To the best of the authors' knowledge this association has not been reported previously.
The role of carotid endarterectomy in the treatment of extracranial carotid artery disease has been well established. Postoperative hypertension is a significant prognostic factor and is associated with an increased incidence of both transient and permanent neurologic deficits. We studied 110 patients undergoing unilateral carotid endarterectomy to review the efficacy of the drug combination of hydralazine and propranolol to treat postoperative hypertension. All patients receiving hydralazine and propranolol had their blood pressure controlled postoperatively, and no patients developed hypotension, myocardial infarction, or postoperative neurologic deficits. There were no mortalities in the study group. We conclude that propranolol-hydralazine therapy is a safe and effective means to control hypertension associated with carotid endarterectomy.
Alarming hemangiomas can be successfully treated with corticosteroids. The risk of hypertension is poorly documented in this setting. We conducted a prospective study in infants with hemangiomas treated with orally administered prednisone.
Thirty-seven patients with rapidly growing complicated hemangiomas were enrolled between January 1998 and November 1999. Steroid dosages varied from 1 mg/kg/d to 5 mg/kg/d. Blood pressure measurements were performed first twice a month, then monthly at rest with a Critikon Dynamap device. Hypertension was defined as blood pressure superior to 110/60 mmHg, and borderline if superior to 110/60 mmHg on only one or two measurements.
Increased blood pressure was found in seven infants (19 p. 100). One infant had hypertension requiring specific treatment and blood pressure was borderline on six patients at one or two occasions. Cardiac ultrasound examination was performed in five patients revealing two cases of myocardic hypertrophy, which regressed after stopping steroids and without relationship to hypertension.
Even though the definition of hypertension in still arbitrary in infants, the measurement of blood pressure is necessary when steroid therapy is given for the treatment of hemangiomas. Blood pressure measurement can be difficult in very young children and overestimation is frequent if an inadequate device is used. The exact place of cardiac ultrasound remains to be defined in the management of alarming hemangiomas.
In two patients intrahepatic cholestasis and cholestatic liver disease probably due to N-propyl ajmaline were observed. In both cases there was a four-week-interval between the first ingestion of the drug and the onset of jaundice. In one case with rigors there was a temporary rise in temperature and cholestasis. In the other there was a two to three week prodromal period of pruritus and gastro-intestinal symptoms. Both cases were characterised by blood and pronounced tissue eosinophilia in the periportal zones, a marked increase of cholestatic and hepatic cell enzymes, serum bilirubin and cholesterol, a moderate increase in erythrocyte sedimentation rate and absence of leucocytosis. Pathological laboratory findings returned to normal spontaneously within 5 weeks in one case and within two weeks under steroid therapy in the other.
We report a rare case of prolonged apnea following administration of ketamine. A healthy 11-month-old female child was administered intramuscular ketamine as a sole anesthetic agent for a short surgical procedure. Child developed respiratory depression and prolonged apnea requiring intubation and ventilation. She recovered completely after 90 min. This case report illustrates the potential hazard of ketamine, emphasizes the importance of being able to provide emergency airway management and monitored anesthesia care.
Peroxisomal beta-oxidation proceeds from enoyl-CoA through D-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA to 3-ketoacyl-CoA by the D-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydratase/D-3-hydroxy-acyl-CoA dehydrogenase bifunctional protein (d-bifunctional protein), and the oxidation of bile-acid precursors also has been suggested as being catalyzed by the d-bifunctional protein. Because of the important roles of this protein, we reinvestigated two Japanese patients previously diagnosed as having enoyl-CoA hydratase/L-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase bifunctional protein (L-bifunctional protein) deficiency, in complementation studies. We found that both the protein and the enzyme activity of the d-bifunctional protein were hardly detectable in these patients but that the active L-bifunctional protein was present. The mRNA level in patient 1 was very low, and, for patient 2, mRNA was of a smaller size. Sequencing analysis of the cDNA revealed a 52-bp deletion in patient 1 and a 237-bp deletion in patient 2. This seems to be the first report of D-bifunctional protein deficiency. Patients previously diagnosed as cases of L-bifunctional protein deficiency probably should be reexamined for a possible d-bifunctional protein deficiency.
Metformin is a first-line drug for the treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D) and is often prescribed in combination with other drugs to control a patient's blood glucose level and achieve their HbA1c goal. New treatment options for T2D will likely include fixed dose combinations with metformin, which may require preclinical combination toxicology studies. To date, there are few published reports evaluating the toxicity of metformin alone to aid in the design of these studies. Therefore, to understand the toxicity of metformin alone, Crl:CD(SD) rats were administered metformin at 0, 200, 600, 900 or 1200 mg/kg/day by oral gavage for 13 weeks. Administration of > or =900 mg/kg/day resulted in moribundity/mortality and clinical signs of toxicity. Other adverse findings included increased incidence of minimal necrosis with minimal to slight inflammation of the parotid salivary gland for males given 1200 mg/kg/day, body weight loss and clinical signs in rats given > or =600 mg/kg/day. Metformin was also associated with evidence of minimal metabolic acidosis (increased serum lactate and beta-hydroxybutyric acid and decreased serum bicarbonate and urine pH) at doses > or =600 mg/kg/day. There were no significant sex differences in mean AUC(0-24) or C(max) nor were there significant differences in mean AUC(0-24) or C(max) following repeated dosing compared to a single dose. The no observable adverse effect level (NOAEL) was 200 mg/kg/day (mean AUC(0-24)=41.1 microg h/mL; mean C(max)=10.3 microg/mL based on gender average week 13 values). These effects should be taken into consideration when assessing potential toxicities of metformin in fixed dose combinations.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) has been associated with adverse developmental outcomes, including intra-uterine fetal death (IUFD) and intra-uterine growth retardation (IUGR). However, the exact mechanism for LPS-induced IUFD and IURD remains unclear. LPS stimulates macrophages to generate reactive oxygen species (ROS). Therefore, we hypothesize that ROS may be involved in LPS-induced IUFD and IURD. Melatonin is a powerful endogenous antioxidant. In this study, we investigated the protective effects of melatonin on LPS-induced IUFD and IURD in ICR mice. All pregnant mice except controls received an intraperitoneal (75 microg/kg, i.p.) injection of LPS on gestational day (gd) 15-17. The experiment was carried out in two different modes. In mode A, the pregnant mice received two doses of melatonin within 24 hr, one (5 or 10 mg/kg) injected immediately after LPS and the other (5 or 10 mg/kg) injected at 3 hr after LPS. In mode B, the pregnant mice were pretreated with 10 mg/kg of melatonin 18 hr before LPS and then received two doses of melatonin in 24 hr, one (10 mg/kg) injected immediately after LPS and the other (10 mg/kg) injected 3 hr after LPS. The number of live fetuses, dead fetuses and resorption sites were counted on gd 18. Live fetuses in each litter were weighed. Crown-rump and tail lengths were examined and skeletal development was evaluated. Results showed that post-treatments with melatonin significantly attenuated LPS-induced IUFD in a dose-dependent manner. Surprisingly, pre- plus post-treatments with melatonin almost blocked LPS-induced IUFD. In addition, both post-treatments and pre- plus post-treatments with melatonin significantly alleviated LPS-induced decreases in crown-rump and tail lengths and reversed LPS-induced skeletal developmental retardation. However, melatonin had little effect on LPS-induced decrease in fetal weight. Furthermore, pre- plus post-treatments with melatonin significantly attenuated LPS-induced lipid peroxidation in maternal liver. These results indicate that melatonin protects against LPS-induced IURD and IUGR via counteracting LPS-induced oxidative stress.
We examined the effect of lafutidine, a histamine H(2) receptor antagonist with a mucosal protective action mediated by capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons (CSN), on intestinal lesions produced by loxoprofen administration in rats.
Animals were given loxoprofen (10-100 mg/kg p.o.) and killed 24 h later. Lafutidine (10 and 30 mg/kg), cimetidine (100 mg/kg) or famotidine (30 mg/kg) was given twice p.o. at 0.5 h before and 6 h after loxoprofen. Omeprazole (100 mg/kg) was given p.o. once 0.5 h before. Ampicillin (800 mg/kg) was given p.o. twice at 24 h and 0.5 h before loxoprofen, while 16,16-dimethyl prostaglandin E(2) (dmPGE(2); 0.01 mg/kg) was given i.v. twice at 5 min before and 6 h after.
Loxoprofen dose-dependently produced hemorrhagic lesions in the small intestine, accompanied by invasion of enterobacteria and increased inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression as well as myeloperoxidase activity in the mucosa. The ulcerogenic response to loxoprofen (60 mg/kg) was significantly prevented by lafutidine (30 mg/kg), similar to dmPGE(2) and ampicillin, and the effect of lafutidine was totally attenuated by ablation of CSN. Neither cimetidine, famotidine nor omeprazole had a significant effect against these lesions. Lafutidine alone increased mucus secretion and reverted the decreased mucus response to loxoprofen, resulting in suppression of bacterial invasion and iNOS expression. In addition, loxoprofen downregulated Muc2 expression, and this response was totally reversed by lafutidine mediated by CSN.
Lafutidine protects the small intestine against loxoprofen-induced lesions, essentially mediated by the CSN, and this effect may be functionally associated with increased Muc2 expression/mucus secretion, an important factor in the suppression of bacterial invasion.
A patient taking ibuprofen (Motrin) for the relief of osteoarthritis developed, after two months, decreased visual acuity and decreased color vision. Initially the Visual Evoked Potentials, showed decreased wave amplitudes, and increased conduction times in both eyes. After stopping the drug, the Visual Evoked Potentials returned to normal one month before the visual acuity improved. We feel that Visual Evoked Potentials are useful for screening patients on ibuprofen, and prognosticating their recovery, when a secondary toxic optic neuritis develops.
Propylthiouracil (PTU) is the most common antithyroid medication utilized in children for the treatment of hyperthyroidism. An adverse effect of PTU reported infrequently is hepatic injury. The child described here is the fifth reported case of severe hepatic injury in the pediatric age group and documents that clinical or biochemical evidence of hepatic injury requires immediate discontinuation of PTU.
Two elderly patients with a history of either cerebral vascular accident (CVA) or head trauma and no evidence of renal disease developed seizures while receiving maximum doses of imipenem/cilastatin. Neither patient had reported previous seizures or seizure-like activity nor was receiving anticonvulsant agents. All seizures were controlled with therapeutic doses of phenytoin. Both patients had received maximum doses of other beta-lactam antibiotics without evidence of seizure activity.
We report the case of a 53-year old woman who developed a neuromyelitis optica (NMO or Devic's syndrome) after a spinal anaesthesia with bupivacaine. To our knowledge, the use of bupivacaine in human has not been associated to neurological complications like myelitis or NMO. The pathogenesis of this complication will be discussed.
Effects of repeated testing on the incidence of haloperidol-induced catalepsy were investigated in mice. The incidence of catalepsy, evaluated with the forelimbs or hindlimbs placed on a standard horizontal bar, increased in three successive tests in mice injected with haloperidol. Catalepsy was not provoked by repeated testing in animals with saline. In a subsequent study, mice were examined for catalepsy in the forelimbs in the first two trials and then in the hindlimbs. In this procedure, the incidence of catalepsy did not increase with repeated testing. These results suggest that repeated testing increases the incidence of haloperidol-induced catalepsy but does not influence the cataleptogenic potency of the drug.
Fibrates are pharmaceuticals commonly used to control hypercholesterolemia in humans and they are frequently detected in the freshwater environment. Since cholesterol is the precursor of all steroid hormones, it is suspected that low cholesterol levels will impact steroidogenesis. However, the effect of fibrates on fish reproductive endocrinology is not clear; therefore the aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of bezafibrate (BZF) on gonadal steroidogenesis and spermatogenesis of zebrafish (Danio rerio). For this purpose, adult males were exposed orally to 1.7, 33 and 70 mg BZF/g food for 21 days. Blood and gonads were collected after 48 h, 7 days and 21 days to evaluate plasma cholesterol and plasma 11-ketotestosterone (11-KT). The expression of gonadal genes involved in the steroidogenesis was quantified to determine a potential mechanism of action, likewise the effect on spermatogenesis was evaluated by examining gonadal histopathology. A time dependent monotonic decrease in the plasma cholesterol concentration was observed in fish exposed to BZF. Plasma 11-KT decreased significantly after 21 days of exposure in fish exposed to the high concentration of BZF. Different gene expression patterns were observed: down-regulation in ppara and pparg mRNA levels was observed in fish exposed to the higher concentrations after 48 h; however, the expression of pparg increased after 21 days. After 21 days an increase in the star and cyp17a1 mRNA expression was observed in fish exposed to 70 mg BZF/g food. Sampling time and bezafibrate concentration explained 52.4% and 20%, respectively, of the gene expression variability. Gonadal histology revealed the presence of germ cell syncytia in the tubular lumen of fish exposed to bezafibrate and also an increased number of cysts containing spermatocytes, which indicate testicular degeneration. The study shows that bezafibrate exerts a hypocholesterolemic effect in adult male zebrafish and its potential as an endocrine disruptor due to its effect on the gonadal steroidogenesis and spermatogenesis.
