This investigation examined whether raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator, affects the risk for Alzheimer's disease.
The Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation was a randomized, placebo-controlled trial among postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. The effect of raloxifene (60 or 120 mg/day) on vertebral fractures was the primary outcome. Development of mild cognitive impairment and dementia was a secondary outcome. Women were given clinical and cognitive evaluations at baseline and annually. After 3 years, among the 5,386 women enrolled at participating sites, those who had clinical symptoms of dementia or scored in the lowest 10th percentile on cognitive screening were evaluated by a blinded dementia specialist and had brain scans and laboratory tests to evaluate dementia etiology. Dementia was diagnosed by a blinded adjudication committee.
Of the 5,386 women, 5,153 (95.7%) were classified as cognitively normal, 181 (3.4%) had mild cognitive impairment, and 52 (1.0%) had dementia, 36 with Alzheimer's disease. Compared to those taking placebo, women receiving 120 mg/day of raloxifene had a 33% lower risk of mild cognitive impairment (relative risk, 0.67; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.46-0.98) and somewhat lower risks of Alzheimer's disease (relative risk=0.52, 95% CI=0.22-1.21) and any cognitive impairment (relative risk=0.73, 95% CI=0.53-1.01). Risks of mild cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease, and any impairment were not significantly different in the group taking 60 mg/day of raloxifene.
Raloxifene at a dose of 120 mg/day, but not 60 mg/day, resulted in reduced risk of cognitive impairment in postmenopausal women.
Recent studies in rodents indicate that the nucleotide-binding domain, leucine-rich-containing family, pyrin domain-containing-3 (NLRP3) inflammasome and a proinflammatory shift in the T cell population in adipose tissue (AT) contribute to AT inflammation and insulin resistance. We investigated: (1) the interplay between the NLRP3 inflammasome and T cell populations in abdominal subcutaneous AT in obese and lean humans in relation to AT inflammatory processes, and (2) involvement of the NLRP3 inflammasome and T cell populations in insulin resistance. Abdominal subcutaneous AT biopsies were collected in 10 obese men with impaired glucose tolerance and 9 lean normal glucose tolerant age-matched controls. AT gene expression of NLRP3 inflammasome-related genes and markers of T cell populations, chemoattraction, macrophage infiltration and other aspects of inflammation were examined. Furthermore, we examined systemic adaptive immune activation and insulin sensitivity (hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp). CASPASE-1 mRNA and the proportion of T(h)1 transcripts (TBX21/CD3ɛ) were significantly higher in AT from obese compared with lean subjects. CASPASE-1 expression and a relative increase in T(h)1 transcripts in AT were strongly associated with insulin resistance and impairments in glucose homeostasis. Gene expression of NLRP3, CASPASE-1, CD3ɛ (pan T cells), TBX21 (T(h)1 cells) and RORC (T(h)17 cells) was positively, whereas GATA3 (T(h)2 cells) was inversely correlated with AT inflammation. Our data suggest that NLRP3 inflammasome activation and a T(h)1 shift in the T cell population in AT of obese subjects is related to insulin resistance and impaired glucose metabolism, which may be explained by AT inflammatory processes.
Our purpose was to determine the safety and tolerance of levonorgestrel contraceptive implants (Norplant, Wyeth-Ayerst, Philadelphia) when inserted immediately post partum, to document the effects on weight and blood pressure, and to determine the side effects.
After vaginal delivery, 250 women were randomized to receive Norplant within 48 hours of delivery (study group) or at the 4- to 6-week postpartum visit (control group). Baseline measurements were recorded and compared with those obtained at the 4- to 6-week follow-up visit. A diary was maintained by patients who recorded bleeding and side effects. Statistical analysis was performed with t test and chi 2 analysis.
There were no episodes of acute postpartum hemorrhage or clinically significant bleeding. Compared with the control group, the immediate group reported significantly more bleeding days (p < 0.01). There was no significant difference between the two groups in the hemoglobin values obtained at 4 to 6 weeks post partum. The immediate insertion group reported significantly more headaches (p < 0.01) and acne (p = 0.01).
Norplant is well tolerated and should be available for interested patients immediately post partum.
During June 1992-February 1993, physicians in Charlotte, North Carolina, randomly assigned 250 women who had delivered vaginally at the Carolinas Medical Center to receive the contraceptive implant Norplant either before being discharged from the hospital on postpartum day 1, 2, or 3 or 4-6 weeks later at the scheduled postpartum follow-up visit. They wanted to ascertain whether insertion of Norplant in the immediate postpartum period was safe and well-tolerated. 26 women were lost to follow-up. 11 of these women were in the delayed insertion group, so they did not receive Norplant or an alternative contraceptive method, placing them at risk of pregnancy. Another 34 women in the same group returned for their follow-up visit but did not receive Norplant. The mean interval from delivery to insertion stood at 1.7 days for the immediate insertion group and 34.3 days for the delayed insertion group. No one in either group experienced acute postpartum hemorrhage. The immediate insertion group had much more bleeding and spotting than did the delayed insertion group (17 vs. 13.6 days, p 0.01, and 11.1 vs. 8.8 days, p = 0.03, respectively; 28.2 vs. 22.4 days for both spotting and bleeding, p 0.01). Since hemoglobin values of the two groups did not differ (12.9 vs. 12.7), the increased bleeding was not clinically significant. Women in the immediate insertion group were more likely than those in the delayed insertion group to have headaches on at least seven days between insertion and study follow-up (15.1% vs. 2.8%; p 0.01). They also were more likely to have acne during at least three days (18.9% vs. 6.4%; p 0.01). They were just as likely as the delayed insertion group to report nausea, hair loss, and hirsutism. 40% of the women in both groups had sexual intercourse before their 4-6 week follow-up visit. These findings show that Norplant can be safe and well-tolerated if inserted in the immediate postpartum period.
We studied a thiamine-dependent enzyme, transketolase, from fibroblasts of a diabetic patient who developed Wernicke's encephalopathy when treated with tolazamide, in order to delineate if this patient also had transketolase abnormality [high Km for thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP)], as previously reported in postalcoholic Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome. In addition to this patient, we also studied this enzyme from three diabetic kindreds without any history of Wernicke's encephalopathy and from four normal controls. We found that the above-mentioned patient and one of the diabetic kindreds with no history of Wernicke's encephalopathy had abnormal transketolase as determined by its Km for TPP. These data suggest a similarity between postalcoholic Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome and the patient with tolazamide-induced Wernicke's encephalopathy from the standpoint of transketolase abnormality.
Vinyl acetate monomer (VAM) produced rat nasal tumors at concentrations in the hundreds of parts per million. However, VAM is weakly genotoxic in vitro and shows no genotoxicity in vivo. A European Union Risk Assessment concluded that VAM's hydrolysis to acetaldehyde (AA), via carboxylesterase, is a critical key event in VAM's carcinogenic potential. In the following study, we observed increases in micronuclei (MN) and thymidine kinase (Tk) mutants that were dependent on the ability of TK6 cell culture conditions to rapidly hydrolyze VAM to AA. Heat-inactivated horse serum demonstrated a high capacity to hydrolyze VAM to AA; this activity was highly correlated with a concomitant increase in MN. In contrast, heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum (FBS) did not hydrolyze VAM and no increase in MN was observed. AA's ability to induce MN was not impacted by either serum since it directly forms Schiff bases with DNA and proteins. Increased mutant frequency at the Tk locus was similarly mitigated when AA formation was not sufficiently rapid, such as incubating VAM in the presence of FBS for 4 hr. Interestingly, neither VAM nor AA induced mutations at the HPRT locus. Finally, cytotoxicity paralleled genotoxicity demonstrating that a small degree of cytotoxicity occurred prior to increases in MN. These results established 0.25 mM as a consistent concentration where genotoxicity first occurred for both VAM and AA provided VAM is hydrolyzed to AA. This information further informs significant key events related to the mode of action of VAM-induced nasal mucosal tumors in rats.
Parkinsonism is an extrapyramidal disorder characterised by tremor, muscle rigidity, bradykinesia and postural instability. The most common cause of parkinsonism is idiopathic Parkinson disease. Another common cause is drug-induced parkinsonism. Various drugs can cause parkinsonian symptoms. Many patients exhibiting these side-effects are mistakenly treated with dopaminergic medication. We present two patients with drug-induced parkinsonism induced by sodium valproate and cinnarizine, respectively. The symptoms disappeared after they stopped taking this medication.
A 9-year-old boy with nephrotic syndrome was transferred to our hospital because of acute renal failure and disturbance of consciousness after high-dose methylprednisolone therapy. He developed severe headache, visual disturbance, and generalized seizures. Brain computed tomography (CT) scan revealed multiple, bilateral, low-density areas in the parieto-occipital lobes. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) disclosed a high signal intensity area on T2-weighted images and a low signal intensity area on T1-weighted images in the same lesion. Follow-up brain CT scan and MRI, 2 weeks after the first studies, showed complete resolution of the abnormal lesions, which suggested the diagnosis of reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS). Hypertension and high-dose methylprednisolone administration to the patient in the nephrotic state may be causes of this uncommon syndrome in this case. This is the first report of RPLS in nephrotic syndrome with hypertension not associated with cyclosporine administration.
Arterial thrombosis and renal vein thrombosis occurred in two men and one woman, respectively, treated with steroids for the nephrotic syndrome. Raised serum cholesterol occurred in one patient only. Though bleeding, clotting, and prothrombin times, as well as the platelet counts, were normal, the rate of thromboplastin generation was increased in all three patients. Adding heparin to the plasma of one patient slowed the rate, and suggested that the raised rate could be due to removal or suppression of such normal circulating coagulation inhibitors. The thromboplastin generation test seems to be useful in diagnosing and managing such hypercoagulable states, and may help in further investigations of their causes.
Heparin use, both prophylactically and therapeutically, is prevalent among hospitalized patients. Patients on heparin may develop a thrombocytopenia that is self-limited. Fewer patients develop a heparin-induced thrombocytopenia that can cause severe bleeding and thrombosis owing to intravascular platelet aggregation. The authors present a case report of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in a patient who underwent aortic arch and aortic valve replacement that resulted in bilateral above-knee amputations. The patient developed limb ischemia related to heparin-associated thrombosis, but had a delay in antibody seroconversion. Early and accurate diagnosis of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia requires a high clinical suspicion and may be present despite the absence of serum antibodies.
We evaluated the effects of alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) on the products of lipid peroxidation and serum creatinine levels in a rat model of renal ischemia-reperfusion. The animals were submitted to sham operation or renal ischemia-reperfusion, and they were pretreated with alpha-tocopherol or the vehicle saline. In four groups, we analyzed the lipid peroxidation products by measuring malondialdehyde and chemiluminescence levels. In the other three groups, we studied the serum creatinine levels after the procedures. In our study, the pretreatment with alpha-tocopherol reduced significantly the lipid peroxidation of renal cells and renal dysfunction induced by renal ischemia-reperfusion in rats.
Period (Per) genes are involved in regulation of the circadian clock and are thought to modulate several brain functions. We demonstrate that Per2(Brdm1) mutant mice, which have a deletion in the PAS domain of the Per2 protein, show alterations in the glutamatergic system. Lowered expression of the glutamate transporter Eaat1 is observed in these animals, leading to reduced uptake of glutamate by astrocytes. As a consequence, glutamate levels increase in the extracellular space of Per2(Brdm1) mutant mouse brains. This is accompanied by increased alcohol intake in these animals. In humans, variations of the PER2 gene are associated with regulation of alcohol consumption. Acamprosate, a drug used to prevent craving and relapse in alcoholic patients is thought to act by dampening a hyper-glutamatergic state. This drug reduced augmented glutamate levels and normalized increased alcohol consumption in Per2(Brdm1) mutant mice. Collectively, these data establish glutamate as a link between dysfunction of the circadian clock gene Per2 and enhanced alcohol intake.
After absorption, azithromycin is concentrated intracellularly, with a correspondingly low serum concentration. A case of bacteriemia and meningitis caused by macrolide-sensitive Streptococcus pneumoniae during treatment with azithromycin is presented and discussed.
The expression of p53-target genes encoding the proapoptotic factor Noxa, but not PUMA, was not induced by p53 in HCT116 and SW480 cells, which show resistance to apoptosis in response to p53 overexpression. The lack of p53 inducibility of Noxa was restored by treatment with the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-CdR). Furthermore, p53 induced apoptosis in HCT116 and SW480 cells treated with 5-aza-CdR. Moreover, the inhibition of Noxa expression by RNAi in 5-aza-CdR-treated HCT116 cells resulted in the partial inhibition of p53-induced apoptosis. These results suggest that epigenetic cancer therapy is possible for some cancers in combination with forced p53 activation.
The hunt for an effective, easier to administer, more acceptable therapeutic modality for extensive chronic psoriasis continues. The chemotherapy of psoriasis is reviewed in 246 patients from 1964 to 1974 treated with methotrexate, 92 patients from 1971 to 1974 with hydroxyurea, and 36 patients from 1972 to 1974 with azaribine. Currently, the available chemotherapy agents are the least palatable and desirable form of treatment. Methotrexate continues to be the most predictable, effective and least expensive. The use of photochemotherapy may prove to be more effective, less toxic, and more practical until a more specific and effective etiologically directed form of therapy becomes available.
In the present study, we investigated the role of glutathione (GSH) and its related enzymes in Sprague Dawley (SD) rats subjected to microcystin-leucine-arginine (MCLR)-induced hepatotoxicity. SD rats were intraperitoneally (i.p.) injected with MCLR after pretreating with or without buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of GSH synthesis. The depletion of GSH with BSO enhanced MCLR-induced oxidative stress, resulting in more severe liver damage and higher MCLR accumulation. Similarly, the contents of malondialdehyde (MDA), total GSH (T-GSH), oxidized GSH (GSSG) and GSH were significantly enhanced in BSO pretreated rats following MCLR treatment. The study showed that the transcription of GSH-related enzymes such as glutathione-S-transferase (GST), γ-glutamylcysteine synthetase (γ-GCS), glutathione reductase (GR) varied in different ways (expect for glutathione peroxidase (GPx), whose gene expression was induced in all treated groups) with or without BSO pretreatment before MCLR exposure, suggesting an adaptative response of GSH-related enzymes at transcription level to combat enhancement of oxidative stress induced by MCLR when pretreated with BSO. These data suggested the tissues with low GSH concentration are highly vulnerable to MCLR toxicity and GSH was critical for the detoxification in MCLR-induced hepatotoxicity in vivo. © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2014.
Transdermal scopolamine may be used to reduce drooling in children with disabilities. Side-effects include dilated pupils and a reduction in the near point of accommodation (the closest point at which clear vision is possible). Two male children with epilepsy, one with spinal dysraphism (aged 7y 6mo) and one with cerebral palsy (aged 5y 8mo), who have undergone treatment for drooling with transdermal scopolamine are described. Near visual acuity was reduced, and both children showed dilated pupils with reduced or no response to light. These responses became normal on cessation of the scopolamine patch. As the effect of this drug may be cumulative, and many patients are unable to communicate difficulties, clinicians need to be aware of these possible side-effects.
It is hypothesized that a homozygous C282Y mutation of the HFE gene prohibits the assembly of the transferrin-receptor 1 (TFR1) with the divalent metal transporter (DMT1) as the main iron update complex in hepatocytes membrane. Thus, the cellular influx of transferrin-bound iron from the endosomal compartment into the cytasol is compromised. As a consequence, transferrin saturation increases while concomitantly a cytosolic iron deficiency state develops. This in turn triggers the suppression of hepcidin synthesis in hepatocytes. Its impaired release into the bloodstream, causes the increased intestinal iron absorption of hemochromatosis. Excessively absorbed iron cannot be used by the erythron as a surplus for hemoglobin synthesis and is therefore trapped in ferritin complexes of RES macrophages. The ferritin is thereafter released into the bloodstream and taken up by hepatocytes for final disposal. In the lysosomal compartment ferritin is degraded to hemosiderin. Here, the release of excessive iron molecules may induce cellular injury via free radicals. The phenotypic expression of genetic hemochromatosis may depend on the activity of the erythron to use transferrin-bound-iron for heme synthesis. Therefore, a high erythron requirement for iron can utilize excess iron and may represent the rationale of phlebotomy therapy in this disease.
Blue cohosh (Caulophyllum thalictroides) (BC) has been used widely to induce labor and to treat other uterine conditions. However, the safety and effectiveness of this herbal product has not yet been evaluated by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Several conflicting reports indicated that the root extract of BC is a teratogen and, by some unknown mechanisms, is able to induce cardiovascular malfunctions in new-born babies. To understand the mechanism, we have used Japanese medaka (Oryzias latipes) embryo-larval development as the experimental model and the methanolic extract of BC root as the teratogen. The embryo mortality, hatching efficiency, and morphological abnormalities in craniofacial and cardiovascular systems are considered for the evaluation of BC toxicity. Our results indicate that BC is able to disrupt cardiovascular and craniofacial cartilage development in medaka embryo in a dose and developmental stage-specific manner. Moreover, embryos in precirculation are to some extent more resistant to BC than ones with circulation. By using subtractive hybridization, we have observed that gata2 mRNA was differentially expressed in the circulating embryos after BC treatment. As GATA-binding sequences are required for the expression of the endothelin1 (edn1) gene and edn1 expressed in blood vessels and craniofacial cartilages, we have extended our investigations to edn1 gene expression regulation by BC. We found that edn1, furin1, and endothelin receptor A (ednrA) genes are developmentally regulated; endothelin converting enzyme mRNA (ece1) maintained a steady-state level throughout development. Circulating medaka embryos (3 days post fertilization, dpf) exposed to BC (10 microg/mL) for 48 h have increased levels of gata2, ece1, and preproenodthelin (preproedn1) mRNA contents; however, other mRNAs (furin and ednrA) remained unaltered. Therefore, the enhanced expression of gata2 mRNA followed by ece1 and preproedn1 mRNA by BC might be able to induce vasoconstriction and cardiovascular defects and disrupt craniofacial cartilages in medaka embryos. We conclude that cardiovascular and craniofacial defects in medaka embryogenesis by BC are probably mediated through a GATA2-EDN1 signaling pathway.
In the present study, we have applied an antagonist treatment to the chick embryo in ovo in order to demonstrate and dissect the essential roles of the endothelin type A (ETA) receptor in the embryonic development. We have cloned, sequenced and expressed the cDNA of the chick ETA receptor and shown that its affinity for endothelin antagonists is very similar to that shown by its mammalian counterparts. We have studied the spatio-temporal expression pattern of this receptor by in situ hybridization and shown that there is a high level of its mRNA within the mesenchyme of the branchial arches at E3-E5, in keeping with the direct effect of endothelin-1 (ET-1) on the fate of this region of the embryo. Unlike the endothelin type B (ETB) receptor mRNA, ETA mRNA is not expressed in neural crest cells during emigration from the neural tube, but is detected in neural crest-derived ectomesenchyme of the branchial arches. Finally, the functional involvement of this receptor in craniofacial and cardiovascular organogenesis was assessed by selectively inactivating the ETA receptor with specific antagonists applied during the time period corresponding to the expression of the ETA receptor and colonisation of the branchial arches. Embryos treated by these antagonists show a severe reduction and dysmorphogenesis of the hypobranchial skeleton, as well as heart and aortic arch derivative defects. This phenotype is very similar to that obtained in mice by gene inactivations of ET-1 and ETA. These results are observed with ETA antagonists but not with an ETB antagonist, and are dependent on the dose of the antagonists used and on the time of application to the embryo. Altogether, these data strongly show that the ET-1/ETA pathway, in chicken as in mammals, is a major factor involved directly and functionally in morphogenesis of the face and heart. This experimental model of pharmacological inactivation of a gene product described in this study offers a simple and rapid alternative to gene inactivation in mouse. This strategy can be applied to other ligand-receptor systems and extended to compounds of various chemical and functional natures.
In addition to capsaicin, a transient receptor potential channel vanilloid subfamily 1 (TRPV1) agonist, two kinds of antagonists against this receptor are used as therapeutic drugs for pain relief. Indeed, a number of small molecule TRPV1 antagonists are currently undergoing Phase I/II clinical trials to determine their effect on relieving chronic inflammatory pain and migraine headache pain. However, we previously reported that the absence of TRPV1 in mice results in a striking increase in skin carcinogenesis, suggesting that chronic blockade of TRPV1 might increase the risk of tumor development. In this study, we found that a typical TRPV1 antagonist, AMG9810, promotes mouse skin tumor development. The topical application of AMG9810 resulted in a significant increase in the expression level of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and its downstream Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)-signaling pathway. This increase was not only observed in AMG9810-treated tumor tissue but was also found in skin tissue treated with AMG9810. In telomerase-immortalized primary human keratinocytes, AMG9810 promoted proliferation that was mediated through the EGFR/Akt/mTOR-signaling pathway. In summary, our data suggest that the TRPV1 antagonist, AMG9810, promotes mouse skin tumorigenesis mediated through EGFR/Akt/mTOR signaling. Thus, the application of this compound for pain relief might increase the risk of skin cancer.
Conditions in which glucose metabolism is impaired due to insulin resistance are associated with memory impairment. It was hypothesized that supplemental chromium (Cr) may alleviate insulin resistance in type 2 diabetes and consequently improve memory acquisition, depending upon its source and level. In a complete randomized design experiment, male Wistar rats (n=60; weighing 200-220 g) were fed either normal (8%, normal diet (ND)) or high-fat (40%, high-fat diet (HFD)) diet and supplemented with Cr as either chromium-glycinate (CrGly) or chromium-acetate (CrAc) at doses of 0, 40, or 80 μg/kg body weight (BW) via drinking water from 8 to 20 weeks of age. Feeding HFD induced type 2 diabetes, as reflected by greater glucose/insulin ratio (2.98 vs. 2.74) comparing to feeding ND. Moreover, HFD rats had greater BW (314 vs. 279 g) and less serum (53 vs. 68 μg/L) and brain (14 vs. 24 ng/g) Cr concentrations than ND rats. High-fat diet caused a 32% reduction in expressions of glucose transporters 1 and 3 (GLUTs) in brain tissue and a 27% reduction in mean percentage time spent in the target quadrant and a 38% increase in spatial memory acquisition phase (SMAP) compared with ND. Compared with supplemental Cr as CrAc, CrGly was more effective to ameliorate response variables (i.e., restoration of tissue Cr concentration, enhancement of cerebral GLUTs expressions, and reduction of the glucose/insulin ratio and SMAP) in a dose-response manner, especially in rats fed HFD. Supplemental Cr as CrGly may have therapeutic potential to enhance insulin action and alleviate memory acquisition in a dose-dependent manner, through restoring tissue Cr reserve and enhancing cerebral GLUTs expressions.
The etiology of chest pain with normal epicardial coronary arteries (cardiac syndrome X) seems to be related to endothelial cell dysfunction. Multiple factors are implicated in the pathophysiology, including elevated levels of homocysteine in the blood. Mutations in the MTHFR gene are associated with elevated levels of homocysteine.
To test whether abnormal homocysteine metabolism is associated with syndrome X.
Forty-two women with chest pain, positive stress test and normal coronary arteries (syndrome X) and 100 asymptomatic women (controls) were studied for the C677T mutation. Vitamin B12, folic acid, and plasma levels of homocysteine were also measured. Endothelial cell function was studied in 10 patients with syndrome X and homozygosity for C677T mutation, and in 10 matched healthy controls. Folic acid (5 mg daily) was prescribed to syndrome X patients after initial measurements of ECF. Following 13 weeks of treatment, ECF and blood tests were repeated and compared to baseline measurements.
Homozygosity for C677T mutation was doubled in syndrome X vs. control (33%, 14/42 vs. 16%, 16/100, P < 0.02), and homocysteine levels were increased (9.16 +/- 2.4 vs. 8.06 +/- 2.6 pmol/L, P = 0.02). In the 10 homozygous patients, homocysteine levels decreased significantly after treatment with 5 mg/day folic acid (10 +/- 3.3 vs. 5.4 +/- 1.1 micromol/L, P = 0.004). Abnormal baseline ECF improved after treatment with folic acid: flow-mediated dilatation was greater (11.3 +/- 7.9% vs. 0.7 +/- 4.5%, P < 0.002), as was nitroglycerin-mediated dilatation (15.2 +/- 9.0% vs. 5.6 +/- 6.4%, P < 0.003). Frequency of chest pain episodes was significantly reduced after 13 weeks of folic acid treatment.
Our findings establish the association between the C677Tmutation, endothelial cell dysfunction and cardiac syndrome X, and provide a novel and simple therapy for a subset of patients with syndrome X and homozygosity for the C677T mutation.
Puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy with heavy proteinuria and oedema was induced in rats by 10 consecutive daily subcutaneous injections of aminonucleoside (1.67 mg/100 g of body weight). The main ultrastructural lesions were vacuolation of podocytes and total fusion of foot processes with loss of colloidal iron-reactive polyanion layer on the epithelial surface adjacent to the basement membrane. On the other hand the outer surface of podocytes and intravacuolar granular substance stained with colloidal iron. In scanning electron microscopy of freeze-fractured tissue the swollen podocytes and the urinary spaces displayed granular and filamentous precipitates. Seven cell surface antigens were examined by indirect enzyme immunohistochemistry with a series of MRC OX monoclonal antibodies. Glomeruli of control rats exhibited rare isolated Ia- positive endocapillary cells, possibly monocytes; these elements were significantly reduced in puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy but there was an increase in Ia- positive cells in the cortical interstitium. Control kidneys harboured scanty interstitial T lymphocytes. These latter, especially the T8- positive cytotoxic/suppressor subpopulation, were markedly augmented in puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy. The expression of class I histocompatibility antigens and of differentiation antigens (Thy 1) was not altered by aminonucleoside.
Conceiving the organization of the brain as a "neuromatrix" could provide significant insights into how different injuries to the nervous system could result in very distinct changes in behavior. The use of different pharmacological treatments to combat the deleterious consequences of such injuries is common practice. However, such treatments may have the capacity to alter the configurations of various neuronal circuits that contribute to the "neuromatrix" by selectively preventing damage to some pathways while facilitating the spread of destruction along others. The choice of pharmacological treatment may have profound consequences on the recovery of normal functioning following injury. We examined the behavior of rats treated with one of two potentially neuroprotective agents, the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist ketamine and the atypical neuroleptic acepromazine, on seizures induced by lithium-pilocarpine. Rats treated with ketamine following seizure onset were virtually indistinguishable from nonepileptic controls on a variety of behavioral tasks that included tests on learning, memory, and anxiety. In contrast, acepromazine-treated rats showed marked deficits on all learning and behavioral measures tested. These results suggest that administration of ketamine relatively soon after the emergence of epilepsy can prevent many of the cognitive deficits that are commonly found in rats subjected to lithium-pilocarpine-induced seizures. Further clinical testing investigating ketamine as a potential adjunct treatment for epilepsy may be well warranted.
In susceptible animals evidence is accumulating for a primary role for Th2 cells in the course of HgCl2-induced autoimmunity, and for a contribution of Th1 cells in the self-regulated phase of this disease. We have reported that incubation of 2B4.11 T cell hybridoma with HgCl2 induced programmed cell death. This paper shows that recombinant IL-2 significantly diminished HgCl2-induced 2B4.11 cell death. Although no effect was observed upon incubation with exogenous IL-4, we observed a significant protection by adding an anti-IL-4 monoclonal antibody to the culture. Accordingly, by RT-PCR we found the presence of IL-2 receptor-encoding mRNA, and by cytofluorometry, the expression of the protein was detected only after exposure to HgCl2. Moreover, upon HgCl2 treatment, 2B4.11 cells were induced to produce IL-4. Altogether these findings showed that cytokine environment, IL-2, IL-4 otherwise defining the Th1/Th2 dichotomy, in conjunction with a chemical may differentially influence the fate of cell populations, death or survival.
An extensive overview of the relationship between cochlear toxicity and amikacin blood concentrations in the guinea pig is provided which should assist in the clinical application of this class of antibiotic. A data set previously used to relate the incidence of amikacin ototoxicity to dosing rates and blood concentrations was re-examined to assess the toxicodynamics of amikacin in terms of decibels of hearing loss across dosing rate, hearing frequency and time following drug exposure. Animals in this data set had received continuously i.v. infused amikacin over an 8-fold range of dosing rates. Preliminary analysis indicated that the data were consistent with a sigmoid relationship between hearing loss (decibels) and area under the amikacin plasma concentration vs time curve cumulated over the entire course of drug administration (cAUC). The sigmoid model was therefore used as the backbone of a far more comprehensive toxicodynamic model which described all the data with a single equation. Testing with this model showed that the cAUC required to produce half-maximum hearing loss (cAUC-1/2) was related to dosing rate (P < 0.01), to hearing frequency (P < 0.00001), and to post-drug interval (P < 0.00001). Maximum hearing loss (difference between upper and lower sigmoid asymptotes) was less than total and was significantly related to frequency (P < 0.00001). No effects could be detected on the sigmoid slope. Further modelling of the significant effects detected by the comprehensive toxicodynamic model was done to determine if they could be described by simple relationships or by biologically relevant sub-models. Modelling of maximum hearing loss (postulated to represent loss of mainly outer hair cell function) indicated that this parameter was constant at about 61 decibels for 2-12 kHz and linearly decreased with log frequency for frequencies > 12 kHz. Modelling of cAUC-1/2 on frequency indicated that there was a strong inverse linear relationship to log frequency. Modelling of cAUC-1/2 on post-drug interval indicated that delayed ototoxicity continued at progressively slower rates for at least 56 days after drug administration had ceased. Modelling of cAUC-1/2 on dosing rate showed an increased requirement for drug as the dosing rate decreased. However, cAUC-1/2 changed no more than 20% across the range of dosing rates compared to the 8-fold difference in mean steady-state plasma concentrations, suggesting that plasma concentration is not a primary determinant of ototoxicity. A toxicokinetic model was developed which explained the dosing rate effect on cAUC-1/2 very successfully.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Umbilical cord matrix stem (UCMS) cells that were engineered to express interferon-beta (IFN-beta) were transplanted weekly for three weeks into MDA 231 breast cancer xenografts bearing SCID mice in combination with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The UCMS cells were found within lung tumors but not in other tissues. Although both treatments significantly reduced MDA 231 tumor area in the SCID mouse lungs, the combined treatment resulted in a greater reduction in tumor area than by either treatment used alone. These results indicate that a combination treatment of UCMS-IFN-beta cells and 5-FU is a potentially effective therapeutic procedure for breast cancer.
