Six-month chronic subcutaneous toxicity study of cefodizime sodium (THR-221) in rats was carried out with dose levels of 3000, 1000, 300 and 100 mg/kg/day. The systemic change observed was slightly decreased spontaneous activity, which appeared only in a very few animals. At the injection site of the animals at 1000 and 3000 mg/kg/day, various cutaneous changes (subcutaneous retention of fluid, incrustation, loss of hair and perforation) were observed. The body weight gains of the males at 1000 and 3000 mg/kg/day were depressed from 1 month of administration onward, but the food consumption was not affected in any group. The water intakes at 1000 and 3000 mg/kg/day were increased. Hematological findings were signs of anemia, a slight decrease in red blood cell count or increases in platelet and/or reticulocyte counts in all THR-221 groups. At 3000 mg/kg/day, increases in white blood cell and neutrophil counts and a decrease in lymphocyte count were also observed. Plasma chemistry revealed decreases in total protein amount and, albumin (A) or globulin (G) amounts, and a decrease or increase in A/G ratio in all compound groups. Autopsy revealed dilation of the cecum and hematoma, dark red spots and yellowish brown spots in the subcutaneous tissue at the injection site in all THR-221 groups. Hypertrophy of the spleen was also noted at 300-3000 mg/kg/day. Changes in organ weights were a decrease in liver weight in all compound groups and an increase in spleen weight at 3000 mg/kg/day. Microscopically, the following were observed: brown granules or hyaline droplets in the epithelium of renal tubules; hemorrhage and inflammatory changes in the subcutaneous tissue at the injection site; and an increased number of lymphocytes or granulocytes in the spleen and bone marrow. Urinalysis and ocular and auditory tests showed no changes related to THR-221. From the present results, the toxicologically non-effective doses of THR-221 are considered to be 300 mg/kg/day for male rats and more than 1000 mg/kg/day for female rats.
Thermal enhancement of Adriamycin-mediated antitumor activity and normal tissue toxicities by whole body hyperthermia were compared using a F344 rat model. Antitumor activity was studied using a tumor growth delay assay. Acute normal tissue toxicities (i.e., leukopenia and thrombocytopenia) and late normal tissue toxicities (i.e., myocardial and kidney injury) were evaluated by functional/physiological assays and by morphological techniques. Whole body hyperthermia (120 min at 41.5 degrees C) enhanced both Adriamycin-mediated antitumor activity and toxic side effects. The thermal enhancement ratio calculated for antitumor activity was 1.6. Thermal enhancement ratios estimated for "acute" hematological changes were 1.3, whereas those estimated for "late" damage (based on morphological cardiac and renal lesions) varied between 2.4 and 4.3. Thus, while whole body hyperthermia enhances Adriamycin-mediated antitumor effect, normal tissue toxicity is also increased, and the potential therapeutic gain of the combined modality treatment is eroded.
To report a case of erlotinib-induced hepatitis complicated by fatal lactic acidosis in an elderly patient with lung adenocarcinoma and diabetes mellitus.
A 77-year-old man with stage IIIB lung adenocarcinoma was treated with erlotinib 100 mg/day, an epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor, after failure of chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The patient also had type 2 diabetes mellitus; metformin therapy had been initiated 5 years before presentation. Twelve days after the start of erlotinib therapy, he developed drug-related acute hepatitis complicated by renal deterioration (aspartate aminotransferase 1400 U/L, alanine aminotransferase 1299 U/L, creatinine 4.4 mg/dL, urea nitrogen 55 mg/dL). Viral causes of hepatitis were excluded and a recent computed tomography scan had ruled out liver metastases. According to the Roussel-Uclaf causality assessment method, the erlotinib-related hepatitis was classified as probable. The patient's condition was soon complicated by the onset of lactic acidosis, which caused death 2 hours after admission.
In this patient, lactic acidosis was promoted by erlotinib-related hepatitis with initial liver failure (decreased lactate clearance), concomitant metformin treatment (increased lactate production), and acute renal deterioration (metformin accumulation). This is the second case of fatal erlotinib-induced liver toxicity in a patient with lung cancer. In the previous case, death occurred after about 11 days and was entirely due to fulminant hepatitis, whereas in our patient, the liver injury only initiated a drug-disease interaction that caused fatal lactic acidosis within a few hours.
Liver function should be carefully monitored during erlotinib treatment, particularly in elderly and frail patients on multiple medications. Further studies are therefore needed for better testing the safety of erlotinib in such people, commonly encountered in the real world, but often excluded from participation in randomized trials of cancer treatment.
It is well known that the addition of spermine or spermidine to culture medium containing ruminant serum inhibits cellular proliferation. This effect is caused by the products of oxidation of polyamines that are generated by serum amine oxidase. Among the products, we found that acrolein is a major toxic compound produced from spermine and spermidine by amine oxidase. We then analysed the level of polyamines (putrescine, spermidine and spermine) and amine oxidase activity in plasma of patients with chronic renal failure. It was found that the levels of putrescine and the amine oxidase activity were increased, whereas spermidine and spermine were decreased in plasma of patients with chronic renal failure. The levels of free and protein-conjugated acrolein were also increased in plasma of patients with chronic renal failure. An increase in putrescine, amine oxidase and acrolein in plasma was observed in all cases such as diabetic nephropathy, chronic glomerulonephritis and nephrosclerosis. These results suggest that acrolein is produced during the early stage of nephritis through kidney damage and also during uraemia through accumulation of polyamines in blood due to the decrease in their excretion into urine.
To determine the prevalence of proteinuira and enzymuria among a cohort of subjects exposed to hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD) in their homes and to determine whether there was a change in observed effects when exposure ceased.
Residents underwent a health check, which included a panel of urinary markers of both glomerular and tubular origin, within two months of cessation of long term exposure to HCBD and again at least 10 months after exposure ceased. Analysis of the results was performed to determine if there was any early evidence of renal effects, and to ascertain whether changes in these parameters occurred after exposure to HCBD ceased.
Tubular proteinuria and enzymuria were increased in the initial health check and significantly decreased after the residents had left their homes for about 10 months. As the early renal tubular markers improved when exposure ceased it is anticipated that the long term nephrotoxic risk will be minimal, but the carcinogenic risk remains unknown.
Results show there was a renal effect which improved when subjects left their homes. This suggests there was a local environmental factor responsible for the observations. This is consistent with the predicted toxicological effects of HCBD from animal studies.
Benzene is known to have toxic effects on the blood and bone marrow, but its impact at levels below the U.S. occupational standard of 1 part per million (ppm) remains uncertain. In a study of 250 workers exposed to benzene, white blood cell and platelet counts were significantly lower than in 140 controls, even for exposure below 1 ppm in air. Progenitor cell colony formation significantly declined with increasing benzene exposure and was more sensitive to the effects of benzene than was the number of mature blood cells. Two genetic variants in key metabolizing enzymes, myeloperoxidase and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase, influenced susceptibility to benzene hematotoxicity. Thus, hematotoxicity from exposure to benzene occurred at air levels of 1 ppm or less and may be particularly evident among genetically susceptible subpopulations.
Treatment-emergent obsessive-compulsive symptoms (OCSs) have raised concern since the widespread introduction of serotonin-dopamine antagonists (SDAs) for the treatment of schizophrenia. Further investigations of SDA-emergent OCSs and their response to anti-obsessional agents will be beneficial for clinicians in helping patients who suffer from this problem. We present three cases of schizophrenia in which distressing OCSs occurred during clozapine or risperidone treatment. OCSs were assessed consecutively using the Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale. The OCSs of these three patients were responsive to anti-obsessional agents, including fluvoxamine, clomipramine, and paroxetine. We also review the current literature and discuss the possible pathophysiology and psychopathology of SDA-emergent OCSs.
Prazosin is a quinazoline derivative, which lowers blood pressure by selective alpha-1-receptor antagonism. It has been found that, for similar decreases in blood pressure, prazosin causes less reflex tachycardia than non-selective alpha blockers or direct vasodilators, and that it is as efficacious as other conventional antihypertensive agents (alpha-methyldopa, hydralazine, beta blockers, etc.) in controlling severe hypertension. Prazosin causes a dose-related decrease in blood pressure in humans; twice-daily dosing is sufficient for 24-hour blood pressure control. Prazosin in combination with other drugs has also been shown to control blood pressure effectively, and it has been associated with relatively few side effects. Other agents with selective alpha-1-receptor-blocking activity are under investigation: these include doxazosin, trimazosin, terazosin, and alfuzosin.
Glomerulopathy and nephrotic syndrome were induced in rats by intravenous puromycin aminonucleoside. Ten days after the injection of puromycin, the animals have developed heavy proteinuria. During this phase, glomerular epithelial cell endocytosis was studied by injecting a conjugate of horseradish peroxidase and poly-L-lysine. This conjugate has been shown to be endocytosed by glomerular epithelial cells. The rats were serially sacrificed from 1 min to 24 h after this injection. Peroxidase was localised cytochemically and observed at light and electron microscopy. The early events of endocytosis in glomerulopathy (namely the binding to the plasma membrane, the membrane invagination and the formation of the early vesicles) were qualitatively similar to those in the normal. The later events (the fusion of the vesicles and their movement within the cells) were inhibited. The results show that puromycin aminonucleoside damages epithelial cell endocytotic activity and affects the later processing of the conjugate within the cells.
To determine whether liver function tests and clinical and demographic information would predict methotrexate-associated hepatotoxicity, we identified 78 patients who had undergone 147 liver biopsies associated with methotrexate therapy for psoriasis. The joint sensitivity of aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin values in detecting abnormal results from a biopsy specimen obtained after treatment was .86; the predictive value of negative test results was .93. A logistic regression model significantly predicted the presence of abnormal (grade III or higher) liver biopsy specimen results. The concordance index was .92 (perfect, 1.0). Regression coefficients may be used along with information from a specific patient to calculate the predicted probability of an abnormal result from a liver biopsy specimen after treatment. We conclude that this multivariate risk estimation model significantly predicts the likelihood of positive findings from liver biopsy specimens in this patient population. The clinical use of this model awaits further validation.
1. Two separate placebo-controlled studies of parallel design were carried out to evaluate the efficacy of single doses (400 mg) of soluble ibuprofen, ibuprofen liquid in a gelatin capsule and ibuprofen tablets (Nurofen), in patients with postoperative pain after third molar surgery. 2. All ibuprofen preparations provided significant pain relief (P less than 0.05) over a 6 h investigation period. 3. Mean pain scores after ibuprofen tablets and ibuprofen liquid in a gelatin capsule were similar. 4. Soluble ibuprofen 400 mg provided an earlier onset of pain relief (20 min) than ibuprofen tablets (30 min). 5. No unwanted effects were reported in the various ibuprofen treatment groups. 6. The ibuprofen preparations evaluated in this study are effective up to 4 h for controlling postoperative pain after third molar surgery. The soluble form is more efficacious with regard to onset of action.
In experimental nephrotic syndrome, urinary sodium excretion is decreased during the early phase of the disease. The molecular mechanism(s) leading to salt retention has not been completely elucidated. The rate-limiting constituent of collecting duct sodium transport is the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). We examined the abundance of ENaC subunit mRNAs and proteins in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrotic syndrome. The time courses of urinary sodium excretion, plasma aldosterone concentration and proteinuria were studied in male Sprague-Dawley rats treated with a single dose of either PAN or vehicle. The relative amounts of alphaENaC, betaENaC and gammaENaC mRNAs were determined in kidneys from these rats by real-time quantitative TaqMan PCR, and the amounts of proteins by Western blot. The kinetics of urinary sodium excretion and the appearance of proteinuria were comparable with those reported previously. Sodium retention occurred on days 2, 3 and 6 after PAN injection. A significant up-regulation of alphaENaC and betaENaC mRNA abundance on days 1 and 2 preceded sodium retention on days 2 and 3. Conversely, down-regulation of alphaENaC, betaENaC and gammaENaC mRNA expression on day 3 occurred in the presence of high aldosterone concentrations, and was followed by a return of sodium excretion to control values. The amounts of alphaENaC, betaENaC and gammaENaC proteins were not increased during PAN-induced sodium retention. In conclusion, ENaC mRNA expression, especially alphaENaC, is increased in the very early phase of the experimental model of PAN-induced nephrotic syndrome in rats, but appears to escape from the regulation by aldosterone after day 3.
Nrf2 is a key transcriptional regulator of a battery of genes that facilitate phase II/III drug metabolism and defence against oxidative stress. Nrf2 is largely regulated by Keap1, which directs Nrf2 for proteasomal degradation. The Nrf2/Keap1 system is dysregulated in lung, head and neck, and breast cancers and this affects cellular proliferation and response to therapy. Here, we have investigated the integrity of the Nrf2/Keap1 system in pancreatic cancer.
Keap1, Nrf2 and the Nrf2 target genes AKR1c1 and GCLC were detected in a panel of five pancreatic cancer cell lines. Mutation analysis of NRF2 exon 2 and KEAP1 exons 2-6 in these cell lines identified no mutations in NRF2 and only synonomous mutations in KEAP1. RNAi depletion of Nrf2 caused a decrease in the proliferation of Suit-2, MiaPaca-2 and FAMPAC cells and enhanced sensitivity to gemcitabine (Suit-2), 5-flurouracil (FAMPAC), cisplatin (Suit-2 and FAMPAC) and gamma radiation (Suit-2). The expression of Nrf2 and Keap1 was also analysed in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (n = 66 and 57, respectively) and matching normal benign epithelium (n = 21 cases). Whilst no significant correlation was seen between the expression levels of Keap1 and Nrf2 in the tumors, interestingly, Nrf2 staining was significantly greater in the cytoplasm of tumors compared to benign ducts (P < 0.001).
Expression of Nrf2 is up-regulated in pancreatic cancer cell lines and ductal adenocarcinomas. This may reflect a greater intrinsic capacity of these cells to respond to stress signals and resist chemotherapeutic interventions. Nrf2 also appears to support proliferation in certain pancreatic adenocarinomas. Therefore, strategies to pharmacologically manipulate the levels and/or activity of Nrf2 may have the potential to reduce pancreatic tumor growth, and increase sensitivity to therapeutics.
The aim of the study was to test whether there are typical changes in haemodynamics and humoral regulation in untreated hypertensives compared to normotensives with acute lowering of blood pressure (and venous return) induced by nitroglycerin (NTG). 23 hypertensives were investigated by radiocardiography and microcatheterization of the pulmonary artery as well as by means of humoral analyses in comparison to 10 normotensives. After performing the studies at rest and during exercise, 0.8 mg NTG was given and the investigations were repeated. There were only insignificant differences in cardiac output and left ventricular filling pressure (PAEDP) at rest and during exercise between both groups. The pressure reductions due to NTG were also similar. Plasma renin activity and plasma kallikrein did not differ in hypertensives and normotensives either at rest and during exercise or after NTG. The prostaglandins (PgE, PgF2-alpha, PgI) were extremely variable. In hypertensives, only PgI was decreased, with increase after NTG, at rest. Thus, PgI is the only humoral indicator participating in blood pressure lowering induced by NTG.
To identify novel therapeutic opportunities for patients with prostate cancer, we applied high-throughput screening to systematically explore most currently marketed drugs and drug-like molecules for their efficacy against a panel of prostate cancer cells.
We carried out a high-throughput cell-based screening with proliferation as a primary end-point using a library of 4,910 drug-like small molecule compounds in four prostate cancer (VCaP, LNCaP, DU 145, and PC-3) and two nonmalignant prostate epithelial cell lines (RWPE-1 and EP156T). The EC(50) values were determined for each cell type to identify cancer selective compounds. The in vivo effect of disulfiram (DSF) was studied in VCaP cell xenografts, and gene microarray and combinatorial studies with copper or zinc were done in vitro for mechanistic exploration.
Most of the effective compounds, including antineoplastic agents, were nonselective and found to inhibit both cancer and control cells in equal amounts. In contrast, histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A, thiram, DSF, and monensin were identified as selective antineoplastic agents that inhibited VCaP and LNCaP cell proliferation at nanomolar concentrations. DSF reduced tumor growth in vivo, induced metallothionein expression, and reduced DNA replication by downregulating MCM mRNA expression. The effect of DSF was potentiated by copper in vitro.
We identified three novel cancer-selective growth inhibitory compounds for human prostate cancer cells among marketed drugs. We then validated DSF as a potential prostate cancer therapeutic agent. These kinds of pharmacologically well-known molecules can be readily translated to in vivo preclinical studies and clinical trials.
We investigated the pathogenic role of nitric oxide (NO) in indomethacin-induced intestinal ulceration in rats. Nonfasting animals responded to a single administration of indomethacin (10 mg/kg, s.c.), resulting in multiple hemorrhagic lesions in the small intestine, mostly the jejunum and ileum. The damage was first observed 6 hr after indomethacin, the severity increasing progressively with time up to 24 hr later, accompanied with the gene expression of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) and the increase of nitrite and nitrate (NOx) contents in the mucosa. The ocurrence of damage was significantly prevented when iNOS induction was inhibited by dexamethasone given either once 0.5 hr before or twice 0.5 hr before and 6 hr after indomethacin. Likewise, aminoguanidine (a relatively selective iNOS inhibitor) reduced the severity of damage, irrespective whether given twice or as a single injection 6 hr after indomethacin. By contrast, the non-selective NOS inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) exhibited a biphasic effect, depending on the time of administration; the pre-administration worsened the damage, while the later administration reduced the severity of these lesions, yet both responses occureed in a L-arginine-sensitive manner. Pre-administration of L-NAME, but not aminoguanidine, significantly decreased NOx production in the intestinal mucosa of normal rats, while the increase of NOx production following indomethacin was significantly suppressed by the later administration of aminoguanidine as well as L-NAME. These results suggest that NO exerts a dual action in the pathogenesis of indomethacin-induced intestinal ulceration; NO generated by cNOS is protective against indomethacin, by maintaining the integrity of intestinal mucosa, while NO derived by iNOS plays a key pathogenic role in the ulcerogenic process.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) have been identified as susceptibility genes for Crohn's disease (CD) in some, but not all, studies. Here we examined the association between candidate disease-susceptibility polymorphisms in the TLR2, TLR4 and TLR9 genes and CD in a New Zealand Caucasian population.
The frequency of gene polymorphisms was examined in 182 CD patients and in 188 ethnically matched controls by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) analysis.
We could not detect any significant difference in the allele frequencies of polymorphisms in the TLR2 (R753Q, 0.029 vs 0.016, P = 0.25), TLR4 (D299G and T399I, 0.085 vs 0.071, P = 0.49; and 0.085 vs 0.082, P = 0.90), and TLR9 (-1237T/C, 0.154 vs 0.148, P = 0.82) genes between controls and patients, respectively. There was no evidence that the variant TLR alleles were associated with disease phenotype. However, combination of the datasets of published studies with our dataset confirmed that the TLR4 polymorphism 299G (P = 0.0005; OR of 1.42 [95% CI 1.17-1.74]) and the TLR9 polymorphism -1237C (P = 0.0416; OR of 1.33 [95% CI 1.01-1.75]) are associated with CD.
There was no evidence that the above variants of the TLR2, TLR4 and TLR9 genes are major risk factors for CD or influence disease phenotype in our New Zealand case-control study. Nevertheless, the significance of the TLR4 299G and TLR9-1237C associations with CD worldwide was confirmed by a meta-analysis test using our datasets and datasets from previously published studies.
The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the incidence of allergic reactions to drugs compared to other kinds of medical emergencies admitted to the main Hospital in Milan during a 6 months period. At the same time we drew a list of drugs most frequently involved in allergic reactions, and a list of the most frequent symptoms. Using special forms, the medical staff collected patients' data: age, history of atopy, identification of the drug causing the reaction, and any previous reactions. Among 11,407 cases of medical emergencies, we found 163 (1.43%) patients showing drug reactions: the mean age was 27.3; 58.90% were female; atopy was present in 16.56%. The drugs most frequently involved were: pyrazon group (22%); ASA (20.86%); penicillin and derivatives (9.20%); sulfa drugs (6.14%); group B vitamins (4.30%); tetanus toxoid (4.30%); hyposensitizing extracts (3.68%); propionic acid derivatives (2.46%); paracetamol (1.84%); indomethacin (1.23%); rifampicin (1.23%); erythromycin (1.23%); glafenine (1.23%); others (17.80%). Urticaria and/or angioedema were the most frequent symptoms (86.51%), then anaphylactic shock (9.81%) and asthma (3.68%) with regard to anaphylactic shock only 6.20% of the patients had had a previous reaction to the same drug. From these data we can see that the incidence of drug reactions is very low compared to other medical emergencies; penicillin evidenced fewer reactions than expected, while the pyrazon group and ASA confirmed the data from literature.
The use of new antipsychotic drugs is associated with an increased risk of diabetes and metabolic syndrome, and the routine monitoring of blood lipids during treatment has been recommended. Recently, a new formula for the estimation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol from total cholesterol and triglycerides has been proposed by Anandaraja et al. (Int J Cardiol 2005; 102: 117), and the aim of our study was its evaluation in schizophrenic patients treated with antipsychotic drugs.
In 487 serum samples from schizophrenic patients treated with clozapine in polytherapy, the concentrations of LDL cholesterol were determined by agar gel electrophoresis and the formula of Friedewald et al. (Clin Chem 1972; 18: 499), and compared with the results of the Anandaraja's formula.
A higher correlation and lower error of the estimate of the electrophoresis results was found with those of Friedewald (r=0.940, ma68=0.17 mmol/L) than those of Anandaraja (r=0.811, ma68=0.31 mmol/L). Similar results were obtained on making a dichotomy of the patients with and without metabolic syndrome lipid profile. A highly significant correlation was found between the high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels and the Anandaraja/Electrophoresis (r=0.817, p<0.001) and Anandaraja/Friedewald (r=0.977, p<0.001) ratios.
According to our data, Anandaraja's formula tends towards an overestimation or underestimation of LDL cholesterol levels, depending on whether the HDL cholesterol levels are high or low, which may be clinically significant. These results do not support the proposed better accuracy of the Anandaraja's than the Friedewald's formula.
The chronic use of prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors is reported in a pregnant patient with severe juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Aspirin and indomethacin, along with corticosteroids, were required to prevent significant progression of the disease. Pregnancy was complicated by oligohydramnios and intrauterine growth retardation. The infant suffered transient anuria. The effects of prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors on renal vascular function is reviewed, and a possible association between the chronic ingestion of these drugs and compromised renal function in the newborn is pointed out.
Elevated urinary albumin excretion is a common feature of essential hypertension which may be reduced by ACE-inhibition through independent reductions of both systemic and intraglomerular pressure. A concurrent inhibition of bradykinin breakdown may be involved.
A double-blind, randomized, 12 weeks study of the effects on enalapril 20 mg (n = 46) vs losartan 50 mg daily (n = 47) on blood pressure, albuminuria, fasting blood glucose, and lipids in 57 male and 36 female patients with essential hypertension.
Blood pressure was similarly reduced during both treatments: enalapril 156/102 (15/5) (mean [SD] to 142/92 [14/7]) mmHg, losartan: 159/103 (17/6) to 149/94 (21/9) mmHg, both P < 0.001. Urinary albumin to creatinine ratio was significantly reduced during losartan (from 1.14(x/divided by 2.48) (geometric mean (x/divided by antilog SD) to 0.81 (x/divided by 2.43) mg/mmol, P < 0.01), as well as during enalapril (from 0.95 (x/divided by 2.45) to 0.73 (x/divided by 2.00) mg/mmol, both P < 0.05). The effect on albuminuria was especially evident in patients with microalbuminuria. Fasting blood glucose, total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides were unchanged during losartan, whereas minor reductions were found in all lipids during enalapril. No difference was observed between the groups.
Enalapril 20 mg and losartan 50 mg daily reduce blood pressure equally in essential hypertensive patients. No adverse effects were seen on glucose and lipid concentrations. Losartan treatment reduces albuminuria at least as effectively as enalapril, suggesting that glomerular leakage of albumin is profoundly affected by the effects angiotensin II.
The industrial solvent trichloroethylene (TCE) is a widespread environmental contaminant known to impact the immune system. In the present study, female MRL+/+ mice were treated for 40 weeks with trichloroacetaldehyde hydrate (TCAH), a metabolite of TCE, in the drinking water. The results were compared with the data from an earlier study in which MRL+/+ mice were exposed to TCAH for 4 weeks. Following a 40-week exposure, the mice developed skin inflammation and dose-dependent alopecia. In addition, TCAH appeared to modulate the CD4(+) T-cell subset by promoting the expression of an activated/effector (i.e., CD62L(lo)) phenotype with an increased capacity to secrete the proinflammatory cytokine interferon-gamma. However, unlike what was observed after only 4 weeks of exposure, TCAH did not significantly attenuate activation-induced cell death (AICD) or the expression of the death receptor FasL in CD4(+) T cells. Some metalloproteinases (MMPs) are thought to play a role in susceptibility to AICD by inducing FasL shedding. Thus, both the 4- and 40-week sera were tested for MMP-7 levels in an attempt to explain the disparate results of TCAH on AICD and FasL expression. Serum MMP-7 levels were significantly higher in mice exposed to TCAH for 4 weeks. In contrast, the serum MMP-7 levels were increased in all the mice by 40 weeks when compared with a nonautoimmune strain. Taken together, a chronic exposure to TCAH promotes alopecia and skin inflammation. The early effects of TCAH on MMP-7 levels may provide a mechanism by which TCAH promotes skin pathology.
Ototoxic side effects of aminoglycosides or cisplatin are strongly influenced by the nutritional state of the experimental animal. We previously demonstrated that guinea pigs fed a low-protein diet are a sensitive model to investigate chronic ototoxic effects of drugs. We now demonstrate that this model is equally sensitive to acute ototoxic insults.
Guinea pigs were fed either a full-protein (18.5% protein) or a low-protein (7% protein) diet. Gentamicin sulfate was given as a single injection (100 mg/kg of body weight subcutaneously), followed 90 minutes later by varying concentrations of ethacrynic acid intravenously. Auditory function was assessed by auditory brain-stem response and morphologic characteristics in surface preparations of the organ of Corti.
In animals fed a full-protein diet, 35 mg of ethacrynic acid per kilogram of body weight was required for a significant threshold shift at all frequencies tested (3, 8, and 18 kHz). In animals fed a low-protein diet, 15 mg of ethacrynic acid per kilogram significantly elevated threshold at all frequencies, and 20 mg/kg caused a profound threshold shift (> 90 dB). Hair cell loss in the organ of Corti paralleled the pathophysiological findings.
A metabolically challenged animal may better represent the situation of a severely ill patient undergoing drug therapy. Therefore, studies in diet-restricted animals may be more appropriated than studies in healthy animals for an assessment of potential adverse therapeutic side effects.
Oxymorphone is a potent opioid analgesic. Oral administration of oxymorphone to rats at doses >or= 20 mg/kg and mice at 500 mg/kg produced an increase in micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes (MPCEs). Oxymorphone does not produce chromosome aberrations in vitro, suggesting that the increased MPCEs in vivo may involve indirect mechanisms. Opioids are known to affect thermoregulatory mechanisms. Changes in body temperature can increase the incidence of MPCEs in rodents. Studies were conducted to examine the relationship between increased MPCEs in rats given oxymorphone and changes in body temperature. Single oral doses of oxymorphone associated with increased MPCEs (20 and 40 mg/kg) also produced a marked, rapid increase in body temperature. When animals were pretreated with sodium salicylate, peak body temperature was lower and returned to baseline more quickly than when oxymorphone was given alone. MPCEs were evaluated in rats after administration of oxymorphone (40 mg/kg) alone or following pretreatment with an oral dose of sodium salicylate. Oxymorphone alone produced a statistically significant increase in the incidence of MPCEs (3.6 per 1000 polychromatic erythrocytes vs. 0.4 in controls). The number of MPCEs in animals pretreated with sodium salicylate was similar to controls. Sodium salicylate alone had no effect on the number of MPCEs. Systemic oxymorphone exposure was not affected by sodium salicylate pretreatment; maximum plasma concentration (C(max)) and area-under-the-curve values were similar after administration of oxymorphone alone or following pretreatment with sodium salicylate. These results indicate that the increased incidence of MPCEs following oxymorphone administration is directly related to increased body temperature.
Arsenic is a human pulmonary carcinogen. Our work indicates that in utero arsenic exposure in mice can induce or initiate lung cancer in female offspring. To define early molecular changes, pregnant C3H mice were given 85 ppm arsenic in drinking water from days 8 to 18 of gestation and expression of selected genes in the fetal lung or in lung tumors developing in adults was examined. Transplacental arsenic exposure increased estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-alpha) transcript and protein levels in the female fetal lung. An overexpression of various estrogen-regulated genes also occurred, including trefoil factor-3, anterior gradient-2, and the steroid metabolism genes 17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 5 and aromatase. The insulin growth factor system, which can be influenced by ER and has been implicated in the pulmonary oncogenic process, was activated in fetal lung after gestational arsenic exposure. In utero arsenic exposure also induced overexpression of alpha-fetoprotein, epidermal growth factor receptor, L-myc, and metallothionein-1 in fetal lung, all of which are associated with lung cancer. Lung adenoma and adenocarcinoma from adult female mice exposed to arsenic in utero showed widespread, intense nuclear ER-alpha expression. In contrast, normal adult lung and diethylnitrosamine-induced lung adenocarcinoma showed little evidence of ER-alpha expression. Thus, transplacental arsenic exposure at a carcinogenic dose produced aberrant estrogen-linked pulmonary gene expression. ER-alpha activation was specifically associated with arsenic-induced lung adenocarcinoma and adenoma but not with nitrosamine-induced lung tumors. These data provide evidence that arsenic-induced aberrant ER signaling could disrupt early life stage genetic programing in the lung leading eventually to lung tumor formation much later in adulthood.
A case of prolonged apnea after administration of succinylcholine in a patient homozygous for the dibucain variant cholinesterase (genotype E1aE1a) has been presented. Knowledge of the patient's medical history, preoperative laboratory tests, and the length of apnea enabled the surgical team to eliminate liver disease, carcinoma, and malnutrition from the differential diagnosis. This, in addition to the patient's failure to respond to an anticholinesterase agent, led to the belief that the patient had an atypical cholinesterase response to succinylcholine and not one secondary to a decreased production of cholinesterase enzyme from an impaired liver or prolonged paralysis for the nondepolarizing agent, pancuronium. Treatment consisted of maintaining adequate pulmonary ventilation nitrous oxide sedation to diminish anxiety until the patient regained spontaneous respiration. Anticholinesterase agents were used after the patient had progressed to a phase II depolarization block. After a cholinesterase assay of the family's serum, all members having the atypical allele were instructed to obtain medical alert identification.
