The alpha1-adrenergic receptors (alpha1-ARs) play a key role in cardiovascular homeostasis. However, the functional role of alpha1-AR subtypes in vivo is still unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate the cardiovascular influences of alpha1b-AR.
In transgenic mice lacking alpha1-AR (KO) and their wild-type controls (WT), we evaluated blood pressure profile and cardiovascular remodeling induced by the chronic administration (18 days via osmotic pumps) of norepinephrine, angiotensin II, and subpressor doses of phenylephrine. Our results indicate that norepinephrine induced an increase in blood pressure levels only in WT mice. In contrast, the hypertensive state induced by angiotensin II was comparable between WT and KO mice. Phenylephrine did not modify blood pressure levels in either WT or KO mice. The cardiac hypertrophy and eutrophic vascular remodeling evoked by norepinephrine was observed only in WT mice, and this effect was independent of the hypertensive state because it was similar to that observed during subpressor phenylephrine infusion. Finally, the cardiac hypertrophy induced by thoracic aortic constriction was comparable between WT and KO mice.
Our data demonstrate that the lack of alpha1b-AR protects from the chronic increase of arterial blood pressure induced by norepinephrine and concomitantly prevents cardiovascular remodeling evoked by adrenergic activation independently of blood pressure levels.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) was shown as active but less toxic compared to doxorubicin in advanced breast cancer. Given its low cardiotoxicity, the combination of PLD and trastuzumab appears most attractive in the treatment of human epidermal factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer.
We investigated the activity of 8 courses of PLD in combination with cisplatin and infusional 5-fluorouracil (CCF) plus 3-week trastuzumab in patients with primary or recurrent cT2-T4 a-d, N0-3, M0 any estrogen receptor (ER), HER2-positive breast cancer. Patients with ER and/or progesterone receptor (PgR) ≥ 10% tumors received also letrozole (plus triptorelin if premenopausal). The principal endpoint was clinical response rate; secondary endpoints were the pathologic complete response rate (pCR) and the cardiac safety of the combination.
Thirty-two patients were enrolled in the study and all are evaluable for response and toxicity. Fifteen patients (47%) had ER-positive tumors, 15 patients and 2 patients had ER absent and ER poor tumors, respectively. Thirteen patients (41%) had inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) and 84% of patients had clinically positive nodes. A clinical response rate of 94% (95% CI, 79%-99%) and a pCR rate of 41% (95% CI, 24%-59%) were observed. Fifty-four percent of patients with IBC obtained a pCR. Eleven patients discontinued treatment before completing 8 courses as planned. No patient developed relevant cardiac toxicity.
In this series of very locally advanced breast cancer, the combination of CCF and trastuzumab was very active obtaining an impressive rate of pCR, particularly in IBC, which merits further investigation in larger series.
To report a case of thalidomide-induced sinus bradycardia in an elderly man.
A 72-year-old white man, with transfusion-dependent refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts and hypertension treated with atenolol, was started on thalidomide 100 mg at bedtime. During the dose titration period (maximum dose 400 mg/d), his heart rate decreased from a baseline of 63 beats/min to as low as 44 beats/min with positive electrocardiogram findings of sinus bradycardia. After discontinuation of atenolol, the patient's heart rate increased to 68 beats/min, but symptoms of bradycardia persisted. Due to the patient's continued dizziness and lightheadedness, thalidomide was discontinued. In the 3 months following discontinuation of thalidomide, the patient's heart rate increased to an average of 74 beats/min.
Clinical trials and postmarketing surveillance suggest that the incidence of thalidomide-induced bradycardia is low. The mechanism of this effect is unknown. Concurrent medications affecting the heart rate may also increase the risk of thalidomide-induced bradycardia. Following titration of thalidomide to a maximum dose of 400 mg/d, our patient's heart rate decreased markedly, resulting in intermittent symptoms of lightheadedness and dizziness. He may have been at higher risk of thalidomide-induced bradycardia because of concurrent administration of atenolol. An objective causality assessment revealed that the adverse event was probable.
Despite the low incidence of thalidomide-induced bradycardia, it appears to be an important adverse effect, particularly in patients with comorbidities or concurrent medications that decrease heart rate. Therefore, providers should monitor these patients closely for signs and symptoms of bradycardia during the administration of thalidomide.
We describe a case of benign intracranial hypertension (BIH) whose onset coincided with treatment of danazol for menorrhagia. No other causative factors were identified. Headache and visual symptoms occurring in patients treated with danazol therefore require careful assessment, so that visual failure from advanced BIH can be avoided by appropriate treatment.
In 2 patients without clinically significant ischemic heart diseases, oral quinidine was used to control supraventricular arrhythmias. In both patients, syncopal attacks occurred, caused by a particular type of ventricular tachyarrhythmia called torsades de pointes. Quinidine plasma concentrations were low (2.6 and 1.2 mg/1, respectively); QRS duration was normal, but the Q-T interval was markedly prolonged.
Aromatase is an enzyme that converts androgen to estrogen in the gonads and also at extragonadal sites, including the brain. In this study we developed a transgenic mouse that carries an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene inducible by estrogen through an estrogen response element to facilitate detection of estrogen actions in vivo. The expression of EGFP in aromatase-deficient (Ar(-/-)) female mice was significantly suppressed at the pituitary gland, ovary, uterus, and gonadal fat pad and was induced by dietary 17beta-estradiol to wild-type (Ar(+/+)) levels or higher. These results demonstrate that the expression of the EGFP gene is tissue selective and estrogen dependent in vivo. Employing this transgenic mouse, we examined whether estrogen synthesis in the extragonadal sites is necessary for reproduction in female mice. When ovaries of Ar(-/-) mice were replaced with Ar(+/+) ovaries, a significant induction of EGFP expression in the pituitary gland and uterus was observed. Histological examinations showed the presence of antral follicles in the replaced ovaries, indicating that the transplants are functional in Ar(-/-) mice. After crossing with males, three of 10 Ar(-/-)females with Ar(+/+) ovaries became pregnant and fed their pups. Collectively, these observations indicate that estrogen synthesis in the ovary is sufficient for supporting female reproduction, and that infertility of Ar(-/-) females is primarily due to a defect in estrogen synthesis in the ovary.
Valproic acid (VPA) is an anticonvulsant drug that is widely used therapeutically for a variety of neurological conditions. VPA is also well known for its teratogenic potential in both humans and experimental animal models. The typical malformations observed following VPA exposure include neural tube defects (NTDs) and craniofacial and skeletal malformations. Nevertheless, the mechanisms underlying VPA's anticonvulsant efficacy or its teratogenicity remain to be elucidated. It was recently suggested that a relationship exists between VPA exposure and the cellular depletion of myo-inositol (INO). Furthermore, INO has been shown to rescue NTDs in the curly tail mouse. The aim of this study was to investigate the interactions of VPA and INO in the developing embryo.
For this purpose, 2 strains of mice were used: SWV/Fnn (known to be sensitive to VPA) and LM/Bc (known to be resistant to VPA-induced NTDs). Pregnant females were randomly assigned to 4 experimental groups: control, VPA (600 mg/kg), INO (400 mg/kg), and VPA plus INO. VPA was injected IP at 8.5 days postcoitum (dpc). INO was administered PO twice a day from 6.5 to 10.5 dpc. At term the dams were killed, the uteri were removed, and all of the general toxicological parameters (number of implants, resorptions, dam weight, and fetus weight) were recorded and statistically analyzed.
Postimplantation loss in the SWV/Fnn strain and NTDs in the LM/Bc strain were significantly increased after the coadministration of VPA and INO.
This work clearly indicates that INO enhances VPA-induced teratogenicity in the mouse.
We investigated the role of household exposure to pesticides in the etiology of childhood hematopoietic malignancies.
The national registry-based case-control study ESCALE (Etude sur les cancers de l'enfant) was carried out in France over the period 2003-2004. Population controls were frequency matched with the cases on age and sex. Maternal household use of pesticides during pregnancy and paternal use during pregnancy or childhood were reported by the mothers in a structured telephone questionnaire. Insecticides (used at home, on pets, or for garden crops), herbicides, and fungicides were distinguished. We estimated odds ratios (ORs) using unconditional regression models closely adjusting for age, sex, degree of urbanization, and type of housing (flat or house).
We included a total of 764 cases of acute leukemia (AL), 130 of Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), 166 of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), and 1,681 controls. Insecticide use during pregnancy was significantly associated with childhood AL [OR = 2.1; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.7-2.5], both lymphoblastic and myeloblastic, NHL (OR = 1.8; 95% CI, 1.3-2.6), mainly for Burkitt lymphoma (OR = 2.7; 95% CI, 1.6-4.5), and mixed-cell HL (OR = 4.1; 95% CI, 1.4-11.8), but not nodular sclerosis HL (OR = 1.1; 95% CI, 0.6-1.9). Paternal household use of pesticides was also related to AL (OR = 1.5; 95% CI, 1.2-1.8) and NHL (OR = 1.7; 95% CI, 1.2-2.6); but for AL the relationships did not remain after adjustment for maternal pesticide use during pregnancy.
The study findings strengthen the hypothesis that domestic use of pesticides may play a role in the etiology of childhood hematopoietic malignancies. The consistency of the findings with those of previous studies on AL raises the question of the advisability of preventing pesticide use by pregnant women.
A 25-year-old male anesthesiologist was found dead in his room with an intravenous drip line connected with his leg. There were several empty ampules of pancuronium, midazolam and buprenorphine around him. Pancuronium and midazolam in the blood and urine samples collected at postmortem examination were detected by spectrofluorometry and ECD-gas chromatography, respectively. The concentrations of pancuronium and midazolam were 0.3 micrograms/g and 0.12 micrograms/g in the blood, respectively; 0.9 micrograms/g and 0.05 micrograms/g in the urine, respectively. The cause of death was determined to be asphyxia due to respiratory muscle paralysis caused by pancuronium.
In the present study the effects of perinatal diazepam (DZP) exposure on behavior and benzodiazepine binding site characteristics in offspring were investigated. Pregnant F344 rats were treated during the last trimester of gestation with vehicle or diazepam (3 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, or 10 mg/kg). Lactating dams were similarly treated on postnatal days 1-7. Both prenatal and postnatal exposure to diazepam resulted in significant effects on the acquisition and extinction of active avoidance behavior measured postweaning. The number of trials to extinction of one-way active avoidance behavior was significantly greater in offspring exposed gestationally to 3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg diazepam and postnatally to 10 mg/kg diazepam. The mean response latencies for all diazepam treated groups were significantly shorter than those of the vehicle treated rats during the first 15 trials under extinction conditions. In contrast, neither gestational nor postnatal diazepam exposure significantly affected either acquisition or retention of a passive avoidance task. In addition, the binding affinity between the benzodiazepine type I selective ligand, CL218,872, and cortical membranes, as well as the degree to which GABA potentiated 3H-flunitrazepam were significantly altered by perinatal diazepam exposure. No treatment altered the approximate number of benzodiazepine binding sites in either the cortex, hippocampus, or cerebellum. The results of this study further support diazepam as a behavioral teratogen and give new evidence for neurochemical effects following gestational as well as postnatal diazepam exposure.
This study investigated the efficacy and tolerability of FEC 100 (epirubicin 100 mg/m2 with 5-fluorouracil 500 mg/m2 and cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2) every 21 days as neoadjuvant chemotherapy in women with stage I-III primary operable breast cancer. Forty patients were treated with 6 cycles of FEC 100, followed by surgery and radiation therapy. In addition, most patients also received an adjuvant treatment for residual disease (11 chemotherapies and 31 tamoxifen). After 6 cycles of FEC 100, the overall clinical response rate of 75% (CI 95%, 61.6-88.4) was achieved, 22.5% of which were complete responses. Breast conservation was achieved in 70% of patients. A pathologic complete response was confirmed in 6 patients (15%; CI 95%, 3.9-26.1) using Chevallier's classification and in 10 patients (25%; CI 95%, 11.6-38.4) using Sataloff's classification. After a median follow-up of 29.5 months, 3 metastatic relapses were observed. The principal toxicity of FEC 100 was myelosuppression; 51.3% of patients developed grade 3/4 neutropenia. Neoadjuvant FEC 100 was both effective and well tolerated in patients with early-stage operable breast cancer.
The use of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and levamisole in patients with Stage III adenocarcinoma of the colon has now become standard. There have been several reports of a multifocal cerebral demyelination syndrome following 5-FU and levamisole administration.
We describe a patient who developed focal neurologic symptoms while being treated with levamisole and 5-FU in whom the diagnosis of central nervous system (CNS) metastases was considered.
A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan showed a diffuse, multifocal white matter process. Diagnostic evaluation did not support a diagnosis of CNS metastasis. 201Thallium chloride single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) study was cold. A stereotactic brain biopsy disclosed demyelination but not tumor. The patient had complete functional resolution of symptoms with 1 month of dexamethasone therapy, although follow-up MRI scans have shown persistent abnormality on T2-weighted images.
In patients receiving 5-FU and levamisole who develop focal neurologic symptoms with an abnormal MRI scan, the diagnosis of CNS metastasis should not be made without a thorough diagnostic evaluation. We suggest the use of 201thallium chloride SPECT imaging to support the diagnosis of multifocal leukoencephalopathy related to 5-FU and levamisole. In atypical cases, a stereotactic brain biopsy may be required for confirmation.
Cocaine use is associated with injecting and sexual HIV risk behaviors. This study was a randomized controlled trial of behavioral interventions for cocaine dependence and HIV risk behaviors among dually (cocaine and heroin) dependent outpatients. Methadone maintenance was augmented with cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), contingency management (CM), both (CBT+CM), or neither. The study sample (n=81) was 52% female, 70% African American, and 37.9+/-7.0 years old. Proportions reporting HIV risk behaviors at intake were: 96.3% (78/81) injection drug use, 56.8% (46/81) sharing needles, 30.9% (25/81) unprotected sex, 28.4% (23/81) trading sex for money or drugs. Proportions who no longer reported behaviors at study exit were: 51.3% (40/78) injection drug use, 91.3% (42/46) sharing needles, 88% (22/25) unprotected sex, 91.3% (21/23) trading sex for money or drugs. Participants receiving CBT+CM were more likely to report cessation of unprotected sex relative to control (OR=5.44, 95% CI 1.14-26.0, p=0.034) but this effect was no longer significant after adjusting for drug-negative urines. These results suggest broad beneficial effects of methadone maintenance augmented with behavioral interventions for reducing HIV risk behaviors.
The seasonal characteristics of the efficacy of vitamin E and sodium selenite in tetracycline affections of the liver were studied on 128 noninbred male albino rats. It was shown that in comparison to vitamin E sodium selenite more actively retarded activation of lipid peroxidation in the liver and activation of alanine aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase in the blood serum in autumn and winter. A more pronounced inhibition of the increased levels of the dienic conjugates and alanine aminotransferase was observed in spring and summer and malonic dialdehyde and aspartate aminotransferase in summer by tocopherol acetate as compared to sodium selenite. The level of the thiol-disulfide equilibrium on the separate use of the drugs in spring and summer was higher than the control one. However, it did not reach the control level in autumn and winter. The combined use of sodium selenite and vitamin E prevented the toxic effect of tetracycline on the liver in autumn, spring and summer. Still, in the winter no such prevention was observed. The mechanisms of the seasonal differences in the tetracycline effect on the liver and the efficacy of the antioxidants in such affections are discussed.
In the present report 15 day-old rats were injected with 0.3μmol of diphenyl ditelluride (PhTe)(2)/kg body weight and parameters of neurodegeneration were analyzed in slices from cerebellum 3 and 6 days afterwards. The earlier responses, at day 3 after injection, included hyperphosphorylation of intermediate filament (IF) proteins from astrocyte (glial fibrillary acidic protein - GFAP - and vimentin) and neuron (low-, medium- and high molecular weight neurofilament subunits: NF-L, NF-M and NF-H); increased mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) (Erk and p38MAPK) and cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) activities. Also, reactive astrogliosis takes part of the early responses to the insult with (PhTe)(2), evidenced by upregulated GFAP in Western blot, PCR and immunofluorescence analysis. Six days after (PhTe)(2) injection we found persistent astrogliosis, increased propidium iodide (PI) positive cells in NeuN positive population evidenced by flow cytometry and reduced immunofluorescence for NeuN, suggesting that the in vivo exposure to (PhTe)(2) progressed to neuronal death. Moreover, activated caspase 3 suggested apoptotic neuronal death. Neurodegeneration was related with decreased [(3)H]glutamate uptake and decreased Akt immunoreactivity, however phospho-GSK-3-β (Ser9) was not altered in (PhTe)(2) injected rat. Therefore, the present results show that the earlier cerebellar responses to (PhTe)(2) include disruption of cytoskeletal homeostasis that could be related with MAPK and PKA activation and reactive astrogliosis. Akt inhibition observed at this time could also play a role in the neuronal death evidenced afterwards. The later events of the neurodegenerative process are characterized by persistent astrogliosis and activation of apoptotic neuronal death through caspase 3 mediated mechanisms, which could be related with glutamate excitotoxicity. The progression of these responses are therefore likely to be critical for the outcome of the neurodegeneration provoked by (PhTe)(2) in rat cerebellum.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a B-cell malignancy characterized by the accumulation of malignant plasma cells with slow proliferative rate but enhanced survival. MM cells express multiple Bcl-2 family members, including Bcl-2, Bcl-XL, and Mcl-1, which are thought to play a key role in the survival and drug resistance of myeloma. The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor flavopiridol has antitumor activity against hematopoietic malignancies, including CLL, in which induction of apoptosis was associated with reduced expression of antiapoptotic proteins. Therefore, we sought to characterize the effect of flavopiridol on the proliferation and survival of myeloma cells and to define its mechanisms of action. Treatment of MM cell lines (8226, ANBL-6, ARP1, and OPM-2) with clinically achievable concentrations of flavopiridol resulted in rapid induction of apoptotic cell death that correlated temporally with the decline in Mcl-1 protein and mRNA levels. Levels of other antiapoptotic proteins did not change. Overexpression of Mcl-1 protected MM cells from flavopiridol-induced apoptosis. Additional analysis demonstrated that flavopiridol treatment resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of phosphorylation of the RNA polymerase II COOH-terminal domain, thus blocking transcription elongation. These data indicate that Mcl-1 is an important target for flavopiridol-induced apoptosis of MM that occurs through inhibition of Mcl-1 mRNA transcription coupled with rapid protein degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway.
In recent years, new conditioning regimens have been explored in patients not eligible for conventional transplant with the aim to reduce transplant-related mortality. In a phase II multicentric prospective trial, we investigated the safety and feasibility of the treosulfan-fludarabine combination prior to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant in patients with various hematological malignancies not eligible for conventional regimens because of previous intensive treatment, older age, and comorbidities. Forty-six consecutive patients, median age 48 years (range 17-69), were enrolled. Sixteen of them were in complete remission, and 20 had a HSCT comorbidity index > or = 1. Forty-four patients had regular and sustained engraftment, and 39 out of 40 evaluable patients developed complete chimerism. Nonhematological toxicity was limited. Risk of transplant-related mortality was 9% (95% CI, 2-17%) at day +100 and plotted at 15% (95% CI, 7-22%) after 7 months. The estimated overall survival and progression-free survival with a median follow-up of 20 months were 51% and 38%, respectively. The estimated 30 months progression-free survival for patients transplanted in remission was 56%. The treosulfan-fludarabine combination is a reduced-toxicity but myeloablative regimen that can be proposed to patients not fitting criteria for conventional transplant regimens. Longer follow-up and further prospective studies are necessary to evaluate this regimen.
Elderly people are more likely to be affected by hyponatremia related to the use of specific inhibitors of serotonin recaptation. Doctors who treat old patients should be aware of this adverse effect which can be serious but is reversible. The observation of a new case of SIADH induced by fluoxetine in a 65 years-old patient is the opportunity to point out the main aspects of this pathological entity which must be suspected in case with hyponatraemia, blood hypoosmolality and high urinary osmolarity.
Hepatocyte proliferation was analyzed in vivo during the time course of continuous administration to rats of the liver tumor promoter ethinyl estradiol (EE) at 10 p.p.m. in the diet. EE-induced acute liver hyperplasia was detected in male and female Sprague-Dawley rats as an increased mitotic index of hepatocytes after 2 days of treatment. 5'-Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling showed that proliferating hepatocytes were randomly distributed throughout the hepatic lobule. Subsequently, and still during the first few days of continuous EE treatment, hepatocyte proliferation decreased to control levels, and a transient increase in the incidence of apoptosis in the liver was detected. Although consistent with the concept of liver growth regression after mitogen-induced hyperplasia, these results differ from others reported to date in that, in our experiments, the cessation of cell proliferation and the subsequent growth regression occurred without withdrawal of EE in our experiments. After returning to control levels, hepatocellular proliferation again increased between 3 and 6 months of chronic treatment and remained activated during the following months of continuous treatment, as seen by accumulative BrdU labeling. Proliferating hepatocytes were predominantly located in zone 2 of the hepatic lobule at this time, surrounding a periportal zone of vacuolated hepatocytes, which were also induced by the treatment. Moreover, hyperplasia of basophilic hepatocytes was also seen around some portal spaces. In another set of experiments, chronic EE-induced activation was characterized by flow cytometry on hepatocytes isolated from male Fischer rats. Ploidy analysis of hepatocyte cell suspensions showed that the normal polyploid pattern of hepatocytes was altered by EE, the proportion of diploid hepatocytes rising considerably. The results also showed that these diploid cells were the most susceptible hepatocyte population to EE-induced proliferation, as shown by a combination of BrdU labeling and cell sorting methods. In contrast to Sprague-Dawley rats, no vacuolated cells were found histologically in the livers of these animals and the proliferating hepatocytes were located adjacent to the portal areas. These results taken together support the existence of cell target populations in the liver responding to the effects of tumor promoters. The finding that a subpopulation of diploid hepatocytes was the liver cell class most susceptible to proliferation during chronic EE treatment may explain, at least in part, the behavior of EE as a tumor promoter in hepatocarcinogenesis.
In previous work acute toxic effects of amphotericin B (AB) were reduced in both in vitro and in vivo tests when AB was associated with a triglyceride-rich emulsion (AB-emulsion). The present paper compares the severity of the histopathological alterations as determined by morphometry produced in the target tissues (kidneys, liver, and lungs) by AB-emulsion with those produced by the conventional formulation AB-deoxycholate (DOC) following subacute AB treatment. No morphological alterations were seen in the spleen and heart following both AB-DOC and AB-emulsion treatment. Although the alterations in the liver, kidneys and lungs are basically the same for both formulations, the intensity of the changes varies considerably. AB-emulsion always caused statistically decreased severity of morphologic alterations, compared to AB-DOC by stereological measurements, for the three treatment regimes of AB-administration. These three treatment regimens consisted of 1 mg AB/kg of body weight every 48 hours for 20 days, 2 mg AB/kg of body weight every 48 hours for 12 days, and 2 mg AB/kg of body weight for 4 consecutive days. Thus, these regimens consisted of total doses varying from 8-12 mg/kg of body weight. Specifically, these morphological changes included proximal and distal tubular edema, inflammation and tubular cell degeneration in the kidney and a moderate inflammation of the portal region in the liver. Vacuolization of hepatocytes only occurred for AB-DOC treatment. In addition, acute interstitial inflammation was observed in the lungs prior to interstitial and alveolar edema. The intensity of the histopathological damage increase with the dose and with the reduction in the time interval between AB administrations. Abnormal serum biochemical parameters were observed for serum urea which was higher for both treated AB-groups, as compared to control, and for iron which was lower for the AB-DOC group. In conclusion, the decreased severity of the morphological alterations in the kidneys, liver, and lungs following subacute treatment with AB-emulsion, as compared to AB-DOC formulation, confirms our previous results consisting of acute toxic effects induced by in vitro and in vivo tests with AB-emulsion treatment.
Changes in vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9, and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) mRNA expression profiles and oxidative stress in the eye tissue microenviroment may have important roles in ocular neovascularization and permeability in proliferative diabetic retinopathy. The present study investigated the effects of resveratrol (RSV) treatment on the mRNA expression profile of VEGF, ACE, MMP-9, and eNOS, which are associated with vascular neovascularization, and glutathione, protein carbonyl, and nitrite-nitrate levels, which are markers of oxidative stress in eyes of diabetic rats. Twenty-four Wistar albino male rats were divided into four groups. After diabetes induction with streptozotocin (10 mg/kg/day) RSV was administered to the RSV and diabetes mellitus (DM) + RSV groups for 4 weeks. The mRNA levels were measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction assay, and biochemical estimations were determined with spectrophotometric assays in eye homogenates. The mRNA expression levels of VEGF, ACE, and MMP-9 were increased in the DM group compared with the control group, and RSV treatment decreased their mRNA levels. Expression of eNOS mRNA was increased in the RSV and DM groups and decreased in the DM + RSV group. Nitrite-nitrate levels and protein carbonyl content were increased and glutathione levels were decreased in the DM group compared with controls. Consequently, these data suggest that RSV suppressed the expression of eNOS, which is actively involved in the inflammation and healing process in chronic diabetes. Although oxidative stress was increased in eye tissue from diabetic rats, mRNA levels of VEGF, MMP-9, and ACE genes associated with vascular remodeling did not change in diabetic eyes.
Vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF) is one of the key regulators of tumor development, hence it is considered to be an important therapeutic target for cancer treatment. However, clinical trials have suggested that anti-VEGF monotherapy was less effective than standard chemotherapy. On the basis of the evidence, we hypothesized that vegf mRNA may have unrecognized function(s) in cancer cells.
Knockdown of VEGF with vegf-targeting small-interfering (si) RNAs increased susceptibility of human colon cancer cell line (HCT116) to apoptosis caused with 5-fluorouracil, etoposide, or doxorubicin. Recombinant human VEGF165 did not completely inhibit this apoptosis. Conversely, overexpression of VEGF165 increased resistance to anti-cancer drug-induced apoptosis, while an anti-VEGF165-neutralizing antibody did not completely block the resistance. We prepared plasmids encoding full-length vegf mRNA with mutation of signal sequence, vegf mRNAs lacking untranslated regions (UTRs), or mutated 5'UTRs. Using these plasmids, we revealed that the 5'UTR of vegf mRNA possessed anti-apoptotic activity. The 5'UTR-mediated activity was not affected by a protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide. We established HCT116 clones stably expressing either the vegf 5'UTR or the mutated 5'UTR. The clones expressing the 5'UTR, but not the mutated one, showed increased anchorage-independent growth in vitro and formed progressive tumors when implanted in athymic nude mice. Microarray and quantitative real-time PCR analyses indicated that the vegf 5'UTR-expressing tumors had up-regulated anti-apoptotic genes, multidrug-resistant genes, and growth-promoting genes, while pro-apoptotic genes were down-regulated. Notably, expression of signal transducers and activators of transcription 1 (STAT1) was markedly repressed in the 5'UTR-expressing tumors, resulting in down-regulation of a STAT1-responsive cluster of genes (43 genes). As a result, the tumors did not respond to interferon (IFN)alpha therapy at all. We showed that stable silencing of endogenous vegf mRNA in HCT116 cells enhanced both STAT1 expression and IFNalpha responses.
These findings suggest that cancer cells have a survival system that is regulated by vegf mRNA and imply that both vegf mRNA and its protein may synergistically promote the malignancy of tumor cells. Therefore, combination of anti-vegf transcript strategies, such as siRNA-based gene silencing, with anti-VEGF antibody treatment may improve anti-cancer therapies that target VEGF.
An adolescent girl was seen with acute heart failure 6 days after the onset of a viral illness and otitis media treated with cefaclor. An endomyocardial biopsy specimen revealed active myocarditis with an eosinophilic infiltrate typical of hypersensitivity myocarditis. The patient showed dramatic improvement within 48 hours after withdrawal of the drug and administration of corticosteroids and immunoglobulin.
Recent studies have shown a role for inflammation in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy (DN). Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-6 are cytokines with a prevalent pro-inflammatory activity. Our objective was to study the renal gene expression of TNF-alpha, IL-1 and IL-6 in DN and their relationship with renal damage assessed by urinary albumin excretion (UAE). In addition, we also investigated the effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition and pentoxifylline (PTF) administration on these parameters.
After streptozotocin-induced diabetes, rats received either no treatment or therapy with enalapril (EN) or PTF for 8 weeks. Renal expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines was evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Urinary cytokine excretion and albuminuria were also evaluated.
Renal cortical mRNA expression for TNF-alpha, IL-1 and IL-6 in untreated diabetic rats was 2.4-, 1.2- and 3.4-fold higher than in non-diabetic rats. Kidney weight and UAE were significantly associated with renal mRNA expression of TNF-alpha and IL-6. Both EN and PTF administration virtually abrogated the overexpression of TNF-alpha, IL-1 and IL-6, which was associated with a reduction in kidney weight and urinary albumin excretion.
The renal expression of the main pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-1 and IL-6 is increased in DN, which is significantly associated with UAE. EN and PTF administration prevented this enhanced expression, leading to a decrease in urinary cytokine excretion and a reduction in albuminuria. These findings provide novel insight into the pathogenic mechanisms of DN, supporting the hypothesis that inflammatory mechanisms play a role in the renal injury secondary to diabetes mellitus.
