Rebound insomnia has been reported upon discontinuation of benzodiazepines. We describe the first case of a sleep polygraphically documented rebound insomnia with an unusual somatic fatigue syndrome after long-term use of clozapine in a 30-year-old schizophrenic male. The withdrawal symptoms occurred the first day after drug discontinuation and could be stopped by readministering clozapine. In our opinion, the sudden occurrence of the withdrawal symptoms cannot be explained by a dopaminergic hypersensitivity or a cholinergic rebound, but indicates an involvement of GABAergic and perhaps antiglutamatergic properties of clozapine.
The aims of this study were to characterize the spatial distribution of neurodegeneration after status epilepticus (SE) induced by either systemic (S) or intrahippocampal (H) injection of pilocarpine (PILO), two models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), using FluoroJade (FJ) histochemistry, and to evaluate the kinetics of FJ staining in the H-PILO model. Therefore, we measured the severity of behavioral seizures during both types of SE and also evaluated the FJ staining pattern at 12, 24, and 168 h (7days) after the H-PILO insult. We found that the amount of FJ-positive (FJ+) area was greater in SE induced by S-PILO as compared to SE induced by H-PILO. After SE induced by H-PILO, we found more FJ+ cells in the hilus of the dentate gyrus (DG) at 12 h, in CA3 at 24 h, and in CA1 at 168 h. We found also no correlation between seizure severity and the number of FJ+ cells in the hippocampus. Co-localization studies of FJ+ cells with either neuronal-specific nuclear protein (NeuN) or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) labeling 24 h after H-PILO demonstrated spatially selective neurodegeneration. Double labeling with FJ and parvalbumin (PV) showed both FJ+/PV+ and FJ+/PV- cells in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, among other areas. The current data indicate that FJ+ areas are differentially distributed in the two TLE models and that these areas are greater in the S-PILO than in the H-PILO model. There is also a selective kinetics of FJ+ cells in the hippocampus after SE induced by H-PILO, with no association with the severity of seizures, probably as a consequence of the extra-hippocampal damage. These data point to SE induced by H-PILO as a low-mortality model of TLE, with regional spatial and temporal patterns of FJ staining.
Daptomycin, a novel lipopeptide, is bactericidal against a broad range of gram-positive strains, including methicillin- (MRSA) and vancomycin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Daptomycin is approved at 4 mg/kg of body weight given intravenously once daily for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections and at 6 mg/kg for the treatment of S. aureus bloodstream infections (bacteremia), including right-sided endocarditis caused by methicillin-susceptible S. aureus and MRSA. The present study was designed to evaluate the multiple-dose pharmacokinetics and safety of daptomycin at doses of 6 to 12 mg/kg in healthy volunteers. Three cohorts of 12 subjects each were given daptomycin (10 mg/kg) or placebo once daily for 14 days, daptomycin (12 mg/kg) or placebo once daily for 14 days, or daptomycin (6 or 8 mg/kg) once daily for 4 days. Daptomycin produced dose-proportional increases in the area under the plasma concentration-time curve and in trough daptomycin levels and nearly dose-proportional increases in peak daptomycin concentrations. Other pharmacokinetic parameters measured on day 1 and at steady state were independent of the dose, including the half-life (approximately 8 h), weight-normalized plasma clearance (9 to 10 ml/h/kg), and volume of distribution (approximately 100 ml/kg). Plasma protein binding was 90% to 93% and was independent of the daptomycin concentration. Daptomycin did not produce electrocardiographic abnormalities or electrophysiological evidence of muscle or nerve toxicity. Daptomycin was well tolerated in subjects dosed with up to 12 mg/kg intravenously for 14 days. Doses of daptomycin higher than 6 mg/kg once daily may be considered in further studies to evaluate the safety and efficacy of daptomycin in difficult-to-treat infections.
Orlistat, an intestinal lipase inhibitor, has recently been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for treatment of obesity. The effects of orlistat on hepatobiliary function have not been previously defined. A 4 wk study was performed involving modest weight loss in obese subjects to observe any short-term hepatobiliary responses that occur after initiating treatment with orlistat and a hypocaloric diet.
A total of 23 obese (BMI 30-41 kg/m2) subjects were randomized to a double blind t.i.d. treatment with 120 mg of orlistat or a placebo in conjunction with a hypocaloric diet (1200-1500 kcal/day). The study was designed to achieve similar modest weight loss in both groups in order to be able to directly assess the effects of orlistat. Cholesterol saturation, bile composition, and gallbladder motility were measured.
At the end of the treatment period, mean weight loss of 3.8 kg was achieved in the orlistat group (vs 2.3 kg with placebo, p = NS). Total bile acid concentration decreased significantly with placebo (-18.57 +/- 6.99 mmol/L; 95% CI = -32.26 to -4.87), but not with orlistat. Biliary phospholipid concentration decreased significantly with placebo (-4.38 +/- 1.91 mmol/L; 95% CI = -8.13 to -0.64) but not with orlistat. Mean changes from the baseline in cholesterol saturation index and gallbladder motility were similar in both groups. Microscopy of bile failed to reveal cholesterol microcrystals before or after treatment in either group.
Our findings indicate a primary initial effect of weight loss is a reduction in biliary bile acids and phospholipids. Orlistat blocks these adverse changes in biliary lipid composition and maintains hepatobiliary function. We speculate that the risk of formation of gallstones during weight loss may actually be lowered with orlistat.
We have studied the effectiveness of various electron-affinic and other modifying agents on the in vivo response of the KHT sarcoma to various cytotoxic agents. Misonidazole (MISO) showed good enhancement with CCNU, methyl-CCNU, BCNU and chlorambucil (CHL), a small enhancement with cyclophosphamide (CYC), but none with melphalan or HN2. With CYC a further small enhancement was obtained with a multiple-dose pretreatment, but host toxicity was also increased. Lipophilicity was more important than electron-affinity for CCNU enhancement. Several lipophilic analogues (e.g. benznidazole and Ro 07-1902) gave enhancements superior to MISO, whereas hydrophilic analogues were inferior. Similar results were obtained with CHL. Enhancement of CCNU response was seen with the nitrofuran, nitrofurantoin, and the quinone, anthraquinone sulphonate. The non-electron affinic compound imidazole gave enhancement with CHI, but not with CCNU. The inhibitor of drug-metabolizing enzymes SKF 525A gave excellent enhancement with both CHL and CCNU.
Patients with acute liver failure accumulate toxic substances in the circulation which may impair recovery of hepatic function. The aim of this study was to test an in vitro assay to detect inhibitory substances in the serum of patients with acute liver failure. Human liver-derived HepG2 cells were incubated for 24h in 96 well plates (30,000 cells/well) with sera (10%) from 24 patients with acute liver failure due to paracetamol overdose or NANB hepatitis and 11 normal controls. DNA synthesis was determined from the incorporation of 3H-thymidine and cell viability by the metabolism of the tetrazolium dye MTS. HepG2 cells exposed to acute liver failure sera incorporated significantly less 3H-thymidine (median 30% of control, range 0.2-169%) than normal sera (100%, 76-133%, p=0.002). Cell viability was also reduced (75%, 33-112% vs 100%, 96-105%, p<0.001). There was no correlation between these values and patient outcome or levels of plasma TNF-alpha or serum interferon-gamma. The assay detected inhibitory substances in sera of patients with acute liver failure and could be used to monitor the use of liver support systems.
Mutations affecting ciliary components cause ciliopathies. As described here, we investigated Tectonic1 (Tctn1), a regulator of mouse Hedgehog signaling, and found that it is essential for ciliogenesis in some, but not all, tissues. Cell types that do not require Tctn1 for ciliogenesis require it to localize select membrane-associated proteins to the cilium, including Arl13b, AC3, Smoothened and Pkd2. Tctn1 forms a complex with multiple ciliopathy proteins associated with Meckel and Joubert syndromes, including Mks1, Tmem216, Tmem67, Cep290, B9d1, Tctn2 and Cc2d2a. Components of this complex co-localize at the transition zone, a region between the basal body and ciliary axoneme. Like Tctn1, loss of Tctn2, Tmem67 or Cc2d2a causes tissue-specific defects in ciliogenesis and ciliary membrane composition. Consistent with a shared function for complex components, we identified a mutation in TCTN1 that causes Joubert syndrome. Thus, a transition zone complex of Meckel and Joubert syndrome proteins regulates ciliary assembly and trafficking, suggesting that transition zone dysfunction is the cause of these ciliopathies.
We describe a child who presented with hallucinations in whom urine dipstick testing was positive for amphetamines. As a result the child protection team were involved. Subsequently, the urinalysis done by gas chromatography showed no amphetamines but a large quantity of ephedrine. The child had been given cough mixture which contains ephedrine. A cross-reaction had occurred between ephedrine and amphetamine when using the urinary dipsticks. This case highlighted the importance of clinicians being aware of the diagnostic accuracy and pitfalls of the investigations requested. In particular, this is critical when the results of such tests have such far reaching medicolegal and social consequences.
Behavioral and cardiorespiratory responses to a lethal dose of morphine were evaluated in rats pretreated with saline or naloxazone, an antagonist of high-affinity mu 1 opioid receptors. Pretreatment with naloxazone significantly blocked morphine analgesia, catalepsy and hypothermia at a dose which completely eliminated high-affinity binding in brain membranes. Moreover, naloxazone significantly attenuated the morphine-induced hypotension and respiratory depression, whereas morphine-induced bradycardia was less affected. Results indicate that subpopulations of mu receptors may mediate selective behavioral and cardiorespiratory responses to morphine.
Digoxin intoxication is a serious medical problem, and impairment of renal function is a common risk factor for toxicity. Digoxin specific antibody fragments (Fab) is the most effective treatment available for severe digitalis intoxication. The use of Fab therapy in a patient with renal disease is considered as effective as in patients with normal renal function, although the increased risk of rebound digoxin toxicity mandates a longer period of observation. In patients with kidney failure, neither digoxin nor Fab can be removed efficiently from the systemic circulation by hemodialysis or continuous arteriovenous hemofiltration. Knowledge about the clearance of both compounds by peritoneal dialysis is limited. The authors describe a patient with end stage renal disease who was treated with Fab and peritoneal dialysis for life threatening digoxin intoxication. Like other forms of dialysis, peritoneal dialysis, even when performed in an intensive schedule, is not associated with an enhanced clearance of digoxin.
The high consumption of fructose leads to the increasing incidence of insulin resistance by several unknown mechanisms. Hepatic glucose metabolism may also be an important target of fructose-induced-metabolic alterations.
The aim of present study was to investigate alterations in hepatic glycogenolysis, glycogenesis and gluconeogenic fluxes by feeding of 21% high fructose diet and the effects of Rosiglitazone treatment to prevent these derangements in rats.
Rats were maintained on normal chow and high fructose diet with or without Rosiglitazone for 8 weeks and various biochemical and gene expression measures were estimated.
The feeding of high fructose diet impaired glucose, insulin and pyruvate tolerance tests and increased blood HbA(1c), insulin, triglyceride, free fatty acids and homeostasis model assessment after 8 weeks. In addition, high fructose diet feeding increased expression of phosphoenol-pyruvatecorboxykinase, glucose-6-phosphatase, sterol regulatory element binding proteins-1 and fatty acid synthase through enhanced expression of fork-head receptor, peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma-co-activator 1 and cAMP reactive element binding protein. The treatment with Rosiglitazone inhibited all these derangements, i.e. hepato-lipogenic and gluconeogenic effects of high fructose diet feeding in rats.
Together these findings suggest that high fructose diet induced hepatic gluconeogenic and lipogenic rate, and increased circulating triglycerides and free fatty acids, which may be the major risk factors for glucose intolerance, hyperglycemia and insulin resistance in rats. In such situations high fructose flux also induces transcriptional cascade of gluconeogenic enzymes through the modulation of various associated transcriptional factors.
Cow's milk contains high levels of estrogens, progesterone and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), all of which are associated with breast cancer. We investigated whether prepubertal milk exposure affects mammary gland development and carcinogenesis in rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were given either whole milk or tap water to drink from postnatal day (PND) 14 to PND 35, and thereafter normal tap water. Mammary tumorigenesis was induced by administering 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene on PND 50. Milk exposure increased circulating E2 levels on PND 25 by 10-fold (p < 0.001) and accelerated vaginal opening, which marks puberty onset, by 2.5 days (p < 0.001). However, rats exposed to milk before puberty exhibited reduced carcinogen-induced mammary carcinogenesis; that is, their tumor latency was longer (p < 0.03) and incidence was lower (p < 0.05) than in the controls. On PND 25 and 50, mammary glands of the milk-exposed rats had significantly less terminal end buds (TEBs) than the tap water-exposed controls (p < 0.019). ER-α protein levels were elevated in the TEBs and lobules of milk rats, compared to rats given tap water (p < 0.019), but no changes in cyclin D1 expression, cell proliferation or apoptosis were seen. IGF-1 mRNA levels were reduced on PND 50 in the mammary glands of rats exposed to milk at puberty. Our results suggest that drinking milk before puberty reduces later risk of developing mammary cancer in rats. This might be mediated by a reduction in the number of TEBs and lower expression of IGF-1 mRNA in the mammary glands of milk-exposed animals.
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors increase endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activity by multiple mechanisms. We previously reported that genetic overexpression of eNOS improves survival and cardiac function in congestive heart failure (CHF). In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that low-dose treatment with an 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor exerts beneficial effects on survival and/or cardiac function in a murine model of CHF. Mice were subjected to permanent ligation of the left coronary artery and randomized to receive either saline vehicle or simvastatin (0.25 mg/kg) 2 h after myocardial infarction and daily (0.25 mg/kg) for 7 days, followed by 21 days of administration every other day for a total duration of 28 days. Myocardial infarct size was not reduced by simvastatin therapy (P = not significant between groups). Simvastatin treatment did significantly (P < 0.05) improve survival (45%) compared with vehicle treatment (25%). In addition, simvastatin treatment significantly improved (P < 0.01) left ventricular function and significantly (P < 0.01) abrogated cardiac hypertrophy and pulmonary edema compared with vehicle treatment. The protective effects of simvastatin were abrogated by delayed initiation of treatment or genetic ablation of eNOS. In conclusion, low-dose simvastatin therapy significantly improves survival and cardiac function and reduces both cardiac hypertrophy and pulmonary edema via an eNOS-dependent mechanism in a murine model of CHF.
Previously, we localized the defective gene for the urofacial syndrome (UFS) to a region on chromosome 10q24 by homozygosity mapping. We now report evidence that Heparanse 2 (HPSE2) is the culprit gene for the syndrome. Mutations with a loss of function in the Heparanase 2 (HPSE2) gene were identified in all UFS patients originating from Colombia, the United States, and France. HPSE2 encodes a 592 aa protein that contains a domain showing sequence homology to the glycosyl hydrolase motif in the heparanase (HPSE) gene, but its exact biological function has not yet been characterized. Complete loss of HPSE2 function in UFS patients suggests that HPSE2 may be important for the synergic action of muscles implicated in facial expression and urine voiding.
Tardive dystonia is one of the most serious adverse events of typical neuroleptic treatments. They differ from tardive dyskinesia by their clinical and evolutive features. The occurrence of tardive dystonia due to new antipsychotics remained unknown. For the first time in the literature, we report a case of typical tardive dystonia occurring in a young male schizophrenic patient treated for 8 months with risperidone. No remission was observed despite several therapeutics including botulinic toxin.
Cinoxacin is an oral synthetic antibacterial agent, of the second generation quinolones group, with excellent efficacy in respiratory, intra-abdominal, pelvic, and skin and soft tissue infections. Overall, quinolones are well tolerated drugs, although phototoxicity and photoallergenicity is well demonstrated experimentally. In this report we show you a case of a man who presented a anaphylactic reaction associated with myocardial infarction, after taking a capsule of cinoxacin. We suppose that there is a direct participation of the heart in anaphylactic reactions, because acttivated mast-cells mediators can determine cardiovascular effects. Then performed double-blind placebo controlled challenge test with an alternative drug. We did not observe any adverse immediate or late adverse reaction to this drug.
Although hepatic side-effects of danazol are well known, the occurrence of hepatic tumours is not well documented. We report a case of hepatocellular adenoma occurring in a 35-year-old woman with endometriosis who had been taking danazol over a three year period.
We determined the sites of the antinociceptive action of morphine in the experimental model of cyclophosphamide induced cystitis and investigated the afferent nerve fibers involved in nociception transmission originating from the bladder.
Cyclophosphamide (200 mg./kg.) given intraperitoneally was used to induce cystitis in male rats and their behavior was observed and scored. The effect of 2 mg./kg. systemic morphine given intravenously on cyclophosphamide induced behavioral modifications was tested when administered alone and after 100 microg. naloxone per rat given intrathecally at the L1 to L2 or L6 to S1 level. The spinal antinociceptive effect of morphine was also tested when administered intrathecally alone at 10, 100 and 200 microg. per rat at L1 to L2, alone at 100 microg. per rat at L1 to L2 or L6 to S1, alone at 100 microg. per rat at L1 to L2 and L6 to S1 simultaneously, alone at 200 microg. per rat at L1 to L2 and after 100 microg. naloxone per rat given intrathecally at L6 to S1 at 100 microg. per rat at L1 to L2.
Cyclophosphamide induced marked modifications in the behavior of the rats, including a decreased breathing rate, eye closing and specific postures. Morphine given intravenously reversed these behavioral disorders and this reversal was completely prevented by pretreatment with intrathecal naloxone. A dose of 100 microg. per rat given intrathecally also reversed these behavioral disorders by about 25% at the L1 to L2 and L6 to S1 levels. In addition, a dose of 100 microg. morphine per rat administered intrathecally and simultaneously at L1 to L2 and L6 to S1 produced an effect equal to the sum of those observed when administered separately, that is about 50%, whereas morphine at an intrathecal dose of 200 microg. at L1 to L2 produced the same effect as 100 microg. given intrathecally at the same level or at L6 to S1 (25%). Also, 100 microg. naloxone per rat administered intrathecally at L6 to S1 prevented the effect of 100 microg. morphine at L1 to L2.
These results confirm the previously reported antinociceptive effect of systemic morphine in this model of cyclophosphamide cystitis, suggest that this antinociceptive action is completely located at the spinal site and most importantly demonstrate by the pharmacological approach and behavioral analysis that nociceptive sensations originating from the bladder are conveyed by hypogastric and pelvic nerves in this cyclophosphamide cystitis model in the conscious rat.
Neurons immunoreactive for Fos, the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos, have been compared in the rostral ventral medulla and spinal cord of conscious normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) after baroreceptor unloading. Hypotension induced by a 60-minute intravenous infusion of sodium nitroprusside reduced baroreceptor activity; controls received intravenous saline. In WKY, 474 +/- 56 (n=6) Fos-positive neurons were identified in the rostral ventral medulla after nitroprusside infusion, a fivefold increase from controls; 50% of the tyrosine hydroxylase-containing neurons in the rostral ventral medulla were activated by this hypotension. Sympathetic preganglionic neurons, mainly sympathoadrenal neurons, were Fos positive after nitroprusside, but Fos-positive sympathetic preganglionic neurons were not observed in control WKY. In SHR, Fos immunoreactivity in the rostral ventral medulla was elevated in the control group compared with the WKY controls (236 +/- 31 and 93 +/- 15, respectively, n=6 for both). Nitroprusside hypotension did not further increase Fos immunoreactivity in the rostral ventral medulla, although the number of Fos-positive spinal sympathetic neurons increased. Our results have identified different neuronal activities between WKY and SHR in sites that are critical to sympathetic outflow. In WKY, nitroprusside effects are consistent with an activation of rostral ventral medulla neurons, including bulbospinal neurons, that are normally inhibited by baroreceptor activity. In SHR, basal nerve activity is increased, so even at rest, rostral ventral medulla neurons and sympathetic preganglionic neurons, mainly sympathoadrenal neurons, are Fos immunoreactive. These activated neurons are likely to contribute to the elevated blood pressure in this rat strain.
Lysosomal instability has been suggested as a major factor in the development of cellular injury during myocardial necrosis through the formation of inflammatory mediators. The present study was designed to investigate the effect of mangiferin on lysosomal hydrolases and TNF-alpha production during isoproterenol (ISPH) induced myocardial necrosis in rats. The rats given ISPH (200 mg/kg body weight twice, subcutaneous) for 2 days showed a significant increase in plasma TNF-alpha production, serum and heart lysosomal hydrolases activity. ISPH administration to rats resulted in decreased stability of the membranes, which was reflected by the lowered activity of cathepsin-D and beta-glucuronidase in mitochondrial, nuclear, lysosomal and microsomal fractions. Pretreatment with mangiferin (100 mg/kg body weight, intraperitoneally) for 28 days, significantly prevented the alterations and restored the enzyme activities to near-normal status. These findings demonstrate that mangiferin could preserve lysosomal integrity through decrease in the inflammatory process and hence establish the cardioprotective effect of mangiferin.
Myocardial Ca(2+) overload and oxidative stress are well documented effects associated to isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial necrosis, but information correlating these two issues is scarce. Using an ISO-induced myocardial infarction model, 3 stages of myocardial damage were defined: pre-infarction (0-12 h), infarction (12-24 h) and post-infarction (24-96 h). Alterations in Ca(2+) homeostasis and oxidative stress were studied in mitochondria, sarcoplasmic reticulum and plasmalemma by measuring the Ca(2+) content, the activity of Ca(2+) handling proteins, and by quantifying TBARs, nitric oxide (NO) and oxidative protein damage (changes in carbonyl and thiol groups). Free radicals generated system, antioxidant enzymes and oxidative stress (GSH/GSSG ratio) were also monitored at different times of ISO-induced cardiotoxicity. The Ca(2+) overload induced by ISO was counterbalanced by a diminution in the ryanodine receptor activity and the Na(+)-Ca(+2) exchanger as well as by the increase in both calcium ATPases activities (vanadate- and thapsigargine-sensitive) and mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake during pre-infarction and infarction stages. Pro-oxidative reactions and antioxidant defences during the 3 stages of cardiotoxicity were observed, with maximal oxidative stress during the infarction. Significant correlations were found among pro-oxidative reactions with plasmalemma and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPases, and ryanodine receptor activities at the onset and development of ISO-induced infarction. These findings could be helpful in the design of antioxidant therapies in this pathology.
I have examined in mice the kinetics of covalent binding of a metabolite of acetaminophen, as well as the binding to target tissue (and hence toxic reactions). At low doses, the chemically reactive metabolite seems to be converted to a glutathione conjugate that is ultimately excreted as a mercapturic acid. High acetaminophen doses that deplete available glutathione in the liver lead to toxic reactions. Manipulation of the system with agents that affect either glutathione availability or activity of the operative enzyme system has suggested that a chemically reactive acetaminophen metabolite is the active agent in hepatotoxic reactions from the drug. The chemically reactive intermediate seems to be short lived; it reacts with glutathione and is easily reduced by ascorbic acid. Acetylcysteine prevents liver necrosis caused by acetaminophen, and some possible mechanisms are discussed.
Inhibitors of prostaglandin synthesis are increasingly recommended for delaying premature delivery. However, such inhibitors--eg, aspirin, indomethacin, or naproxen--may interfere with uterine contractility, with maternal, fetal, and neonatal platelet function, and especially with fetal circulation and postnatal adaptation. The instillation of aspirin (50 to 90 mg/kg of fetal body weight) into the rumina of fetal lambs resulted in significant increase of pulmonary arterial pressure, which was directly related to constriction of the ductus arteriosus. Such pressure elevation may act as a stimulus to increased muscular development in the small vessels of the lung, which, in turn, could interfere with the rapid reduction in pulmonary vascular resistance normally occurring after birth. The effects of acetaminophen in pregnancy and in the newborn have not been studied extensively; when ingested in usual therapeutic doses, the available data have shown no adverse effects.
Three patients with halothane hepatitis were studied during the acute phase of their illness and for 10 to 14 months thereafter. Clinical, biochemical, and histologic data were obtained initially and during the course of follow-up. Despite initially severe clinical and biochemical presentations, with extensive bridging hepatic necrosis on liver biopsy, all three patients resolved completely and had minimally abnormal liver biopsy appearances at last follow-up. The results of this study suggest that hepatic necrosis associated with halothane hypersensitivity is self-limited and that despite the initial severity of the hepatic lesion, postnecrotic cirrhosis does not develop. Based on these three patients' courses, survival of the acute bout of halothane hepatitis is apparently accompanied by an excellent prognosis ultimately, provided that reexposure to halothane is avoided.
There is an increase in the birth of dentate granule neurons after status epilepticus (SE) and there are concurrent alterations in neurotransmitter receptor expression that may contribute to the development of spontaneous seizures. To determine whether newborn and/or mature dentate granule neurons have altered neurotransmitter receptor expression after SE, we dissected individual immature, PSA-NCAM-expressing, or mature, NeuN-expressing, dentate granule neurons 2 weeks after lithium-pilocarpine-induced SE in postnatal day 20 rats. Amplified single-cell RNA was used to probe reverse Northern blots containing alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) and kainate neurotransmitter receptor subunits. Two weeks after lithium-pilocarpine-induced SE there were increases in AMPA GluR2 and kainate KA2 subunit mRNA and decreases in AMPA GluR3 and kainate GluR6 receptor subunit mRNA levels in mature dentate granule neurons. In contrast, only the kainate GluR6 subunit expression was reduced in immature dentate granule neurons after SE. Alterations in transcription of excitatory amino acid receptor subunits after SE occur primarily in the mature population of dentate granule neurons. Our findings suggest that neurotransmitter receptor gene expression is altered differently in immature and mature dentate granule neurons following SE, and may result in differential contributions of these two groups of dentate granule neurons to the subsequent development of epilepsy.
Nausea and vomiting are relatively common in advanced cancer and is dreaded more than pain by patients. The history, pattern of nausea and vomiting, associated symptoms, and physical examination provides clues as to etiology and may guide therapy. Continuous severe nausea unrelieved by vomiting is usually caused by medications or metabolic abnormalities, while nausea relieved by vomiting or induced by eating is usually due to gastroparesis, gastric outlet obstruction, or small bowel obstruction. Drug choices are empiric or based on etiology. Metoclopramide has the greatest evidence for efficacy followed by phenothiazines and tropisetron. Corticosteroids have not been effective in randomized trials except in the case of bowel obstruction. Treatment of nausea unresponsive to first-line medications involves rotation to medications which bind to multiple receptors (broad-spectrum antiemetics), the addition of another antiemetic to a narrow-spectrum antiemetic (a serotonin receptor antagonist such as tropisetron to a phenothiazine), rotation to a different class of antiemetic (tropisetron for a phenothiazine), or in-class drug rotation. Venting gastrostomy, octreotide, and corticosteroids will reduce nausea and vomiting associated with malignant bowel obstruction.
Interferon therapy is indicated for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C and prevention of hepatocellular carcinoma. We describe the case of a 66-year-old Italian woman who received pegylated interferon alpha-2a plus ribavirin combined therapy for HCV-related chronic liver disease. Preliminary hematochemical, ultrasound and bioptic investigations did not show liver cirrhosis or hepatocarcinoma. After 24 weeks of treatment transaminase serum levels were in the normal range and circulating HCVRNA was undetectable by PCR qualitative assay. On week 46 a serious adverse event occurred, with rapid transaminase increase, severe hyperpyrexia, and abdominal pain, leading to interruption of interferon and ribavirin. Liver biopsy was repeated and it revealed poorly differentiated hepatocellular carcinoma. Only palliative care could be performed and the patient died of liver failure within 2 months. The present case underlines that hepatocellular carcinoma can be misdiagnosed in spite of laboratory and instrumental follow-up. More sensitive tools are needed for tumor detection, to avoid IFN impairment of the liver, even though it eradicates HCV.
Diabetes insipidus is a clinical entity that is often seen in neurosurgical patients either during or immediately after transsphenoidal hypophysectomy. Rarely, diabetes insipidus can manifest as a new entity months later in patients who have previously had an intracranial injury or operation.
