Acyclic nucleoside phosphonates (ANPs) are at the cornerstone of DNA virus and retrovirus therapies. They reach their target, the viral DNA polymerase, after two phosphorylation steps catalyzed by cellular kinases. New pyrimidine ANPs have been synthesized with unsaturated acyclic side chains (prop-2-enyl-, but-2-enyl-, pent-2-enyl-) and different substituents at the C5 position of the uracil nucleobase. Several derivatives in the but-2-enyl- series 9d and 9e, with (E) but not with (Z) configuration, were efficient substrates for human thymidine monophosphate (TMP) kinase, but not for uridine monophosphate-cytosine monophosphate (UMP-CMP) kinase, which is in contrast to cidofovir. Human TMP kinase was successfully crystallized in a complex with phosphorylated (E)-thymidine-but-2-enyl phosphonate 9e and ADP. The bis-pivaloyloxymethyl (POM) esters of (E)-9d and (E)-9e were synthesized and shown to exert activity against herpes virus in vitro (IC(50) = 3 μM) and against varicella zoster virus in vitro (IC(50) = 0.19 μM), in contrast to the corresponding inactive (Z) derivatives. Thus, their antiviral activity correlates with their ability to act as thymidylate kinase substrates.
Substantial evidence indicates that the cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor celecoxib, a widely prescribed anti-inflammatory agent, displays anti-tumour effect by sensitizing cancer cells to apoptosis. As part of our effort to understand the mechanism by which celecoxib mediates apoptosis in androgen-independent prostate cancer cells, we investigated its effect on intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). Digital ratiometric imaging analysis indicates that exposure of PC-3 cells to celecoxib stimulates an immediate [Ca(2+)](i) rise in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Kinetic data show that this Ca(2+) signal arises from internal Ca(2+) release in conjunction with external Ca(2+) influx. Examinations of the biochemical mechanism responsible for this Ca(2+) mobilization indicate that celecoxib blocks endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca(2+)-ATPases. Consequently, inhibition of this Ca(2+) reuptake mechanism results in Ca(2+) mobilization from ER stores followed by capacitative calcium entry, leading to [Ca(2+)](i) elevation. In view of the important role of Ca(2+) in apoptosis regulation, this Ca(2+) perturbation may represent part of the signalling mechanism that celecoxib uses to trigger rapid apoptotic death in cancer cells. This Ca(2+)-ATPase inhibitory activity is highly specific for celecoxib, and is not noted with other COX inhibitors tested, including aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, rofecoxib (Vioxx), DuP697 and NS398. Moreover, it is noteworthy that this activity is also observed in many other cell lines examined, including A7r5 smooth muscle cells, NIH 3T3 fibroblast cells and Jurkat T cells. Consequently, this Ca(2+)-perturbing effect may provide a plausible link with the reported toxicities of celecoxib such as increased cardiovascular risks in long-term anti-inflammatory therapy.
Resveratrol (RSV) is a plant polyphenol that exhibits several favorable effects on glucose homeostasis in adipocytes. Recent studies from our laboratory demonstrated that coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) that are ligands of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor impair glucose homeostasis in mice. PCB-induced impairment of glucose homeostasis was associated with augmented expression of inflammatory cytokines in adipose tissue, a site for accumulation of lipophilic PCBs. This study determined if RSV protects against PCB-77 induced impairment of glucose disposal in vitro and in vivo and if these beneficial effects are associated with enhanced nuclear factor erythoid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling in adipose tissue. PCB-77 increased oxidative stress and abolished insulin stimulated 2-deoxy-d-glucose uptake in 3 T3-L1 adipocytes. These effects were restored by RSV, which resulted in a concentration-dependent increase in NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), the downstream target of Nrf2 signaling. We quantified glucose and insulin tolerance and components of Nrf2 and insulin signaling cascades in adipose tissue of male C57BL/6 mice administered vehicle or PCB-77 (50 mg/kg) and fed a diet with or without resVida (0.1%, or 160 mg/kg per day). PCB-77 impaired glucose and insulin tolerance, and these effects were reversed by RSV. PCB-77 induced reductions in insulin signaling in adipose tissue were also abolished by RSV, which increased NQO1 expression. These results demonstrate that coplanar PCB-induced impairment of glucose homeostasis in mice can be prevented by RSV, potentially through stimulation of Nrf2 signaling and enhanced insulin stimulated glucose disposal in adipose tissue.
Preventing entry of HIV into human host cells has emerged as an attractive approach to controlling viral replication. Maraviroc 1 is an approved antagonist of the human CCR5 receptor which prevents the entry of HIV. Herein, we report the design and discovery of a series of imidazopiperidine CCR5 antagonists which retain the attractive antiviral profile and window over hERG activity of maraviroc 1, combined with improved absorption profiles in rat and dog. Furthermore, this series of compounds has been shown to retain activity against a laboratory generated maraviroc-resistant HIV-1 strain, which indicates an alternative resistance profile to that of maraviroc 1. Compound 41f (PF-232798) was selected as a clinical candidate from the imidazopiperidine series and is currently in phase II clinical trials.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) displays anti-apoptotic functions related to angiogenesis or blocking of bcl-2 functions. COX-2 overexpression has been found in various human malignancies, including esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). The present study examined correlations between expression of COX-2 mRNA and ESCC responses to chemoradiotherapy (CRT). Expression of COX-2 mRNA obtained from 29 biopsy specimens before CRT was quantified using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using Sybr Green I on the Roche LightCycler system. CRT comprised 5-fluorouracil plus cisplatin and 40 Gy of radiation. Mean COX-2 mRNA score was significantly higher in tumors (1222) than in normal epithelium (50; p=0.05). Expression of COX-2 mRNA was high in 14 patients, low in 8 and absent in 7. The effective response to CRT was achieved in 18 patients. Mean COX-2 mRNA score was significantly higher in ineffective cases (2910) than in effective cases (190; p<0.05). CRT was more effective in patients with low COX-2 mRNA expression than in those with high expression. COX-2 mRNA expression in biopsy specimens was closely related to CRT effectiveness. Examination of COX-2 mRNA expression is useful for predicting the effect of CRT in patients with ESCC.
Several studies indicate that increased intrarenal adenosine concentrations may attenuate puromycin-aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephropathy in rats. The purpose of this study was to investigate the chronic effects of caffeine, a nonselective adenosine receptor antagonist, on renal function and structure in PAN-induced nephropathy. Animals were randomized to receive drinking water or 0.1% caffeine solution. PAN was administered in two doses to a subset from each group at 1 week (100 mg/kg, s.c.; Purom-1) and 15 wks (80 mg/kg, s.c.; Purom-2) after initiating caffeine treatment (PAN and CAFF-PAN groups). The remaining animals served as time controls (CON and CAFF groups). Renal excretory function was followed for 23 wks. Caffeine consumption significantly augmented PAN-induced proteinuria after both PAN injections (Purom-1 and Purom-2, p<0.05 and p<0.001 respectively; CAFF-PAN vs. PAN). In addition, caffeine potentiated the transient reduction in creatinine clearance (CrCl) induced by PAN. Caffeine consumption for 23 wks significantly reduced CrCl in conscious nephrotic animals (4.76 +/- 0.98 vs. 8.51 +/- 1.55 L/kg/day, CAFF-PAN vs. PAN). Seven days after both PAN injections, increased plasma renin activity was detected in animals that were consuming caffeine as compared with corresponding control groups (CAFF and CAFF + PAN vs CON and PAN, respectively). Eight weeks after the second injection of PAN, acute measures of renal hemodynamic and excretory function were compared in anesthetized animals and renal samples were analyzed for histological changes. In PAN-rats, caffeine treatment for 23 weeks significantly reduced inulin clearance (0.28 +/- 0.09 vs. 0.57 +/- 0.12 mL/min/gr kidney. CAFF-PAN vs PAN, p<0.05), tended to increase renal vascular resistance (59.0 +/- 9.5 vs. 42.9 +/- 5.5 mmHg/mL/min/gr kidney, CAFF-PAN vs. PAN, p < 0.06), potentiated the development of more severe tubulointerstitial damage (tubular atrophy, presence of proteinaceous material, tubular dilatation, interstitial inflammation, interstitial fibrosis), and tended to increase glomerulosclerosis. In conclusion, this study indicates that caffeine adversely affects renal function in PAN-nephrotic rats, and that this effect may be due, in part, to increased activity of the renin angiotensin system.
Tobacco smoking is a major risk factor for multiple human cancers including urinary bladder carcinoma. Tobacco smoke is a complex mixture containing chemicals that are known carcinogens in humans and/or animals. Aromatic amines a major class of DNA-reactive carcinogens in cigarette smoke, are not present at sufficiently high levels to fully explain the incidence of bladder cancer in cigarette smokers. Other agents in tobacco smoke could be excreted in urine and enhance the carcinogenic process by increasing urothelial cell proliferation. Nicotine is one such major component, as it has been shown to induce cell proliferation in multiple cell types in vitro. However, in vivo evidence specifically for the urothelium is lacking. We previously showed that cigarette smoke induces increased urothelial cell proliferation in mice. In the present study, urothelial proliferative and cytotoxic effects were examined after nicotine treatment in mice and rats. Nicotine hydrogen tartrate was administered in drinking water to rats (52 ppm nicotine) and mice (514 ppm nicotine) for 4 weeks and urothelial changes were evaluated. Histopathologically, 7/10 rats and 4/10 mice showed simple hyperplasia following nicotine treatment compared to none in the controls. Rats had an increased mean BrdU labeling index compared to controls, although it was not statistically significantly elevated in either species. Scanning electron microscopic visualization of the urothelium did not reveal significant cytotoxicity. These findings suggest that oral nicotine administration induced urothelial hyperplasia (increased cell proliferation), possibly due to a mitogenic effect of nicotine and/or its metabolites.
Factors that affect the absorption of cyclosporin A (CsA) were examined in gentamicin-induced acute renal failure (ARF) rats. In ARF rats, the area under the blood CsA concentration-time curve after oral administration was significantly decreased in comparison with that of control rats; 5.81 +/- 0.55 vs 11.30 +/- 1.59 mg h mL(-1)(mean+/-s.e.m.), respectively, and the relative bioavailabilities in ARF and control rats after oral administration were 15.2% and 43.4%, respectively. The flow rate of bile and the amount of bile acids in ARF rats were markedly decreased to about 61% of control, and 41% of control, respectively. The amount of CsA uptaken into the evened sac of jejunum, transferred to serosal side, and metabolized in tissues was significantly decreased in ARF rats without verapamil, while with 0.3 mM verapamil, the amount in ARF rats recovered to the levels of control rats. The absorption clearance of CsA in ARF rats was significantly decreased, however it was significantly improved by adding bile or bile acid. Adenosine triphosphate released from enterocytes in ARF rats was significantly decreased in the presence of 2.0 microM CsA, 0.3 mM verapamil, or both, in comparison with control rats. From these findings, we concluded that a reduction of CsA bioavailability during ARF is caused by depression in bile excretion and renal function-dependent depression of uptake from intestinal tract via maybe P-gLycoprotein in enterocytes. They are main two factors that reduce the absorbed fraction of CsA in ARF rats.
Theoretical considerations as well as pre-clinical data suggest a potential role for glutamate-inhibiting agents in the treatment of cocaine addiction. At present, however, there is little clinical data to inform the use of these agents for this application. In this preliminary study eighteen HIV-seropositive cocaine dependent, opiate-agonist maintained patients received lamotrigine (300 mg/day), an indirect glutamate release inhibitor, on either a standard (n = 8) or accelerated (n = 10) induction schedule for 12 weeks. Results showed a significant decrease in percentage of cocaine-positive urine screens in the standard induction lamotrigine group but not in the accelerated induction group. There were fewer reports of side-effects and fewer dropouts in the standard-induction lamotrigine group compared to the accelerated induction group. Neuropsychological assessments suggested a decrement in the Trail Making Tests, but no other decreases in cognitive functioning. We conclude that standard-induction lamotrigine warrants further investigation for the treatment of cocaine abuse in this patient population.
5-HT1 receptor agonists have been shown to reduce abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in the rat and monkey models of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Different mechanisms have been proposed to underlie this effect. Activation of pre-synaptic 5-HT1 receptors has been suggested to inhibit dysregulated release of dopamine from the serotonin terminals, and thus, abnormal activation of striatal dopamine receptors. Activation of post-synaptic 5-HT1 receptors expressed in non-serotonergic neurons in different brain areas, by contrast, has been shown to result in decreased glutamate and GABA release, which may also contribute to the antidyskinetic effect. To unveil the relative contribution of these mechanisms, we have investigated the effect of increasing doses of 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptor agonists on AIMs induced by either L-DOPA or apomorphine. In contrast to L-DOPA-induced AIMs, which were dampened already at low doses of 5-HT1 agonists, reduction of apomorphine-induced AIMs required higher doses. Removal of the serotonin innervation suppressed L-DOPA-induced AIMs, but neither affected apomorphine-induced AIMs nor the inhibiting effect of 5-HT1 agonists on AIMs induced by the direct dopamine agonist, suggesting that such effect is independent on activation of pre-synaptic 5-HT1 receptors.
Theophylline increases sinus rate, but as yet its use has not been investigated in patients with chronic atrioventricular conduction disturbances. Resting electrocardiogram, 24-h Holter recording and treadmill test were performed in 17 patients with chronic atrial fibrillation and a slow ventricular response not related to drugs (age: 75 +/- 8 years). Then slow-release theophylline was administered (700 mg daily) and after 5 days these investigations were repeated with the same methods. Theophylline increased mean resting heart rate (51 +/- 6 versus 67 +/- 13 beats.min-1, P less than 0.01), mean 24-h heart rate (51 +/- 6 versus 68 +/- 14 beats.min-1, P less than 0.01) and minimal 24-h heart rate (32 +/- 6 versus 42 +/- 11 beats.min-1, P less than 0.01). Cardiac pauses greater than 2.5 s were present in 13 patients during control recording; after theophylline they disappeared in 11 and markedly decreased in the remaining two. The longest R-R interval decreased in all patients (3218 +/- 943 versus 2121 +/- 518 ms, P less than 0.01). The daily number of wide QRS complexes increased in 16 out of 17 patients (428 +/- 752 versus 1146 +/- 1464 ms, P less than 0.01). Exercise heart rate, evaluated at the end of first and second stage, was higher after theophylline than during control test (P less than 0.01). These data suggest that oral theophylline can represent a valid therapy in most patients with atrial fibrillation and a slow ventricular response.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is known to regulate growth arrest and terminal differentiation of adipocytes and is used clinically as a new class of antidiabetic drugs. Recently, several studies have reported that treatment of cancer cells with PPARgamma ligands could induce cell differentiation and apoptosis, suggesting a potential application as chemopreventive agents against carcinogenesis. In the present study, 3 different kinds of PPARgamma ligands were subjected to the experiments to confirm their suppressive effects on liver carcinogenesis.
Three PPARgamma ligands, pioglitazone (Pio) (200 ppm), rosiglitazone (Rosi) (200 ppm), and troglitazone (Tro) (1,000 ppm) were investigated on the induction of the placental form of rat glutathione S-transferase (rGST P) positive foci, a precancerous lesion of the liver, and liver cancer formation using a diethylnitrosamine-induced liver cancer model in Wistar rats, and dose dependency of a PPARgamma ligand was also examined.
PPARgamma ligands reduced the formation of rGST P-positive foci by diethylnitrosamine and induction of liver cancers was also markedly suppressed by a continuous feeding of Pio at 200 ppm.
PPARgamma ligands are potential chemopreventive agents for liver carcinogenesis.
7,12-Dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) destroys ovarian follicles in a concentration-dependent manner. The impact of DMBA on connexin (CX) proteins that mediate communication between follicular cell types along with pro-apoptotic factors p53 and Bax were investigated. Postnatal day (PND) 4 Fisher 344 rat ovaries were cultured for 4days in vehicle medium (1% DMSO) followed by a single exposure to vehicle control (1% DMSO) or DMBA (12.5nM or 75nM) and cultured for 4 or 8days. RT-PCR was performed to quantify Cx37, Cx43, p53 and Bax mRNA level. Western blotting and immunofluorescence staining were performed to determine CX37 or CX43 level and/or localization. Cx37 mRNA and protein increased (P<0.05) at 4days of 12.5 nM DMBA exposure. Relative to vehicle control-treated ovaries, mRNA encoding Cx43 decreased (P<0.05) but CX43 protein increased (P<0.05) at 4days by both DMBA exposures. mRNA expression of pro-apoptotic p53 was decreased (P<0.05) but no changes in Bax expression were observed after 4days of DMBA exposures. In contrast, after 8days, DMBA decreased Cx37 and Cx43 mRNA and protein but increased both p53 and Bax mRNA levels. CX43 protein was located between granulosa cells, while CX37 was located at the oocyte cell surface of all follicle stages. These findings support that DMBA exposure impacts ovarian Cx37 and Cx43 mRNA and protein prior to both observed changes in pro-apoptotic p53 and Bax and follicle loss. It is possible that such interference in follicular cell communication is detrimental to follicle viability, and may play a role in DMBA-induced follicular atresia.
Many patients with epilepsy suffer from psychiatric comorbidities including depression, anxiety, psychotic disorders, cognitive, and personality changes, but the mechanisms underlying the association between epilepsy and psychopathology are only incompletely understood. Animal models of epilepsy, such as the pilocarpine model of acquired temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), are useful to study the relationship between epilepsy and behavioral dysfunctions. In the present study, we examined behavioral and cognitive alterations, spontaneous seizures, and neuropathology developing after a pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus in the C57BL/6 (B6) inbred strain of mice, which is commonly used as background strain for genetically modified mice. For this study, we used the same pilocarpine ramping-up dosing protocol and behavioral test battery than in a previous study in NMRI mice, thus allowing direct comparison between these two mouse strains. All B6 mice that survived SE developed epilepsy with spontaneous recurrent seizures. Epileptic B6 mice exhibited significant increases of anxiety-related behavior in the open field and light-dark box, increased locomotor activity in the open field, elevated plus maze, hole board, and novel object exploration tests, and decreased immobility in the forced swimming and tail suspension tests. Furthermore, spatial learning and memory were severely impaired in the Morris water maze, although hippocampal damage was much less severe than previously determined in NMRI mice. B6 mice in which pilocarpine did not induce SE but only single seizures did not exhibit any detectable neurodegeneration, but differed behaviorally from sham controls in several tests of the test battery used. Our data indicate that the pilocarpine model of TLE in B6 mice is ideally suited to study the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the association between seizures, brain damage and psychopathology.
We report a case of reversible acute renal failure after cefotaxime treatment in a patient affected by non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Renal biopsy showed necrotizing vasculitis associated with eosinophil-rich interstitial inflammatory infiltrates and patchy infiltrates of CD20+ lymphoid cells. High serum p-ANCA titers were also detected. Drug withdrawal was closely related with recovery of renal function and disappearance of ANCA. Acute renal failure therefore represented a consequence of ANCA-mediated renal vasculitis and acute interstitial nephritis related to cefotaxime treatment.
Reye syndrome (RS) is believed to occur infrequently among children receiving long-term aspirin therapy. We reviewed all cases of RS reported to the Michigan Department of Public Health during 1982 and 1983. Three of the 36 patients were receiving aspirin for the treatment of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. All three patients had clinical courses characteristic of RS and two had supportive histologic findings on liver biopsy. The incidence of RS among children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis is significantly greater than the incidence of RS among children who do not have juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. These findings support previous studies that showed that the use of aspirin during the antecedent illness may be a risk factor for the development of RS. Physicians should be aware of the potential for the development of RS among children who are receiving long-term aspirin therapy for the treatment of systemic inflammatory illnesses.
It has been suggested that endogenous substances (known as ouabain-like factors, OLF), secreted from the central nervous system in response to salt and water retention, inhibit the cell membrane Na+/K+ pump in the renal tubules and reduce sodium reabsorption. However, by also acting upon vascular smooth muscle cells, they may induce cell Na+ and Ca++ accumulation, vasoconstriction and systemic hypertension. Recently, an endogenous Na+/K+ pump inhibitor was isolated from human plasma; this inhibitor is indistinguishable from the cardiac glycoside ouabain based on biochemical and immunological criteria. Its plasma concentration is close to the therapeutic range for ouabain (around 0.4 nmol/L). Since plant ouabain promotes natriuresis, vasoconstriction, and hypertension; endogenous ouabain may therefore control extracellular fluid volume and blood pressure. The highest plasma concentrations of endogenous ouabain and OLF were found in congestive heart failure, aldosterone producing adenoma, human and animal models of volume expanded hypertension (reduced renal mass and DOCA-salt hypertension), and in Milan hypertensive rats (MHS). Aldosterone antagonists (canrenone and canrenoate) exert both agonist and antagonist effects on the digitalis receptor site of the Na+/K+ pump. They are effective antihypertensive agents in animal models of hypertension sustained by OLF (reduced renal mass-Na+ and DOCA-salt hypertension in rats). Moreover, in a subgroup of essential hypertensives, 4 weeks of canrenoate administration reduced blood pressure, heightened red blood cell Na+/K+ pump activity, and antagonized ouabain-induced vasoconstriction. None of these effects was seen in the other hypertensives. These data suggest that aldosterone antagonists stimulate the Na+/K+ pump inhibited by endogenous ouabain and exert their antihypertensive action at least in part through this mechanism.
A case of severe myocardial ischaemia complicated by syncopal ventricular tachycardia during injection of Dipyridamole for stress Thallium myocardial scintigraphy in a coronary patient is reported. Myocardial ischaemia (chest pain, ECG changes) is classically rare (30% of cases) and usually benign during Dipyridamole injection, and either regress spontaneously or after administration of Theophylline. However, the possibility of serious complications such as this justifies the same criteria of strict surveillance as for classical exercise stress testing.
Although the relationship between blood pressure and cardiac performance has been widely recognized, there are few published clinical observations concerning the effect of blood pressure control on cardiac function. We evaluated the effect of prazosin, an antihypertensive agent which also improves hemodynamic measurements in normotensive patients with heart failure, in 16 patients with moderate hypertension and reduced ejection fractions. Therapy with digoxin and diuretics was continued throughout the study, but other antihypertensive agents were withdrawn at least one week prior to the initiation of the study. Measurements of ejection fraction, cardiothoracic ratio and the duration of maximal treadmill exercise were made before and after two months of antihypertensive therapy with prazosin. On prazosin, blood pressure fell from a mean of 169/103 to 141/84. Excellent control was achieved in 13/16 patients and significant reductions were noted in the remaining three. Concomitantly, ejection fraction rose from .38 +/- .02 (SEM) to .43 +/- .03 (P less than .02), cardiothoracic ratio decreased from .55 +/- .02 to .53 +/- .02 (P less than .05) and exercise capacity increased from 9.2 +/- 0.9 to 11.9 +/- 1.1 minutes (P less than .005). Prazosin was well tolerated except in one patient who experienced worsening angina. These findings emphasize the importance of rigorous blood pressure control in hypertensive patients with left ventricular dysfunction and indicate that prazosin is effective in this setting.
Thalidomide shows antiangiogenic activity and it has been successfully employed in various tumors. Considering the poor therapeutic options for glioblastoma and the role of angiogenesis in malignant glioma cells growth, we investigated the therapeutic activity of thalidomide in patients affected by recurrent glioblastoma. Inclusion criteria were: recurrent glioblastoma pretreated with surgery and radiotherapy, age >/=18 years, adequate performance status, hematological, renal, and hepatic functions. Exclusion criteria included severe underlying diseases, neuropathy or concurrent radiotherapy. Eighteen patients entered the study, 17 of whom were assessable for toxicity and response. Most of patients were pretreated with chemotherapy (77.8%). Thalidomide was well tolerated: the most common side effects were constipation (76.5% of patients), somnolence (47%), and peripheral neuropathy (11.8%). One minimal response (MR) and 8 stable disease (SD) were observed, with an overall clinical benefit of 52.9%. Median time to progression and median overall survival (OS) for responders was 25 weeks (range 12-40) and 36 weeks (range 16-64), respectively. In conclusion, thalidomide induces modest side effects and it may be considered a valid therapeutic option for patients with recurrent glioblastoma.
Potential effects of tamoxifen therapy on blood coagulation and fibrinolysis were investigated in women with breast cancer. We studied 14 parameters of hemostasis in 19 postmenopausal women receiving 20 mg tamoxifen/day as an adjuvant treatment. Blood sampling was done before and after the 1st, 3rd, and 6th month of treatment. Pretreatment values of procoagulation, anticoagulation, plasminogen, and plasminogen activator inhibitor were found within the reference range, whereas tissue-plasminogen activator, fibrin degradation products, and prothrombin-fragment 1+2 were elevated. On therapy an initial decrease of all measured parameters was observed. The effect was pronounced in coagulation inhibitors (antithrombin III, protein C and S). No pathological values (below 60%) were observed. No further effects were found during the 3rd and 6th month of treatment. Our data indicate that the decrease of hemostatic parameters during the initial phase of tamoxifen treatment is due to the timing of blood collection, which took place no more than 14 days after surgery. The reduction of coagulation inhibitors was not associated with pathological values. No cumulative effects were seen during tamoxifen therapy. The decrease was not associated with a concomittant increase of in vivo coagulation markers (prothrombin-fragment 1+2, thrombin-antithrombin-complex, fibrin degradation products). Therefore our results are likely to reflect only the resolution of postoperative activation and do not translate into a drug related thrombogenic effect.
This study evaluated the changes in renal function that occur during the early phases of chronic infusion of carbachol into the lateral ventricle in conscious rats. Infusion of 1.0 micrograms/h of carbachol i.c.v. resulted in a prompt pressor response with mean arterial pressure rising 20 mm Hg within 15 min. The pressure remained elevated for the duration of a 2-hour infusion. Carbachol infusion at 0.5 micrograms/h induced a similar elevation in blood pressure, but the onset was delayed, reaching significance only after 30-60 min. The higher dose of carbachol was associated with a marked and sustained natriuresis, with sodium excretion increasing from 2.1 +/- 0.3 to 5.3 +/- 1.0 microEq/100 g min after 2 h, compared to 2.0 +/- 0.5 and 1.8 +/- 0.3 microEq/100 g min in vehicle-infused control animals. Sodium excretion did not change significantly in animals infused with carbachol at 0.5 microgram/h. There were no significant changes in glomerular filtration rate in any of the groups. Plasma levels of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) were not altered significantly by ventricular infusion of carbachol (188 +/- 99 before vs. 83 +/- 17 pg/ml after infusion). It is concluded that the pressor response to central carbachol infusion is not dependent on retention of sodium and water. The natriuresis observed with carbachol infusion can be dissociated from the pressor response, and is not mediated by ANP.
Two leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRAs)--montelukast and zafirlukast--are currently available in the United States. Montelukast is approved for the treatment of asthma in patients as young as 2 years old and zafirlukast, in patients 7 years of age or older. In more than 15 clinical trials of LTRA therapy for mild to moderate persistent asthma, both of these oral agents produced rapid improvement in pulmonary function and daytime asthma symptoms. They also decreased the frequency of nocturnal awakening and the need for rescue therapy with beta2-adrenergic agonists and oral corticosteroids. These effects were maintained throughout the treatment period; tolerance did not develop. When used concomitantly with an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), each LTRA further improved asthma control, thus permitting the partial or complete tapering off of the ICS dose needed to maintain clinical control. Although rare, previously undiagnosed cases of Churg-Strauss syndrome have been unmasked when ICS use is decreased or discontinued. The improved adherence gained with an oral agent administered as infrequently as once daily maximizes the effectiveness of these newest antiasthma medications.
Ticlopidine is an antiplatelet agent that is used to reduce the occurrence of atherothrombotic arterial events. There have been major multicentre placebo-controlled trials evaluating its use in stroke, peripheral arterial disease and unstable angina. In rare cases, adverse haematological effects have been seen with ticlopidine. Ticlopidine has been associated with neutropenia in some of the major trials and in subsequent case reports it has been associated with aplastic anaemia, thrombocytopenia and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, which have been fatal in some instances. Ticlopidine should be used only in patients with an established indication for its use. Patients should be educated about the potential adverse effects and complications associated with ticlopidine, including possible death. Finally, there should be careful attention to haematological monitoring to screen for and promptly detect any adverse effects.
Low-dose aspirin reduces the incidence of colorectal cancer and recurrence of adenomas. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), one of its main target enzymes, is reportedly over-expressed in colorectal adenomas.
To assess COX-2 expression, in relation to adenoma recurrence and the protective effect of aspirin, in a large series of colorectal adenomas, recruited from a double-blind randomised controlled trial comparing recurrences after low-dose aspirin or placebo.
Follow-up colonoscopies were performed after 1 and 4 years to assess adenoma recurrence. COX-2 expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry for each adenoma obtained at baseline colonoscopy, separately for epithelium, deep stroma and overall. Architecture, grade of dysplasia, K-ras mutation, p53 and cyclin D1 expression were studied.
COX-2 expression could be assessed in 219 adenomas from 136
128 adenomas (58%) from 59 patients strongly expressed COX-2. Strong COX-2 expression predominated in adenomas larger than 10 mm (84/129 vs 44/90; p=0.02) and in adenomas showing high-grade dysplasia (22/29 vs 104/188; p=0.04). Deep stromal but not epithelial initial expression of COX-2 predicted adenoma recurrence in the whole population (30/72 patients or 42% strongly expressed deep stromal COX-2 compared with 16/64 or 25% without recurrent adenoma; p=0.04). The protective effect of aspirin was mainly observed in patients in whom COX-2 initial expression was low (RR for recurrence in patients taking aspirin with low COX-2 expression: 0.59; 95% CI 0.39 to 0.90; p=0.02). There was no significant effect of aspirin at the end of the trial.
Over-expression of COX-2 was frequent and predominated in large and high-grade dysplasia adenomas. Deep stromal but not epithelial initial expression of COX-2 predicted recurrence of adenomas. Aspirin did not act preferentially on patients whose initial adenomas strongly expressed COX-2.
