Thiopurines represent an effective and widely used immunosuppressant in the therapeutic armamentarium of inflammatory bowel disease. However up to 25% of patients may be unable to continue the drug due to side effects. The incidence of hepatotoxicity associated with thiopurine use is reported between 0% and 32%. Veno-occlusive disease, peliosis hepatis, perisinusoidal fibrosis and nodular regenerative hyperplasia have all been described with thiopurines. Recent trials of 6-tioguanine, although successful in patients with allergies to azathioprine or mercaptopurine, have been compromised by increased hepatotoxicity, either veno-occlusive disease or nodular regenerative hyperplasia. We describe a report of nodular regenerative hyperplasia in a Crohn's disease patient associated with 6-mercaptopurine therapy and have reviewed the management and the literature regarding this complication. Our report strengthens the importance of further safety studies to evaluate the etiology, prevalence, risk factors and screening modalities for hepatotoxicity, in particular of nodular regenerative hyperplasia, in patients treated with thiopurines for inflammatory bowel disease.
These studies examined the ability of a conditioned stimulus previously paired with footshock to reinstate cocaine-induced conditioned place preference. Male rats were given either odor or tone in a paired (PRD group) or explicitly unpaired (random, RND group) manner with footshock. All rats were subsequently trained in a cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP) task. Cocaine CPP was demonstrated in all groups. After CPP extinction, presentation of the conditioned fear stimulus produced a greater degree of reinstatement in PRD rats compared to the RND group. This was true whether the conditioned stimulus was odor or tone, but when odor was used as the conditioned stimulus, the RND group also partially reinstated cocaine CPP. In rats trained with tone as the conditioned stimulus, presentation of the tone during the test for reinstatement produced robust reinstatement of cocaine CPP only in the PRD, but not RND, group. In contrast, a subsequent priming injection with cocaine reinstated cocaine CPP equally in both RND and PRD groups. These studies indicate for the first time that conditioned fear stimuli induce reinstatement of cocaine CPP, and suggest that stimuli associated with prior stress may produce relapse in humans.
When increased in vascular tissues, angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), a carboxypeptidase that hydrolyzes angiotensin II to angiotensin-(1-7), may augment the growth inhibitory and vasodilatory effects of the heptapeptide. We investigated the regulation of ACE2 and angiotensin-(1-7) expression in aortas and carotid arteries of 12-wk-old male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) by determining the effect of sustained angiotensin type 1 (AT(1)) receptor blockade with olmesartan (10 mg.kg(-1).day(-1), n = 13) compared with those that received atenolol (30 mg.kg(-1).day(-1), n = 13), hydralazine (10 mg.kg(-1).day(-1), n = 13), or vehicle (n = 21). Systolic blood pressures were approximately 30% lower (P < 0.05) in rats treated for 2 wk with olmesartan compared with vehicle-treated rats. Both atenolol and hydralazine produced similar decreases in systolic blood pressure. ACE2 mRNA in the thoracic aorta of olmesartan-treated rats (n = 8) was fivefold greater (P < 0.05) than that in vehicle-treated rats (n = 16), whereas atenolol (n = 8) or hydralazine (n = 8) had no effect. Immunostaining intensities in rats treated with olmesartan (n = 5) were also associated with increased (P < 0.05) ACE2 and angiotensin-(1-7) in thoracic aorta media compared with vehicle-treated rats. In contrast, immunostaining intensities for both ACE2 and angiotensin-(1-7) were not different from vehicle (n = 5) in carotid arteries of SHR medicated with either atenolol (n = 5) or hydralazine (n = 5). A comparison of vessel wall dimensions showed that olmesartan selectively reduced the thoracic aorta media-to-lumen ratio (P < 0.05) and media thickness (P < 0.05) without an effect on carotid artery morphometry. Compared with vehicle-treated SHR, vascular hypertrophy determined from media and lumen measurements was not changed in SHR given either atenolol or hydralazine. These data represent the first report of ACE2 and angiotensin-(1-7) expression in the aorta and carotid arteries of SHR. Increased ACE2 and angiotensin-(1-7) in association with altered dimensions of the thoracic aorta but not carotid arteries in response to olmesartan treatment provides evidence that this pathway is regulated by AT(1) receptors and may be important in mediating the pressure-independent vascular remodeling effects of angiotensin peptides.
The antidyskinetic potential of the glutamate NMDA receptor channel blocker amantadine was evaluated in four levodopa-primed parkinsonian monkeys using two different regimens (1.25 or 2.5 mg/kg administered subcutaneously twice daily for 3-6 days). When administered with a relatively low dose of levodopa, amantadine produced a near-total suppression of choreiform dyskinesias and a substantial reduction in dystonic dyskinesias at the expense of a significant reduction in antiparkinsonian response. With a high dose of levodopa, amantadine had a smaller but still significant effect on dyskinesias without altering the antiparkinsonian response. These results lend support to the view that glutamate receptor-mediated mechanisms contribute to levodopa-induced dyskinesias. They also suggest that amantadine could alleviate such complications in parkinsonian patients, especially with careful dose optimization.
In consideration of the results of experimental studies indicating that nifedipine, a vasodilating calcium antagonist with little inotropic or electrophysiological effects, increases coronary flow to both normal and ischemic zones potentially rendering protection of ischemic myocardium as well as the results of clinical studies in patients with angina pectoris, this pilot study was carried out in patients with acute myocardial infarction to evaluate the clinical, hemodynamic and electrophysiological responses. Nifedipine was administered sublingually in a dosage of 10 mg initially, after an interval of 1 to 1.5 hours and thereafter to maintain the pressure at the level prevailing after three hours. As compared with a control group, the frequency of ventricular dysrhythmia as well as the frequency of complex dysrhythmias in the 17 treated patients were similar (mean 313 vs. 325 PVCs/24 hours; and 5.9 vs. 3.6 episodes respectively in treated and controls). No patient developed evidence of second or third degree AV block. Systemic vascular resistance fell from 1661 to 1283 dyne . s . cm-5 and cardiac index increased from 3.2 to 3.59 l/min/m2 at one hour. Arterial pressure decreased from 146/93 to 131/88 mm Hg. Pulmonary artery pressure remained unchanged in five patients and decreased by more than 3 mm Hg in four. Thus, in patients with acute myocardial infarction nifedipine decreases systemic resistance and, provided preload is not substantially reduced, increases cardiac output. Neither an exacerbation of chest pain nor an increase in ventricular dysrhythmia was observed. Extensive clinical investigation will be needed to definitively characterize effects of nifedipine on infarct size, coronary flow and prognosis of patients with acute myocardial infarction.
Icofungipen (PLD-118) is the representative of a novel class of antifungals, beta amino acids, active against Candida species. It has been taken through phase II clinical trials. The compound actively accumulates in yeast, competitively inhibiting isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase and consequently disrupting protein biosynthesis. As a result, in vitro activity can be studied only in chemically defined growth media without free amino acids that would compete with the uptake of the compound. The MIC of icofungipen was reproducibly measured in a microdilution assay using yeast nitrogen base medium at pH 6 to 7 after 24 h of incubation at 30 to 37 degrees C using an inoculum of 50 to 100 CFU/well. The MICs for 69 Candida albicans strains ranged from 4 to 32 microg/ml. This modest in vitro activity contrasts with the strong in vivo efficacy in C. albicans infection. This was demonstrated in a lethal model of C. albicans infection in mice and rats in which icofungipen showed dose-dependent protection at oral doses of 10 to 20 mg/kg of body weight per day in mice and 2 to 10 mg/kg/day in rats. The in vivo efficacy was also demonstrated against C. albicans isolates with low susceptibility to fluconazole, indicating activity against azole-resistant strains. The efficacy of icofungipen in mice and rats was not influenced by concomitant administration of equimolar amounts of L-isoleucine, which was shown to antagonize its antifungal activity in vitro. Icofungipen shows nearly complete oral bioavailability in a variety of species, and its in vivo efficacy indicates its potential for the oral treatment of yeast infections.
We report an 81-year-old male with cholesterol crystal embolization (CCE). He had been treated with warfarin for atrial fibrillation and an old cerebral infarction but had recurrence of cerebral infarction after warfarin was discontinued as treatment of CCE. Anticoagulation therapy by heparin in addition to warfarin was restarted, with the result that symptoms of cerebral ischemic damage did not recur and skin manifestations of CCE rapidly improved. These results suggest the possibility that heparin may be effective in the treatment of CCE, because CCE is not the result of pure embolization by cholesterol crystals but is a result of a combination with simultaneous thrombi.
1. The present study deals with the effect of maturation on the kinetic properties of renal Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and its susceptibility to nitric oxide (NO)-deficient hypertension induced by the NO synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). 2. Immature (4-week-old) and adult (12-week-old) male Wistar rats were administered L-NAME (40 mg/kg per day) in their drinking water for 4 weeks. 3. The properties of the ATP- and Na(+)-binding sites of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase were investigated by activation of the enzyme with increasing concentrations of the energy substrate ATP and/or cofactor Na(+). Unchanged values of K(m) suggest that energy utilization by the enzyme in the kidney of control rats remains unaffected during maturation. Conversely, the decrease in K(Na) values (the concentration of Na(+) necessary to achieve half-maximal reaction velocity) indicates improved affinity for Na(+) in the older group of control rats. 4. Application of L-NAME to all young animals had no significant effect on the functional properties of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase. 5. In adult animals, the V(max) values remained unchanged after treatment with L-NAME, but the affinities of the ATP- and Na(+)-binding sites were decreased, as indicated by significant increase in K(m) and K(Na) values. 6. Maturation of control rats was accompanied by an increase in the Na(+) affinity of renal Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase without affecting ATP utilization. However, maturation increased the susceptibility of renal Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase to the harmful effects of L-NAME.
Action of statins is characterized by pronounced variability what is caused by effects of a multitude of factors. Main of these factors appears to be genetic peculiarity of patients. We studied influence of polymorphic marker Trp719Arg of KIF6 gene on lipid and nonlipid effects of atorvastatin and simvastatin. The studied genetic marker is associated with risk of development of ischemic heart disease and myocardial infarction as well as efficacy of therapy with statins according to data of a number of large multicenter studies. We examined 60 men with ischemic heart disease which had manifested in young age when genetic factors were most expressed and had special significance. Efficacy of 40 mg/day simvastatin did not depend on genotypes of polymorphic marker Trp719Arg of KIF6. Therapy with 10 mg/day atorvastatin was more effective in carriers of polymorphic marker Trp719Arg of KIF6 gene by action on dynamics of changes of high sensitivity C-reactive protein and dispersion of high density lipoprotein response. Increase of atorvastatin dose to 80 mg/day abolished influence of genotypes. Thus for the first time we discovered influence of polymorphic marker Trp719Arg of KIF6 gene on individual response to therapy with 10 mg/day of atorvastatin, while and apoA1, structural protein of high density lipoproteins can be considered as a marker of "fast response".
The NTP chose to initiate studies in fish as an exploration of alternate or additional models for examining chemical toxicity and carcinogenicity. The use of small fish species in carcinogenicity testing offered potential advantages as a bioassay test system, including significant savings in cost and time over rodent studies. Large numbers of small fish could be easily maintained in a limited area. The two species chosen for study were guppy (Poecilia reticulata) and medaka (Oryzias latipes), both of which are hardy, easily maintained, and have a low occurrence of background lesions. The three chemicals chosen for study in fish had already been studied by the NTP in rodents, permitting a comparison of results between the two models. Two of the chemicals used (2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol and 1,2,3-trichloropropane) were mutagenic and multisite carcinogens in rats and mice. The third chemical, nitromethane, was nonmutagenic with a more modest carcinogenic response in rodents. Male and female guppies and medaka were exposed to 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)- 1,3-propanediol (greater than 99% pure), nitromethane, (greater than 99% pure), or 1,2,3-trichloropropane (99% pure) in aquaria water for up to 16 months. OVERALL STUDY DESIGN: Groups of approximately 220 guppies (two replicates of 110) were maintained in aquaria water containing nominal concentrations of 0, 24, 60, or 150 mg/L 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol; 0, 10, 30, or 70 mg/L nitromethane; or 0, 4.5, 9.0, or 18.0 mg/L 1,2,3-trichloropropane. Groups of approximately 340 medaka (two replicates of 170) were maintained in aquaria water containing 0, 24, 60, or 150 mg/L 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol; 0, 10, 20, or 40 mg/L nitromethane; or 0, 4.5, 9.0, or 18.0 mg/L 1,2,3-trichloropropane. The overall study durations were 16 months for all guppy studies, 14 months for 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol-exposed medaka, and 13 months for nitromethane- and 1,2,3-trichloropropane-exposed medaka. Ten guppies and 10 medaka from each group replicate were sacrificed at 9 months for histopathologic analysis. Approximately one third of the remaining fish from each group were placed in chemical-free water at 9 months and constituted a stop-exposure study component. The remainder of the fish were exposed for the duration of the study and constituted the core study component. A stop-exposure component was added to determine if stopping the exposure at 9 months and transferring to chemical-free aquaria might allow for better survival and tumor development. The sex of guppies and medaka was determined at histopathologic analysis. 2,2-BIS(BROMOMETHYL)-1,3-PROPANEDIOL - 16-MONTH STUDY IN GUPPIES: 2,2-Bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol was chronically toxic to guppies in the 60 and 150 mg/L core and stop-exposure groups. Due to mortality, exposure of core study animals in the 150 mg/L group was terminated on day 443, after approximately 64 weeks on study, and fish were maintained in 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)- 1,3-propanediol-free water in the exposure system until the end of the study at 69 weeks. Nominal exposure concentrations of 24, 60, and 150 mg/L provided actual aquaria water exposure concentrations of 20.0, 53.5, and 139.0 mg/L 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)- 1,3-propanediol, respectively. There were no treatment-related differences between the control and exposed groups in body weights or lengths. At 9 months, hepatocellular adenomas occurred in one 24 mg/L male and in one 150 mg/L male. In the core study, the incidence of hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma (combined) in 150 mg/L males was greater than that in the controls; multiple adenomas occurred in two 150 mg/L males and in one 150 mg/L female. Cholangioma occurred in a small number of exposed males and females. In the stop-exposure study, incidences of hepatocellular adenoma (including multiple) and of hepatocellular carcinoma were greater in 150 mg/L males than in controls. One cholangioma and one cholangiocarcinoma occurred in the 150 mg/L female group. 14-MONTH STUDY IN MEDAKA: Exposure to 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol did not result in any significant reduction in survival, although the mortality of fish was somewhat greater in the 60 and 150 mg/L core study groups than in the control and 24 mg/L groups. After reallocation, mortality of medaka in the 60 and 150 mg/L core groups was slightly increased over the corresponding stop-exposure groups. Nominal exposure concentrations of 24, 60, and 150 mg/L provided actual exposure concentrations of 19.4, 56.9, and 137.8 mg/L 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)- 1,3-propanediol, respectively. Core study animals in the 60 and 150 mg/L groups were significantly larger, in both body length and weight, than control group fish. In the core study, the incidence of hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma (combined) was increased in 150 mg/L males. Cholangiocarcinomas occurred in a few exposed males and females, with all but one occurring in 150 mg/L fish. One cholangioma occurred in a 150 mg/L female, and one occurred in a control female. In the stop-exposure study, incidences of hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma (combined) were marginally increased in the 150 mg/L group of males and in the 60 and 150 mg/L groups of females as compared with controls. Cholangiocarcinoma occurred in one male and one female in the 150 mg/L groups and in one control female. NITROMETHANE - 16-MONTH STUDY IN GUPPIES: Although the cause of death could not be confirmed in many cases, mortality in the 70 mg/L groups appeared to indicate that this level of nitromethane exposure was chronically toxic. This is confirmed by the similar survival rate of guppies from all treatments following removal from treatment aquaria and placement in stop-exposure. Due to the high mortality of fish in the 70 mg/L core study groups, these fish were removed from treatment (day 396) and fixed for histological analyses after approximately 57 weeks on study. The controls and other exposed groups were sacrificed at 70 weeks. Nominal exposure concentrations of 10, 30, and 70 mg/L provided actual exposure concentrations of 9.9, 28.7, and 66.4 mg/L nitromethane, respectively. There were no treatment-related differences between the control and exposed groups in body lengths or weights. 13-MONTH STUDY IN MEDAKA: Nitromethane in the aquaria supported a substantial microfaunal growth which, without frequent cleaning, affected water quality and treatment concentrations. To maintain acceptable water quality and treatment concentrations potentially affected by the rapid microfaunal growth, the study aquaria were brushed once and siphoned three times each day. Due to this frequent activity, a number of fish probably died due to mechanical injury. Unfortunately, the cause of death could not be confirmed in many cases; the mortality from this activity is believed to have been approximately uniform among treatments and should not have affected the comparison of survival between treatments. Based on mortality in this study and the previous life-span evaluation, the life phase of this study was terminated approximately 13.5 months after hatching. Nominal exposure concentrations of 10, 20, and 40 mg/L resulted in actual exposure concentrations of 9.3, 20.8, and 41.7 mg/L nitromethane, respectively. No differences between control and exposed groups were found in body lengths or weights at the 9-month interim evaluation. Due to mortality, unequal numbers of fish were distributed among the core study and stop-exposure aquaria at 9 months. Differences in lengths and weights were found at 13 months. The biological significance of this finding is unknown. At 9 months, a single cholangiocarcinoma occurred in a 40 mg/L male. Hepatocellular adenomas occurred in two 20 mg/L males and in one 40 mg/L female. In the core study, one cholangioma occurred in a 20 mg/L male, and cholangiocarcinomas were seen in a few exposed males, but none occurred in control males. 1,2,3-TRICHLOROPROPANE - 16-MONTH STUDY IN GUPPIES: The survival of exposed guppies was less than that of the control group at 9 months. Reduced survival was evident at 6 months in the 18.0 mg/L groups and at 7 months in the 4.5 and 9.0 mg/L groups. Survival was significantly reduced in the 18.0 mg/L core study group within 1 month of the 9-month interim evaluation, and mortality in this group was 42.6% between 9 months and study termination. Nominal exposure concentrations of 4.5, 9.0, and 18.0 mg/L resulted in actual exposure concentrations of 4.4, 8.8, and 18.2 mg/L 1,2,3-trichloropropane, respectively. Guppies in the 18.0 mg/L core study group were significantly longer and weighed more than the controls. Fish in the 18.0 mg/L stop-exposure group also weighed more than the controls. Mortality of fish during the study resulted in unequal numbers of individuals distributed to core study and stop-exposure aquaria at 9 months. This appears to have influenced the length and weight of fish measured at study termination (i.e., the smaller tank population allowed the fish to grow more). Observed differences in weight and length between controls and 18.0 mg/L fish was most likely an artifact of the reduced numbers of fish in the 18.0 mg/L aquaria. At 9 months, multiple hepatocellular adenomas occurred in one 4.5 mg/L male, and one hepatocellular adenoma occurred in a control male. In the core study, increased incidences of cholangiocellular (bile duct) and hepatocellular neoplasms occurred in exposed groups of males and females. Cholangioma and cholangiocarcinoma were seen in several exposed males and females. In the stop-exposure study, increased incidences of hepatocellular neoplasms occurred in 18.0 mg/L males and increased incidences of cholangiocellular (bile duct) neoplasms occurred in 18.0 mg/L females. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
Circadian blood pressure (BP) measurements provide more information on hypertensive complications than office BP measurements. The purpose of this study was to analyze the efficacy of the first-line combination of perindopril 2 mg plus indapamide 0.625 mg versus atenolol 50 mg on BP parameters and variability over 24 h in patients with hypertension.
A double-blind, randomized, controlled, 12-month study comparing perindopril/indapamide and atenolol was performed in 201 patients (age 55.0 years) with uncomplicated sustained essential hypertension. Ambulatory BP measurements (ABPM) were done every 15 min over 24 h.
After 1 year of treatment, the decrease in systolic BP was significantly greater for perindopril/indapamide than for atenolol during the entire 24-h period (-13.8 v -9.2 mm Hg), the daytime and the nighttime periods (P <.01). Diastolic blood pressure (DBP) variations were comparable for the two groups (-7.2 v -8.3 mm Hg, NS). Pulse pressure (PP) reduction was also significantly greater for perindopril/indapamide than for atenolol (for the whole 24 h, -6.6 v -0.9 mm Hg, P <.001). The through to peak (T/P) BP ratio and the smoothness index were comparable in the two groups for DBP. For systolic blood pressure (SBP), higher values of the T/P ratio (0.80 v 0.59) and the smoothness index (1.45 v 0.98; P <.02) were achieved for the perindopril/indapamide combination than for atenolol.
The perindopril/indapamide first-line combination decreased SBP and PP more effectively than atenolol. Moreover, the BP control effect was smooth and consistent throughout the 24-h dosing interval and BP reduction variability was lower than the one induced by atenolol.
Preclinical studies of the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil (Romazicon) have contributed to the understanding of the physical dependence associated with chronic benzodiazepine use; when administered to animals chronically pretreated with benzodiazepines, flumazenil precipitates a withdrawal syndrome. However, few controlled clinical studies have been conducted.
The objective was to characterize the effects of flumazenil in long-term users of therapeutic doses of benzodiazepines.
The acute physiological, participant-rated, and observer-rated effects of intravenously administered flumazenil (1 mg/70 kg) and caffeine (300 mg/70 kg; active drug control) were evaluated in an experimental group of 13 long-term users (mean 4.6 years) of low therapeutic doses (mean 11.2 mg/day diazepam equivalent) relative to a matched group of 13 volunteers without prior exposure to benzodiazepines in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, mixed design.
Whereas the experimental group did not differ from the control group with respect to the effects of placebo, and both groups showed some changes in response to caffeine (e.g., increased blood pressure and anxiety scores), only the experimental group showed considerable changes in physiological measures, participant ratings (e.g., increased ratings of dizziness, blurred vision, heart pounding, feelings of unreality, pins and needles, nausea, sweatiness, noises louder than usual, jitteriness, things moving, sensitivity to touch), and observer ratings in response to flumazenil; in addition, four participants developed panic attacks.
This study clearly demonstrates that flumazenil can precipitate symptoms commonly associated with benzodiazepine withdrawal in chronic low-dose benzodiazepine users.
Deferoxamine (DFO) is a recognized iron chelator which has been shown to exert nephroprotection in models of toxic nephropathies. In the present work the potential protective effects of DFO against Cr(VI)-induced nephrotoxicity and oxidant stress were evaluated. Rats were injected with a single injection (15mg/kg, s.c.) of potassium dichromate (K(2)Cr(2)O(7)). DFO was given as a single i.p. injection 30min before K(2)Cr(2)O(7) administration at three different doses (100, 200 and 400mg/kg). It was found that DFO pretreatment attenuated, in a dose-dependent way, K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-induced renal dysfunction and structural alterations evaluated by serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine clearance, proteinuria, plasma glutathione peroxidase activity, urinary excretion of N-acetyl-β-d-glucosaminidase and histological analyses. Furthermore, DFO prevented the K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-induced renal oxidant stress and the decrease in the activity of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-S-transferase and catalase. Finally it was found that DFO, at 400mg/kg, decreases renal Cr(VI) content which prompted us to evaluate the potential Cr(VI) chelating properties of this compound. Indeed was found in an in vitro assay that DFO was an effective Cr(VI) chelator with an IC(50) of 800μg. In additional groups of rats was found that DFO posttreatment was ineffective to attenuate K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-induced nephrotoxicity and renal oxidant stress. Furthermore, DFO was unable to modify urinary excretion of total chromium. The nephroprotective effect of DFO against Cr(VI)-induced nephrotoxicity and oxidant stress may be explained, at least partially, by the ability of DFO to chelate Cr(VI) and to attenuate renal Cr(VI) content. However, it cannot be excluded that the ability of DFO to chelate iron may also be involved in the protection observed in our study.
Mitochondria are known to be involved in the early stage of apoptosis by releasing cytochrome c, caspase-9, and the second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases (Smac). We have reported that overexpression of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1) reduced superoxide production and ameliorated neuronal injury in the hippocampal CA1 subregion after global ischemia. However, the role of oxygen free radicals produced after ischemia/reperfusion in the mitochondrial signaling pathway has not been clarified. Five minutes of global ischemia was induced in male SOD1-transgenic (Tg) and wild-type (Wt) littermate rats. Cytosolic expression of cytochrome c and Smac and activation of caspases were evaluated by immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and caspase activity assay. Apoptotic cell death was characterized by DNA nick end and single-stranded DNA labeling. In the Wt animals, early superoxide production, mitochondrial release of cytochrome c, Smac, and cleaved caspase-9 were observed after ischemia. Active caspase-3 was subsequently increased, and 85% of the hippocampal CA1 neurons showed apoptotic DNA damage 3 d after ischemia. Tg animals showed less superoxide production and cytochrome c and Smac release. Subsequent active caspase-3 expression was not evident, and only 45% of the neurons showed apoptotic DNA damage. A caspase-3 inhibitor (N-benzyloxycarbonyl-val-ala-asp-fluoromethyl ketone) reduced cell death only in Wt animals. These results suggest that overexpression of SOD1 reduced oxidative stress, thereby attenuating the mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and Smac, resulting in less caspase activation and apoptotic cell death. Oxygen free radicals may play a pivotal role in the mitochondrial signaling pathway of apoptotic cell death in hippocampal CA1 neurons after global ischemia.
To evaluate the application of Ha-ras mRNA antisense oligonucleotide therapy for liver tumors, we examined the frequency and types of mutation in codon 61 of the Ha-ras oncogene in preneoplastic lesions and hepatocellular carcinomas induced by N-nitrosomorpholine (NNM) in rats. Thirty-seven percent of preneoplastic lesions and 50% of hepatocellular carcinomas contained mutations, mostly CAA-CTA and CAA-AAA transversions. We also investigated the effects on NNM-induced lesions of an antisense oligonucleotide directed against a point mutation (CAA-CTA) in codon 61 of Ha-ras mRNA. In this experiment, Sprague-Dawley rats were given free access to water containing NNM for 8 weeks and received twice-weekly i.p. injections of a mutated Ha-ras antisense oligonucleotide with a 5' phosphorothioate linkage or a sense oligonucleotide in oligonucleotide-liposome complexes. At week 16, rats that had received the mutated Ha-ras antisense oligonucleotides had significantly fewer and smaller preneoplastic lesions positive for glutathione-S-transferase, placental type, and had smaller hepatocellular carcinomas than rats that had received the sense oligonucleotide. Mean cellular fluorescence in the liver was found to increase with higher doses of mutated, fluorescein-isothiocyanate-labeled antisense or sense oligonucleotides. Moreover, mutated Ha-ras antisense oligonucleotide decreased the expression of mutated Ha-ras mRNA (CAA-CTA). Our findings indicate that mutated Ha-ras antisense oligonucleotide significantly inhibits hepatocarcinogenesis in rats and could be an effective therapy against liver tumors.
Various cytokines produced by bone marrow cells can protect adult cardiomyocytes against apoptosis. Thus, we investigated the feasibility of implanting adult cardiomyocytes in combination with bone marrow cells for myocardial repair. Ventricular cardiomyocytes were isolated from adult rats and cocultured with bone marrow cells. Using a rat model of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, we injected 6 x 10(5) adult cardiomyocytes, 3 x 10(7) bone marrow cells, or both into damaged hearts, for myocardial repair. Coculture of the cardiomyocytes with the bone marrow cells enhanced the expression of integrin-beta1D and focal adhesion kinase in cardiomyocytes, resulting in increased survival and decreased apoptosis of the cardiomyocytes after 7 days of culture. Compared with the baseline levels, cardiac function was preserved by the implantation of bone marrow cells alone and by the implantation of cardiomyocytes in combination with bone marrow cells, but it was decreased significantly 28 days after the implantation of cardiomyocytes alone. Furthermore, apoptosis of the host cardiomyocytes was decreased significantly after the implantation of bone marrow cells alone, or in combination with cardiomyocytes, compared with that after the implantation of cardiomyocytes alone (p < 0.01). Interestingly, the implantation of adult cardiomyocytes in combination with bone marrow cells resulted in a dramatic increase in the survival of donor cardiomyocytes, and induced the myogenic differentiation of donor bone marrow stem cells. Our findings indicate that cardiomyocytes and bone marrow cells can assist and compliment each other; thus, the implantation of adult cardiomyocytes in combination with bone marrow cells shows promise as a feasible new strategy for myocardial repair.
To date there has been no general consensus regarding the effectiveness of N-acetylcysteine as a protective therapy against contrast medium-induced nephropathy. Several phase III clinical trials have been conducted without a proper understanding of N-acetylcysteine pharmacology, particularly with regard to first-pass hepatic metabolism. A review was conducted of the literature concerning contrast medium-induced nephropathy and new studies of human N-acetylcysteine pharmacology were performed. After an analysis was performed, it was concluded that further phase I and phase II trials are needed. The efficacy of N-acetylcysteine in the prevention of contrast medium-induced nephropathy may be demonstrated with the use of higher doses than used in earlier studies, in combination with parenteral administration.
We investigated the fate of human cord blood CD133+ hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) transplanted intravenously (IV) into irradiated nod-scid mice previously made deaf by ototoxic treatment with kanamycin and/ or intense noise, to verify whether HSC engraft the cochlea and contribute to inner ear restoration, in vivo. We tested the presence of HLA.DQalpha1 by PCR, used for traceability of engrafted cells, finding evidence that HSC migrated to various host tissues, including the organ of Corti (OC). By histology, antibody and lectin-staining analysis, we confirmed that HSC IV transplantation in mice previously damaged by ototoxic agents correlated with the repair process and stimulation ex novo of morphological recovery in the inner ear, while the cochlea of control oto-injured, nontransplanted mice remained seriously damaged. Dual color FISH analysis also provided evidence of positive engraftment in the inner ear and in various mouse tissues, also revealing small numbers of heterokaryons, probably derived from fusion of donor with endogenous cells, for up to 2 months following transplantation. These observations offer the first evidence that transplanted human HSC migrating to the inner ear of oto-injured mice may provide conditions for the resumption of deafened cochlea, emerging as a potential strategy for inner ear rehabilitation.
Peripheral blood mononuclear (PBM) cells from patients with halothane hepatitis are unusually susceptible to damage from phenytoin metabolites generated by an in vitro drug metabolising system. In order to provide more information about the nature of this susceptibility factor, the effect of removing calcium ions (Ca2+) from the incubation medium of the test system was examined. Phenytoin metabolites were generated by incubating phenytoin with beta-naphthoflavone-induced rat liver microsomes in the presence of 1,1,1-trichloropropene oxide (TCPO), an epoxide hydrase inhibitor. When PBM cells from patients who had recovered from halothane hepatitis were incubated in this system and then maintained in Ca(2+)-containing tissue culture medium (without alpha-tocopherol) for 16 h, cell death, as measured by trypan blue exclusion, was greatly increased (53% and 78% at 0.06 mmol/l and 0.12 mmol/l phenytoin, respectively) compared with control incubations (TCPO omitted). Removal of Ca2+ from the tissue culture medium effectively abolished reactive metabolite-induced cell death. Resting cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration in PBM cells was also measured using the quin-2 fluorescence method and total Ca2+ content was measured by atomic absorption spectrometry. Although variability appeared greater among patients, mean values for these parameters among 12 patients with halothane hepatitis did not differ from controls. It is concluded that enhanced permeability of PBM cells to extracellular Ca2+ may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of drug metabolite-induced cell death in patients susceptible to halothane hepatitis. Such permeability to Ca2+ is not evident in resting cells and presumably results from an interaction between electrophilic metabolites and the pumps which regulate cell calcium homeostasis.
Trimidox (3,4,5-trihydroxybenzamidoxime) is one of the most potent ribonucleotide reductase inhibitors, revealing an antitumor effect in several experimental studies. We have examined the effect of trimidox on the induction of cytotoxicity and apoptosis via oxidative stress by typical free radical inducers, hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), tert-butylhydroperoxide (tBuOOH) or ultraviolet (UV) irradiation in a human diffuse histiocytic lymphoma U937 cell line. Trimidox showed strong radical scavenging activity by the DPPH reduction assay. The 50% rate inhibited the DPPH reduction concentration of trimidox, and its derivates didox, or gallic acid were 8.8 microM, 117.5 microM, or 41.8 microM, respectively. Induction of cytotoxicity by H(2)O(2) (500 microM) or tBuOOH (100 microM) was concentration-dependently attenuated by incubation with Trimidox (10-150 microM). Trimidox also prevented the effect of UV-induced apoptosis estimated by both nuclear morphological change and DNA fragmentation. This effect was due to inhibition of the production of reactive oxygen species. Moreover, the activity and mRNA expression of catalase, an antioxidant enzyme, was significantly increased by trimidox. These results indicate that trimidox has radical scavenging activity and prevents exogenous oxidative stress and increase in catalase; therefore, trimidox is suggested as an anticancer agent exhibiting potent antioxidant properties in this study.
Continuous exposure to high concentrations of hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] in drinking water results in intestinal tumors in mice but not rats. Concentration-dependent gene expression effects were evaluated in female F344 rat duodenal and jejunal epithelia following 7 and 90 days of exposure to 0.3-520 mg/L (as sodium dichromate dihydrate, SDD) in drinking water. Whole-genome microarrays identified 3269 and 1815 duodenal, and 4557 and 1534 jejunal differentially expressed genes at 8 and 91 days, respectively, with significant overlaps between the intestinal segments. Functional annotation identified gene expression changes associated with oxidative stress, cell cycle, cell death, and immune response that were consistent with reported changes in redox status and histopathology. Comparative analysis with B6C3F1 mouse data from a similarly designed study identified 2790 differentially expressed rat orthologs in the duodenum compared to 5013 mouse orthologs at day 8, and only 1504 rat and 3484 mouse orthologs at day 91. Automated dose-response modeling resulted in similar median EC₅₀s in the rodent duodenal and jejunal mucosae. Comparative examination of differentially expressed genes also identified divergently regulated orthologs. Comparable numbers of differentially expressed genes were observed at equivalent Cr concentrations (μg Cr/g duodenum). However, mice accumulated higher Cr levels than rats at ≥ 170 mg/L SDD, resulting in a ~2-fold increase in the number of differentially expressed genes. These qualitative and quantitative differences in differential gene expression, which correlate with differences in tissue dose, likely contribute to the disparate intestinal tumor outcomes.
The purpose of these studies was to examine the role of gene expression in methamphetamine (METH)-induced dopamine (DA) neurotoxicity. First, the effects of the mRNA synthesis inhibitor, actinomycin-D, and the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, were examined. Both agents afforded complete protection against METH-induced DA neurotoxicity and did so independently of effects on core temperature, DA transporter function, or METH brain levels, suggesting that gene transcription and mRNA translation play a role in METH neurotoxicity. Next, microarray technology, in combination with an experimental approach designed to facilitate recognition of relevant gene expression patterns, was used to identify gene products linked to METH-induced DA neurotoxicity. This led to the identification of several genes in the ventral midbrain associated with the neurotoxic process, including genes for energy metabolism [cytochrome c oxidase subunit 1 (COX1), reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ubiquinone oxidoreductase chain 2, and phosphoglycerate mutase B], ion regulation (members of sodium/hydrogen exchanger and sodium/bile acid cotransporter family), signal transduction (adenylyl cyclase III), and cell differentiation and degeneration (N-myc downstream-regulated gene 3 and tau protein). Of these differentially expressed genes, we elected to further examine the increase in COX1 expression, because of data implicating energy utilization in METH neurotoxicity and the known role of COX1 in energy metabolism. On the basis of time course studies, Northern blot analyses, in situ hybridization results, and temperature studies, we now report that increased COX1 expression in the ventral midbrain is linked to METH-induced DA neuronal injury. The precise role of COX1 and other genes in METH neurotoxicity remains to be elucidated.
Recent reports indicate that most coronary events originate from plaques causing <50% diameter stenosis. A subgroup analysis of the Bezafibrate Coronary Atherosclerosis Intervention Trial (BECAIT) data was undertaken to determine the effects of bezafibrate in relation to baseline narrowing. BECAIT included 92 male postacute myocardial infarction patients <45 years of age. Each received double-blind treatment with bezafibrate (200 mg 3 times daily) or placebo for 5 years, together with a low-fat diet. Coronary angiography was performed at baseline and after 2 and 5 years. The mean minimum lumen diameter of lesions causing 20% to <50% diameter stenosis at baseline did not narrow over 5 years in the bezafibrate group and decreased by 0.15 mm in the placebo group (p <0.05). In segments with > or =50% diameter stenosis at baseline, no change was seen in either of the 2 groups. In the analysis including only segments with 20% to <50% stenosis at baseline, coronary events were seen in 7 of 40 patients with a progression in minimum lumen diameter of more than the median value and in 3 of 41 patients with a change less than the median value. Thus, bezafibrate had a preferential effect in slowing the progression of narrowings causing <50% stenosis at baseline in young men followed up for a 5-year period after acute myocardial infarction.
Although methemoglobinemia following aluminum phosphide (AlP) intoxication has been reported, probable effect of blood level of methemoglobin (Met-Hb) on outcome of AlP-poisoned patients has not yet been investigated. This study aimed to evaluate blood levels of methemoglobin in patients with AP intoxication and its correlation with patient's outcome. This prospective study was carried out at the Loghman-Hakim poison hospital from April 2009 to August 2009. All patients aged >12 years who had ingested AlP and were admitted at the hospital were enrolled in the study. Using the co-oximetry, blood Met-Hb level was measured at the time of admission and 24 h later if the patient survived. Forty-eight patients with AlP intoxication including 24 males were evaluated. Mean age of the patients was 25.5±9.5 years. There was significant association between blood level of Met-Hb at the time of admission and mortality (2.4%±7.1% in survivors versus 15.2%±13.5% in non-survivors, P<0.001). The same association was found at the 2nd day of admission (2.9%±8.2% in survivors versus 26.5%±9.9% in non-survivors, P=0.02). The present study found an association between blood level of Met-Hb and mortality in patients with AlP intoxication. Effect of administration of vitamin C and methylene blue on outcome of patients with AlP intoxication should be investigated in future studies.
The hypothermic effect of d-amphetamine was investigated in rats in which vasoconstriction or vasodilation was induced by pharmacological agents: aramine as vasoconstrictor and neprasol as vasodilator. The d-amphetamine-induced hypothermia was enhanced by both drugs among rats kept at 4 degrees C, and both drugs were unable to modify the d-amphetamine-induced hypothermia. These results indicate that although vasoconstriction and vasodilation play a major role in thermoregulation, d-amphetamine-induced hypothermia is not mediated peripherally by vasoconstriction. Since changes in basal metabolic rate, motor activity, food intake and vasoconstriction are not the peripheral mechanisms by which d-amphetamine induced hypothermia, the mechanisms is still unknown.
To report the pathology, toxicology, cause, and manner of death in 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)-associated fatalities in the United States. Although use trends are increasing, data regarding the hazards of MDMA are limited.
The authors obtained fatality reports from participating medical examiners in the United States. Cases were identified as "drug-unrelated" when MDMA did not directly cause death (e.g., motor vehicle collision); deaths from drug toxicity were judged "drug-related."
Thirty-eight (8%) of the surveyed medical examiners reported 102 deaths associated with MDMA use from 1999 to 2001. Ten percent of fatalities occurred in 1999 and 90% thereafter, representing a 400% relative increase. Victims tended to be young (mean age = 25), white (n = 87 [85%]), male (n = 70 [69%]), and otherwise healthy. Seventy-one (70%) deaths were drug-related (DR) and 31 (30%) were drug-unrelated (DU). Twenty-four (35%) DR deaths had a mean delay of 6.7 hours (95% CI = 5.1 to 8.2) in activating emergency medical services. Fifty-five DR cases (81%) were found in asystole and pronounced dead at the scene.
The MDMA-associated fatal events typically occur in young, otherwise healthy individuals. MDMA's impact on the public health and safety of young adults and teenagers needs further assessment.
