The authors report the case of a patient who received amitriptyline on 2 occasions. On both occasions, she had fever and jaundice. On the second episode, hepatitis was severe with hepatic encephalopathy, ascites, increased prothrombin time, and massive hepatic necrosis. After interruption of the drug administration, the patient made a slow but complete recovery.
Chronic cocaine abuse causes cardiac dysfunction and induces oxidative stress. The goal of this study was to evaluate whether an enhanced antioxidant pool, induced by the administration of selenium, may prevent the myocardial dysfunction induced by cocaine. Cocaine was administered for 7 days (15 mg/kg/day, i.p.) to rats pretreated for 4 weeks with selenium (1.16 mg/L/day, p.o.). Cardiac function was evaluated by cardiac index and left ventricular (LV) fractional shortening (FS) measured by echocardiography. The redox ratio and enzymatic activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPX) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) were measured in the LV myocardium. Cocaine administration induced a cardiac dysfunction, as evidenced by a decrease in cardiac index and LV FS as well as by an increase in LV diameters. Moreover, antioxidant markers and redox ratio were altered in rats after cocaine exposure. Selenite supplementation induced a significant limitation of cardiac index and FS alterations observed after cocaine administration. This improvement in cardiac function was associated with a redox ratio recovery while SOD and GPX activities remained unchanged. Thus, selenite reversed both the oxidative stress and the contractile dysfunction induced by cocaine administration. These results suggest a major role of oxidative stress in the cocaine-induced cardiotoxicity.
Recent knowledge regarding the effect of epileptic seizures in pregnant women on newborns was limited and, therefore, it was difficult to suggest the proper clinical guidelines and to take precautions against it. Studies evaluating the morphological effects of epileptic seizure during pregnancy on newborns in various experimental models are valuable. Therefore, the current study was designed to investigate the morphological changes in the cerebellum of newborn pups of rats subjected to experimental epilepsy during pregnancy.
Swiss Albino rats were divided into three groups (six animals in each). In the first group (experimental group) an acute grand mal epileptic seizure was induced by 400 IU penicillin-G administration into their intrahippocampal CA3 region with a stereotaxic device during the 13th day of their pregnancy. The second group (intrahippocampal saline-injected sham group) and the third group (untreated animals) were the control groups. On the 1st neonatal day, pups were perfused with intracardiac fixative solution under anesthesia, and newborn cerebellums were dissected surgically for light and electron microscopic studies.
In an immunohistochemical study using Rat-401 monoclonal antibody and peroxidase, the intermediate filament nestin was detected in the developing cerebellar tissue. Histologically, normal migration and cerebellar maturation were determined in the newborn rat cerebellum in the control and sham-operated groups. It was observed that the morphological structure of the cerebellar cortex in the experimental group was compromised in the early embryonal period. In contrast to the control and sham groups, it was found that nestin (+) cell density was increased in the experimental epilepsy group.
It has been concluded that epileptic convulsions during embryonic life may cause early neurogenesis and delayed maturation, which explains the harmful effects of epileptic grand mal seizures, hypoxia, and obstetric trauma to the embryo at the early stage of neuronal differentiation. However, further studies are necessary to investigate epileptic pregnant phenomena and to characterize the possible relationship between epilepsy and congenital malformations as well as mental retardation.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), a malignancy characterized by its rapid progression, presents a lower risk of occurrence in women during their reproductive years. Necrosis of brain tissue during tumor invasion releases free lipids, and therefore might release contaminants stored in phospholipid-rich neuronal tissue. This study assesses the growth response of two human glioblastoma cell lines, T98G and U138-MG, treated with environmental chemicals known or likely to persist within the brain. Persistent chlorinated pesticides, industrial contaminants, persistent perfluorinated chemicals, and steroid hormones were assayed over a range of concentrations. Although cytotoxic effects were seen in both T98G and U138-MG cells, proliferative responses occurred only in the T98G cell line. Dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE), and polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) 153 were cytotoxic in both lines at 5000 nM. Perfluorodecanoic acid (PFDA), perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), and testosterone stimulated proliferation in the T98G cells at 500, 1000, and 1000 nM, respectively. However, a perfluorinated salt (ammonium perfluorooctanoate; C8) and a weak androgen (dihydroepiandrosterone; DHEA) did not affect relative cell number in this GBM line, suggesting the proliferative effect is not through the activation of an androgen receptor. Exposure to environmental chemicals that result in a mitogenic response may increase the rate of glioblastoma tumor growth and result in the development of more aggressive forms of GBM tumors.
The emergence of resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) with the L528M mutation and/or the M552V and M552I mutations in the polymerase gene following long-term lamivudine treatment is becoming an important clinical problem. The aim of this study was to investigate the susceptibility of wild-type and lamivudine-resistant HBV to MCC-478 (LY582563), a novel nucleoside analogue derivative of phosphonomethoxyethyl purine. The susceptibility of wild-type HBV and lamivudine-resistant mutants (M552I, M552V, and L528M/M552V) to MCC-478 was examined by transient transfection of full-length HBV DNA into human hepatoma cells. HBV DNA replication was monitored by Southern blot hybridization, and the effective concentration required to reduce replication by 50% (EC(50)) was determined. The replicative intermediates of wild-type and lamivudine-resistant mutants were progressively diminished by treatment with increasing doses of MCC-478. The MCC-478 EC(50)s were 0.027 microM for wild-type HBV (about 20 times more efficient than lamivudine), 2.6 microM for M552I, 3.3 microM for M552V, and 2.0 microM for L528M/M552V. Wild-type HBV and lamivudine-resistant mutants are susceptible to MCC-478. MCC-478 appears to be a candidate for the treatment of HBV infection and exhibits potent activity against lamivudine-resistant HBV.
The literature on the association between prenatal illicit drug use and birth defects is inconsistent. The objective of this study was to determine the risk of a variety of birth defects with prenatal illicit drug use. Data were derived from an active, population-based adverse pregnancy outcome registry. Cases were all infants and fetuses with any of 54 selected birth defects delivered during 1986-2002. The prenatal methamphetamine, cocaine, or marijuana use rates were calculated for each birth defect and compared to the prenatal use rates among all deliveries. Among all deliveries, the prenatal use rate was 0.52% for methamphetamine, 0.18% for cocaine, and 0.26% for marijuana. Methamphetamine rates were significantly higher than expected for 14 (26%) of the birth defects. Cocaine rates were significantly higher than expected for 13 (24%) of the birth defects. Marijuana rates were significantly higher than expected for 21 (39%) of the birth defects. Increased risk for the three drugs occurred predominantly among birth defects associated with the central nervous system, cardiovascular system, oral clefts, and limbs. There was also increased risk of marijuana use among a variety of birth defects associated with the gastrointestinal system. Prenatal uses of methamphetamine, cocaine, and marijuana are all associated with increased risk of a variety of birth defects. The affected birth defects are primarily associated with particular organ systems.
Two common disorders of the elderly are heart failure and Alzheimer disease (AD). Heart failure usually results from dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). DCM of unknown cause in families has recently been shown to result from genetic disease, highlighting newly discovered disease mechanisms. AD is the most frequent neurodegenerative disease of older Americans. Familial AD is caused most commonly by presenilin 1 (PSEN1) or presenilin 2 (PSEN2) mutations, a discovery that has greatly advanced the field. The presenilins are also expressed in the heart and are critical to cardiac development. We hypothesized that mutations in presenilins may also be associated with DCM and that their discovery could provide new insight into the pathogenesis of DCM and heart failure. A total of 315 index patients with DCM were evaluated for sequence variation in PSEN1 and PSEN2. Families positive for mutations underwent additional clinical, genetic, and functional studies. A novel PSEN1 missense mutation (Asp333Gly) was identified in one family, and a single PSEN2 missense mutation (Ser130Leu) was found in two other families. Both mutations segregated with DCM and heart failure. The PSEN1 mutation was associated with complete penetrance and progressive disease that resulted in the necessity of cardiac transplantation or in death. The PSEN2 mutation showed partial penetrance, milder disease, and a more favorable prognosis. Calcium signaling was altered in cultured skin fibroblasts from PSEN1 and PSEN2 mutation carriers. These data indicate that PSEN1 and PSEN2 mutations are associated with DCM and heart failure and implicate novel mechanisms of myocardial disease.
The objective of this study was to examine the effects of alcohol and cocaine misuse on periodontal status in a group of alcohol-dependent patients.
Forty verified alcoholics, either exclusively (n = 10) or with cocaine abuse (n = 30), and a matched comparison group of 25 non-alcoholic subjects, 14 of whom abused cocaine, were entered in the study. All subjects were free from systemic illnesses. Blood levels of gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGTP), a liver enzyme indicator of alcohol drinking, were determined. A comprehensive periodontal examination was performed on 6 sites per tooth. The gingival index (GI) and plaque index (PI) were recorded. Attachment levels (AL) were computed as probing depth (PD) plus gingival margin level (GM).
No statistically significant differences were noted between the groups for average AL, PD, GM, GI, and PI. In alcoholics, Pearson correlation showed a positive association between GGTP levels and loss of periodontal attachment (P<0.05). A series of regression analyses predicting AL from selected periodontal and demographic factors showed that alcoholics manifest AL by greater increases in GM than non-alcoholics (P<0.07). Severe alcohol use as measured by GGTP >51 iu/l worsens PI (P<0.07), which adversely impacts GM, GI, PD, and ultimately AL. No significant associations were found between cocaine use and AL.
The results suggest that persistent alcohol abuse increases periodontitis development by heightening the loss of attachment through recession of gingival margins.
A 47-year-old male had bilateral upper extremity thrombophlebitis after use of intravenous amiodarone for sustained ventricular tachycardia complicating myocardial infarction. Intravenous amiodarone has been widely used since it was introduced 20 years ago for severe intractable arrhythmias. Superficial thrombophlebitis was frequently noted in the early case reports when high-dose intravenous amiodarone was used. Superficial thrombophlebitis could extend hospitalization and become a significant source of distress to our patients. Some authors recommend insertion of a central line to administer intravenous amiodarone especially with expected extended use of therapy. The treating physician should be vigilant and switch from intravenous therapy to oral therapy as soon as the patient's condition stabilizes and oral therapy can be started.
Cocaine-induced increases in catecholamines and the resulting enhanced activation of myocardial adrenergic receptors could contribute significantly to the formation of ventricular fibrillation (VF). In order to test this hypothesis, a 2-min coronary occlusion was initiated during the last minute of exercise in instrumented mongrel dogs. Forty-one animals were selected in which this test failed to provoke ventricular arrhythmias. The test was repeated after cocaine HCl (1.0 mg/kg). Cocaine significantly (P < .01) increased heart rate, left ventricular systolic pressure and positive left ventricular dP/dt, as well as elicited VF in 34 animals. The cocaine exercise plus ischemia test was repeated in animals after pretreatment with either the beta adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol HCl (1.0 mg/kg, n = 14) or the alpha adrenergic receptor antagonist prazosin HCl (0.5 mg/kg, n = 15). Both propranolol and prazosin reduced the hemodynamic effects of cocaine and prevented VF in 12 of 14 and 12 of 15 animals, respectively. The studies were then repeated with heart rate matched to the cocaine heart rate by ventricular pacing. Prazosin (n = 5) but not propranolol (n = 4) still prevented VF even with heart rate held constant. Finally, the alpha-1A adrenergic receptor subtype antagonist WB4101 (2.0 mg/kg, n = 10) also prevented cocaine VF in 7 of 10 animals without changing heart rate. In contrast, the alpha-1B adrenergic receptor antagonist chloroethylclonidine (2.0 mg/kg, n = 3) failed to prevent VF. Thus, alpha but not beta adrenergic receptor antagonists can prevent cocaine-induced malignant arrhythmias independently of their action on heart rate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tumor cells induce excessive osteoclastogenesis, mediating pathologic bone resorption and subsequent release of growth factors and calcium from bone matrix, resulting in a "vicious cycle" of bone breakdown and tumor proliferation. RANK ligand (RANKL) is an essential mediator of osteoclast formation, function, and survival. In metastatic prostate cancer models, RANKL inhibition directly prevents osteolysis via blockade of osteoclastogenesis and indirectly reduces progression of skeletal tumor burden by reducing local growth factor and calcium concentrations. Docetaxel, a well-established chemotherapy for metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer, arrests the cell cycle and induces apoptosis of tumor cells. Suppression of osteoclastogenesis through RANKL inhibition may enhance the effects of docetaxel on skeletal tumors. We evaluated the combination of the RANKL inhibitor osteoprotegerin-Fc (OPG-Fc) with docetaxel in a murine model of prostate cancer bone metastasis. Tumor progression, tumor area, and tumor proliferation and apoptosis were assessed. OPG-Fc alone reduced bone resorption (P < 0.001 versus PBS), inhibited progression of established osteolytic lesions, and reduced tumor area (P < 0.0001 versus PBS). Docetaxel alone reduced tumor burden (P < 0.0001 versus PBS) and delayed the development of osteolytic lesions. OPG-Fc in combination with docetaxel suppressed skeletal tumor burden (P = 0.0005) and increased median survival time by 16.7% (P = 0.0385) compared with docetaxel alone. RANKL inhibition may enhance docetaxel effects by increasing tumor cell apoptosis as evident by increased active caspase-3. These studies show that inhibition of RANKL provides an additive benefit to docetaxel treatment in a murine model of prostate cancer bone metastasis and supports clinical evaluation of this treatment option in patients.
Cocaine abuse kills thousands every year. Preexisting coronary artery disease appears to account for many of the deaths, but often the mechanism is much more complex. There exists a widely held but utterly mistaken notion that cocaine-related deaths are due to drug overdose. Except in the case of drug couriers ("body packers") with massive drug exposure, death is not dose related, and cocaine blood levels cannot be used to predict toxicity. Most deaths occur after prolonged drug use, which initiates a series of changes at the molecular, cellular, and tissue levels. All of these changes favor sudden death. Potentially lethal myocardial alterations include hypertrophy, fibrosis, and microangiopathy. Recently it has become clear that genetic causes, such as fully or partially expressed congenital long QT syndrome, may also play a role. The relative importance of each of these factors is reviewed.
Twenty patients (13 males and seven females) with a biopsy-proven diagnosis of myocarditis underwent a period of treatment with prednisone and azathioprine. The primary objective of the study was the observation of histologic changes which occur during treatment and after treatment withdrawal. The secondary objective was the detection, if any, of changes in left ventricular ejection fraction. Multiple endomyocardial biopsies were obtained and the treatment was adjusted in order to achieve complete disappearance of the myocardial inflammation. The histologic status was improved in all patients, although complete disappearance of the signs of active disease was seen in 15 patients only. Two patients died during the observation period. A clear relationship between histologic status and immunosuppression was established in some patients (50% of all cases showed a worsening after withdrawal from the treatment). An overall improvement of the ejection fraction was observed (from 0.37 +/- 0.14 to 0.46 +/- 0.17), but a direct effect of the treatment on the recovery of ventricular function cannot be stated. In some patients, however, a direct relationship between the histological changes and the changes in ejection fraction was seen. These data suggest that treatment with prednisone and azathioprine may be beneficial in some patients with biopsy-proven myocarditis and depressed ventricular function.
A study using high-dose aspirin treatment for HIV infection was stopped due to side effects, including reduction in red blood cells and a modest increase in liver enzymes. When treatment stopped, lab values returned to normal. Material strongly cautioning people about trying aspirin on their own was released in connection to the study. A related drug, salasalate, is being tested in a clinical trial as well, but it is still not known whether it is safe or effective for treatment of HIV disease. The Community Research Initiative has other studies that are enrolling, such as one using U-90, also known as delavirdine. Results from this drug appear promising.
Two bipolar depressed patients and one unipolar depressed patient developed manic symptoms after receiving trazodone. The symptoms resolved when the treatment was discontinued or reduced. We believe the two bipolar patients are the first cases of this reaction reported in the literature.
Calcitriol-mediated hypercalcemia resulting from elevated extrarenal 25-hydroxyvitamin D-1alpha-hydroxylase (1alpha-hydroxylase) activity has not previously been described in giant cell polymyositis.
We report an unusual case of hypercalcemia due to disseminated granulomatous disease in a 62-yr-old woman with profound proximal muscle weakness and weight loss. She was initially diagnosed with vitamin D deficiency myopathy with a low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D; serum calcium at this time was low-normal. Vitamin D(3) 3000 IU daily was prescribed. One month later, blood work showed new hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria with normalized 25-hydroxyvitamin D. 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D was high-normal, despite a suppressed PTH, undetectable PTHrP, and essentially normal renal function. Her hypercalcemia resolved, and her strength improved only after prednisone was added to bisphosphonate therapy. Two weeks later, she died from acute congestive heart failure.
Autopsy revealed a disseminated giant cell myositis affecting skeletal, cardiac, and gastrointestinal smooth muscle. Immunohistochemistry localized 1alpha-hydroxylase to the inflammatory infiltrates in skeletal and cardiac muscle.
A review of English publications in Medline and Embase, including a reference search of retrieved articles, revealed that calcitriol-mediated hypercalcemia has been described in over 30 conditions, most of which are granulomatous in nature, ranging from inflammatory conditions and foreign body exposures to infections and neoplasms.
Hypercalcemia resulting from autonomous 1alpha-hydroxylase activity may be unmasked by low-dose vitamin D supplementation and should not be excluded from the differential diagnosis of nonparathyroid causes if the serum calcitriol is inappropriately normal, rather than frankly elevated.
The authors present a case study of a mentally healthy man who repeatedly experienced short-lived, obsessional-like suicidal ideas and images after ingestion of the anti-fungal drug ketoconazole. Ego-alien, suicidal ideas are an extremely rare form of adverse drug reaction. This is probably the first report of drug-induced ego-dystonic, mood incongruent suicidal ideas appearing in a fully conscious, healthy individual.
Clinical as well as experimental studies have demonstrated a 70% reduction in utero-placental blood flow in pregnancies affected by severe hypertension (13, 19). In pregnant renal hypertensive rats, propranolol administration causes a further 50% reduction in utero-placental blood flow (16). The present study on renal hypertensive rats was performed in order to explore the acute effects on central haemodynamics and utero-placental blood flow of the non-selective beta-blocker pindolol, which also has an intrinsic beta-stimulatory effect. Renal hypertension was induced by partial clamping of both renal arteries in female Wistar rats 4 weeks before pregnancy. Some 2-4 days before expected parturition, cardiac output was determined with the dye-dilution technique and blood flow to the reproductive organs with the microsphere technique, both before and after acute pindolol administration. Mean arterial pressure and heart rate were recorded continuously during the experiment. After pindolol injection, mean arterial pressure fell by 22% due to a 38% reduction in total peripheral resistance. No significant changes in cardiac output, stroke volume or heart rate were found. Placental blood flow was significantly reduced, by 30%, whereas myometrial and ovarian blood flows were reduced by only 18 and 9%, respectively. Thus, the reduction in blood supply to the reproductive organs in renal hypertensive rats after acute pindolol administration was most pronounced in the placenta. This reduction in placental flow was, however, only about half as pronounced as after propranolol, which lacks intrinsic beta-stimulatory effects. This may suggest that vasodilating beta-receptors may play an important role in the maternal placental vascular bed.
Delayed treatment with aminoguanidine (AG), a relatively selective inhibitor of inducible nitric oxide synthase, ameliorates brain damage produced by occlusion of the rat's middle cerebral artery (MCA). We investigated whether the protection exerted by AG is dose-dependent and whether it is associated with improved neurologic outcome. We also studied the effect of the timing of administration of AG relative to the induction of cerebral ischemia. Halothane-anesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats underwent permanent MCA occlusion distal to the lenticulostriate branches. Neurologic deficits were assessed daily by the postural reflex test and beam balance test. Infarct volume was determined in thionin- stained sections 96 hours after ischemia and values corrected for swelling. Treatment with AG (intraperitoneally, twice daily), starting 24 hours after MCA occlusion, decreased neocortical infarct volume in comparison to vehicle-treated rats. After correction for swelling, the decrease was 8 +/- 12% at 50 mg/kg (n = 8; P > .05; analysis of variance), 25 +/- 13% at 100 mg/kg (n = 7; P < .05), 30 +/- 16% at 200 mg/kg (n = 7; P < .05) and 32 +/- 9% at 400 mg/kg (n = 5; P < .05). Twenty-four hours after induction of ischemia neurologic deficits scores did not differ between treated and untreated rats (P > .05). However, from 48 to 96 hours after ischemia, neurologic deficits improved significantly in rats treated with AG (100 to 400 mg/kg) compared to rats in which vehicle was administered (P < .05). The decrease in neocortical infarct volume was greatest when AG (100 mg/ kg; twice daily) was administered 12 (26 +/- 17%; n = 9) or 24 hours (25 +/- 13, n = 7) after MCA occlusion. The findings show that AG decreases ischemic brain damage dose-dependently and improves neurologic recovery. Delayed treatment with AG may be a therapeutic strategy to selectively target the evolution of ischemic damage that occurs in the post-ischemic period.
Many trauma patients have been consuming alcohol at the time of injury. Although high concentrations of alcohol are correlated with poor outcome, few studies have examined the effects of low levels of alcohol. We examined the effects of low alcohol exposure after burn injury using a murine model.
Three- and 18-month-old mice were given ethanol or saline 30 minutes before a 15% total body surface area burn injury. Twenty-four hours after injury, cellular immune responses, including delayed-type hypersensitivity response and splenocyte proliferation were examined, along with production of interferon-gamma, interleukin (IL)-2, and IL-4.
Alcohol administration resulted in a significant increase in interferon-gamma in the aged, but not young, burn-injured mice. Likewise, slight increases in IL-2, IL-4, and the delayed-type hypersensitivity response were observed.
Low levels of ethanol at the time of injury are associated with partial restoration of immune responses in aged mice.
The present experiments were designed to determine if an opiate antagonist affects blood pressure in two-kidney one-clip Goldblatt rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups. Group 1 received an infusion of saline intraperitoneally via an osmotic pump and left renal artery constriction (RAC). In group 2, rats were treated the same as group 1, except that they received an intraperitoneal infusion of naloxone (100 micrograms/h). Group 3 received the same infusion of naloxone without RAC. Naloxone-infused Goldblatt rats showed a significantly lower systolic blood pressure (SBP) than saline-infused Goldblatt rats (132 +/- 7 vs. 160 +/- 9 mmHg at day 14), but a higher SBP than control (132 +/- 7 vs. 106 +/- 1 mmHg). Infusion of naloxone did not significantly change SBP in normotensive rats. Renal renin activity in the clipped kidney was higher than in the nonclipped kidney in groups 1 and 2. Plasma renin activity (PRA) in both groups of Goldblatt rats was higher than in group 3, but no significant difference was found between the two groups of Goldblatt rats (groups 1 and 2). Naloxone (1.5 microM) did not affect the basal secretion of renin by isolated cortical slices from untreated rats. The present data demonstrate that naloxone significantly attenuates the development of hypertension in two-kidney one-clip rats. The attenuation of blood pressure was not associated with the changes in PRA, renal renin activity, or plasma aldosterone concentrations. The data support the hypothesis that the endogenous opioid system may be involved in the development of renovascular hypertension.
Pitt-Hopkins syndrome (PHS) is a rare syndromic encephalopathy characterized by daily bouts of hyperventilation and a facial gestalt. We report a 1.8-Mb de novo microdeletion on chromosome 18q21.1, identified by array-comparative genomic hybridization in one patient with PHS. We subsequently identified two de novo heterozygous missense mutations of a conserved amino acid in the basic region of the TCF4 gene in three additional subjects with PHS. These findings demonstrate that TCF4 anomalies are responsible for PHS and provide the first evidence of a human disorder related to class I basic helix-loop-helix transcription-factor defects (also known as "E proteins"). Moreover, our data may shed new light on the normal processes underlying autonomic nervous system development and maintenance of an appropriate ventilatory neuronal circuitry.
Ouabain has recently been identified as an endogenous Na+-K+ pump inhibitor having a close association with hypertension. However, some patients with hypertention do not show high levels of endogenous ouabain (EO), and patients with high EO levels do not necessarily suffer from hypertention. It is believed that the Na+-K+-ATPase activity in essential hypertension does not undergo homogenous change. The present study was designed, therefore, to investigate the expression and the significance of the Na+-K+-ATPase alpha-subunit isoforms in kidney tissue in ouabain-hypertensive rats. Ouabain was administered chronically to establish a model of ouabain-hypertensive rats. Biochemical analysis, cytobiology and sABC immunohistochemistry were they used to assay for expression of Na+-K+-ATPase alpha-subunit isoforms in kidney tissue. After the first week of receiving ouabain, 65% (n=13) of rats had hypertension. After the second week, the blood pressure of these 13 hypertensive rats was increased significantly compared to the baseline and control levels (p<0.05). The plasma renin activity was normal, and angiotensin II and aldosterone levels were increased significantly in these rats (p<0.05). But in the other 35% (n=7) of rats of the experimental group, there was no apparent increase in blood pressure after receiving ouabain. The plasma ouabain level in the non-hypertensive subgroup was significantly higher than that in the hypertensive subgroup, but the 86Rb intake and the number of 3H-ouabain binding sites did not decrease. The Na+-K+-ATPase activity showed non-homogeneous changes. In hypertensive rats, the expression levels of ouabain paralleled the degree of hypertension (r=0.88, p<0.05). The positive granules were mainly scattered in the cytoblastoma of the reticular zone of adrenal cortex. There were thus different levels of expression of Na+-K+-ATPase alpha-subunit isoforms in this model. In the hypertension subgroup the alpha1 was most strongly expressed, followed by the alpha2 and alpha3 isforms. But in the non-hypertensive subgroup the order was alpha3 > alpha2 > alpha1. The positive granular was mainly scattered in the convoluted tubules of the kidney. These results suggest that the high level of ouabain and the change of the Na+-K+-ATPase alpha-subunit isoforms may play a critical role in hypertension.
One in seven couples worldwide are infertile, and male factor infertility accounts for approximately 30%-50% of these cases. Although many genes are known to be essential for gametogenesis, there are surprisingly few monogenic mutations that have been conclusively demonstrated to cause human spermatogenic failure. A nuclear receptor, NR5A1 (also called steroidogenic factor 1), is a key transcriptional regulator of genes involved in the hypothalamic-pituitary-steroidogenic axis, and it is expressed in the steroidogenic tissue of the developing and adult human gonad. Mutations of NR5A1 have been reported in 46,XY disorders of sex development and in 46,XX primary ovarian insufficiency. To test the hypothesis that mutations in NR5A1 cause male infertility, we sequenced NR5A1 in 315 men with idiopathic spermatogenic failure. We identified seven men with severe spermatogenic failure who carried missense mutations in NR5A1. Functional studies indicated that these mutations impaired NR5A1 transactivational activity. We did not observe these mutations in more than 4000 control alleles, including the entire coding sequence of 359 normospermic men and 370 fertile male controls. NR5A1 mutations are found in approximately 4% of men with otherwise unexplained severe spermatogenic failure.
In a systematic sequencing screen of the coding exons of the X chromosome in 250 families with X-linked mental retardation (XLMR), we identified two nonsense mutations and one consensus splice-site mutation in the AP1S2 gene on Xp22 in three families. Affected individuals in these families showed mild-to-profound mental retardation. Other features included hypotonia early in life and delay in walking. AP1S2 encodes an adaptin protein that constitutes part of the adaptor protein complex found at the cytoplasmic face of coated vesicles located at the Golgi complex. The complex mediates the recruitment of clathrin to the vesicle membrane. Aberrant endocytic processing through disruption of adaptor protein complexes is likely to result from the AP1S2 mutations identified in the three XLMR-affected families, and such defects may plausibly cause abnormal synaptic development and function. AP1S2 is the first reported XLMR gene that encodes a protein directly involved in the assembly of endocytic vesicles.
Free radicals are highly reactive species which played an important role in the pathogenesis of acute inflammation. In this study, the protective role of the known antioxidant, thioctic acid, in carrageenan-induced acute inflammation in rats was assessed and was compared to the reference non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) indomethacin. In addition, the roles of oxidative stress, nitric oxide (NO), inducible cyclooxygenase isoform (COX-2) and interleukin (IL)-10 mRNA expressions in thioctic acid-induced effects were also investigated. Inflammation was induced by injection of 0.1 ml of 1.5% carrageenan into the plantar side of right hind paws of the rats. Thioctic acid (50, 100 or 200 mg/kg), indomethacin (10 mg/kg), DMSO and saline were injected i.p. 2 h before carrageenan injection. The percentage increase in paw weight was calculated. Frozen hind paw were used for estimation of lipid peroxides (MDA), NO, GSH, COX-2 and IL-10 mRNA expression. Formalin fixed hind paw were used for histopathological examination. Thioctic acid (200 mg/kg) reduced both paw edema formation and lymphocytes infiltration more significant than indomethacin itself: Both thioctic acid and indomethacin reduced paw MDA and NO formation. In addition, both agents restored the depleted GSH contents in the paw. Thioctic acid decreased the elevated COX-2 mRNA while indomethacin, failed. Furthermore, thioctic acid increased IL-10 mRNA expression while indomethacin decreased its expression. Thioctic acid exhibited a potent anti-inflammatory effect on carrageenan-induced inflammation compared to the NSAID indomethacin. The mechanisms of thioctic induced protection were proved to be due to reduction of NO, MDA, COX-2 mRNA and induction of GSH, IL-10 mRNA.
The major source of superoxide (.O2-) in vascular tissues is an NADH/NADPH-dependent, membrane-bound oxidase. We have previously shown that this oxidase is activated in angiotensin II-but not norepinephrine-induced hypertension. We hypothesized that hypertension associated with chronically elevated angiotensin II might be caused in part by vascular .O2- production.
We produced hypertension in rats by a 5-day infusion of angiotensin II or norepinephrine. Rats were also treated with liposome-encapsulated superoxide dismutase (SOD) or empty liposomes. Arterial pressure was measured in conscious rats under baseline conditions and during bolus injections of either acetylcholine or nitroprusside. Vascular .O2- production was assessed by lucigenin chemiluminescence. In vitro vascular relaxations were examined in organ chambers. Norepinephrine infusion increased blood pressure to a similar extent as angiotensin II infusion (179 +/- 5 and 189 +/- 4 mm Hg, respectively). In contrast, angiotensin II-induced hypertension was associated with increased vascular .O2- production, whereas norepinephrine-induced hypertension was not. Treatment with liposome-encapsulated SOD reduced blood pressure by 50 mm Hg in angiotensin II-infused rats while having no effect on blood pressure in control rats or rats with norepinephrine-induced hypertension. Similarly, liposome-encapsulated SOD enhanced in vivo hypotensive responses to acetylcholine and in vitro responses to endothelium-dependent vasodilators in angiotensin II-treated rats.
Hypertension caused by chronically elevated angiotensin II is mediated in part by .O2-, likely via degradation of endothelium-derived NO. Increased vascular .O2- may contribute to vascular disease in high renin/angiotensin II states.
Two 5HT(1A) receptor agonists and chlordiazepoxide were examined in open-field, elevated plus maze, and emergence tests. At doses with no effect in the open-field, chlordiazepoxide increased open and open/total arm visits as well as open arm duration in the elevated plus maze, whereas 5HT(1A) receptor agonists showed an anxiolytic response on a single measure. The anxiolytic action of chlordiazepoxide was limited to the less active BALB/c strain. Unlike the 5HT(1A) receptor agonists, chlordiazepoxide was also anxiolytic in the emergence test, once again only in BALB/c and not C57BL/6J mice. Significant correlations were found between emergence latencies and specific indicators of anxiety in the elevated plus-maze in chlordiazepoxide-treated but not in mice treated with buspirone and 8-OH-DPAT. These results indicate that elevated plus-maze and emergence tests depend on benzodiazepine receptors. In contrast, 5HT(1A) receptor agonists were ineffective in the emergence test and no correlation was found between emergence latencies and specific indicators of anxiety in the elevated plus-maze. Though superficially similar, the emergence test seems to tap into a partially separate facet of anxiety.
