We studied the process that triggers spontaneous recurrences of methamphetamine (MAP) psychosis, a phenomenon known as flashbacks, in 28 female patients who experienced flashbacks, by comparing them with 92 female nonflashbackers with a history of previous MAP psychosis. The study evaluated plasma monoamine neurotransmitter function in 12 of the 28 flashbackers and in 8 of the 92 nonflashbackers. Control data were obtained from 28 normal, healthy females composed of 13 MAP users and 15 nonusers, none of whom became psychotic. The 28 flashbackers had experienced significantly greater frequencies of threatening events and frightening paranoid-hallucinatory states during previous MAP abuse than the 92 nonflashbackers. The dominant triggering factor was a mild fear of other persons. Plasma norepinephrine (NE) levels were significantly higher in the 12 flashbackers during flashbacks than during periods of normalcy and were significantly higher than those in the 13 user and 15 nonuser control subjects. Plasma NE levels in the 12 flashbackers during periods of normalcy were significantly higher than those in the 13 user control subjects. The eight nonflashbackers had significantly higher NE levels than the 13 user control subjects. This suggests that an increase in peripheral noradrenergic activity may be related to the occurrence of flashbacks. The present study suggests that repeated MAP use with frightening experiences may induce sensitivity to psychosocial stressors. A mild fear of other persons may have actualized the encoded frightening memories associated with the frightening experiences via increased sensitivity to psychosocial stressors. Thus, flashbacks may have been caused through an increase in peripheral noradrenergic activity.
The aims of the present study were to investigate the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (pk/pd) relationship of levodopa (l-dopa) in patients with advanced Parkinson disease (PD) and also to evaluate the effect of tolcapone on the pk/pd analysis of l-dopa in 1 patient with severe dyskinesias and fluctuations.
The pharmacokinetics (plasma concentrations of l-dopa and 3-O-methyldopa [3-OMD]) and motor effects (global score of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale-III) of a single dose of l-dopa (plus the peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor 1:4) were determined in 14 patients with advanced PD. Patients were classified into 2 groups according to Hoehn and Yahr scale (stages 2 and 3). In 1 patient with severe dyskinesias and fluctuations, pk/pd of l-dopa were evaluated before and after coadministration of tolcapone at 100 mg 2 times daily for 1 month. The pk/pd analysis was based on an estimate of the maximal response model with a semiparametric approach to effect site equilibrium.
The highest levels of l-dopa and 3-OMD were observed in patients with stage 3 of Hoehn and Yahr scale. We showed differences in the pk/pd parameters after coadministration of tolcapone in 1 patient as well as the clinical improvement.Univariate analysis showed some significant correlations (P < 0.05) between l-dopa pk/pd parameters and patients' age, duration of l-dopa treatment, and duration of the disease. Multivariate analysis adjusted for patients' age, sex, duration of the disease, and Hoehn and Yahr stage showed that presence of diphasic (dyskinesia-improvement-dyskinesia [DID]) dyskinesias was the only independent predictor of larger threshold level - EC50 (mean concentration at half maximal effect) of l-dopa (P = 0.034).
The motor complications during long treatment therapy in patients with advanced PD especially with stage 3 Hoehn and Yahr scale were correlated to the higher plasma concentrations of l-dopa. In the presented study, patients with motor complications, especially with DID dyskinesias, exhibited a larger threshold level (EC50). The clinical improvement of a patient who received l-dopa and tolcapone can be explained by tolcapone-induced changes of peripheral and central l-dopa pharmacokinetics, which led to a decrease of l-dopa EC50 and 3-OMD concentrations. Our data indicate that pk/pd analysis may be helpful for monitoring the efficiency of therapeutic strategy applied in PD patients.
The exposure of pregnant rats to delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 9-THC), the main psychoactive constituent of Cannabis sativa, during the perinatal period affects the gene expression and the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the brains of their offspring at peripubertal and adult ages. In the present work we explored whether these effects also appear during fetal and early neonatal periods, when TH expression plays an important role in neural development. To this end, the mRNA amounts for TH and the amounts and activity of this enzyme, in addition to catecholamine (CA) contents, were analyzed in the brain of fetuses at different gestational days (GD) and of newborns at two postnatal ages, which had been daily exposed to delta 9-THC or vehicle from d 5 of gestation. Results were as follows. The exposure to delta 9-THC markedly affected the expression of the TH gene in the brain of fetuses at GD 14. Thus, the amounts of its mRNA at this age were higher in delta 9-THC-exposed fetuses than in controls. This corresponded with a marked rise in the amounts of TH protein and in the activity of this enzyme at this age. Normalization was found in these parameters at GD16. However, a marked sexual dimorphism in the response of TH gene to cannabinoid exposure appeared from GD18 and was particularly evident at GD21, when TH-mRNA amounts increased in developing female brains, but decreased in developing male brains exposed to delta 9-THC, effects that were mostly prolonged to early postnatal ages. However, these changes did not correspond always with parallel changes in the amounts and activity of TH and in CA contents, as occurred in GD14, suggesting that delta 9-THC would not be affecting the basal capability to synthesize CAs in TH-containing neurons, but would affect the responsiveness of TH gene. We found only a marked increase in the production of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, the main intraneuronal dopamine metabolite, in female newborns exposed to delta 9-THC. Collectively, our results support the belief that the perinatal exposure to delta 9-THC affects the expression of the TH gene and, sometimes, the activity of this enzyme in brain catecholaminergic neurons in certain critical periods of fetal and early neonatal brain development. These results support the notion that cannabinoids are able to affect the gene expression of specific key proteins for catecholaminergic development, and that these alterations might be the origin of important long-term neurobehavioral effects caused by perinatal cannabinoid exposure at peripubertal and adult ages.
To clarify roles of prostaglandin synthases in rat thyroid follicular carcinogenesis, effects of an antithyroid agent, sulfadimethoxine (SDM), and two prostaglandin H synthase (COX) inhibitors, indomethacin and nimesulide, on prostaglandin synthase expression, follicular cell proliferation, and tumor induction in thyroids of rats with or without N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (DHPN) initiation were examined. In experiment 1, F344 male rats were allowed free access to drinking water containing SDM (0.1%), SDM + indomethacin (0.0025% in diet), or SDM + nimesulide (0.04% in diet) for 4 weeks. Both COX inhibitors suppressed goitrogenic activity of SDM, but they did not significantly affect microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-2 (mPGES-2) expression levels enhanced by SDM. In experiment 2, all rats received an injection of DHPN (2800 mg/kg body weight), and starting 1 week later, they were treated as in experiment 1 for 4 or 10 weeks. Cell proliferation was suppressed or showed a tendency for suppression by the COX inhibitors in the follicular preneoplastic/neoplastic lesions and surrounding parenchyma, and this was obviously thyroid stimulating hormone independent at least at week 4. However, neither of the COX inhibitors altered the incidence or multiplicity of preneoplastic/neoplastic lesions. Immunohistochemistry revealed significant reduction and elevation of COX-2 and mPGES-2 expression, respectively, in the lesions, but these were also not changed by the COX inhibitors. These results suggest that COX-2 and PGES, and in turn PGE(2), might play important roles in follicular cell proliferation but do not affect tumor induction in this rat thyroid carcinogenesis model. Further studies are needed to clarify the significance of the reduction of COX-2 expression in preneoplastic/neoplastic lesions.
Genetic variants affecting adrenoceptors have been suggested to influence body fatness. A putative gain-of-function polymorphism in the beta(1)-adrenoceptor was recently discovered (Gly389Arg ADRB1). We examined the association between Gly389Arg ADRB1 and obesity status in a large cohort of well-characterized individuals.
First, a large cohort of 931 Caucasian women (55.0+/-12.2 y) were genotyped for Gly389Arg ADRBbeta1 and we examined the association of the Arg allele with body weight and BMI (Gly/Gly, n=54; Gly/Arg, n=360; Arg/Arg, n=517). To further examine phenotypes regulating energy balance and body fatness, we examined the contribution of the Arg allele to body composition (DEXA), fat distribution (CT scan), resting energy expenditure, energy and macronutrient intake, maximal oxygen capacity, and physical activity in a subsample of 214 women from the main cohort that had been carefully characterized (Gly/Gly, n=19; Gly/Arg, n=82; Arg/Arg, n=113).
In the entire cohort (n=931), allele frequencies were 0.25 and 0.75 for the Gly and Arg alleles, respectively. In this cohort, we found that each Arg allele was associated with greater body weight of 2.91 kg (P=0.01) and BMI of 0.86 kg/m(2) (P=0.05). Accordingly, in the subsample of women, each Arg allele was associated with greater fat mass (3.71 kg; P=0.008). Other phenotypes were not significantly associated with the presence of the Arg allele.
This is the first study to investigate the relationship between the Gly389Arg ADRB1 variant and obesity. We found that the Arg allele is associated with greater body weight and BMI in Caucasian women due to a greater fat mass.
Hemoproteins, hemoglobin and myoglobin, once released from cells can cause severe oxidative damage as a consequence of heme redox cycling between ferric and ferryl states that generates radical species that induce lipid peroxidation. We demonstrate in vitro that acetaminophen inhibits hemoprotein-induced lipid peroxidation by reducing ferryl heme to its ferric state and quenching globin radicals. Severe muscle injury (rhabdomyolysis) is accompanied by the release of myoglobin that becomes deposited in the kidney, causing renal injury. We previously showed in a rat model of rhabdomyolysis that redox cycling between ferric and ferryl myoglobin yields radical species that cause severe oxidative damage to the kidney. In this model, acetaminophen at therapeutic plasma concentrations significantly decreased oxidant injury in the kidney, improved renal function, and reduced renal damage. These findings also provide a hypothesis for potential therapeutic applications for acetaminophen in diseases involving hemoprotein-mediated oxidative injury.
To evaluate retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL) thickness with optical coherence tomography (OCT) in early stage ethambutol optic neuropathy.
The RNFL thickness of 20 eyes of 10 patients who developed optic neuropathy after taking ethambutol and visited within 6 months after onset were analyzed and compared with those of 54 eyes of 29 healthy age-matched controls. The mean age was 67.40+/-10.25 years for the patients with toxic optic neuropathy and 66.78+/-10.60 for the control group (p=0.948). A full ophthalmologic examination including RNFL evaluation with fast RNFL thickness (3.4) scanning using a Stratus OCT (Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA) was performed.
RNFL thicknesses associated with early ethambutol optic neuropathy were as follows: temporal 75.35+/-15.77 microm, superior 124.05+/-24.62 microm, nasal 75.15+/-24.23 microm, inferior 127.60+/-22.91 mum, and the average was 100.83+/-16.56 microm. There was no significant difference between the RNFL thickness of the patients with the early stage of ethambutol optic neuropathy and those of the control group. The thickness of RNFL was greater in the temporal quadrant than the nasal quadrant, although not statistically significant.
RNFL thickness associated with ethambutol optic neuropathy during the early stages was no different from the controls. Although not statistically significant, the relative thickening of temporal RNFL in our patients might represent a mild swelling of the papillomacular bundle.
We previously reported that dehydroevodiamine.HCl (DHED) has anticholinesterase and antiamnesic activities. To verify the effects of DHED on cognitive deficits further, we tested it on the scopolamine-induced amnesia model of the rat using the passive avoidance and eight-arm radial maze tests. A single (20 mg/kg p.o.) and repeated (10 mg/kg p.o.) administrations of DHED could significantly reverse the latency time shortened by scopolamine (1 mg/kg i.p.) to control level. The impaired spatial working memory induced by scopolamine (1 mg/kg i.p.) was also improved significantly by a single injection (6.25 mg/kg i.p.) and repeated administrations of DHED (10 mg/kg p.o.) in the eight-arm radial maze test. In addition, we examined the effects of DHED on the memory impairment and the histological changes of the brain after unilateral electrolytic lesion of the entorhinal cortex (EC) and middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. The cognitive deficits caused by EC lesion and middle cerebral artery occlusion were improved significantly by repeated administrations of DHED (6.25 mg/kg i.p.) after EC lesion or ischemic insult once a day for 7 days in the passive avoidance test. Histological analysis showed that the neuronal loss in the DHED-treated group was notably reduced in the hippocampal area (CA1) of ischemic rats and in the dentate gyrus and hippocampal area (CA1 and CA3) of EC-lesioned rats compared with the nontreated group. The infarction area was decreased significantly by a single administration of DHED (6.25 mg/kg i.p.) 30 min before ischemic insult for 6 h. These results suggest that DHED might be an effective drug for not only the Alzheimer's disease type, but also the vascular type of dementia.
Autism is a developmental disorder of unknown aetiopathology and lacking any specific pharmacological therapeutic intervention. Neurotransmitters such as serotonin, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and acetylcholine have been implicated. Abnormalities in nicotinic acetylcholine receptors have been identified including cortical loss of binding to the alpha4/beta2 subtype and increase in cerebellar alpha7 binding. Receptor expression (mRNA) has not so far been systematically examined. This study aims to further explore the role of nicotinic receptors in autism by analysing nicotinic receptor subunit mRNA in conjunction with protein levels and receptor binding in different brain areas. Quantitative RT-PCR for alpha4, alpha7 and beta2 subunit mRNA expression levels; alpha3, alpha4, alpha7 and beta2 subunit protein expression immunochemistry and specific radioligand receptor binding were performed in adult autism and control brain samples from cerebral cortex and cerebellum. Alpha4 and beta2 protein expression and receptor binding density as well as alpha4 mRNA levels were lower in parietal cortex in autism, while alpha7 did not change for any of these parameters. In cerebellum, alpha4 mRNA expression was increased, whereas subunit protein and receptor levels were decreased. Alpha7 receptor binding in cerebellum was increased alongside non-significant elevations in mRNA and protein expression levels. No significant changes were found for beta2 in cerebellum. The data obtained, using complementary measures of receptor expression, indicate that reduced gene expression of the alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptor in the cerebral cortex is a major feature of the neurochemical pathology of autism, whilst post-transcriptional abnormalities of both this and the alpha7 subtype are apparent in the cerebellum. The findings point to dendritic and/or synaptic nicotinic receptor abnormalities that may relate to disruptions in cerebral circuitry development.
Human pigmentation appears to be one of the strongest risk factors for malignant melanoma (MM). In humans, there is a long list of genes known to be involved in rare pigmentary disorders such as albinism. These genes explain most of the variation in pigmentation phenotypes seen in human populations, and they do this by regulating the level of synthesis, chemical composition, packaging, and distribution of melanin. This Spanish case-control study included 131 consecutive melanoma patients and 245 control subjects frequency-matched for sex and age. A total of 23 SNPs in six candidate genes (ASP, OCA2, TYR, TYRP1, SILV, and SLC45A) belonging to the pigmentation pathway were genotyped. We found that the variant allele of c.1122C>G, p.Phe374Leu (NCBI dbSNP rs16891982) in SLC45A2 (membrane associated transporter previously known as MATP) was associated with protection from MM (OR, 0.41; 95% CI, 0.24-0.70; P=0.008 after adjustment for multiple testing). This association was validated by the consistent link observed with dark hair, dark skin, dark eye color, and the presence of solar lentigins and childhood sunburns. This is the first time SLC45A2 has been described as a melanoma susceptibility gene in a light-skinned population.
This study investigates the mechanisms that account for the adverse cardiovascular effects of the antitumor drug irinotecan. The activities of irinotecan, its active metabolite 7-ethyl-10-hydroxycamptothecin (SN-38), and camptothecin were assayed in urethane-anesthetized rats to determine their effects on heart rate and blood pressure. In vitro experiments were performed to assess the effects of test drugs on acetylcholinesterase activity. Intravenous irinotecan (10 micromol/kg) decreased heart rate and blood pressure, but SN-38, camptothecin, or intracerebroventricular irinotecan had no effect. The bradycardic and hypotensive responses induced by irinotecan were abolished by bilateral vagotomy or atropine. Physostigmine caused a transient bradycardia, followed by a tachycardic response, and promoted a marked increment of blood pressure. Vagotomy or atropine prevented the bradycardic action of physostigmine, whereas the tachycardic and hypertensive responses were sensitive to atropine, but not to vagotomy. Five minutes after irinotecan administration (10 micromol/kg i.v.), its concentration in plasma and atrial tissue accounted for 2.29 +/- 0.19 micromol/L and 1.08 +/- 0.16 micromol/kg, respectively. The in vitro activity of human erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase was significantly inhibited by irinotecan (-21.5% at 100 microM) or physostigmine (-84.8% at 1 microM), whereas SN-38 or camptothecin had no effect. Rat atrial acetylcholinesterase was also significantly inhibited in vitro by irinotecan (-16.9% at 100 microM). The present results indicate that irinotecan exerts depressant effects on both heart rate and arterial blood pressure. A direct activation of cholinergic receptors or an interaction with central nervous sites does not appear to account for these inhibitory actions, whereas a blockade of acetylcholinesterase seems to occur at concentrations of irinotecan that may not be relevant in clinical settings.
Male Wistar rats were fed a lithium diet for 2--3 months producing marked polyuria (greater than 75 ml/100 g in 24 h) and a plasma Li concentration of 0.7 mmol/l. In acute experiments animals were anaesthetized with 5-ethyl-5-(1-methylpropyl)-2-thiobarbituric acid and infused with hypotonic glucose-saline (15 ml/h). Addition of prostaglandin A2 (PGA2; 0.2 ng/min) for 180 min to the infusate did not restore the impaired antidiuretic response to arginine-vasopressin (AVP) whether this agent was infused continuously (150 micromicron./min) or given as bolus injections (2500 micromicron.). In long-term experiments animals were kept in metabolism cages and Alzet osmotic minipumps were implanted for intravenous infusion of drugs at 1 microliter/h. Again, PGA2 infusion at 0.2 ng/min failed to restore the impaired antidiuretic response to AVP (150 micromicron./min). It was therefore concluded that in rats with severe polyuria induced by long-term administration of lithium, infusion of PGA2 at 0.2 ng/min cannot restore the impaired response to antidiuretic hormone as has been reported by others.
Intermittent stimulation of striatal dopaminergic receptors seems to contribute to motor dysfunction in advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). With severe dopaminergic denervation, exogenous levodopa is largely decarboxylated to dopamine in serotonergic terminals. If 5-HT1A autoreceptors regulate dopamine as well as serotonin release, in parkinsonian patients inhibition of striatal serotonergic neuron firing might help maintain more physiological intrasynaptic dopamine concentrations and thus ameliorate motor fluctuations and dyskinesias. To evaluate this hypothesis, effects of a selective 5-HT1A agonist, sarizotan, given orally at 2 and 5 mg twice daily to 18 relatively advanced parkinsonian patients, were compared with baseline placebo function during a 3-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, proof-of-concept study. Sarizotan alone or with intravenous levodopa had no effect on parkinsonian severity. But at safe and tolerable doses, sarizotan coadministration reduced levodopa-induced dyskinesias and prolonged its antiparkinsonian response (P < or = 0.05). Under the conditions of this study, our findings suggest that 5-HT1A receptor stimulation in levodopa-treated parkinsonian patients can modulate striatal dopaminergic function and that 5-HT1A agonists may be useful as levodopa adjuvants in the treatment of PD.
Intravitreal triamcinolone is being increasingly employed for the treatment of macular diseases. We report two cases of intraocular pressure elevation and cataract formation after intravitreal triamcinolone therapy, and wonder if these complications are more likely when this agent is used in young patients. Intravitreal triamcinolone was injected into both eyes of the two young patients with chronic posterior and intermediate uveitis refractory to peribulbar and oral corticosteroid therapy. Chronic cystoid macular edema improved in both patients, however the intraocular pressure increased, requiring topical antihypertensive therapy, and this was followed by accelerated cataract formation.
Young age and chronic inflammation could be associated with an intraocular pressure rise and subsequent cataract development after intravitreal triamcinolone.
Four days after the onset of a severe headache a 22-year-old woman who had been taking oral contraceptives for less than three weeks had a convulsion, followed by right hemiparesis. Other focal neurologic signs and evidence of raised intracranial pressure appeared, and she became comatose on the seventh day. A left craniotomy revealed extensive cerebral venous thrombosis. She died the next day. On postmortem examination extensive thrombosis of the superior sagittal sinus and draining cerebral veins, and multiple areas of cerebral hemorrhage and hemorrhagic infarction were seen. Some of the superficial cerebral veins showed focal necrosis of their walls, and the lateral lacunae of the superior sagittal sinus contained proliferating endothelial cells. The adrenal veins were also thrombosed. The significance of these findings is discussed. The literature on cerebrovascular complications of oral contraception, particularly cerebral venous thrombosis, is reviewed.
Baclofen is a centrally acting gamma-ammino butyric acid agonist that is used like muscular relaxant in disorders with spasticity and intractable hiccups. Although encouraging and safe results were provided 5 mg/day in hemodialysis patients, his pharmacokinetic and pharmacodinamic properties are not well known in end stage renal disease. We present here the case of a hemodialysis patient with intractable hiccups who developed baclofen-associated encephalopathy with this recommended dose.
Epilepsy is a major public health problem affecting nearly 50 million people world wide. Treatment with anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) is generally chronic if not life long and may be associated with significant metabolic effects including decreased bone mass and increased fractures. The aim of this work was to investigate the protective role of fish liver oil and propolis against the effect of the drug valproate that is widely used for treatment of epilepsy. Group of 40 rats was divided into four groups each contain 10 rats. The first group (group I) is healthy normal rats, as control. Epilepsy was conducted in the rest of the rats. The epileptic rats were divided into three subgroups: group II was epileptic group, supplemented orally with valproate. The third group was epileptic group which supplemented orally with valproate in concomitant with fish liver oil, the last group; group IV was epileptic group which supplemented orally with valproate in concomitant with propolis. In the present study oral administration of valproate to the epileptic rats by a dose of 400mg/kg/daily for six months (group II) resulted in a significant increase of bone alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin and N-telepeptide of type 1 collagen (NTX) relative to the control group. There were increase of receptor activator of NF kappa B ligand (RANKL), tumor necrosis factor - alpha (TNF-alpha) and decrease of osteoprotegrin (OPG) compared to normal control. Administration of fish liver oil orally in a dose of 0.4mg/kg daily in concomitant with valproate 400mg/kg daily for six months (group III), result in reduction of N-telepeptide of type 1 collagen (NTX) in comparison to group II and with no significant increase than the control (group I). There were high significant increase of bone alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin compared to control group I. There was high significant increase of bone alkaline phosphatase than group II and increase in osteocalcin, and decrease in N-telepeptide of type 1 collagen (NTX) compared to group II. A significant increase in osteoprotegrin (OPG) in comparison to group II and to control (group I) with a decrease in RANKL compared to group II and with no significant increase than normal control (group I). The TNF-alpha showed a significant decrease compared to group II with no significant increase than normal control. Administration of propolis orally in a dose of 50mg/kg daily in combination with valproate 400mg/kg/daily for six months (group IV) cause increase in bone alkaline phosphatase with no statistical difference between osteocalcin and N-telepeptide of type 1 collagen (NTX) and normal control (group I). There were increase in bone alkaline phosphatase than group II but less than group III. The increase in osteocalcin in-group III (fish oil group) was significantly higher than in-group IV and there was no statistical difference between it and group II. Where the N-telepeptide of type 1 collagen (NTX) the bone resorption marker was significantly higher than Group III and significantly lower than group II. There was a decrease of RANKL in comparison to group II with no significant difference than group III and a significant increase than control group. There was an increase in osteoprotegrin (OPG) in comparison to control (group I), group II and from group III. There was decrease in TNF-alpha than group III, group I and group II. In conclusion, in epileptic rats treated with valproate (which cause osteoporosis) fish liver oil and propolis increase the bone formation markers and decrease the bone resorption one's. They increase the OPG and decrease TNF-alpha, and RANKL which inhibit the osteoclastogenesis. We recommend the use of Fish Oil, or propolis as a prophylactic treatment for epileptic patients using valproate against the side effect of valproate on bone.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SNi). As neurotrophic factors support the survival and enhance the function of dopaminergic neurons, gene therapy using neurotrophic factors has become the center of interest. Thus, we focused on hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) as a neurotrophic and angiogenic growth factor. At 7 days before injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the SNi, stereotaxic transfection of human HGF or lacZ plasmid was performed into the unilateral striatum of rats. Expression of human HGF in the injected sites could be detected in rats transfected with HGF plasmid DNA, using immunohistochemical staining. Consistently, human immunoreactive HGF protein could be detected at least up to 12 days after transfection. Interestingly, PD rats transfected with lacZ demonstrated amphetamine-induced rotational asymmetry. However, transfection of HGF plasmid DNA resulted in significant inhibition of abnormal rotation up to 24 weeks in a dose-dependent manner. Over 90% of dopaminergic neurons were lost in PD rats transfected with lacZ, whereas over 70% survived in rats transfected with HGF, as assessed by immunohistochemical staining. Overall, the present study demonstrated that overexpression of HGF prevented neuronal death in a PD rat model, providing a potential novel therapy for PD.
THP-ADM is a new anthracycline with broad antitumor activity without cardiac toxicity or alopecia in experimental models. Phase I studies had established a proposed dose for phase II trials of 50 mg/m2 every three weeks. This modality gave an insignificant result in breast carcinoma. Cellular pharmacokinetics suggested that a longer time of administration could be more efficient. In this phase II trial oriented to advanced breast cancer, we have used 3 consecutive daily doses of 20 mg/m2/day in monthly cycles with dose escalation in each patient. We have observed 28% partial remissions (PR). Two patients previously treated with adriamycin had PR. Significantly less alopecia and no cardiac toxicity were observed.
5-HT(2C) agonists, by decreasing mesolimbic dopamine without affecting nigrostriatal dopamine, are predicted to have antipsychotic efficacy with low extrapyramidal side effects (EPS). Combining 5-HT(2C) agonists with low doses of existing antipsychotics could increase treatment efficacy while reducing treatment liabilities such as EPS (typical antipsychotics), and the propensity for weight gain (atypical antipsychotics).
The objectives of these studies were to combine WAY-163909, a selective 5-HT(2C) agonist, with either the typical antipsychotic haloperidol, or the atypical antipsychotic clozapine, at doses that were ineffective on their own, with the expectation that a shift in potency in several rodent behavior models predictive of antipsychotic activity would occur.
In mice, co-administration of either haloperidol, or clozapine, produced a significant leftward shift in the ability of WAY-163909 to block apomorphine-induced climbing behavior, without any affect on apomorphine-induced stereotypy or an increased propensity for catalepsy. In the rat-conditioned avoidance model, WAY-163909 was combined with either haloperidol or clozapine at doses that individually produced reductions in avoidance response on the order of 10%, while the combination of WAY-163909 and either of the antipsychotics resulted in a greater than 70% reduction in avoidance, with no evidence of response failures, or pharmacokinetic interaction.
Doses of either haloperidol or clozapine, that failed to antagonize an MK-801 induced deficit in prepulse inhibition, significantly attenuated the sensory gating deficit when combined with WAY-163909. Data support the notion that 5-HT(2C) receptor agonists, co-administered with other marketed antipsychotics, allow for dose sparing with a more favorable side-effect profile.
The aim of the present study was to assess whether an 8-wk oral selenium supplementation (standard food enriched with 2500 micrograms Se/kg) in rats might prevent the cardiotoxicity of adriamycin (ADR) treatment. ADR was administered at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg body wt intraperitoneally twice weekly for 3 wk. One week after the end of ADR treatment, rats (n = 10 per group) were killed and their hearts were perfused on a Langendorff mode and subjected to a 30-min period of low-flow ischemia (residual flow = 0.1 ml/min) followed by reperfusion (15 min). The results were as follows: 1) selenium supplementation significantly increased the activity of cardiac mitochondrial glutathione peroxidase (GPx) in ADR-treated rats (control: 206 +/- 17.4 IU/g protein; Se: 277 +/- 24.5 IU/g protein, p < 0.05); 2) selenium supplementation reduced myocardial malondialdehyde content in ADR-treated rats (control: 1220 +/- 49.1 nmol/g protein; Se: 1010 +/- 75.9 nmol/g protein; p < 0.05); and 3) ADR treatment significantly increased the degree of reperfusion-induced structural alterations to sarcomeres compared to untreated hearts. Again, this phenomenon was abolished by selenium supplementation. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that selenium supplementation is able to limit ADR cardiotoxicity in isolated rat hearts submitted to a sequence of ischemia/reperfusion.
Caspase-8 (CASP8) and caspase-10 (CASP10) play key roles in regulating apoptosis, and their functional polymorphisms may alter apoptosis and cancer risk. However, no reported studies have investigated the association between such polymorphisms and the risk of cutaneous melanoma (CM). In a hospital-based study of 805 non-Hispanic white patients with CM and 835 cancer-free age-, sex-, and ethnicity-matched controls, we genotyped three reported putatively functional polymorphisms of CASP8 and CASP10-CASP8 D302 H (rs1045485:G>C), CASP8 -652 6N del (rs3834129:-/CTTACT), and CASP10 I522L (rs13006529:A>T)-and assessed their associations with risk of CM and interactions with known risk factors for CM. We also calculated the false-positive report probability (FPRP) for significant findings. CASP8 302 H variant genotypes (DH: adjusted odds ratio [OR], 0.70; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.50-0.98; DH+HH: unadjusted OR, 0.78; 95% CI, 0.62-0.98; FPRP, 0.79) and CASP8 -652 6N del variant genotypes (ins/del: OR, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.57-0.97; ins/del+del/del: OR, 0.76; 95% CI, 0.61-0.95; FPRP, 0.61) were associated with significantly lower CM risk than were the DD and ins/ins genotypes, respectively. However, the CASP10 522L variant genotypes were not associated with significantly altered CM risk. Also, the D-del-I haplotype was associated with a significantly lower CM risk (OR, 0.52; 95% CI, 0.37-0.74; FPRP, 0.04) than was the most common haplotype, D-ins-I. Furthermore, multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that CASP8 D302 H, CASP8 -652 6N del, and CASP10 I522L were independent risk factors for CM. Therefore, these CASP8 and CASP10 polymorphisms may be biomarkers for susceptibility to CM.
Nephrotoxicity is a dose-dependent side effect of cisplatin limiting its clinical usage in the field of cancer chemotherapy. Fisetin is a bioactive flavonoid with recognized antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. In the present study, we investigated the potential renoprotective effect and underlying mechanism of fisetin using rat model of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity. The elevation in serum biomarkers of renal damage (blood urea nitrogen and creatinine); degree of histopathological alterations and oxidative stress were significantly restored towards normal in fisetin treated, cisplatin challenged animals. Fisetin treatment also significantly attenuated the cisplatin-induced IκBα degradation and phosphorylation and blocked the NF-κB (p65) nuclear translocation, with subsequent elevation of pro-inflammatory cytokine, TNF-α, protein expression of iNOS and myeloperoxidase activities. Furthermore, fisetin markedly attenuated the translocation of cytochrome c protein from the mitochondria to the cytosol; decreased the expression of pro-apoptotic proteins including Bax, cleaved caspase-3, cleaved caspase-9 and p53; and prevented the decline of anti-apoptotic protein, Bcl-2. The cisplatin-induced mRNA expression of NOX2/gp91phox and NOX4/RENOX and the NADPH oxidase enzyme activity were also significantly lowered by fisetin treatment. Moreover, the evaluated mitochondrial respiratory enzyme activities and mitochondrial antioxidants were restored by fisetin treatment. Estimation of platinum concentration in kidney tissues revealed that fisetin treatment along with cisplatin did not alter the cisplatin uptake in kidney tissues. In conclusion, these findings suggest that fisetin may be used as a promising adjunct candidate for cisplatin use.
