Zomepirac sodium is a new nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent for management of mild to moderate pain. We report five cases of acute renal failure in patients with prior normal renal function. Manifestation of toxic effects has occurred after both short- and long-term exposure and has resulted in varying degrees of azotemia, proteinuria, and oliguria. All patients recovered either with a discontinuance of the drug therapy or with prednisone therapy.
Human cytochrome P450 2C9 (CYP2C9) accounts for approximately 20% of total hepatic CYP content and metabolizes approximately 15% clinically used drugs including S-warfarin, tolbutamide, phenytoin, losartan, diclofenac, and celecoxib. To date, there are at least 33 variants of CYP2C9 (*1B through to *34) being identified. CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 differ from the wild-type CYP2C9*1 by a single point mutation: CYP2C9*2 is characterised by a 430C>T exchange in exon 3 resulting in an Arg144Cys amino acid substitution, whereas CYP2C9*3 shows an exchange of 1075A>C in exon 7 causing an Ile359Leu substitution in the catalytic site of the enzyme. CYP2C9*2 is frequent among Caucasians with approximately 1% of the population being homozygous carriers and 22% heterozygous. The corresponding figures for the CYP2C9*3 allele are 0.4% and 15%, respectively. Worldwide, a number of other variants have also to be considered. The CYP2C9 polymorphisms are relevant for the efficacy and adverse effects of numerous nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, sulfonylurea antidiabetic drugs and, most critically, oral anticoagulants belonging to the class of vitamin K epoxide reductase inhibitors. Numerous clinical studies have shown that the CYP2C9 polymorphism should be considered in warfarin therapy and practical algorithms how to consider it in therapy are available. These studies have highlighted the importance of the CYP2C9*2 and *3 alleles. Warfarin has served as a practical example of how pharmacogenetics can be utilized to achieve maximum efficacy and minimum toxicity. Polymorphisms in CYP2C9 have the potential to affect the toxicity of CYP2C9 drugs with somewhat lower therapeutic indices such as warfarin, phenytoin, and certain antidiabetic drugs. CYP2C9 is one of the clinically significant drug metabolising enzymes that demonstrates genetic variants with significant phenotype and clinical outcomes. Genetic testing of CYP2C9 is expected to have a role in predicting drug clearance and implementing individualized pharmacotherapy. Prospective clinical studies with large samples are required to establish gene-dose and gene-effect relatiohsips for CYP2C9.
M cells play an important role in the intestinal immune system as they have a high capacity for transcytosis of a wide range of microorganisms and macromolecules. However, little is known about the role of M cells during intestinal inflammation.
We studied M cell development during indomethacin-induced intestinal inflammation in rats.
Ileitis in rats was induced by two subcutaneous injections with indomethacin (7.5 mg/kg) given 24 h apart. Rats were sacrificed after 14 days and tissue was analysed by fluorescence microscopy and electron microscopy. M cells could be visualized by using the FITC-labelled mAb anti-cytokeratin (CK)-8 (clone 4.1.18), which was recently identified as specific M cell marker in rats. The number of cytokeratin-8 positive M cells was related to the surface of the follicle associated epithelium. For morphological studies, we used both transmission electron microscopy (T.E.M.) and scanning electron microscopy (S.E.M.).
In non-inflamed ileum M cells were scarce. Only 4% of the follicle associated epithelium were M cells, whereas an increase of M cells up to 11% was found in inflamed follicle associated epithelium (P < 0.001). The rate of M cell induction depended on the macroscopic degree of inflammation. T.E.M./S.E.M. studies showed that in inflamed tissue most M cells underwent apoptosis with typical morphological signs. In contrast to apoptotic M cells, the neighbouring enterocytes usually appeared intact. The number of mononuclear cells below the follicle associated epithelium was significantly increased. S.E.M. studies revealed that during induced ileitis mononuclear cells migrated from the lamina propria into the gut lumen by passing through apoptotic M cells.
During indomethacin-induced ileitis in rats the increase in M cell number in association with apoptosis of M cells may alter the intestinal barrier function. These observations may play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of chronic intestinal inflammation, e.g. in inflammatory bowel disease.
To report a case of myoclonic movements during an induction of anesthesia using propofol. Abnormal movements resulting from propofol are uncommon but there have been a number of such cases since propofol was introduced.
An 1-year-old boy with a diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea was scheduled to undergo adenotonsillectomy. He demonstrated myoclonic movements during anesthetic induction using propofol. He was then given isoflurane and his airway was secured with an endotracheal tube after full muscle relaxation by succinylcholine. The anesthetic maintenance was uneventful as was the emergence. The patient recovered smoothly without neurological deficit.
Propofol, an intravenous anesthetic, with strong evidence of anticonvulsant property, could, in susceptible patients, under certain conditions, act as a proconvulsant, and should, thus, be avoided or cautiously used in some patients.
It is known that the level of activity in nociceptive primary afferent nerve fibers increases in neuropathic conditions that produce pain, but changes in the temporal patterning of action potentials have not been analyzed in any detail. Because the patterning of action potentials in sensory nerve fibers might play a role in the development of pathological pain states, we studied patterning of mechanical stimulus-evoked action potential trains in nociceptive primary afferents in a rat model of vincristine-induced painful peripheral neuropathy. Systemic administration of vincristine (100 microg/kg) caused approximately half the C-fiber nociceptors to become markedly hyperresponsive to mechanical stimulation. Instantaneous frequency plots showed that vincristine induced an irregular pattern of action-potential firing in hyperresponsive C-fibers, characterized by interspersed occurrences of high- and low-frequency firing. This pattern was associated with an increase in the percentage of interspike intervals 100-199 ms in duration compared with that in C-fibers from control rats and vincristine-treated C-fibers that did not become hyperresponsive. Variability in the temporal pattern of action potential firing was quantified by determining the coefficient of variability (CV2) for adjacent interspike intervals. This analysis revealed that vincristine altered the pattern of action-potential timing, so that combinations of higher firing frequency and higher variability occurred that were not observed in control fibers. The abnormal temporal structure of nociceptor responses induced by vincristine in some C-fiber nociceptors could contribute to the pathogenesis of chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain, perhaps by inducing activity-dependent post-synaptic effects in sensory pathways.
In the clinical setting, natriuretic peptides (NPs) have proven to be reliable noninvasive markers for diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic monitoring of heart failure. Given their proven utility in humans, NPs are potential candidates for translational biomarkers during drug development to detect drug-induced hemodynamic stress resulting in cardiac hypertrophy in preclinical species. We evaluated the intra- and interassay precision and the stability of serum N-terminal-proatrial natriuretic peptide (NT-proANP) using a commercially available enzyme-linked immunoassay (EIA). We then measured NT-proANP concentrations in 532 serum samples from 337 male Crl:CD(SD) rats with or without pressure-induced cardiac hypertrophy. Additionally, we established a reference range using samples from control animals across multiple studies. The data demonstrate that the NT-proANP EIA is a robust and reproducible assay for the measurement of NT-proANP. The noninvasive translational utility, minimal sample volume requirement, and the lack of existing hypertrophic biomarkers in the male rat make NT-proANP an excellent candidate for further interrogation as a biomarker of cardiac hypertrophy in preclinical toxicology investigations.
Cocaine-induced paranoia (CIP) has recently shown a relationship to genetic factors that may moderate disulfiram treatment response in cocaine-dependent individuals. However, little research has examined CIP under controlled laboratory conditions. This study examined subjective and physiological responses to a 0.4 mg/kg dose of smoked cocaine in a human laboratory setting with 23 male and 21 female cocaine users. Twenty-nine of 44 participants (67%) reported feeling Paranoid/Suspicious in response to cocaine. Those who reported feeling Paranoid/Suspicious were more likely to be older and male. Further studies are warranted to investigate the mechanisms of gender influence on CIP, and CIP in pharmacotherapy development for cocaine-dependent individuals.
Many important physiological, behavioral, and psychoemotional effects of intravenous (IV) cocaine (COC) are too fast and transient compared with pharmacokinetic predictions, suggesting a possible involvement of peripheral neural mechanisms in their triggering. In the present study, we examined changes in cortical electroencephalogram (EEG) and neck electromyogram (EMG) induced in freely moving rats by IV COC administration at low, reinforcing doses (0.25-1.0 mg/kg) and compared them with those induced by an auditory stimulus and IV COC methiodide, which cannot cross the blood-brain barrier. We found that COC induces rapid, strong, and prolonged EEG desynchronization, associated with decrease in alpha and increase in beta and gamma activities, and EMG activation and that both begin within 2-6 s following the start of a 10-s injection; immediate components of this effect were dose independent. The rapid COC-induced changes in EEG and EMG resembled those induced by an auditory stimulus; the latter effects had shorter onset latencies and durations and were fully blocked during urethane anesthesia. Although urethane anesthesia completely blocked COC-induced EMG activation and rapid components of EEG response, COC still induced EEG desynchronization that was much weaker, greatly delayed (approximately 60 s), and associated with tonic decreases in delta and increases in alpha, beta, and gamma activities. Surprisingly, IV saline delivered during slow-wave sleep (but not quite wakefulness) also induced a transient EEG desynchronization but without changes in EMG activity; these effects were also fully blocked during anesthesia. Peripherally acting COC methiodide fully mimicked rapid EEG and EMG effects of regular COC, but the effects at an equimolar dose were less prolonged than those with regular COC. These data suggest that in awake animals IV COC, like somato-sensory stimuli, induces cortical activation and a subsequent motor response via its action on peripheral neural elements and involving rapid neural transmission. By providing a rapid neural signal and triggering transient neural activation, such an action might play a crucial role in the sensory effects of COC, thus contributing to the learning and development of drug-taking behavior.
Although doxorubicin nephrosis is commonly used as a model of nephrotic syndrome in the rat, the mechanism of glomerular injury remains unknown. Since a study by others using nonrenal cell lines showed that doxorubicin could increase cell growth at concentrations below the cytotoxic range, experiments were performed to determine whether doxorubicin had similar effects on glomerular cells. At low concentrations (approximately 10(-10) to 10(-7) mol/L), doxorubicin causes a 1.5-fold to three-fold stimulation of primary culture and cloned, passaged glomerular epithelial cell (GEC) growth, as assessed by cell counting, incorporation of tritiated thymidine, and by a fluorescence assay of cell growth. At these concentrations, doxorubicin had no effect on the growth rate of mesangial cells (MCs). Higher doxorubicin concentrations (> 10(-6) mol/L) inhibited the growth of GECs and MCs to a similar degree. Exposure to low concentrations of doxorubicin increased GEC growth under low serum conditions after doxorubicin treatment. Conditions that promoted high rates of GEC proliferation before doxorubicin exposure (pre-exposure to high serum concentrations, or use of subconfluent "stock" cultures) abrogated the growth response to doxorubicin, suggesting that doxorubicin stimulates GEC growth by substituting for growth-promoting factors present in serum. These studies demonstrate that unlike the growth-inhibiting effect of higher concentrations, the growth-promoting effect of low concentrations of doxorubicin is specific for GECs, the glomerular cell population that shows pathologic and functional evidence of injury in doxorubicin nephrosis in vivo. These findings, along with those of others, lead to the hypothesis that at higher concentrations, doxorubicin and other exogenous or endogenous growth-promoting compounds may cause GEC injury by "overstimulation" of the same pathways that promote growth at lower concentrations.
A case is presented of a young, chronic tetraplegic patient who, shortly after achieving therapeutic levels of imipramine, a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) developed a life-threatening ventricular arrhythmia. Since tetraplegic patients frequently manifest evidence of autonomic supersensitivity, the autonomic effects of the TCA may have led to the cardiac arrhythmia. Caution should be exercised in the use of TCA's in tetraplegic patients.
To evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of oxcarbazepine in the treatment of painful diabetic neuropathy.
This was an open-label, 9-week trial, consisting of a 1-week prospective Screening Phase followed by an 8-week Treatment Phase. Treatment with oxcarbazepine was initiated at 150 mg/day, and the daily dose was doubled on a weekly basis and titrated to tolerability over 4 weeks, up to 1200 mg/day. This was followed by a 4-week fixed-dose Maintenance Phase, during which patients were maintained on oxcarbazepine at 1200 mg/day or highest tolerated dose. The primary efficacy variable was the change in the weekly pain rating assessed on the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) of the short-form McGill Pain Questionnaire between the Screening Phase and the Treatment Phase. All analyses were performed on the intent-to-treat population.
Thirty patients were enrolled in the trial. The mean daily oxcarbazepine dose during the Maintenance Phase was 814 mg. The mean VAS score dropped from 66.3 during the Screening Phase to 34.3 at the end of the trial (P = 0.0001), for a mean reduction of 48.3%. In addition, there were significant improvements in the total pain score and present pain intensity. Oxcarbazepine was well tolerated, with the most common adverse events consisting of drowsiness and dizziness.
The results suggest that oxcarbazepine administered as monotherapy is an efficacious and safe option for the symptomatic treatment of pain associated with symmetrical diabetic neuropathy. These results will need to be confirmed in large, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trials.
Two cases are presented which suggest that pyridoxine injected into a Mitomycin-C extravasation site may slow or prevent necrosis, and may decrease the pain associated with the chronic ulceration of extravasation.
Several reports have indicated that, under different experimental conditions, the administration of histamine H(3)-receptor antagonists exerts procognitive effects by activating central histaminergic transmission. In the present study the action of thioperamide, a H(3)-receptor blocker, is investigated on consolidation and recall mechanisms of the rat place recognition memory. The animals have been tested on a two-trial delayed comparison paradigm in a Y-maze. Thioperamide enhances the memory retention when administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) post-acquisition (0.7 and 5.0 mg/kg are ineffective, whereas the dose of 2.0 mg/kg improves memory) but does not affect the rat performance when injected 45 min prior to the testing trial. The post-acquisition effect of thioperamide is time-dependent since the administration of the drug 30 min after the end of the training trial has no effect on memory. In addition, thioperamide reverses the amnesia induced by the post-acquisition treatment with 0.02 mg/kg i.p. of scopolamine (SCOP). The procognitive effect of thioperamide is not modified by the contemporary administration of pyrilamine, an histamine H(1)-receptor antagonist. On the contrary, the blockade of H(2)-receptors by zolantidine 10 mg/kg reverses both the effect of thioperamide alone and the drug action on the scopolamine-induced memory deficit. The results indicate that the neuronal histamine released in consequence of the post-acquisition thioperamide treatment improves place recognition memory through the activation of postsynaptic H(2)-receptors.
The intravenous administration of verapamil to 2 patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) resulted in an induction of PSVT during a programmed electrophysiological stimulation study. Each patient had a documented episode of PSVT. Baseline programmed stimulation studies revealed neither induction of PSVT nor an atrial echo; however, PSVT was induced immediately after injecting verapamil (0.15 mg/kg) intravenously in both patients. In 1 patient, the study was repeated 2 days later and similar results were obtained. The serum concentration of verapamil when PSVT was induced was about 80 ng/ml in both cases. Clinicians using verapamil should note that this antiarrhythmic drug may aggravate PSVT, depending on critical changes in AV nodal conduction and refractoriness.
To study the difference in the findings between the causes of angioedema and the characteristics of angioedema induced by angiotensin receptor II blockers (ARBs), and to investigate whether laboratory examinations for acute phase inflammatory markers can aid in diagnosis and predict airway risk.
We retrospectively reviewed fourteen cases of patients with angioedema that were treated from 2000 to 2006. Data were collected regarding age, sex, location of the edema, cause, time course of resolution and laboratory examinations (leukocyte counts, serum C-reactive protein (CRP) level, complement function and the activity of C1 esterase inhibitor).
The causes of angioedema were ACEIs in six patients (42.9%), candesartan (ARB) in three (21.4%), HAE (types 1 and 2) in two, and unknown in three. Of these patients, 71.4% exhibited edema in the floor of the mouth, irrespective of the cause. Two patients with edema induced by candesartan exhibited both lingual and laryngeal edemas. The remaining one with candesartan-induced edema exhibited edema in the neck and mediastinum and pleural effusion. The average time to resolution was 4.1 days, ranging from one to twelve days. The edema in eleven patients resolved with conservative therapy, while three patients underwent tracheotomy. In two patients with candesartan-induced edema, although the edemas resolved completely after cessation of candesartan administration, the edemas reappeared in the same locations, two and thirty days after the cessation of candesartan for each patient. None of the patients with angioedema induced by ACEIs exhibited elevation of serum CRP levels. No significant differences were found for leukocyte counts and serum CRP levels between patients with angioedemas induced by ACEIs, ARB and those of unknown cause. No significant differences were observed in the above findings between the patients who underwent tracheotomy and those who did not. Two patients exhibited low C4 levels, and one of the two exhibited no activity of C1 esterase inhibitor.
Consistent with previous reports, angioedema in the floor of the mouth extending to the tongue should be considered as a possible risk factor for airway compromise. Laboratory examinations for acute phase inflammatory markers are not useful for diagnosis and are not predictive for airway intubation and tracheotomy. Angioedema induced by candesartan can present in anomalous sites and reappear following drug cessation even if the edema has resolved completely.
The purpose of this study was to explore and discuss the effects of 660-nm gallium-aluminum-arsenide low-energy laser (GaAlAs LEL) irradiation on neural regeneration after acellular nerve allograft repair of the sciatic nerve gap in rats.
Eight male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were used as nerve donors, and 32 healthy Wistar rats were randomly divided into four groups: normal control group, acellular rat sciatic nerve (ARSN) group, laser group, and autograft group. Twelve weeks after surgery, nerve conduction velocity, restoration rate of tibialis anterior wet muscle weight, myelinated nerve number, and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) protein and mRNA expression of the spinal cord and muscle at the injury site were quantified and statistically analyzed.
Compared with the ARSN group, laser therapy significantly increased nerve conduction velocity, restoration rate of tibialis anterior wet muscle weight, myelinated nerve number, and CGRP protein and mRNA expression of the L(4) spinal cord at the injury site.
These findings demonstrate that 660-nm GaAlAs LEL therapy upregulates CGRP protein and mRNA expression of the L(4) spinal cord at the injury site and increases the rate of regeneration and target reinnervation after acellular nerve allograft repair of the sciatic nerve gap in rats. Low-energy laser irradiation may be a useful, noninvasive adjunct for promoting nerve regeneration in surgically induced defects repaired with ARSN.
Recurrent hypoxemia has been proposed as an important pathophysiological mechanism underlying sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). However, conflicting results emerged when xanthines were used as markers for hypoxia. The vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene is highly sensitive to changes in tissue partial oxygen tension, and changes in genomic and protein expression occur even after changes in oxygenation within the physiologic range.
For determining whether hypoxia precedes SIDS, VEGF levels were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 51 SIDS infants and in 33 additional control infants who died of an identifiable cause. In addition, 6 rats that had a chronically implanted catheter in the lateral ventricle were exposed to a short hypoxic challenge, and VEGF concentrations were measured in CSF at various time points for 24 hours. Another set of 6 rats were killed with a pentobarbital overdose, and VEGF CSF levels were obtained at different time points after death.
Mean VEGF concentrations in CSF were 308.2 +/- 299.1 pg/dL in the SIDS group and 85.1 +/- 82.9 pg/dL in those who died of known causes. Mean postmortem delay averaged 22 hours for both groups. In rat experiments, hypoxic exposures induced time-dependent increases in VEGF, peaking at 12 hours and returning to baseline at 24 hours. Postmortem duration in the animals was associated with gradual increases in VEGF that reached significance only at 36 hours.
We conclude that VEGF CSF concentrations are significantly higher in infants who die of SIDS. We postulate that hypoxia is a frequent event that precedes the sudden and unexpected death of these infants.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is associated with chromosomal translocations always involving the RARalpha gene, which variably fuses to one of several distinct loci, including PML or PLZF (X genes) in t(15;17) or t(11;17), respectively. APL in patients harboring t(15;17) responds well to retinoic acid (RA) treatment and chemotherapy, whereas t(11;17) APL responds poorly to both treatments, thus defining a distinct syndrome. Here, we show that RA, As(2)O(3), and RA + As(2)O(3) prolonged survival in either leukemic PML-RARalpha transgenic mice or nude mice transplanted with PML-RARalpha leukemic cells. RA + As(2)O(3) prolonged survival compared with treatment with either drug alone. In contrast, neither in PLZF-RARalpha transgenic mice nor in nude mice transplanted with PLZF-RARalpha cells did any of the three regimens induce complete disease remission. Unexpectedly, therapeutic doses of RA and RA + As(2)O(3) can induce, both in vivo and in vitro, the degradation of either PML-RARalpha or PLZF-RARalpha proteins, suggesting that the maintenance of the leukemic phenotype depends on the continuous presence of the former, but not the latter. Our findings lead to three major conclusions with relevant therapeutic implications: (i) the X-RARalpha oncoprotein directly determines response to treatment and plays a distinct role in the maintenance of the malignant phenotype; (ii) As(2)O(3) and/or As(2)O(3) + RA combination may be beneficial for the treatment of t(15;17) APL but not for t(11;17) APL; and (iii) therapeutic strategies aimed solely at degrading the X-RARalpha oncoprotein may not be effective in t(11;17) APL.
In the present study, alterations of the General GABA and GABA(A) receptors in the hippocampus of pilocarpine-induced temporal lobe epileptic rats and the therapeutic application of Bacopa monnieri and its active component Bacoside-A were investigated. Bacopa monnieri (Linn.) is a herbaceous plant belonging to the family Scrophulariaceae. Hippocampus is the major region of the brain belonging to the limbic system and plays an important role in epileptogenesis, memory and learning. Scatchard analysis of [³H]GABA and [³H]bicuculline in the hippocampus of the epileptic rat showed significant decrease in B(max) (P < 0.001) compared to control. Real Time PCR amplification of GABA(A) receptor sub-units such as GABA(Aά₁), GABA(Aά₅) GABA(Aδ), and GAD were down regulated (P < 0.001) in the hippocampus of the epileptic rats compared to control. GABA(Aγ) subunit was up regulated. Epileptic rats have deficit in the radial arm and Y maze performance. Bacopa monnieri and Bacoside-A treatment reverses all these changes near to control. Our results suggest that decreased GABA receptors in the hippocampus have an important role in epilepsy associated behavioral deficit, Bacopa monnieri and Bacoside-A have clinical significance in the management of epilepsy.
The effects of hypotension induced by prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) or sodium nitroprusside (SNP) on regional myocardial function and metabolism were studied in a canine heart with coronary artery stenosis. Ultrasonic dimension technique was used to assess left ventricular performance. Fourteen open-chest mongrel dogs were anesthetized with isoflurane and mean aortic pressure was maintained at approximately 80 mmHg. The left circumflex coronary artery blood flow was reduced by 40% using a screw flow regulator without affecting global and regional myocardial function. The severity of stenosis was considered almost critical. PGE1 (n = 7) or SNP (n = 7) was administered to reduce mean aortic pressure to 50 mmHg. There were no significant differences between PGE1 and SNP regarding their effect on systemic hemodynamics. Nevertheless SNP decreased percent segment shortening in the stenosed area from the pre-hypotension value more significantly than PGE1 (55.0 +/- 10.8% versus 24.2 +/- 7.3%). This suggests that regional myocardial ischemia is more deteriorated during SNP-induced hypotension. It seems that PGE1-induced hypotension is safer when it is applied to patients with coronary artery disease.
The behavioral and neurochemical effects of high doses of amphetamine administered to BALB/c mice were examined in the presence and absence of co-administered haloperidol (a D2 antagonist), SCH 23390 (a D1 antagonist) and risperidone (a mixed 5-HT2/D2 antagonist). It was observed that mice displayed a dose-dependent increase in stereotypic behavior, oral dyskinesia, and self-injurious behavior (SIB) in response to amphetamine treatment. Furthermore, agents that blocked the SIB reversed the amphetamine-induced release of serotonin. This effect was unrelated to hyperthermia or non-specific sedation (as assessed by measurement of motor activity). These data are interpreted in the context of the underlying basis of murine SIB involving both dopaminergic and serotonergic activation and demonstrate the efficacy of risperidone in treating these behaviors.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains to be one of the most prevailing infection in the world, causing chronic liver diseases. Although lamivudine has been effective to suppress HBV replication, longer durations of administration can lead to the emergence of drug-resistant mutant viruses, followed by reactivation of hepatic inflammation (breakthrough hepatitis). Moreover, the optimal period of administration as well as the effects of anti-viral nucleot(s)ide such as lamivudine, adefovir, and entecavir, has not been established. To evaluate the efficacy of the anti-viral effects of entecavir for lamivudine-resistant HBV, we administered entecavir sequentially in four patients with chronic HBV infection, who demonstrated the emergence of lamivudine-resistant HBV and histological active hepatitis. The antiviral effects were evaluated by the serum viral loads and biochemical laboratory data. After follow-up periods of more than 36 months, we found high incidence in the emergence of entecavir resistant mutants (3/4, i.e., 75%). An additional mutation at the 184th amino acid, different from the previously reported lamivudine-resistant mutations (80th, 180th, and 204th), seemed to have a close relationship with the induction of entecavir-resistant mutants at least for Japanese HBV genotype C. Our observation draws attention to the possibility that the usage of entecavir for lamivudine-resistant HBV could promptly induce entecavir-resistant mutations in addition to lamivudine-resistance.
