The p53 pathway plays an important role in the regulation of apoptosis, osteoblast differentiation, skeletal development, and teratogenic sensitivity. The administration of cadmium chloride (CdCl(2)) on gestational day 9 in susceptible mouse strains causes postaxial forelimb ectrodactyly in a percentage of fetuses through unknown mechanisms. In this study, the hypothesis that the p53 gene dosage might affect the incidence or severity of CdCl(2)-induced forelimb ectrodactyly was examined.
Heterozygous p53-null female mice, on the C57BL/6J background known to be sensitive to CdCl(2)-induced forelimb ectrodactyly, were mated with heterozygous males and then treated with a single intraperitoneal (ip) dose of CdCl(2) (4 mg x kg(-1)) at embryonic day (ED) 9. Embryos and fetuses, genotyped using DNA isolated from the yolk sacs, were collected at ED10 and examined for the pattern of cell death in the limb buds or collected at ED18 and examined for limb malformations.
In the wild type and heterozygous p53 embryonic limb buds, CdCl(2)-induced apoptosis involved mesenchymal cells as well as the apical ectodermal ridge (AER), whereas CdCl(2)-induced apoptosis was restricted mainly to the AER in the homozygous p53-null limb buds. No difference in the incidence or severity of forelimb ectrodactyly in the embryos of different p53 genotypes was observed.
Despite the fact that CdCl(2) induced both p53-dependent (in the mesenchyme) and p53-independent (in the AER) cell death in the developing limb bud, CdCl(2)-induced ectrodactyly was independent of the p53 gene dosage at the studied time point.
In previous studies radiation-induced osteosarcoma transplanted onto nude rats has been shown to have an extraordinary similarity to human osteosarcoma. In this report the effects of a standard chemotherapeutic regimen on this experimental bone tumor are described. Examination of the histology and of the water content of the tumor confirmed that a high-dose cyclophosphamide monotherapy can cause severe necrosis in the tumor and its seeded lung metastases. A significant decrease in tumor volume of 50% (p < or = 0.01) was provoked and increased the mean survival rate of the treated rats (untreated rats: mean = 39.3 days) significantly to 53.6 days after transplantation of tumor fragments (p < or = 0.01).
Torsade de pointes (TdP) or "twisting of the points" represents polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in the setting of prolonged QT interval and is characterized by QRS complexes that change in morphology and amplitude. We report a rare case of TdP, associated with QT interval prolongation, caused by intravenous moxifloxacin given for pneumonia in a 71-year-old African American man. Electrocardiogram initially revealed QT interval prolongation that led to torsades de pointes. These changes reverted to normal when moxifloxacin was held. Although the risk for quinolone-associated TdP seems to be low, caution is still warranted when given someone with high risk of QT prolongation.
cDNA microarray analysis was used to examine gene expression profiles in normal female Sprague-Dawley rat mammary gland and in carcinomas induced by the cooked meat-derived carcinogen 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) and the potent experimental carcinogen 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA). Nine tubulopapillary carcinomas (five from PhIP-treated rats and four from DMBA-treated rats) and normal mammary gland from virgin, pregnant and lactating rats were examined on a rat 6.9k cDNA microarray. Although histologically identical, PhIP- and DMBA-induced carcinomas could be distinguished by hierarchical clustering and multi-dimensional scaling analyses of cDNA expression. In addition, the expression of 21 clones was statistically different between PhIP- and DMBA-induced carcinomas (F-test, P < 0.05). The data indicate that distinct chemical carcinogens induce unique gene expression patterns in mammary gland carcinomas. The specific chemical carcinogen-associated cDNA array profiles found in carcinomas may ultimately be applicable to better understanding cancer etiology. PhIP- and DMBA-induced carcinomas also shared similarities in cDNA expression profiles. By comparing the expression in carcinomas (PhIP plus DMBA induced) with normal rat mammary gland (at any stage of differentiation), 172 clones were found to be differentially expressed. Genes showing increased expression in carcinomas by cDNA microarray analysis (and further validated by immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis) include cyclin D1, PDGF-A chain, retinol binding protein 1, prohibitin and the transcription factor STAT5A. The similarities in gene expression between PhIP- and DMBA-induced carcinomas raise the possibility that several molecular pathways for rat mammary gland transformation are maintained irrespective of the carcinogenic initiating agent.
We report a case of an anephric child who accumulated significant concentrations of vancomycin during oral therapy for Clostridium difficile pseudomembranous colitis. Sustained serum vancomycin levels of 34 microgram/ml and CSF level of 4.2 microgram/ml were documented during an unexplained clinical syndrome of fever and encephalopathy. Discontinuation of drug and performance of hemodialysis reduced serum concentrations to 24 microgram/ml and were associated with rapid resolution of symptoms. Patients with renal impairment and intestinal disease who receive oral vancomycin may absorb and accumulate significant amounts of drug.
This controlled, double-blinded, prospective trial of 42 parturients in early labor was conducted to determine whether halving the total amount of intrathecal (i.t.) sufentanil and bupivacaine reduced the incidence of systemic hypotension while providing adequate analgesia with minimal lower limb motor block. Combined spinal-epidural analgesia (CSE) was instituted; Group A (n = 21) received a total of 10 microg of sulfentanil plus 2.5 mg of bupivacaine, whereas Group B (n = 21) received half that dose. Compared with Group B, Group A had a higher incidence of hypotension (nine parturients in Group A, two in Group B; P < 0.05), a greater degree of motor block (P < 0.05), and a higher incidence of sedation (nine parturients in Group A were sedated, one in Group B; P < 0.01). Group B had higher pain scores for the first 5 min (P < 0.05) and a lower level of sensory blockade (median of T7 in Group B compared with T4 in Group A; P < 0.01). We conclude that halving the total amount of i.t. 10 microg of sufentanil plus 2.5 mg of bupivacaine is a suitable option for CSE in labor because it reduces the incidence of some side effects, such as hypotension and maternal sedation, without compromising overall high maternal satisfaction.
We showed that adequate labor pain relief could be provided by halving the recommended dose of 10 microg of intrathecal sufentanil plus 2.5 mg of bupivacaine. The larger dose, however, produced faster pain relief, which lasted longer than the reduced dose. The mother and baby were not adversely affected with either dose.
To determine and evaluate QTc intervals in electrocardiograms (ECGs) of former heroin addicts, currently in methadone maintenance treatment (MMT), as previous reports suggest that methadone may prolong QTc intervals, thus possibly increasing the risk for Torsade de pointes (TdP).
Cross-sectional study.
Between January 2003 and September 2004, patients on a steady dose of methadone for at least 2 weeks were studied.
This study is a subset of 153 patients, of whom 151 patients participated in a study of high methadone doses and serum levels. A total of 138 patients in MMT for a minimum of 100 days up to 10.7 years, receiving 40-290 mg/day methadone dose, participated.
Patients had an ECG at the time when blood was drawn for determination of serum methadone levels at around 24 hours after the last oral methadone dose. Corrected-QT intervals (QTc) were calculated using the Bazett formula.
Of 138 patients studied, 98 (71%) were male. Mean QTc interval was 418.3 +/- 32.8 milliseconds (ms). Mean methadone dose was 170.9 +/- 50.3 mg/day and mean serum methadone level was 708.2 +/- 363.1 ng/ml. Methadone dose and serum levels did not correlate with QTc. Three patients had QTc intervals above 500 ms ('prolonged'). After 2 +/- 0.4 years of follow-up, two patients died; they were two of three patients with very prolonged QTc. Causes of death were not attributed to cardiac origin. An additional 19 patients had QTc intervals of between 450 and 499 ms ('possibly prolonged'). None of these QTc > or = 450 ms patients had any cardiac problems. Methadone doses of all 22 patients were > 120 mg/day.
Methadone maintenance is generally safe; however, the possible toxicity of high dose (> 120 mg/day) should be monitored for QTc.
LY 300164 [7-acetyl-5-(4-aminophenyl)-8,9-dihydro-8-methyl-7H-1,3-dioxolo(4, 5H)-2,3-benzodiazepine], an antagonist of AMPA/kainate receptors, at 5 mg/kg exerted a significant anticonvulsant effect, as regards seizure and afterdischarge durations in amygdala-kindled seizures in rats. At lower doses, LY 300164 did not exert anticonvulsant activity. Clonazepam alone (0.003-0.1 mg/kg) significantly diminished seizure severity, seizure and afterdischarge durations. Coadministration of LY 300164 (2 mg/kg) with clonazepam (0.001 mg/kg) resulted in the significant anticonvulsant activity. Seizure severity score, seizure and afterdischarge durations were reduced from 5 to 4, from 32.6 s to 12.3 s, and 42.7 s to 23.2 s. LY 300164 (2 mg/kg), clonazepam (0.001-0.1 mg/kg) and the combination of clonazepam (0.001 mg/kg) with LY 300164 (2 mg/kg) did not affect long-term memory evaluated in the passive avoidance task in rats. LY 300164 (at the subprotective dose of 2 mg/kg) significantly potentiated the anticonvulsant action of clonazepam against maximal electroshock but not against pentylenetetrazol-induced convulsions in mice. The results indicate that blockade of glutamate-mediated events at AMPA/kainate receptors may differently affect the protection offered by clonazepam, which seems dependent upon the model of experimental seizures.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and urocortin (Ucn) belong to the CRF-related family, share a high degree of structural homology and bind to CRF receptors. However, compared with CRF, Ucn was shown to display either weaker or similar anxiogenic-like effects in vivo.
To compare the anxiogenic-like responses of rats injected intracerebroventricularly (ICV) with different doses of either rat/human CRF (r/hCRF) or rat Ucn (rUcn) at different intervals after injection.
Rats were tested on three validated paradigms of emotional behavior [i.e. elevated plus-maze (EPM), defensive withdrawal (DW) and conflict test (CT)] 5 and 30 min after treatment.
In the EPM test only r/hCRF, but not rUcn, produced anxiogenic-like effects at the dose of 1.0 microg, when the peptides were injected 5 min before testing. At 30 min after injection, both peptides caused a significant reduction of open arms exploration, rUcn being effective at 0.01 microg. In the DW test both peptides were equally potent in decreasing the exploratory behavior and increasing the time spent in the chamber at the dose of 1.0 microg when tested 30 min after injection. In the CT both rUcn (0.25-1.0 microg) and r/hCRF (0.75-1.0 microg) decreased significantly the responding in the punished component. However, rUcn reduced food responding also in the unpunished component possibly due to its powerful anorectic activity.
Comparison of anxiogenic-like activities of r/hCRF and rUcn at doses up to 1.0 microg revealed striking differential effects that depended on the time of testing after ICV peptide injection, and on the paradigm of anxiety used. These results suggest that the onset of r/hCRF and rUcn actions related to behavioral responses to anxiety is likely to depend on brain peptide-specific mechanisms including binding properties to CRF-receptors, differential distribution to specific functional brain sites and the distribution and effectiveness of binding-protein interactions.
There is evidence that exteroceptive cues associated with drug administration elicit conditional compensatory responding (e.g., hyperalgesia in organisms with a history of morphine administration). Recently it has become apparent that, within each administration, interoceptive early-drug onset cues (DOCs) may become associated with the later, larger drug effect (intraadministration associations). The present experiments evaluated DOC-elicited conditional hyperalgesia in rats intravenously infused with morphine. The results indicated that DOC-elicited hyperalgesia contributes to tolerance to the analgesic effect of morphine, and such DOC-elicited hyperalgesia is an associative phenomenon, rather than a sensitized response to the opiate. The findings suggest that associative analyses of tolerance should acknowledge the conditional responding elicited by DOCs, and extinction-based addiction treatments should incorporate extinction of DOC-elicited conditional responding.
Although calcium-channel antagonists have been proposed as prophylaxis to prevent radiocontrast-induced nephropathy, the dose and dose interval to achieve a protective effect have not been quantified in humans.
In a randomized, double-blind protocol we studied urinary enzyme and microprotein excretion in 121 outpatients (mean age 65.3 +/- 9.3 years, 62% male) with normal renal function who were to undergo digital subtraction arteriography with iohexol or iopentol. The subjects were treated with a single dose of placebo (group 1) or nitrendipine 10 mg (group 2) or 20 mg (group 3) p.o. 1 h before the procedure. Blood and urine samples were collected 1 h before, 1 h after, and 24 h after contrast administration. Study variables included contrast volume and serum creatinine, and urinary creatinine, osmolality, albumin, alanylamino-peptidase (AAP, a brush border enzyme), N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase (NAG, a lysosomal enzyme), and alpha-1-microglobulin (alpha-1-micro, a filtered microprotein).
Serum values of creatinine remained unchanged during the study period. Albuminuria was not affected by contrast administration, whereas AAP, NAG, and alpha-1-micro increased significantly, all except AAP returning to baseline at 24 h. Pretreatment with nitrendipine did not reduce enzyme excretion, although AAP levels were lower in general in the group assigned to the 20-mg dose. Acute renal failure, defined as a 50% increase of serum creatinine 24 h after radiocontrast administration, was found in eight patients: four from group 1 (8.3%), three from group 2 (6.5%), and one from group 3 (3.7%).
Neither the course of enzyme excretion nor the incidence of acute renal failure following radiocontrast administration were affected by single doses of calcium antagonists. AAP levels were lower in general in subjects taking the 20-mg dose of nitrendipine. This study also indicates that a single low or normal dose of nitrendipine per os is not effective prophylaxis before radiocontrast administration. The designs of future studies investigating the "nephroprotective' effect of calcium-channel antagonists per os should incorporate (1) the use of repeated doses to saturate hepatic metabolic pathways, and (2) the control of confounding variables in the measurement of urinary enzymes.
We present a strategy to elucidate the rate-limiting steps in activation of carcinogenic compounds by cytochromes P450. The principle was to select Reuber rat hepatoma cells for resistance to a procarcinogen. The hypothesis was that resistant cells should be systematically deficient in the P450 enzyme(s) involved in the activation process. Here we present an example of the use of this approach using aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), a potent hepatocarcinogen, as the selective agent. Parental cells as well as individual and pooled colonies selected for AFB1 resistance from three independent rat hepatoma lines were characterized for their content of 1) mRNA hybridizing to cDNA and/or oligonucleotide probes for cytochromes P450IIB1, P450IIB2 and albumin; and 2) aldrin epoxidase activity. Parental aflatoxin B1-sensitive cells were shown to express P450IIB1 but not P450IIB2. The majority of the aflatoxin B1-resistant clones failed to accumulate cytochrome P450IIB1 mRNA and expressed no or only very low aldrin epoxidase activity. Albumin mRNA levels remained unchanged, demonstrating that loss of expression of cytochrome P450IIB1 was not a consequence of a general dedifferentiation event. A revertant population showing restoration of both cytochrome P450IIB1 mRNA accumulation and aldrin epoxidase activity was fully sensitive to aflatoxin B1. The correlation between expression of cytochrome P450IIB1 and sensitivity to aflatoxin B1 in both parental cells and revertants strongly suggests that cytochrome P450IIB1 is a major contributor to the activation of aflatoxin B1 in rat hepatoma cells. The kind of strategy described here could be applied to other compounds that become cytotoxic for hepatoma cells following activation by cytochromes P450.
Controversy remains over the magnitude and reversibility of reduced renal function in long-term lithium patients.
Thirteen patients with 18 years (range 15-24) on lithium discontinued the treatment, and were re-examined twice after 5 and 9 weeks (4-16) off lithium. They were compared to a non-lithium psychiatric control group, matched for age and sex.
Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) tended to improve from 69 (39-96) to 74 (39-94) ml/min/1.73 m2 BSA, P = 0.057, which was not significantly different from 78 (61-106 ml/min per 1.73 m2 BSA in the controls. Reduced GFR was found in only two of the lithium patients off lithium, and in none of the controls. Maximal urinary concentrating capacity did not improve at all. It was 637 (130-875) mOsm/kg H2O in the lithium patients, which was lower than 856 (705-1.035) mOsm/kg H2O (P < 0.01) in the controls. Two of the lithium patients had isosthenuria.
Lithium patients often have an irreversible, clinically important reduction of Umax, sometimes progressing to nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, while GFR is well preserved in most patients.
To investigate the possible participation of oxygen intermediates (OIs) in the contact photosensitization process, mice were treated with long-acting liposomal-superoxide dismutase (L-SOD) before photosensitization. Photosensitization to 3,3',4',5-tetrachlorosalicylanilide (TCSA) was significantly suppressed by the pretreatment of mice with L-SOD. This suppression was not mediated by suppressor cells or due to an unresponsive state produced by the use of L-SOD. Rather, the suppression appeared to be due to the failure of production of photoallergen. L-SOD treatment induced the suppression of contact photosensitivity to TCSA but not ordinary contact sensitivity to TCSA or dinitrofluorobenzene, suggesting that the production of photoallergen is more critically dependent on the presence of OIs than that of ordinary contact allergen. The results provide evidence that OIs are produced by light absorption in the presence of oxygen and react with the biologic substrate to form photoallergens.
Extrapyramidal disorders associated with veralipride therapy are rarely reported and often due to a drug misuse.
We evaluated cases of extrapyramidal disorders associated with veralipride. Cases were extracted from the regional pharmacovigilance centre of Amiens database. From January 1, 1995 to September 30, 2004, cases were selected on the basis of the occurrence of extrapyramidal disorders under veralipride therapy.
Seventeen cases of veralipride-induced extrapyramidal disorders were found. They consist of 16 menopausal women and one old man with LH-RH antagonist-induced hot flushes. Mean age was 61 years (48-73). Adverse effects were acute dyskinesia (n=2) or parkinsonian syndrome, which occurred after several months or years of treatment (n=15). Parkinsonism was associated with other extrapyramidal symptoms in 8 cases: tardive dyskinesia (n=6), postural tremor (n=3), myoclonia (n=1), and trunk dystonia (n=1). In all cases, outcome was favorable after drug discontinuation. In most cases the tablet-free interval was not respected: this may lead to prolonged striatal D2 receptors blockade. It must be added that the diagnosis was often delayed and patients were considered as suffering from idiopathic Parkinson's disease.
Prescribers should be aware that veralipride is a neuroleptic and could induce potentially severe extrapyramidal disorders. Increase veralipride prescription is expected due to the recent restriction of hormonal replacement therapy for menopause. The physicians should also use veralipride according to the Summary of the Product Characteristics.
The peroxisome-biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous, lethal diseases that are characterized by neuronal, hepatic, and renal abnormalities; severe mental retardation; and, in their most severe form, death within the 1st year of life. Cells from all PBD patients exhibit decreased import of one or more classes of peroxisome matrix proteins, a phenotype shared by yeast pex mutants. We identified the human orthologue of yeast PEX10 and observed that its expression rescues peroxisomal matrix-protein import in PBD patients' fibroblasts from complementation group 7 (CG7). In addition, we detected mutations on both copies of PEX10 in two unrelated CG7 patients. A Zellweger syndrome patient, PBD100, was homozygous for a splice donor-site mutation that results in exon skipping and loss of 407 bp from the PEX10 open reading frame. A more mildly affected neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy patient was a compound heterozygote for a missense mutation in the PEX10 zinc-binding domain, H290Q, and for a nonsense mutation, R125ter. Although all three mutations attenuate PEX10 activity, the two alleles detected in the mildly affected patient, PBD052, encode partially functional PEX10 proteins. PEX10-deficient PBD100 cells contain many peroxisomes and import peroxisomal membrane proteins but do not import peroxisomal matrix proteins, indicating that loss of PEX10 has its most pronounced effect on peroxisomal matrix-protein import.
Acrolein is a highly reactive alpha,beta-unsaturated aldehyde produced endogenously during lipid peroxidation and naturally distributed pervasively in living environments, posing serious threats to human health if not properly metabolized. In this study, we report aldose reductase-like-1 (ARL-1) as a novel enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of acrolein and protects cells from their toxicity. Using purified ARL-1 protein, we determined its enzymatic activity in response to acrolein and defined its steady-state kinetics with K(m) and V(max) at 0.110 +/- 0.012 mM and 3122.0 +/- 64.7 nmol/mg protein/min, respectively. By introducing a functional Enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein (EGFP)/ARL-1 fusion protein into 293T cells, we demonstrated that plating efficiency in liquid culture and focus formation in soft agar increased by more than 60% (p < 0.05), compared to the vector control cells. More significantly, at a low dose of 5 microM acrolein, EGFP/ARL-1 expression enhanced both plating efficiency and focus formation by more than threefold, and the foci (in soft agar) of 293T cells expressing EGFP/ARL-1 were significantly larger than those of the vector control cells. At high concentrations of acrolein (25 and 50 microM), EGFP/ARL-1 protein prevented oncotic death of 293T cells induced by acrolein. In summary, our data demonstrated for the first time that the ARL-1 protein protects 293T cells from acrolein toxicity. Due to the high toxicity and wide distribution of acrolein, this finding is important to the understanding of its detoxification mechanisms.
Recent reports raise the possibility that olanzapine, which commonly causes weight gain in non-eating-disordered subjects, assisted weight gain and mood during refeeding in anorexia nervosa (AN) patients.
Eighteen AN subjects who engaged in open treatment with olanzapine were retrospectively questioned about their response.
Subjects reported a significant reduction in anxiety, difficulty eating, and core eating disorder symptoms after taking olanzapine.
These data lend support to the possibility that olanzapine may be useful in AN patients.
A controlled trial is necessary to prove that olanzapine is efficacious.
The talpid(3) chicken mutant has a pleiotropic phenotype including polydactyly and craniofacial abnormalities. Limb polydactyly in talpid(3) suggests a gain of Hedgehog (Hh) signaling, whereas, paradoxically, absence of midline facial structures suggests a loss of Hh function. Here we analyze the status of Shh signaling in the talpid(3) mutant head. We show that Shh expression domains are lost from the talpid(3) head--in hindbrain, midbrain, zona limitans intrathalamica, and stomodeal ectoderm--and that direct targets of Hedgehog signaling, Ptc1, Ptc2, and Gli1, are also absent even in areas associated with primary Shh expression. These data suggest that the talpid(3) mutation leads to defective activation of the Shh pathway and, furthermore, that tissue-to-tissue transduction of Shh expression in the developing head depends on Hh pathway activation. Failure to activate the Shh pathway can also explain absence of floor plate and Hnf-3beta and Netrin-1 expression in midbrain and hindbrain and absence of Fgf-8 expression in commissural plate. Other aspects of gene expression in the talpid(3) head, however, suggest misspecification, such as maintenance of floor plate-like gene expression in telencephalon. In branchial arches and lower jaw, where Shh is expressed, changes in expression of genes involved in patterning and mesodermal specification suggest both gain and loss of Hedgehog function. Thus, analysis of gene expression in talpid(3) head shows that, as in talpid(3) limb, expression of some genes is lost, while others are ectopically expressed. Unlike the limb, many head regions depend on Hh induction of a secondary domain of Shh expression, and failure of this induction in talpid(3), together with the inability to activate the Shh pathway, explain the loss-of-function head phenotype. This gene expression analysis in the talpid(3) head also confirms and extends knowledge of the importance of Shh signaling and the balance between activation and repression of Shh targets in many aspects of craniofacial morphogenesis.
The aim of our work is to evaluate the efficacy of intracavernous sodium nitroprusside (SNP) in management of erectile dysfunction (ED) in a clinical comparative study with papaverine/phentolamine in ED patients.
The study included 40 patients with ED divided into two groups. Group I include 20 patients receiving intracavernous (30 mg papaverine + 1 mg phentolamine) followed 1 week later by intracavernous 300 microg SNP. Group II included 20 patients receiving the same regimen of group I but with intracavernous SNP first followed by papaverine/phentolamine 1 week later. All patients were assessed clinically for their response and any developing complications.
The numbers of good and poor responders were not statistically significant (P > 0.05) among the two groups. The mean erectile duration of SNP was similar to bimix (P > 0.05). No side-effects whether local or systemic occurred with SNP while priapism and local penile pain were recorded with bimix solution.
Intracavernous pharmacotherapy is still a reliable method both for diagnosis and for treatment of ED. While preliminary results of our study show a potential of SNP to be an effective and safe intracavernous agent, long-term self-injection clinical trials are needed before large-scale usage is recommended.
Little is known about the expression and antioxidant function of manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. To determine the significance of Mn-SOD in esophageal squamous cell carcinomas, Mn-SOD mRNA expression was examined in 45 esophageal squamous cell carcinomas and the corresponding normal mucosal tissues by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. The tumor/normal (T/N) ratio of 45 patients with esophageal carcinoma was calculated, and the data were clinicopathologically analyzed. The T/N ratio of Mn-SOD mRNA expression was less than 0.5 in 11 (32.4%) of 34 esophageal carcinoma cases without any preoperative treatments, while none of 11 cases who underwent preoperative chemotherapy showed a T/N ratio of <0.5 (p < 0.05). There was an inverse correlation between the Mn-SOD expression level and the degree of venous invasion (p < 0.05) as well as lymphatic invasion (p < 0.05). Furthermore, poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma showed significantly lower Mn-SOD mRNA expression levels than well differentiated carcinoma (p < 0.05). Our results suggest that Mn-SOD mRNA was frequently reduced in esophageal carcinoma when compared to the normal mucosa and the reduced expression levels of Mn-SOD mRNA may lead to an accumulation of superoxide radicals in conjunction with the increased invasiveness of esophageal carcinoma.
Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is a stress-response enzyme implicated in cardioprotection. To explore whether HO-1 has a role in cardiac remodeling response, the effect of its overexpression on angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced cardiac hypertrophy was examined.
HO-1 was induced in cultured rat neonatal cardiomyocytes by treatment with cobalt protoporphyrin IX (CoPPIX) or a recombinant adenovirus carrying the human HO-1 gene. Ang II-induced myocyte hypertrophy assessed by increments in cell size, [3H]leucine uptake, and protein content was suppressed by HO-1 overexpression. Cotreatment of cells with tin protoporphyrin IX, a HO inhibitor, significantly reversed the suppressive effect of HO-1. Bilirubin, one of the byproducts of heme degradation by HO-1, mediated the suppressive effect through the inhibition of Ang II-induced production of reactive oxygen species, as detected by a 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein probe. The antihypertrophic effect of HO-1 was also demonstrated in rats receiving chronic Ang II infusions. Cotreatment of animals with CoPPIX significantly attenuated Ang II-induced left ventricular hypertrophy and hyperdynamic contractions, whereas concomitant treatment with tin protoporphyrin IX abolished CoPPIX-mediated cardioprotection in vivo.
HO-1 attenuates Ang II-induced cardiac hypertrophy both in vitro and in vivo, and bilirubin mediates, at least in part, the antihypertrophic effect of HO-1 via inhibition of reactive oxygen species production after Ang II stimulation.
