Hexachlorobenzene (HCB) is an organochlorine pesticide that acts as an endocrine disruptor in humans and rodents. The development of breast cancer strongly depends on endocrine conditions modulated by environmental factors. We have demonstrated that HCB is a tumor co-carcinogen in rats and an inducer of proliferation in MCF-7 cells, in an estrogen receptor α (ERα)-dependent manner, and of migration in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell line. In the present study, we examined HCB effect on c-Src/human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER1) and ERα signaling pathways in mammary glands and in N-nitroso-N-methylurea (NMU)-induced mammary tumors in rats. Furthermore, we evaluated histopathological changes and serum hormone levels. Rats were separated into four groups: control, HCB (100 mg/kg b.w.), NMU (50 mg/kg b.w.) and NMU-HCB. Our data show that HCB increases c-Src and HER1 activation, c-Src/HER1 association, and Y699-STAT5b and ERK1/2 phosphorylation in mammary glands. HCB also enhances Y537-ERα phosphorylation and ERα/c-Src physical interaction. In tumors, HCB also induces c-Src and HER1 activation, c-Src/HER1 association, as well as T308-Akt and Y699-STAT5b phosphorylation. In addition, the pesticide increases ERα protein content and decreases p-Y537-ERα levels and ERα/c-Src association in tumors. HCB increases serum 17-beta estradiol and prolactin contents and decreases progesterone, FSH and LH levels in rats without tumors, while the opposite effect was observed in rats with tumors. Taken together, our results indicate that HCB induces an estrogenic effect in mammary gland, increasing c-Src/HER1 and ERα signaling pathways. HCB stimulates c-Src/HER1 pathway, but decreases ERα activity in tumors, appearing to shift them towards a higher malignancy phenotype.
The present study investigated the potential role for activation of PPARα and CAR/PXR by potassium PFOS (K⁺ PFOS) with respect to the etiology of hepatic hypertrophy and hepatocellular adenoma in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed K⁺ PFOS (20 or 100 ppm) for either 1, 7, or 28 days. Wyeth 14,643 (Wy 14,643, 50 ppm) and phenobarbital (PB, 500 ppm) were the controls for PPARα and CAR/PXR activation, respectively. Measurements included: plasma ALT, AST, cholesterol, triglycerides, and glucose; liver protein and DNA content; liver activities of palmitoyl CoA oxidase (ACOX), Cyp4A, CYP2B, and CYP3A; induction of liver CYP4A1, CYP2E1, CYP2B1/2, and CYP3A1 proteins (SDS-PAGE and Western blots); liver and thyroid microscopic histopathology, apoptotic index, and cell proliferation index. Terminal body weight was decreased by K⁺ PFOS (100 ppm) and Wy 14,643. All test-compound treatments increased liver weight. Plasma lipids were decreased by both PFOS and Wy 14,643. After treatment for 1 day, K⁺ PFOS (100 ppm), PB, and Wy 14,643 increased mean hepatic DNA concentration and total hepatic DNA, and total DNA remained elevated after treatment for 7 days and 28 days (PB and Wy 14,643 only). Hepatic P450 concentration was elevated after 7 and 28 days by K⁺ PFOS and by PB. K⁺ PFOS and Wy 14,643 increased liver activities of ACOX and CYP4A as well as increased liver CYP4A1 protein. By 28 days of treatment, K⁺ PFOS and PB increased liver activities of CYP2B and CYP3A as well as increased liver CYP2B1/2 and CYP3A1 proteins, and Wy 14,643 increased CYP2B enzyme activity to a slight extent. All test compounds increased the liver cell proliferative index and decreased the liver apoptotic index. No histological changes of the thyroid were noted; however, PB and WY increased thyroid follicular cell proliferation index (seven-day treatment only), while K⁺ PFOS did not. The thyroid follicular cell apoptotic index did not differ between groups. The hepatomegaly and hepatocellular adenoma observed after dietary exposure of Sprague-Dawley rats to K⁺ PFOS likely are due to the increased expression of xenosensor nuclear receptors PPARα and CAR/PXR. Given the markedly lower or absent response of human hepatocytes to the proliferative stimulus from activation of PPARα and CAR/PXR, the hepatocellular proliferative response from activation of these receptors by PFOS observed in rats is not expected to be of human relevance.
We investigated whether N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a precursor of glutathione, could protect rabbit articular chondrocytes against nitric oxide (NO)-induced apoptosis and could prevent cartilage destruction in an experimental model of osteoarthritis (OA) in rats. Isolated chondrocytes were treated with various concentrations of NAC (0-2 mM). Apoptosis was induced by 0.75 mM sodium nitroprusside (SNP) dehydrate, which produces NO. Cell viability was assessed by MTT assay, while apoptosis was evaluated by Hoechst 33342 and TUNEL staining. Intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and glutathione levels were measured, and expression of p53 and caspase-3 were determined by Western blotting. To determine whether intraarticular injection of NAC prevents cartilage destruction in vivo, cartilage samples of an OA model were subjected to H&E, Safranin O, and TUNEL staining. NAC prevented NO-induced apoptosis, ROS overproduction, p53 up-regulation, and caspase-3 activation. The protective effects of NAC were significantly blocked by buthionine sulfoximine, a glutathione synthetase inhibitor, indicating that the apoptosis-preventing activity of NAC was mediated by glutathione. Using a rat model of experimentally induced OA, we found that NAC also significantly prevented cartilage destruction and chondrocyte apoptosis in vivo. These results indicate that NAC inhibits NO-induced apoptosis of chondrocytes through glutathione in vitro, and inhibits chondrocyte apoptosis and articular cartilage degeneration in vivo.
Even though clinical safety has been established in large studies, ondansetron has been reported to cause adverse cardiovascular events. We present a case of atrial fibrillation in association with ondansetron in the postoperative period.
A 47-yr-old, 81 kg female presented with a benign lump in her left breast for lumpectomy. Her past medical history was unremarkable. Physically she was very active, non-smoker and had no allergies. She underwent the procedure under general anesthesia. She received 4 mg of ondansetron intravenously for postoperative nausea and vomiting prophylaxis at the end of the procedure and an additional 4 mg in the recovery room for nausea. Within 15 min after the second dose she was noted to be in atrial fibrillation that required admission to the hospital and procainamide infusion for conversion to normal sinus rhythm. She did not have any evidence of myocardial ischemia, valvular abnormality or pulmonary embolism.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 receptor (5-HT(3)) antagonist ondansetron has been reported to cause myocardial ischemia, supraventricular and ventricular tachycardia. Postulated mechanism includes inhibition of Bezold-Zarisch cardiac reflex and coronary vasoconstriction. Inhibition of 5-HT(3) receptors in the heart could lead to unopposed action of other serotonin receptors leading to atrial fibrillation or other tachyarrhythmias described in the literature.
The effects of crocetin on the cardiac hypertrophy induced by long-term treatment with norepinephrine (NE) in rats have been investigated. The activities of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-2 and MMP-9) have been assayed by gelatin SDS-PAGE zymography. The expressions of MMP-2 and MMP-9 were detected by RT-PCR. ATPase activity and hydroxyproline contents were measured with a commercial kit. The results show that crocetin blocked the development of left ventricular hypertrophy induced by NE, decreased the level of collagen in myocardium, enhanced both the Na+-K+ ATPase activity in cardiac tissue and the Ca2+-Mg2+ ATPase activity in mitochondria and inhibited significantly the activity of MMP-2 and the expressions of MMP-2 and MMP-9. These results suggest that crocetin may prevent cardiac hypertrophy induced by NE in rats.
In 2003, the uricosuric drug benzbromarone was withdrawn from the market. The first alternative drug of choice was the xanthine oxidase inhibitor allopurinol. The purpose was to (1) investigate the efficacy of allopurinol (standard dosage) compared with previous treatment with benzbromarone; and (2) investigate the combination therapy allopurinol-probenecid as an effective alternative treatment compared with previous benzbromarone treatment. A prospective, open study was carried out in a cohort of 51 gout patients who discontinued benzbromarone therapy because of market withdrawal. Patients were given 200-300 mg allopurinol (stage 1). When allopurinol failed to attain the target serum urate (sUr) levels <or=0.30 mmol/l, probenecid 1,000 mg/day was added (stage 2). Treatment with benzbromarone monotherapy (range: 100-200 mg/day; mean 138 mg/day) resulted in 92% of patients reaching target levels sUr <or= 0.30 mmol/l with a decrease of 61[11]% compared to baseline. In stage 1, 32 patients completed treatment with allopurinol monotherapy (range 200-300 mg/day; mean 256 mg/day), which resulted in 25% of patients attaining sUr target levels. Decrease in sUr levels was 36[11]%, which was significantly less compared to treatment with benzbromarone (p < 0.001). In stage 2, 14 patients received allopurinol-probenecid combination therapy, which resulted in 86% of patients attaining target sUr levels (after failure on allopurinol monotherapy), which was comparable to previous treatment with benzbromarone (p = 0.81). Decrease in sUr levels was 53[9]% (CI 95%: 48-58%), which was a non-significant difference compared to previous treatment with benzbromarone (p = 0.23). Benzbromarone is a very effective antihyperuricemic drug with 91% success in attainment of target sUr levels <or=0.30 mmol/l. Allopurinol 200-300 mg/day was shown to be a less potent alternative for most selected patients to attain target sUr levels (13% success). In patients failing on allopurinol monotherapy, the addition of probenecid proves to be an effective treatment strategy for attaining sUr target levels (86% success).
1 Fifty-two patients who had been treated for essential hypertension for at least 5 years with once-a-day pindolol alone or in combination with a diuretic participated in a strenuous exercise programme. The 24 h antihypertensive efficacy of once-a-day pindolol was shown in blood pressure readings made before the intake of the day's dose. 2 During the first stage of the study before interruption of therapy, pindolol maintained effective blood pressure control and prevented an excessive rise in blood pressure and heart rate following strenuous exercise. 3 Following a 6 week period of interruption of pindolol therapy, higher blood pressure and heart rate levels were reached following exercise. 4 After reintroduction of a single dose of pindolol, improvement in blood pressure control and lower heart rate levels were again seen following exercise. 5 Compared with the period without drug systolic and diastolic blood pressures were lowered to about the same extent at rest and during exercise after maintenance pindolol and after a single dose of pindolol following a 6 week interruption period, but pre-exercise levels rose considerably during the period when therapy was discontinued.
Morphine administration can lead to a variety of side-effects, including myoclonus. In an animal model, high morphine doses given intrathecally elicit hindlimb myoclonic seizures which are not influenced by traditional opioid receptor antagonists, such as naloxone. Ketamine prevents this seizure-like activity in a dose-dependent manner. The response is stereoselective, with S-ketamine far more potent than R-ketamine. A competitive NMDA antagonist, NPC17742, also prevents the seizures, although less potently than ketamine. Dextromethorphan has limited activity in this model, while haloperidol and pentothal are without any effect.
The transcription factors GATA4 and GATA5 are involved in gastrointestinal development and are inactivated by promoter hypermethylation in colorectal cancer. Here, we evaluated GATA4/5 promoter methylation as potential biomarkers for noninvasive colorectal cancer detection, and investigated the role of GATA4/5 in colorectal cancer.
Promoter methylation of GATA4/5 was analyzed in colorectal tissue and fecal DNA from colorectal cancer patients and healthy controls using methylation-specific PCR. The potential function of GATA4/5 as tumor suppressors was studied by inducing GATA4/5 overexpression in human colorectal cancer cell lines.
GATA4/5 methylation was observed in 70% (63/90) and 79% (61/77) of colorectal carcinomas, respectively, and was independent of clinicopathologic features. Methylation frequencies in normal colon tissues from noncancerous controls were 6% (5 of 88, GATA4; P < 0.001) and 13% (13 of 100, GATA5; P < 0.001). GATA4/5 overexpression suppressed colony formation (P < 0.005), proliferation (P < 0.001), migration (P < 0.05), invasion (P < 0.05), and anchorage-independent growth (P < 0.0001) of colorectal cancer cells. Examination of GATA4 methylation in fecal DNA from two independent series of colorectal cancer patients and controls yielded a sensitivity of 71% [95% confidence interval (95% CI), 55-88%] and specificity of 84% (95% CI, 74-95%) for colorectal cancer detection in the training set, and a sensitivity of 51% (95% CI, 37-65%) and specificity of 93% (95% CI, 84-100%) in the validation set.
Methylation of GATA4/5 is a common and specific event in colorectal carcinomas, and GATA4/5 exhibit tumor suppressive effects in colorectal cancer cells in vitro. GATA4 methylation in fecal DNA may be of interest for colorectal cancer detection.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) produces dramatic remissions in patients with relapsed or refractory acute promyelocytic leukemia. Its clinical use is burdened by QT prolongation, torsade de pointes, and sudden cardiac death. In the present study, we analyzed the molecular mechanisms leading to As(2)O(3)-induced abnormalities of cardiac electrophysiology. Using biochemical and electrophysiological methods, we show that long-term exposure to As(2)O(3) increases cardiac calcium currents and reduces surface expression of the cardiac potassium channel human ether-a-go-go-related gene (HERG) at clinically relevant concentrations of 0.1 to 1.5 microM. In ventricular myocytes, As(2)O(3) increases action potential duration measured at 30 and 90% of repolarization. As(2)O(3) interferes with hERG trafficking by inhibition of hERG-chaperone complexes and increases calcium currents by a faster cellular process. We propose that an increase in cardiac calcium current and reduced trafficking of hERG channels to the cell surface cause QT prolongation and torsade de pointes in patients treated with As(2)O(3). Our results suggest that calcium-channel antagonists will be useful in normalizing QT prolongation during As(2)O(3) therapy. As(2)O(3) is the first example of a drug that produces hERG liability by inhibition of ion-channel trafficking. Other drugs that interfere with proteins in the processing pathway of cardiac ion channels may be proarrhythmic for similar reasons.
VP 16-213 (etoposide, abbr. to VP), an oncostatic drug, was administered intravenously to Crj : CD (Sprague-Dawley) rats of both sexes at dose levels of 0.15, 0.50, 1.5 and 4.5 mg/kg/day for one month with the object of examining its subacute toxicity and the reversibility of toxic effects. For the purpose of comparison, vincristine (abbr. to VCR) was administered in the same manner at dose levels of 0.04 and 0.08 mg/kg/day. The summarized results obtained are as follows: VP 0.50 mg/kg and higher suppressed body weight increase and food intake dose-responsively. VP 4.5 mg/kg brought depilation and anemia, and some of male animals receiving this dose died showing systemic debility, emaciation and ataxia. VP 0.50 mg/kg and higher decreased white blood cell count accompanied with lowered lymphocyte fraction, and 1.5 and 4.5 mg/kg predominantly decreased red blood cell count. VP 1.5 and 4.5 mg/kg lowered total serum protein content and serum alkaline phosphatase activity, and elevated A/G ratio. VP 0.50 mg/kg and higher predominantly decreased testicular weight, and 1.5 and 4.5 mg/kg predominantly brought thymic atrophy, hypoplasia of bone marrow and testicular atrophy with suppression of spermatogenesis and tubular atrophy. VP 4.5 mg/kg induced atrophy of germinal centers and hemosiderosis in spleen, and epididymal atrophy with decrease of sperms in number and appearance of giant cells. Above-described changes excluding the findings on testis and epididymis were generally reversible. Most of the findings for a reference drug, VCR, were similar to those for VP, and their severities brought by VP 1.5 and 4.5 mg/kg were comparable to those by VCR 0.04 and 0.08 mg/kg, respectively. Based on these results, the non-effect dose level of VP under the present experimental condition was estimated to be 0.15 mg/kg/day against rats of both sexes.
Plasma renin concentration (PRC) was measured in 46 patients with essential hypertension before and after treatment for 4 weeks with alprenolol 600-1200 mg daily. In 27 of these patients PRC was measured after 4 weeks of combined treatment with alprenolol and hydralizine. During alprenolol treatment PRC and blood pressure were reduced, but the changes were not correlated. Alprenolol treatment caused similar blood pressure reductions in patients with high and low PRC, and the antihypertensive efficacy of beta-adrenergic blocking agents could not be predicted from the pretreatment PRC. When beta-adrenergic blockade was supplemented with hydralazine, blood pressure was further reduced, but PRC remained unchanged. Although a causal relationship between blood pressure reduction and suppression of renin, production might exist at low doses of beta-adrenergic blocking agents, the present study did not indicate such a relationship when higher doses were used. It was shown that alprenolol inhibited the increase in PRC usually induced by hydralazine, but it is not known whether this was important for the effectiveness of the fall in blood pressure produced by hydralazine.
Dopamine is the principal neurotransmitter that mediates a wide range of brain functions, including locomotion, emotion, learning, and neuroendocrine modulation. To clarify the role of dopamine during postnatal development, it is useful to have mutant mice genetically deleting dopamine. In this paper, we describe the mice lacking expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the first and rate-limiting enzyme of catecholamine biosynthetic pathway, in the dopaminergic neuronal type. In these mice, TH expression in noradrenergic and adrenergic cells was restored. Lack of TH expression in dopaminergic neurons resulted in a marked reduction of dopamine accumulation. This led to multiple behavioral abnormalities at the juvenile stage, which were characterized by a reduction in spontaneous locomotor activity, blockade of methamphetamine-induced hyperactivity, cataleptic behavior, and defect in active avoidance learning. In contrast, development of pituitary gland as well as production and secretion of the pituitary peptide hormones dependent on hypothalamic dopaminergic control were normally maintained in spite of the reduced dopamine synthesis. Our findings provide genetic evidence that dopamine is essential for controlling spontaneous and voluntary movement and emotional learning during postnatal development through the nigrostriatal and mesocorticolimbic pathways.
To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of carvedilol, a beta-blocker that is approved for use in the US for the treatment of heart failure, based on data from Phase III clinical trials.
We conducted an economic evaluation alongside the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Trials Program, which consisted of four concurrent, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials; the mean duration of follow-up across these four trials was 6.5 months (the program was terminated prematurely based on a finding of a 65% mortality benefit). Using data from these trials, we examined the cost-effectiveness of carvedilol in terms of the estimated cost per death averted among patients randomized to such therapy versus those receiving placebo. Attention was focused on the cost of carvediol therapy plus the cost of cardiovascular-related inpatient care. Costs of care were estimated by combining infomation on healthcare utilization from the clinical trials with secondary sources of cost data.
Patients randomized to receive carvedilol had lower mean +/- SD estimated costs of cardiovascular-related inpatient care over 6.5 months compared with those receiving placebo ($1912 +/- $7595 vs. $4463 +/- $20,565, respectively). As mortality alsowas lower among carvedilol patients, the estimated cost per death averted was negative. The probability that carvedilol would both increase survival and decrease costs of cardiovascular-related care over a 6.5-month period was estimated to be 0.98.
Data from the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Trials Program indicate that carvedilol reduces mortality in patients with heart failure; our study suggests that it also may be cost-saving over a period of approximately six months.
A 17-year-old patient with sickle cell-beta thalassemia undergoing treatment with home iron chelation therapy inadvertently received ten times the recommended dose of intravenous deferoxamine. Acute renal failure (ARF) developed within hours. Immediate treatment with high-efficiency hemodialysis resulted in the prompt return of renal function after only one hemodialysis session. No long-term nephrotoxic effects of the deferoxamine overdose developed after more than 1 year of follow-up. Children with sickle cell disease who are on intravenous deferoxamine and their parents should be cautioned about the possibility of ARF with overdose due to malfunction of the pump and/or inadequate monitoring during treatment. ARF, should it occur in such children, appears to respond well to treatment with high-efficiency hemodialysis.
Millions of persons around the world are exposed to low doses of arsenic through drinking water. However, estimates of health effects associated with low-dose arsenic exposure have been extrapolated from high-dose studies. In Bangladesh, many persons have been exposed to a wide range of doses of arsenic from drinking water over a significant period of time. The authors evaluated dose-response relations between arsenic exposure from drinking water and premalignant skin lesions by using baseline data on 11,746 participants recruited in 2000-2002 for the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study in Araihazar, Bangladesh. Several measures of arsenic exposure were estimated for each participant based on well-water arsenic concentration and usage pattern of the wells and on urinary arsenic concentration. In different regression models, consistent dose-response effects were observed for all arsenic exposure measures. Compared with drinking water containing <8.1 microg/liter of arsenic, drinking water containing 8.1-40.0, 40.1-91.0, 91.1-175.0, and 175.1-864.0 microg/liter of arsenic was associated with adjusted prevalence odds ratios of skin lesions of 1.91 (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.26, 2.89), 3.03 (95% CI: 2.05, 4.50), 3.71 (95% CI: 2.53, 5.44), and 5.39 (95% CI: 3.69, 7.86), respectively. The effect seemed to be influenced by gender, age, and body mass index. These findings provide information that should be considered in future research and policy decisions.
To report a case of possible neurotoxicity caused by markedly elevated free valproic acid (VPA) plasma concentrations.
A patient with a history of a mixed-type seizure disorder that had been treated with oral VPA 1000 mg four times daily for the previous two years was admitted to the neurology service with the chief complaint of increasing difficulty in walking and involuntary muscle jerks that were new in onset. The patient was hypersomnolent and dysarthric. The total plasma VPA concentration was 103 micrograms/mL, which was only slightly above the recommended therapeutic range (50-100 micrograms/mL). VPA free fraction and free plasma concentrations, however, were unexpectedly elevated (26 percent, 26.8 micrograms/mL, respectively). Further laboratory evaluation revealed a serum albumin concentration of 33 g/L. The neurologic symptoms resolved upon VPA dosage reduction.
VPA displays concentration-dependent protein binding, resulting in disproportionate increases in drug free fraction with increasing drug concentration. This effect may be magnified in patients with decreased plasma protein-binding capacity. The plasma protein-binding kinetics of VPA are reviewed and the implications for therapeutic drug monitoring are discussed.
It is likely that the markedly elevated free VPA plasma concentrations contributed to the neurologic symptoms displayed in this patient. In patients with decreased albumin concentrations, failure to recognize concentration-dependent protein binding, as well as exclusive reliance upon total drug concentrations, may lead to erroneous pharmacokinetic and therapeutic interpretations.
Arsenic and its derivatives are naturally occurring metalloid compounds widely distributed in the environment. Arsenics are known to cause cancers of the skin, liver, lung, kidney, and bladder. Although numerous carcinogenic pathways have been proposed, the exact molecular mechanisms remain to be delineated. To further characterize the role of oxidative stress in arsenite-induced cell transformation via the reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated Ras/Erk pathway, here we demonstrated arsenite-induced rat lung epithelial cell (LEC) transformation, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, stimulation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling pathway, and enhancement of cell proliferation. However, there was no evidence of activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B pathway in arsenite-induced transformed LECs. Since ROS is involved in arsenite-induced LEC cell transformation, Redox-status regulatory proteins (Cu/Zn SOD and thioredoxin) and arsenite-induced LEC cell transformation were significantly inhibited by concurrent treatment with the antioxidants. Our experimental results clearly demonstrated that induction of p-ERK and cell proliferation by arsenite is mediated via oxidative stress, since antioxidants can inhibit arsenite-induced cell transformation.
In a double-blind, randomized trial the effects of caffeinated and decaffeinated drinks on postprandial hemodynamic and neurohumoral changes were studied in seven fit, elderly subjects after a standard 2.4MJ meal. There was a significant difference in supine postprandial systolic blood pressure between the placebo and caffeine phases (P less than 0.01); at 60 minutes, supine systolic blood pressure had fallen 14 mmHg [95% confidence interval (CI)-7 to-21 mmHg, p less than 0.01) after placebo, but was unchanged after caffeine (+9 mmHg, CI 0 to 18 mmHg, NS]. Similar differences between placebo and caffeine were seen in erect systolic and diastolic blood pressure (P less than 0.01), although orthostatic tolerance was maintained throughout each study period. Postprandial plasma noradrenaline levels were higher (P less than 0.02) and the increase greater (P less than 0.02) after caffeine than after placebo. Caffeine administered at the end of a standard test meal prevents the postprandial fall in blood pressure in fit, elderly subjects. The clinical relevance of this finding has yet to be determined, but it may offer a simple remedy for patients with symptomatic postprandial hypotension.
Acebrophylline is an airway mucus regulator with antiinflammatory action. The drug's approach involves several points of attack in obstructive airway disease. The molecule contains ambroxol, which facilitates various steps in the biosynthesis of pulmonary surfactant, theophylline-7 acetic acid whose carrier function raises blood levels of ambroxol, thus rapidly and intensely stimulating surfactant production. The resulting reduction in the viscosity and adhesivity of the mucus greatly improves ciliary clearance. By deviating phosphatidylcholine towards surfactant synthesis, making it no longer available for the synthesis of inflammatory mediators such as the leukotrienes, acebrophylline also exerts an inflammatory effect. This is confirmed in vivo by the reduction in aspecific bronchial hyper-responsiveness in patients with stable bronchial asthma. On a clinical level, acebrophylline is therapeutically effective in patients with acute or chronic bronchitis, chronic obstructive or asthma-like bronchitis and recurrence of chronic bronchitis; it reduces the frequency of episodes of bronchial obstruction and reduces the need for beta2-agonists, and improves indexes of ventilatory function.
It was previously reported that excessive arsenic trioxide would produce cardiovascular toxicity. Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) have been shown to play a supporting role in cardiovascular functions. The increasing apoptosis of BMSCs commonly would promote the development of cardiovascular diseases. Thus we hypothesize that arsenic trioxide caused apoptosis in BMSCs, which provided a better understanding of arsenic toxicity in hearts. The present study was designed to investigate the proapoptotic effects of arsenic trioxide on BMSCs and explore the mechanism underlying arsenic trioxide-induced BMSCs apoptosis. We demonstrate that arsenic trioxide significantly inhibited survival ratios of BMSCs in a concentration-dependent and time-dependent manner. The Annexin V/PI staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferasemediated dUTP nick-end labelling (TUNEL) assay also showed that arsenic trioxide markedly induced the apoptosis of BMSCs. The caspase-3 activity was obviously enhanced in the presence of arsenic trioxide in a concentration-dependent manner in BMSCs. Additionally, arsenic trioxide caused the increase of intracellular free calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) in rat BMSCs. BAPTA pretreatment may attenuate the apoptosis of BMSCs induced by arsenic trioxide. Taken together, arsenic trioxide could inhibit the proliferation and induce the apoptosis of BMSCs by modulating intracellular [Ca(2+)](i), and activating the caspase-3 activity.
The capacity of multiple myeloma cells to generate parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) has been examined by in situ assessment of PTHrP mRNA and PTHrP protein in myeloma cells of patients in whom the disease was associated with the development of hypercalcaemia. The presence of PTHrP mRNA was evaluated by in situ hybridization using an antisense riboprobe, and PTHrP by immunohistochemistry using a monoclonal antibody, in archival bone marrow trephine specimens from 17 patients. PTHrP mRNA was detected in myeloma cells in 16 of the 17 patients, indicating a high frequency of PTHrP gene expression in myeloma cells in these subjects. PTHrP protein was, on the other hand, detected in the myeloma cells of only five of these patients. The impact of the mercury-based fixation and decalcification procedure used for processing the bone marrow trephine specimens was assessed to determine the influence of this process on the outcome of the immunohistochemical assay for PTHrP. It was shown that this preparative procedure resulted in a marked reduction of immunohistochemically detectable PTHrP, which provides a possible explanation for the lower frequency of positivity for PTHrP in myeloma cells in the bone marrow specimens. The present findings are consistent with the view that PTHrP can be generated in myeloma cells in vivo, and could contribute to osteolysis and hypercalcaemia, as in patients with cancer.
We report a case of fatal adriamycin cardiomyopathy in a 12-year-old boy treated for Ewing's sarcoma. At necropsy, in addition to the typical changes of advanced cardiotoxicity in the myocardium there was endocardial fibroelastosis, mainly affecting the left ventricle.
The aim of this study was to examine the neurotoxicity of formaldehyde on prefrontal cortex and the protective effects of omega-3 essential fatty acids against these toxic effects. For this purpose, 21 male Wistar rats were divided into three groups. The rats in group I comprised the controls, while the rats in group II were injected every other day with formaldehyde (FA). The rats in group III received omega-3 fatty acids daily while exposed to formaldehyde. At the end of the 14-day experimental period, all rats were killed by decapitation. The brains of the rats were removed and the prefrontal cortex tissues were obtained from all brain specimens. Some of the prefrontal cortex tissue specimens were used for determination of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels. The remaining prefrontal cortex tissue specimens were used for light microscopic and immunohistochemical evaluation. The levels of SOD and GSH-Px were significantly decreased, and MDA levels were significantly increased in rats treated with formaldehyde compared with those of the controls. Furthermore, in the microscopic examination of this group, formation of apoptotic bodies, pycnotic cells, and apoptotic cells including nuclear fragmentation and membrane budding were observed. However, increased SOD and GSH-Px enzyme activities, and decreased MDA levels were detected in the rats administered omega-3 fatty acids while exposed to formaldehyde. Additionally, cellular damage caused by formaldehyde was decreased, and structural appearance was similar to that of the control rats in this group. The biochemical and histological findings observed in all groups were also confirmed by immunohistochemical evaluation. It was determined that formaldehyde-induced neuronal damage in prefrontal cortex was prevented by administration of omega-3 essential fatty acids.
Long-acting full dopamine D(2) agonists produce less dyskinesia in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated primates and in Parkinson's disease than effective antiparkinsonian doses of levodopa. They do not however, prevent priming for dyskinesia expression on subsequent levodopa exposure. In contrast, the effects of partial D(2) receptor agonists on dyskinesia are unclear. We now examine the ability of the partial D(2) agonist pardoprunox (SLV308) to improve motor function and its propensity to prime for dyskinesia in drug naïve, MPTP-treated common marmosets. Previously, drug naïve, MPTP-treated common marmosets were treated with equivalent doses of either pardoprunox (SLV308) (0.1 mg/kg po), ropinirole (0.18 mg/kg po), or levodopa (10 mg/kg po BID) for 28 days. All treatments induced a similar reduction of motor disability. Dyskinesia induced by levodopa was of greater intensity than that following administration of either pardoprunox (SLV308) or ropinirole. Administration of pardoprunox (SLV308) resulted in dyskinesia that was less intense and of shorter duration than either ropinirole or levodopa. At the end of drug treatment, acute challenge with levodopa resulted in the expression of marked dyskinesia in animals that had previously received chronic levodopa or ropinirole treatment. However, animals previously treated with pardoprunox (SLV308) showed only mild dyskinesia in response to the levodopa challenge. These results suggest that the partial D(2) agonist pardoprunox (SLV308) is less likely to prime for dyskinesia or to lead to the expression of dyskinesia than either levodopa or full dopamine agonists.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is an immunologic drug reaction characterized by paradoxical association with venous and arterial thrombosis. The syndrome is caused by IgG antibodies that are reactive against complexes of platelet factor 4 and heparin. Fondparinux does not bind to platelet factor 4, is structurally too short to induce an antibody response, and could in theory be a useful agent to treat HIT. A 69-year-old white female presented with a lower extremity extensive iliofemoral deep vein thrombosis after a right total knee arthroplasty and was subsequently found to have a pulmonary embolism. The patient was noted to have heparin flushes during her operation. Her platelet drop decreased >50% from baseline during initiation of antithrombotic therapy. She was started on subcutaneous fondaparinux 7.5 mg once daily injection. Her serotonin release assay and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for heparin antibodies were positive for HIT. Her platelet count nadir was 60 x 0(3)/mm(3) on day 5 and the platelet count rebounded after 8 days of fondaparinux therapy. No recurrent thrombotic or bleeding events were noted throughout her therapy. Anecdotal reports have shown that fondaparinux can be a useful agent to treat HIT with or without thrombosis.
The rodent pilocarpine model of epilepsy exhibits hippocampal sclerosis and spontaneous seizures and thus resembles human temporal lobe epilepsy. Use of the many available mouse mutants to study this epilepsy model would benefit from a detailed neuropathology study. To identify new features of epileptogenesis, we characterized glial and neuronal pathologies after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) in CF1 and C57BL/6 mice focusing on the hippocampus. All CF1 mice showed spontaneous seizures by 17-27 days after SE. By 6 h there was virtually complete loss of hilar neurons, but the extent of pyramidal cell death varied considerably among mice. In the mossy fiber pathway, neuropeptide Y (NPY) was persistently upregulated beginning 1 day after SE; NPY immunoreactivity in the supragranular layer after 31 days indicated mossy fiber sprouting. beta2 microglobulin-positive activated microglia, normally absent in brains without SE, became abundant over 3-31 days in regions of neuronal loss, including the hippocampus and the amygdala. Astrogliosis developed after 10 days in damaged areas. Amyloid precursor protein immunoreactivity in the thalamus at 10 days suggested delayed axonal degeneration. The mortality after pilocarpine injection was very high in C57BL/6 mice from Jackson Laboratories but not those from Charles River, suggesting that mutant mice in the C57BL/6(JAX) strain will be difficult to study in the pilocarpine model, although their neuropathology was similar to CF1 mice. Major neuropathological changes not previously studied in the rodent pilocarpine model include widespread microglial activation, delayed thalamic axonal death, and persistent NPY upregulation in mossy fibers, together revealing extensive and persistent glial as well as neuronal pathology.
Pentamethylquercetin (PMQ) is a natural quercetin derivative found in a variety of edible herb. Although PMQ has potential as anti-diabetic agent, there have been no reports on its anti-adipogenic effects in the obese animals. This study investigated whether PMQ attenuates high-fat diet (HFD)-induced adipogenesis in the epididymal fat tissues of mice and explored its underlying mechanisms. In comparison with HFD-fed mice, mice fed with PMQ showed significantly lower body weight gain, adipose tissue mass, and plasma levels of triglyceride, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and glucose, but higher plasma levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. PMQ significantly reversed the HFD-induced regulation of Sirt1/mTOR signaling genes (Sirt1, mTOR, 4EBP1, and S6K1), and key adipogenic genes (PPARγ, SREBP1, FAS, ATGL, HSL, and Perilipin) in the epididymal adipose tissues of obese mice. However, nicotinamide appeared to partly inhibit PMQ-mediated anti-adipogenic effects involved in this attenuation. These results suggested that PMQ inhibited visceral adipogenesis by suppressing the Sirt1-mediated mTOR and adipogenesis signaling cascades. It might be a potential candidate for the treatment of obesity.
