Because of its diverse physical and chemical properties, lanthanum has been used in various industrial and medical fields. However, until recently, its effects at the cellular and molecular level had hardly been investigated. Using primary cortical networks grown on microelectrode array neurochips, we investigated the acute functional neurotoxicity of lanthanum(III) chloride (LaCl(3)). Lanthanum caused a biphasic concentration-dependent decline in network activity resulting in a complete cessation of the activity at 3mM LaCl(3). However, the networks' oscillatory behavior and synchronicity between neurons remained unaffected until activity loss. The spike activity diminished at half effective concentration values for the two phases of 117 nM and 763 μM LaCl(3) corresponding to 16 ng/ml and 10.6 μg/ml lanthanum, respectively. Furthermore, under the experimental conditions, LaCl(3) did not affect voltage-dependent ion channels contributing to the shape and amplitude of the action potential. Further similarity analysis by pattern recognition exposed significant similarities of the activity changes caused by LaCl(3) to those induced by phenobarbital, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and the gap junction blocker carbenoxolone and sodium propionate. Overall, this study demonstrates inhibitory and potentially sedative toxicological effects of lanthanum(III) ions at concentrations comparable to the plasma concentrations observed in patients with kidney disease being treated with lanthanum carbonate for hyperphosphatemia. Therefore, given the lack of proof that the blood-brain barrier is completely impermeable in uremic patients and lanthanum cannot cross, caution is warranted.
The interictal EEG spike(s) is the hallmark of the epileptic EEG. While focal interictal spike (IS) have been associated with transitory cognitive impairment, with the type of deficit dependent on where in the cortex the IS arises, the mechanism by which IS result in transitory dysfunction is not known. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of IS on single-cell firing patterns in freely moving rats with a prior history of seizures.
We studied IS in two seizure models; pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus and recurrent flurothyl models. The effect of spontaneous hippocampal spikes on action potentials (APs) of CA1 cells in rats walking in a familiar environment was investigated using 32 extracellular electrodes. We also compared the effect of spikes on two types of hippcampal cells; place cells that discharge rapidly only when the rat's head is in a specific part of the environment, the so-called firing field, and interneurons, which are a main source of inhibition in the hippocampus.
IS were associated with a decreased likelihood of AP compared with IS-free portions of the record. Compared to pre-IS baseline, IS were followed by significant decreases in CA1 APs for periods up to 2 s following the IS in both models. When occurring in flurries, IS were associated with a pronounced decrease in APs. The response to IS was cell-dependent; IS resulted in decreases in AP firing after the IS in interneurons but not place cells.
This study demonstrates that IS have substantial effects on cellular firing in the hippocampus and that these effects last far longer than the spike and slow wave. Furthermore, the effect of IS on cellular firing was cell specific, affecting interneurons more than place cells. These findings suggest that IS may contribute to seizure-induced cognitive impairment by altering AP firing in a cell-specific manner.
A 76-year-old female with ocular ethambutol toxicity prompted two investigations. Firstly, she was followed electrophysiologically, with multichannel recorded pattern reversal visual evoked potential techniques using full-field, half-field, central-field and peripheral field stimulation, plus flash VEP and ERG. The examinations performed 2, 5 and 7 months after ethambutol withdrawal indicated damage to the papillomacular bundle, while a late follow-up after recovery showed potentials of near normal configuration. Secondly an epidemiological survey was attempted based on the 37 ethambutol toxicity cases registered to the Danish Board on Adverse Reactions 1972-81, making up 1% of those receiving antituberculous therapy. They showed a significant preponderance of elderly (24/37 greater than 65 years) and of females (29/37). There was only one foreigner in the series. A detailed analysis of visual function in a subsample of 22 cases (those registered 1977-81) showed that visual impairment lasted several months, and that usually recovery was not complete. Using the visual demands for driver's license as criterium, 20 fulfilled the demands prior to therapy, but only 12 after recovery.
The optimum timing of resumption of anticoagulation after warfarin-related intracranial hemorrhage in patients with indication for continued anticoagulation is uncertain. We performed a large retrospective cohort study to obtain more precise risk estimates.
We reviewed charts of 2869 consecutive patients with objectively verified intracranial hemorrhage over 6 years at 3 tertiary centers. We calculated the daily risk of intracranial hemorrhage or ischemic stroke with and without resumption of warfarin; we focused on patients who survived the first week and had cardiac indication for anticoagulation or previous stroke. Using a Cox model, we estimated rates for these 2 adverse events in relation to different time points of resumed anticoagulation. The combined risk of either a new intracranial hemorrhage or an ischemic stroke was calculated for a range of warfarin resumption times.
We identified warfarin-associated intracranial hemorrhage in 234 patients (8.2%), of whom 177 patients (76%) survived the first week and had follow-up information available; the median follow-up time was 69 weeks (interquartile range [IQR] 19-144). Fifty-nine patients resumed warfarin after a median of 5.6 weeks (IQR 2.6-17). The hazard ratio for recurrent intracranial hemorrhage with resumption of warfarin was 5.6 (95% CI, 1.8-17.2), and for ischemic stroke it was 0.11 (95% CI, 0.014-0.89). The combined risk of recurrent intracranial hemorrhage or ischemic stroke reached a nadir if warfarin was resumed after approximately 10 to 30 weeks.
The optimal timing for resumption of warfarin therapy appears to be between 10 and 30 weeks after warfarin-related intracranial hemorrhage.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of gentamicin (100 mg/kg/day, i.p.) treatment on endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilation in isolated perfused rat kidney, and the effect of amino acid L-arginine (in the drinking water, 2.25 g/l) on renal dysfunction induced by gentamicin. When gentamicin-treated groups were compared with the control group, it was observed that BUN and creatinine levels increased significantly. Also, the relaxant responses induced by acetylcholine, sodium nitroprusside and pinacidil decreased. Histopathological examination indicated acute tubular necrosis in this group. In animals treated with gentamicin together with L-arginine, there was a significant amelioration in the BUN and creatinine levels. The vasodilator responses were similar to those of the control group. Histopathological examination indicated only hydropic degeneration in tubular epithelium of kidney. Co-administration of L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (112.5 mg/l), an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, and L-arginine to rats treated with gentamicin did not change the protective effect of L-arginine. In rats receiving L-NAME alone, the level of BUN and creatinine and vasodilation to acetylcholine were not significantly different when compared to those of the control group, while relaxant responses to sodium nitroprusside and pinacidil were increased. These results suggest that gentamicin leads to an impairment in vascular smooth muscle relaxation in addition to acute tubular necrosis in the rat kidney. Supplementation of L-arginine has an important protective effect on gentamicin-induced nephropathy.
A transgenic mouse insertional mutant displayed the phenotype of altered cranial morphology with sex-linked cleft palate. We have cloned the disrupted genomic X-linked locus and report the identification of the mCASK gene. The gene is transcribed to produce two messages of 4.5 and 9.5 kb expressed during development and in adult tissues, particularly the brain. We describe the isolation of two differentially spliced mouse cDNAs from the locus (mCASK-A and mCASK-B). The mCASK-B cDNA probably represents the full-length product of the 4.5-kb transcript. The identical N-termini of the predicted encoded proteins (mCASK-A and -B) are highly homologous to Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, while the deduced C-terminus of mCASK-B is highly homologous to a family of multidomain proteins containing a guanylate kinase motif, the MAGUK proteins. mCASK-B is a new member of an emerging family of genes in which the encoded proteins combine these domains, termed here, the CAMGUKs, including rat CASK, Caenorhabditis elegans lin-2, and Drosophila caki/camguk. The CAMGUKs are likely to be effectors in signal transduction as regulatory partners of transmembrane molecules, modulated by calcium and nucleotides. The transgene in this mutant mouse line integrated into an intron that bisects the encoded calmodulin-binding domain, a potentially important regulatory domain of the predicted protein, generating hybrid transcripts.
Postoperative micturition difficulties, considered as minor complications, have a high incidence. Acute urinary retention can follow all types of anaesthetics or operations. Surgical trauma to the pelvic nerves or to the bladder, postoperative oedema around the bladder neck, and pain-induced reflex spasm of the external and internal urethral sphincters may play a role in the development of urinary retention. Acute urinary retention is the most common complication of surgery for benign anorectal disease. The incidence of urinary retention is more likely to occur in old male patients. Preoperative urinary symptoms are not a prerequisite for developing postoperative urinary retention, although they are considered to be a risk factor. The type of anaesthetic, postoperative pain and its management may have little effect on the occurrence of postoperative urinary dysfunction. Studies on the urodynamic effects of various anaesthetic agents are rare. The parasympatholytic drugs increase bladder capacity, decrease the rate of bladder contractions and cause downward trends in urethral resistance. The barbiturates and halothane produce similar effects on urethral resistance. The anaesthetic agents decrease the intrabladder pressure and inhibit the micturition reflex. Halothane decreases bladder contractions and increases its capacity measured by the cystometrogram. Urinary retention is a side effect of opioids, particularly after intrathecal or epidural administration. Epidural morphine relaxes the detrusor muscle with a corresponding increase in the maximal bladder capacity. Spinal opioids influence the function of the lower urinary tract, by direct spinal action on the sacral nociceptive neurons and autonomic fibres, as well as by an effect on supraspinal centres. Naloxone increases detrusor pressure, decreases bladder capacity, and causes a need to void. Urinary retention is less common after a short-acting (lidocaine 5%) than after a long-acting agent (bupivacaine 0.5%). After spinal anaesthesia, detrusor strength and the ability to void restarts with the return of sacral sensation to pinprick. A single episode of bladder overdistention can result in significant morbidity. Overfilling of the bladder can stretch and damage the detrusor muscle, leading to atony of the bladder wall, so that recovery of micturition may not occur when the bladder is emptied. On the other hand, the excessive use of an indwelling catheter can lead to urinary tract infection, urethral stricture and prolonged hospital stay. Short-term prophylactic catheterisation is recommended in patients with obstructive symptoms. Patients at risk for urinary retention should be stimulated to void and provided a quiet environment in which to do so. They should be encouraged to seat, stand or ambulate as early as possible. The alpha 1 adrenergic receptor blocking agents have been used for treatment of organic or functional urinary retention. It is essential to make sure the bladder empties regularly in the postoperative period, especially in day-case surgery or in patients receiving opioid analgesia or after epidural anaesthesia.
Human pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is characterized by proliferation of vascular smooth muscle and, in its more severe form, by the development of occlusive neointimal lesions. However, few animal models of pulmonary neointimal proliferation exist, thereby limiting a complete understanding of the pathobiology of PAH. Recent studies of the endothelin (ET) system demonstrate that deficiency of the ET(B) receptor predisposes adult rats to acute and chronic hypoxic PAH, yet these animals fail to develop neointimal lesions. Herein, we determined and thereafter showed that exposure of ET(B) receptor-deficient rats to the endothelial toxin monocrotaline (MCT) leads to the development of neointimal lesions that share hallmarks of human PAH.
The pulmonary hemodynamic and morphometric effects of 60 mg/kg MCT in control (MCT(+/+)) and ET(B) receptor-deficient (MCT(sl/sl)) rats at 6 weeks of age were assessed. MCT(sl/sl) rats developed more severe PAH, characterized by elevated pulmonary artery pressure, diminished cardiac output, and right ventricular hypertrophy. In MCT(sl/sl) rats, morphometric evaluation revealed the presence of neointimal lesions within small distal pulmonary arteries, increased medial wall thickness, and decreased arterial-to-alveolar ratio. In keeping with this, barium angiography revealed diminished distal pulmonary vasculature of MCT(sl/sl) rat lungs. Cells within neointimal lesions expressed smooth muscle and endothelial cell markers. Moreover, cells within neointimal lesions exhibited increased levels of proliferation and were located in a tissue microenvironment enriched with vascular endothelial growth factor, tenascin-C, and activated matrix metalloproteinase-9, factors already implicated in human PAH. Finally, assessment of steady state mRNA showed that whereas expression of ET(B) receptors was decreased in MCT(sl/sl) rat lungs, ET(A) receptor expression increased.
Deficiency of the ET(B) receptor markedly accelerates the progression of PAH in rats treated with MCT and enhances the appearance of cellular and molecular markers associated with the pathobiology of PAH. Collectively, these results suggest an overall antiproliferative effect of the ET(B) receptor in pulmonary vascular homeostasis.
Previous reports have suggested that HIV-related wasting syndrome may be considered as a form of myopathy. The aim of the present study was to investigate histopathological muscle changes in HIV-related wasting syndrome in order to know if there is a common substrate and whether muscle plays a primary or secondary role in its development. Patients with wasting syndrome diagnosed by Centers for Disease Control (CDC) criteria were prospectively evaluated. Clinical, analytical, nutritional, anthropometrical and muscular data were recorded. The patients were subdivided into two groups: group A was constituted by patients in whom wasting syndrome was the AIDS-defining illness, and group B by patients in whom AIDS diagnosis was previously made. In all cases muscle biopsy was performed and processed for conventional stainings and histochemical reactions. Thirty patients were included (group A, 12; group B, 18). Clinical, analytical, nutritional and anthropometrical data did not essentially differ between the two groups. All patients were malnourished with respect to controls. Histopathological findings in muscle biopsy were heterogeneous and similar in both groups, except for HIV-related myopathies, which were more frequently seen in the patients from group A (P=0.05). In five cases (17%) an unsuspected and potentially treatable myopathy was diagnosed. Patients with polyarteritis nodosa (two) or polymyositis (one) were treated with prednisone, which improved their wasting syndrome. By contrast, patients with AZT-myopathy (two) did not improve when the drug was discontinued. We conclude that in most cases the wasting syndrome cannot be considered as a true myopathy, and probably metabolic and/or nutritional factors may account for wasting development. However, in a subset of patients muscle biopsy allows the diagnosis of a treatable myopathy leading to the improvement of wasting syndrome.
To define whether repetitive exposures to low-dose radiation (LDR) can attenuate diabetes-induced testicular cell death, Type 1 diabetic rats were produced by single injection of streptozotocin (STZ). Once hyperglycemia was diagnosed, diabetic rats were treated with and without LDR (25 and 50 mGy X-rays) daily for 4 weeks. Eight and 12 weeks after diabetes onset, testicular apoptotic cell death was examined by flow cytometry with Annexin V/PI staining, Western blotting assay for caspase-3 cleavage, and TUNEL staining for localization of apoptotic cells. Diabetes induced a significant increase in testicular apoptotic cell death, which was able to be attenuated by repetitive exposures to LDR. Diabetes-induced testicular cell death was associated with increased mitochondrial dysfunction, shown by the decreased mitochondrial potential and increased expressions of Bax mRNA and protein. All these changes were significantly attenuated in certain extends by repetitive exposures to LDR. To investigate the mechanisms by which LDR attenuates diabetes-induced testicular apoptotic cell death, serum sex hormone (testosterone, luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone) levels, and both serum and testicular oxidative damage (lipid peroxides) and antioxidant contents (superoxide dismutase, catalase and glutathione) were measured. Serum sex hormones were significantly decreased in diabetic rats, but not significantly in diabetic rats with multiple exposures to LDR; serum and testicular oxidative damage was significantly increased along with significant decreases in serum and testicular antioxidants in diabetic rats; however, these changes were significantly prevented by repetitive exposures to LDR. Furthermore, diabetic effects on the testicular oxidative damage and cell death were all attenuated by antioxidant N-acetylcysteine. These results suggest that diabetes-induced testicular cell death is probably mediated by increased oxidative stress. LDR protection from diabetes-induced testicular cell death is most likely mediated by its preserving antioxidants.
Significant increases in local cerebral blood flow during lithium-pilocarpine (Li-P) induced seizure have been reported. We recently found that both acetone and methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) showed anticonvulsive effects in status epilepticus induced by Li-P in rats. In this study, we examined whether MEK also suppressed the enhancement of local cerebral blood flow induced by Li-P with a simplified autoradiographic method using [(14)C]-para-iodo-N-isopropyl amphetamine ([(14)C]-IMP). Significant increases in local cerebral blood flow in the thalamus, hypothalamus, hippocampus and cerebellum were observed in Li-P induced status epilepticus rats. Pretreatment with MEK (8 mmol/kg) completely suppressed the enhancement of local cerebral blood flow to or below the control level in all regions.
A 40-year-old white male with quinidine induced hemolytic anemia but no thrombocytopenia is described. Hemolysis was extravascular in nature and via the immune-complex mechanism. The quinidine antibody was an IgG immunoglobulin that did not activate complement.
Mixed exposure to metals (including arsenic and lead) associated with the neurological and respiratory effects constitute one of the major health problems of copper smelting. Chemical composition of the dust, and the expected health effect of inhalation can be very diverse at different parts of the smelter plant. The aims of this study were to compare lung responses and behavioral effects in female Wistar rats after instillation of dust collected from different production processes at the same smelter department. Dusts collected at two different locations of furnace hall were sifted through 25-μm-mesh sieve. Obtained dust fractions, P-25(I) collected near stove, rich in heavy metals and arsenic, and P-25(II) collected near anode residue storage site, rich in aluminium, were instilled to rats. At 1, 7 and 30 days after dusts instillation, lung injury and inflammation were measured by analyzing sings of lung permeability in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), cell differentiation in BALF sediment and lung morphology. The behavioral studies were done 30 days after exposure. Results of biochemical tests showed a strong pro-inflammatory effect of P-25(I) fractions. Mostly characteristic effects after instillation of P-25(I) samples were 10× increased protein leakages in BALF. Both P-25(I) and P-25(II) fractions caused a reduction of Clara-cell 16 protein concentration (CC16) in BALF and activation of serum butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) at all time points. The morphological studies after exposure to P-25(I) fractions showed multi-focal infiltrations in the alveoli. The behavioral results, especially P-25(II) group rats (in open filed, passive avoidance and hot plate tests), indicated adverse effects in the nervous system, which may be related to changes in the dopaminergic and cholinergic pathway. The symptoms were noted in the form of persistent neurobehavioral changes which might be associated with the content of neurotoxic metals. e.g. Al, Mn and/or As. Decrease of CC16 concentration that occurred immediately after instillation of both dust samples, point out impaired anti-inflammatory potential, resulted in early harmful effect not only to the respiratory tract but also to the whole body, including the nervous system.
Mayo clinic and georgetown university carried out a cooperative phase II study of chlorozotocin in measurable advanced large bowel carcinoma. Of 78 evaluable patients randomized, 39 received low-dose (120 mg/m2 if previously untreated, 100 mg/m2 if previously treated) and 39 high-dose (200 mg/m2 if previously untreated, 175 mg/m2 if previously treated) chlorozotocin intravenously at 6-week intervals. Both groups were comparable in regard to age, prior treatment, treating institution, site of metastases, and performance scores. Overall response rate was 8%, including 5% in low-dose patients and 10% in high-dose patients. Toxicity was mild to moderate, with gastrointestinal toxicity substantially, and hematologic toxicity somewhat less, than seen with other nitrosoureas. Time to progression and survival showed no significant difference between patients treated on the low- and high-dose schedules. As chlorozotocin produced less nausea and vomiting than other nitrosoureas, even in the high-dose regimen, it should be considered for evaluation in neoplasms where nitrosoureas have shown more activity than in colorectal carcinoma.
Vancomycin is well recognized as causing the nonallergic skin reaction known as red man syndrome; however, it is rarely suspected as causative in the setting of an immune-mediated skin reaction. We describe a 76-year-old Caucasian woman with a history of penicillin and sulfa allergies who was transferred to our medical center while receiving vancomycin for treatment of persistent methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) bacteremia. After admission, the patient's pacemaker was explanted; cultures from the pacemaker grew MSSA. Based on the culture data and her allergy to penicillin, vancomycin was continued. On day 4 of therapy, the patient developed a papular rash with small blisters on her distal upper extremities. Furosemide, which she was receiving intermittently to maintain fluid balance, was initially suspected as the likely cause. Furosemide was withheld; however, the rash worsened and spread to her neck and torso. Results of skin biopsy confirmed a severe leukocytoclastic, necrotizing small-cell vasculitis that met the criteria for a hypersensitivity vasculitis associated with drug therapy. Five days after discontinuation of vancomycin, the vasculitis was resolving and continued to resolve throughout the remainder of her hospitalization. Furosemide was readministered without worsening of the vasculitis. Use of the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale indicated that the likelihood of vancomycin being the cause of the vasculitis was probable (score of 5). Clinicians should be aware of vancomycin as a potential cause of small-vessel vasculitis.
The effect of sevoflurane on cardiac arrhythmias induced by the infusion of epinephrine into dogs was compared with those of isoflurane and halothane. The arrhythmogenic doses of epinephrine determined in this comparative study were expressed by both infusion rates of epinephrine and the corresponding plasma levels obtained by a series of three-minute epinephrine infusions during sevolurane, isoflurane, and halothane anesthesia at 1.25 MAC. The mean values of the arrythmogenic infusion rates of epinephrine and the corresponding plasma levels were 17.3 microg/kg/min and 275.7 ng/ml for sevoflurane, 6.7 microg/kg/min and 149.2 ng/ml for isoflurane and 1.9 microg/kg/min and 39.1 ng/ml for halothane, respectively. These results indicate that the arrythmogenic doses of epinephrine during sevoflurane and isoflurane anesthesia were significantly higher than those during halothane anesthesia.
The neurotoxicity of the anticancer drug adriamycin was investigated in the peripheral nerve of the mouse. Injection of adriamycin into the sciatic nerve resulted in biochemical and morphologic signs of severe axonal degeneration. The biochemical evidence was based on marked increases in lysosomal enzyme activity. Acid protease and N-acetylglucosaminidase remained elevated for more than 70 days after injecting the drug. In contrast, local injection of the radiation-sensitizing drug misonidazole into the peripheral nerve failed to increase lysosomal enzyme activity.
The efficacy of surgery or radiotherapy as conventional treatment for stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is limited. Recent studies have pointed out that preoperative chemotherapy may improve survival. To reconcile the two approaches, we undertook a multidisciplinary randomized trial to examine the possible synergism between preoperative chemotherapy and surgery in improved survival. Stage IIIA NSCLC patients were randomly assigned to receive either three preoperative courses of mitomycin/ifosfamide/cisplatin chemotherapy and surgery or surgery alone. The median survival was significantly greater in the chemotherapy plus surgery group than in the surgery group (26 months v 8 months; P < .001). However, the prognostic value of the mutated K-ras gene data presented awaits the analysis of larger sample populations. Similarly, the role of high-dose cisplatin in inducing higher pathologic complete remissions has to be corroborated in future randomized trials.
Increased sympathetic nervous system tone may be the initiating pathophysiologic event in some patients with essential hypertension. We estimated sympathetic nervous activity from radiotracer-derived measurements of noradrenaline release to plasma in 34 patients with essential hypertension and 23 subjects with normal blood pressure. The plasma concentration of noradrenaline (32% increased) and the rate of release of noradrenaline to plasma (38% increased) were elevated overall in patients with essential hypertension, largely due to higher noradrenaline release in hypertensive patients aged less than 40 years. Noradrenaline release from the kidneys and heart was elevated; renal noradrenaline spillover was 2.4 times normal in patients aged less than 40 years. Increased renal noradrenaline spillover accounted for 42% and increased cardiac noradrenaline spillover for 4% of the excess total noradrenaline spillover in essential hypertension, leaving 54% unexplained. Total noradrenaline spillover to plasma was normal in hypertensive patients aged 60 years and over. The plasma noradrenaline concentration was similar in younger and older hypertensive patients, despite lower noradrenaline release in the latter due to an age-dependent fall in noradrenaline plasma clearance in essential hypertension. Cardiorenal sympathetic nervous system tone appears to be increased in essential hypertension, particularly in younger patients. This contributes substantially to the higher plasma noradrenaline values found.
Polypharmacy may lead to synergistic complications from the different medications. We report the case of a 50-year-old woman who was prescribed 11 drugs, including a diuretic, celecoxib, metformin, and candesartan, and who developed acute kidney dysfunction while on these drugs, manifesting as severe proteinuria, acute azotemia, hyperkalemia. The kidney injury caused the accumulation of metformin, leading to lactic acidosis and acute pancreatitis. Sodium bicarbonate hemodialysis not only improved the metabolic abnormalities but also hastened the removal of metformin.
A case of phenytoin-induced hepatitis with mononucleosis is reported, and syndromes associated with phenytoin hypersensitivity reactions are discussed. A 23-year-old black woman with a two-month history of seizure disorder was admitted to a hospital with nausea, vomiting, fever, lymphadenopathy, diffuse maculopapular rash, left-upper-quadrant tenderness, and hepatomegaly. She was receiving phenytoin sodium 300 mg/day; carbamazepine 200 mg four times daily had been discontinued four days before admission because of leukopenia. Phenytoin was discontinued after admission; however, phenytoin 1 g i.v. was given for a tonic-clonic seizure two days after admission, after which swelling of the face and legs and pruritus developed. Over the next few days, signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity progressed, and she became comatose. Seizures were treated with diazepam. She began to recover after 10 days of supportive therapy and was discharged several weeks later on primidone therapy. Serious phenytoin hypersensitivity reactions may appear as dermatologic, lymphoid, or hepatic syndromes. Fever, rash, and lymphadenopathy often accompany hepatic injury. Encephalopathy and death may occur. Proposed mechanisms for phenytoin hypersensitivity include antigen-antibody reactions, alteration of lymphocyte function, and an enzyme abnormality causing the production of toxic metabolites. Treatment is supportive; phenobarbital and carbamazepine may be used with caution as alternate anticonvulsant therapy. The possibility of phenytoin hypersensitivity reactions should be considered when patients receiving phenytoin have unusual symptoms, particularly fever, rash, and lymphadenopathy.
Nonylphenol (NP) is a common environmental contaminant that is known to disrupt the reproductive system. The testicular Sertoli cells play a pivotal role in the regulation of spermatogenesis and are susceptible to NP-induced reproductive lesions. Our goal was to ascertain whether NP could induce apoptosis in Sertoli cells and to explore the preapoptotic changes in Sertoli cells at low NP concentrations, similar to environmental conditions. In order to survey events that occur at the protein level in Sertoli cells after exposure to NP, we used a proteomic approach with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) and mass spectrometry to identify proteins with altered expression in rat Sertoli cells treated with 0.01 and 0.1 microM NP for 24 h. We separated 63 protein spots and identified 41 that were differently expressed in the NP-treated groups and the control. Of these 41 spots, we focused on Raf kinase inhibitor protein (RKIP), Annexin A7 (ANXA7), ERp57, and Peroxiredoxin 6 (PRDX6) for further analysis by Western blot. These proteins are involved in the response of Sertoli cells to programmed cell death. These data help to outline mechanisms by which NP might induce apoptotic tendencies in Sertoli cells.
