The nature of oxidative stress and the activity of antioxidant enzyme systems are incompletely characterized in the failing human heart.
We obtained ventricular myocardium from failing, explanted human hearts in patients with nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy at the time of heart transplant to examine whether reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and antioxidant enzyme activity or expression were altered in end-stage human heart failure. Nonfailing myocardium was obtained from organ donors who were not eligible for transplantation. Electroparamagnetic resonance (EPR) with the O(2)(-) spin trap 5-diethoxyphosphoryl-5-methyl-1-pyrroline N-oxide demonstrated that formation of superoxide anion was increased more than 2-fold in the failing (P < .001 vs. nonfailing) myocardium. Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) mRNA and catalase mRNA expression were increased by 52% (P=.05) and 116% (P < .05), respectively, in failing vs. nonfailing hearts. Copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) mRNA and glutathione peroxidase-1 (GPx-1) mRNA were unchanged. The expression of MnSOD, CuZnSOD, and catalase mRNA showed moderate correlation, suggesting coordinate regulation of gene expression. Activity was no different with regard to catalase, GPx-1, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase. MnSOD activity accounted for approximately 90% of total SOD activity, and was markedly decreased in failing hearts (by 61%, P < .05). MnSOD protein expression by western blot analysis was decreased in the failing group (P < .05 vs. nonfailing).
The decrease in MnSOD activity in failing myocardium, in the setting of increased mRNA expression, may reflect decreased translation or processing, or a posttranslational modification of MnSOD. The increase in MnSOD mRNA in failing hearts is consistent with the thesis that there is increased oxidative stress in failing myocardium that leads to increase transcription of antioxidant enzymes. The source of this direct measure of ROS is likely superoxide. These observations have implications for the pathophysiology and treatment of heart failure.
The hepatoproliferative and cytochrome P450 enzyme inducing effects of two antiestrogens, tamoxifen and toremifene, were compared in female Sprague-Dawley rats using immunohistochemical staining methods. Equimolar doses of the antiestrogens (tamoxifen 45 mg/kg and toremifene 48 mg/kg) were given by oral administration to 6-week-old rats for 12 months including a 3-month recovery period. Controls received the vehicle carboxymethylcellulose. Altogether 90 rats were used in the study. Five rats per dose group were killed after 14 days, 5 weeks, 3, 6 and 12 months of treatment as well as after the 3-month recovery period. Hepatocellular carcinoma was found in four out of five rats after 12 months of tamoxifen treatment. After the 3-month recovery period all tamoxifen-treated rats had large liver tumors (diameter up to 3 cm). No tumors were observed in toremifene-treated rats. Liver cell proliferation was measured by the index of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) expression. Immunohistochemical staining with the placental form of glutathione S-transferase (GST-P) was used as a marker for preneoplastic foci. Cytochrome P450 induction was measured using specific antibodies to isoenzymes. Tamoxifen increased the incidence of GST-P-positive foci significantly by 3 months of treatment but toremifene did not as compared with the controls. Liver cell proliferation increased significantly only in the liver tumors of tamoxifen-treated rats after 12 months of treatment and during the recovery period. Both antiestrogens induced the isoenzymes CYP2B1/2 and CYP3A1 within 14 days although tamoxifen was a more powerful inducer. Immunohistochemistry of rat liver sections showed a centrilobular localization of these induced enzyme proteins. The expression of CYP2B1/2 and 3A1 could also be observed in foci after 3 and 6 months of administration and in liver adenomas and in some carcinomas after 12 months of administration with tamoxifen. The results show that tamoxifen, but not toremifene, has the potential to induce and promote the development of rat hepatocarcinogenesis in this experimental model.
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) are associated with vasculitis, including vasculitis induced by drugs such as the thionamides. The affected organ systems in thionamide-induced vasculitis have been primarily renal, musculoskeletal, and dermatologic. We describe the first case of thionamide-induced central nervous system vasculitis presenting as confusion, with complete resolution after discontinuation of propylthiouracil. We review the literature and summarize 42 additional cases of thionamide-induced ANCA-positive vasculitis since 1992. Propylthiouracil was responsible in 93% of cases and the predominant ANCA pattern on immunofluorescent staining was perinuclear (p-ANCA). Clinical improvement occurred after drug discontinuation in 93%, steroid therapy was used in some cases. The mean duration of treatment with thionamides was 35 months prior to presentation. Long-term medical treatment with thionamides for hyperthyroidism may increase the risk of this severe side effect.
Hyperprolactinemia is a frequent consequence of treatment with risperidone. Recent studies have suggested that aripiprazole, a partial dopamine agonist, reduces the prolactin response to antipsychotics. Thus, we examined the dose effects of adjunctive treatment with aripiprazole on the plasma concentration of prolactin in patients who had elevated prolactin levels because of risperidone treatment. Aripiprazole was concomitantly administrated to 16 female patients with schizophrenia receiving 2 to 15 mg/d of risperidone. Dosages of aripiprazole were gradually increased from 3 to 12 mg/d with 2- to 4-week intervals. Sample collections for prolactin were conducted before aripiprazole administration (baseline) and 2 to 4 weeks after the dose escalation of aripiprazole and just before next dose escalation. The samples were taken just before the morning dose. The plasma concentration of prolactin during aripiprazole administration (3, 6, 9, or 12 mg/d) was significantly lower than that at baseline. The mean (±SD) percent reductions at 3, 6, 9, and 12 mg/d were 35% ± 14%, 54% ± 17%, 57% ± 19%, and 63% ± 17%, respectively. However, neither the plasma concentration of prolactin nor the reduction ratio differed among the dosages of 6, 9, and 12 mg/d of aripiprazole. Three out of 8 patients with amenorrhea improved after 12 mg/d of aripiprazole. The present study suggests that adjunctive treatment with aripiprazole reduces the prolactin concentration that had been increased because of risperidone treatment. The effect occurs even when a low dosage (3 mg/d) of aripiprazole was used and achieves a plateau at dosages beyond 6 mg/d.
The species Cordia curassavica (Boraginaceae), known popularly as "erva baleeira", is used in folk medicine for the treatment of several inflammatory processes and as a healing agent. The objective of the present study was to evaluate the antiedematogenic activity of crude dichloromethane extracts of Cordia curassavica and of the artemetin-enriched fraction. The crude extract and artemetin fraction were tested in the model of carrageenin-induced paw edema in male Swiss mice (25-30 g). The crude dichloromethane extract (300 and 1000 mg/kg, po, N = 6) showed significant antiedematogenic activity, reducing the edema by 42, 57 and 45% and 46, 62 and 69%, 3, 4 and 5 h after carrageenin administration, respectively. Indomethacin (10 mg/kg, po, N = 6) reduced the edema by 45 and 48%, after 4 and 5 h, but the artemetin-enriched fraction (30, 100 and 300 mg/kg, po, N = 6) had no activity. The dichloromethane extract (300 and 1000 mg/kg, po, N = 6) also showed antinociceptive activity by reducing acetic acid-induced writhing in mice from 37.1 +/- 2.28 (control) to 17.3 +/- 1.34 and 13.2 +/- 1.44, respectively, but had no activity in the hot-plate test.
Cannabis (i.e., marijuana and cannabinoids) is the most commonly used illicit drug in developed countries, and the lifetime prevalence of marijuana dependence is the highest of all illicit drugs in the United States. To provide clues for finding effective pharmacological treatment for cannabis-dependent patients, we examined the effects and possible mechanism of lithium administration on the cannabinoid withdrawal syndrome in rats. A systemic injection of the mood stabilizer lithium, at serum levels that were clinically relevant, prevented the cannabinoid withdrawal syndrome. The effects of lithium were accompanied by expression of the cellular activation marker Fos proteins within most oxytocin-immunoreactive neurons and a significant increase in oxytocin mRNA expression in the hypothalamic paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. Lithium also produced a significant elevation of oxytocin levels in the peripheral blood. We suggest that the effects of lithium against the cannabinoid withdrawal syndrome are mediated by oxytocinergic neuronal activation and subsequent release and action of oxytocin within the CNS. In support of our hypothesis, we found that the effects of lithium against the cannabinoid withdrawal syndrome were antagonized by systemic preapplication of an oxytocin antagonist and mimicked by systemic or intracerebroventricular injection of oxytocin. These results demonstrate that oxytocinergic neuronal activation plays a critical role in the action of lithium against the cannabinoid withdrawal syndrome in rats, thus providing a potentially novel strategy for the treatment of cannabis dependence in humans.
Previous studies led us to hypothesize that a fatty acid analogue, 15-p-iodophenyl-beta-methyl pentadecanoic acid (IMPPA or BMIPP), which is taken up but not quickly metabolized by heart cells, would be a more suitable tracer of cellular viability than thallium-201. Biodistribution studies of 1-14C-IMPPA in conscious, freely moving rats showed that the concentration ratio of radioactivity in the heart with respect to the blood was about 8 for at least 60 min after intravenous administration, permitting its use as a putative tracer in these conscious, freely moving rats. Thereafter, the myocardial uptake of 14C-IMPPA was studied in isoproterenol-treated rats (daily treatment for 10 days in order to induce cardiac hypertrophy and necrotic foci) with respect to control ones. Comparison of myocardial localizations by quantitative autoradiography of the uptake of 201Tl and 14C-IMPPA with that of triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC) staining enabled comparative evaluation of nutritional blood flow, localization and uptake of 14C-IMPPA and necrotic foci size. Distributions of 14C-IMPPA and 201Tl in control rats' hearts were homogeneous, like TTC staining. In infarcted hearts, areas of decreased 14C-IMPPA uptake were nearly the same (100% +/- 5%) as those unstained by TTC. These areas were larger than those showing a decrease in thallium uptake (about 70% +/- 5% of the total scar size). Therefore, IMPPA seems to be a more accurate and sensitive indicator of necrosis localization compared with thallium. It may be a useful agent for assessment of myocardial viability by single photon emission tomography (SPET) imaging.
Despite its well-known cardiotoxicity, the anthracyclin doxorubicin (DOX) continues to be an effective and widely used chemotherapeutic agent. DOX-induced cardiac damage presumably results from the formation of free radicals by DOX. Reactive oxygen species particularly affect the cardiac myocytes because these cells seem to have a relatively poor antioxidant defense system. The semisynthetic flavonoid monohydroxyethylrutoside (monoHER) showed cardioprotection against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity through its radical scavenging and iron chelating properties. Because of the relatively short final half-life of monoHER (about 30 min), it is expected that the time interval between monoHER and DOX might be of influence on the cardioprotective effect of monoHER. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to investigate this possible effect.
Six groups of 6 BALB/c mice were treated with saline, DOX alone or DOX (4 mg/kg i.v.) preceded by monoHER (500 mg/kg i.p.) with an interval of 10, 30, 60 or 120 min. After a 6-week treatment period and additional observation for 2 weeks, the mice were sacrificed. Their cardiac tissues were processed for light microscopy, after which cardiomyocyte damage was evaluated according to Billingham (in Cancer Treat Rep 62(6):865-872, 1978). Microscopic evaluation revealed that treatment with DOX alone induced significant cardiac damage in comparison to the saline control group (P<0.001).
The number of damaged cardiomyocytes was 9.6-fold (95% CI 4.4-21.0) higher in mice treated with DOX alone than that in animals of the control group. The ratio of aberrant cardiomyocytes in mice treated with DOX preceded by monoHER and those in mice treated with saline ranged from 1.6 to 2.8 (mean 2.2, 95% CI 1.2-4.1, P=0.019). The mean protective effect by adding monoHER before DOX led to a significant 4.4-fold reduction (P<0.001, 95% CI 2.3-8.2) of abnormal cardiomyocytes. This protective effect did not depend on the time interval between monoHER and DOX administration (P=0.345).
The results indicate that in an outpatient clinical setting monoHER may be administered shortly before DOX.
Mowat-Wilson syndrome (MWS) is a relatively newly described multiple congenital anomaly/mental retardation syndrome. Haploinsufficiency of a gene termed ZFHX1B (also known as SIP1) on chromosome 2 is responsible for this condition, and clinical genetic testing for MWS recently became available. The majority of reports in the literature originate from Northern Europe and Australia. Here we report our clinical experience with 12 patients diagnosed with MWS within a 2-year period of time in the United States, with particular emphasis on clinical characteristics and management strategies. Individuals with this condition have characteristic facial features, including microcephaly, hypertelorism, medially flared and broad eyebrows, prominent columella, pointed chin, and uplifted earlobes, which typically prompt the clinician to consider the diagnosis. Medical issues in our cohort of patients included seizures (75%) with no predeliction for any particular seizure type; agenesis of the corpus callosum (60% of our patients studied); congenital heart defects (75%), particularly involving the pulmonary arteries and/or valves; hypospadias (55% of males); severely impaired or absent speech (100% of individuals over 1 year of age) with relatively spared receptive language; and Hirschsprung disease (50%) or chronic constipation (25%). The incidence of MWS is unknown, but based on the number of patients identified in a short period of time within the US, it is likely greatly under recognized. MWS should be considered in any individual with severely impaired or absent speech, especially in the presence of seizures and anomalies involving the pulmonary arteries (particularly pulmonary artery sling) or pulmonary valves.
The influence of higher environmental temperature (HET=30/-1 degrees C) on fentanyl-induced behavior was studied in unrestrained rats. Subacute exposure (3 days) of rats to HET significantly (P<0.01) increased the cataleptic effect of fentanyl citrate (0.5 mg/kg), in comparison to the corresponding exposure to normal environmental temperature (NET=22+/-1 degrees C). Also, the hyperthermic response of rats to a low dose of fentanyl citrate (0.2-0.5 mg/kg) was significantly (P<0.01) potentiated, and the hypothermic response to a high dose of fentanyl citrate (1.5 mg/kg) was significantly (P<0.05) attenuated after exposure to HET. Fentanyl-induced hyperexcitability, loss of righting reflex, loss of corneal reflex and analgesia were not significantly affected by HET. This study provides the first evidence on the influence of environmental temperature on drug-induced catalepsy. HET-induced potentiation of the cataleptic response to fentanyl could be the result of an interference with behavioral thermoregulation.
The purpose of this study was to examine a broad range of toxicologic responses in rats exposed to a multi-component pollutant atmosphere. Cumulative and adaptive respiratory tract responses to 3 concentrations of an inhaled particle-oxidant mixture were examined in Fisher 344 N rats exposed 4 h/day, 3 days/week for 4 weeks. The mixtures contained O3, NO2, NH4HSO4, carbon particles, and HNO3 vapor. Irritant-induced, rapid-shallow breathing responses were present during the first 4-h exposure to medium and high concentrations. Successive exposures showed diminished responses in medium concentrations and exacerbated responses in high concentrations. At the end of 4 weeks, rats exposed to high concentrations exhibited lung lesions. Lavaged pulmonary macrophages showed dose-dependent depressions of Fc-receptor binding and phagocytosis. Lung tissue macrophages showed dose-dependent increases in acid phosphatase staining density and carbon particles. Respiratory tract clearance of tracer particles was not significantly affected by the exposures. Broncho-alveolar epithelial permeability was increased by the high concentration. Epithelial cell-proliferation labeling showed a dose-dependent increase at all levels of the respiratory tract. Progressively exacerbated breathing-pattern responses at high concentrations were associated with lung lesions and high cell-proliferation labeling in the nose transitional epithelium and terminal bronchioles. Attenuating or adaptive breathing-pattern responses occurred in the presence of smaller, but in many cases still significant, compromise of respiratory functions. Either attenuating or exacerbated breathing-pattern responses can occur in the presence of a significant dose-dependent compromise of other respiratory functions and lung tissue injury.
Posterior leukoencephalopathy due to calcineurin-inhibitor-related neurotoxicity is a rare but severe complication that results from treatment with immunosuppressive agents (primarily those administered after a liver or kidney transplant). The pathophysiologic mechanisms of that disorder remain unknown.
We report the case of a 46-year-old woman who received a liver transplant in our center as treatment for alcoholic cirrhosis and in whom either a fulminant course of posterior leukoencephalopathy or posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome developed 110 days after transplant. After an initially uneventful course after the transplant, the patient rapidly fell into deep coma.
Cerebral MRI scan showed typical signs of enhancement in the pontine and posterior regions. Switching the immunosuppressive regimen from tacrolimus to cyclosporine did not improve the clinical situation. The termination of treatment with any calcineurin inhibitor resulted in a complete resolution of that complication.
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome after liver transplant is rare. We recommend a complete cessation of any calcineurin inhibitor rather than a dose reduction.
Heterozygous copy-number variants and SNPs of CNTNAP2 and NRXN1, two distantly related members of the neurexin superfamily, have been repeatedly associated with a wide spectrum of neuropsychiatric disorders, such as developmental language disorders, autism spectrum disorders, epilepsy, and schizophrenia. We now identified homozygous and compound-heterozygous deletions and mutations via molecular karyotyping and mutational screening in CNTNAP2 and NRXN1 in four patients with severe mental retardation (MR) and variable features, such as autistic behavior, epilepsy, and breathing anomalies, phenotypically overlapping with Pitt-Hopkins syndrome. With a frequency of at least 1% in our cohort of 179 patients, recessive defects in CNTNAP2 appear to significantly contribute to severe MR. Whereas the established synaptic role of NRXN1 suggests that synaptic defects contribute to the associated neuropsychiatric disorders and to severe MR as reported here, evidence for a synaptic role of the CNTNAP2-encoded protein CASPR2 has so far been lacking. Using Drosophila as a model, we now show that, as known for fly Nrx-I, the CASPR2 ortholog Nrx-IV might also localize to synapses. Overexpression of either protein can reorganize synaptic morphology and induce increased density of active zones, the synaptic domains of neurotransmitter release. Moreover, both Nrx-I and Nrx-IV determine the level of the presynaptic active-zone protein bruchpilot, indicating a possible common molecular mechanism in Nrx-I and Nrx-IV mutant conditions. We therefore propose that an analogous shared synaptic mechanism contributes to the similar clinical phenotypes resulting from defects in human NRXN1 and CNTNAP2.
Four cases of amiodarone neuropathy are reported. Patients presented a sensorimotor neuropathy with distal predominance. Improvement occurred after drug discontinuation. Nerve conduction velocities were significantly decreased. Other secondary effects of amiodarone were noted in two cases. In one case serum levels of amiodarone and N-monodesethylamiodarone were evaluated during and after treatment. Pathological study of nerve with morphometric evaluation was performed. Axonal degeneration changes were predominant in 3 cases. Aspects of segmental demyelination and remyelination were noted in one case and related to secondary demyelination. Numerous lysosomal inclusions were present in Schwann cells, fibroblasts, capillary endothelial and perithelial cells and in perineural cells. Similar inclusions have been observed in other drug-induced lipidosis. The factors responsible for this neuropathy are unknown. In one case, amiodarone-induced hepatic failure might explain the persisting high serum levels of the drug.
Cysteinyl leukotriene production seems to be dysregulated in patients with hypersensitivity to aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). However, the underlying pathogenic mechanisms of these reactions are poorly understood. Previous studies have suggested a role for the A-444C polymorphism on the leukotriene C4 synthase gene (LTC4S) in aspirin-induced urticaria (AIU), but the results are controversial.
To evaluate in a case-control study whether the A-444C polymorphism in the promoter region of LTC4S is associated with AIU and atopic phenotypes in a Venezuelan population.
One hundred ten patients with AIU and 165 nonallergic controls were included. AIU was diagnosed by clinical history and confirmed by double-blind placebo-controlled oral provocation tests with NSAIDs. Genotyping of A-444C was performed by real-time polymerase chain reaction using Taqman probes. Atopy was defined as a positive skin test result to any of the 25 aeroallergens tested. Total and mite-specific immunoglobulin (Ig) E levels in serum were quantified using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
A-444C was associated with AIU. The C allele was more frequent in patients with the cutaneous pattern of AIU and in patients with low skin reactivity to histamine. There was no association between A-444C and asthma, atopy, or total IgE levels.
The C allele of the A-444C polymorphism is a risk factor for AIU in our population and could be a genetic marker for this phenotype. Furthermore, this single-nucleotide polymorphism is mainly associated with the cutaneous clinical pattern and with low skin response to histamine.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficiency of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) specific inhibitor, S-methylisothiourea sulfate (SMT) in preventing lung injury after different pulmonary aspiration materials in rats.
The experiments were performed in 80 Sprague-Dawley rats, ranging in weight from 220 to 250 g, randomly allotted into one of the eight groups (n=10): normal saline (NS, control), Biosorb Energy Plus (BIO), sucralfate (SUC), hydrochloric acid (HCl), NS+SMT treated, BIO+SMT treated, SUC+SMT treated, and HCl+SMT treated. NS, BIO, SUC, HCl were injected in to the lungs in a volume of 2 ml/kg. The rats received twice daily intraperitoneal injections of 20 mg(kg day) SMT (Sigma Chemical Co.) for 7 days. Seven days later, rats were killed, and both lungs in all groups were examined immunohistochemically and histopathologically.
Our data show that SMT inhibits the inflammatory response significantly reducing (p<0.05) peribronchial inflammatory cell infiltration, alveolar septal infiltration, alveolar edema, alveolar exudate, alveolar histiocytes, interstitial fibrosis, granuloma, and necrosis formation in different pulmonary aspiration models. Furthermore, our data suggest that there is a significant reduction in the activity of iNOS and arise in the expression of surfactant protein D in lung tissue of different pulmonary aspiration models with SMT therapy.
It was concluded that SMT treatment might be beneficial in lung injury, therefore shows potential for clinical use.
The molecular mechanisms of carcinogenesis by cadmium were studied using BALB/c-3T3 cell transformation and nude mouse tumorigenesis models. BALB/c-3T3 cells transformed with cadmium chloride were subcutaneously injected into nude mice to develop tumors and the cell lines derived from these tumors were used in the present study. The proto-oncogenes c-fos and c-jun were overexpressed in 100% (10 out of 10) of the cell lines, while a statistically significant overexpression of c-myc was observed in 40% (4 out of 10) of the cell lines. Analysis of tumor cells stained with fluorescent dyes specific for reactive oxygen species revealed that these cells possessed markedly higher levels of superoxide anion and hydrogen peroxide compared with the nontransformed cells. Similarly, the intracellular calcium level was higher in the tumor cells compared with the nontransformed cells. Overexpression of the proto-oncogenes in these cells was blocked by treating the cells with superoxide dismutase, catalase, and 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra acetoxy methyl ester (BAPTA/AM), which are scavengers of superoxide anion, hydrogen peroxide, and calcium, respectively. This confirmed that the overexpression of the proto-oncogenes in the tumor cells required elevated intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species and calcium. In addition to the scavengers of reactive oxygen species and calcium, inhibitors specific for transcription (actinomycin D), protein kinase C (RO-31-8220), and MAP kinase (PD 98059) also blocked the cadmium-induced overexpression of the proto-oncogenes in the tumor cells. Exposure of the nontransformed BALB/c-3T3 cells to 20 microM cadmium chloride for 1 h caused elevated intracellular levels of superoxide anion, hydrogen peroxide, and calcium, with corresponding increases in the expression levels of c-fos, c-jun, and c-myc. As in the case of the tumor cells, treating the nontransformed cells with the various modulators prior to their exposure to cadmium chloride resulted in inhibition in the expression of the proto-oncogenes. Based on these data, we conclude that the cadmium-induced overexpression of cellular proto-oncogenes is mediated by the elevation of intracellular levels of superoxide anion, hydrogen peroxide, and calcium. Further, the cadmium-induced overexpression of the proto-oncogenes is dependent on transcriptional activation as well as on pathways involving protein kinase C and MAP kinase.
The positive inotropic effect of endothelin-1 (ET-1) on normal myocardial contraction may be altered in pathological states. The purpose of this study was to assess the direct effect of ET-1 on cardiomyocyte performance and its cellular mechanism in congestive heart failure (CHF).
We measured the plasma levels of ET-1 and compared the effects of ET-1 (10(-10)-10(-8) M) on contractile performance and the [Ca2+]i transient in the myocytes of left ventricles (LV) from 15 age-matched normal adult rats and 15 rats with isoproterenol (ISO)-induced CHF.
With CHF, the plasma levels of ET-1 (19.7 +/- 6.3 vs. 4.1 +/- 0.5 fmol/ml, p < 0.05) were markedly elevated. In normal myocytes, superfusion of ET-1 caused significant increases in the systolic amplitude (SA, 8-16%) and the peak velocity of shortening (dL/dtmax, 20-35%; p < 0.01) without causing a change in the peak [Ca2+]i transient. In contrast, in myocytes from CHF rats, ET-1 produced significant reductions in SA (9-13%) and in the velocity of relengthening, dR/dtmax (10-14%; p < 0.05). The myocytes' dR/dtmax also decreased by 8-10% (p < 0.05). These changes were associated with a significant decrease in the peak [Ca2+]i transient (20-23%, p < 0.01). These responses to ET-1 were abolished by the incubation of myocytes with an ETA receptor antagonist (BQ123) or a protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor (H-7 or staurosporine).
ISO-induced CHF is associated with elevated plasma ET-1 and an altered cardiomyocyte response to ET-1. After CHF, ET-1 produces a direct depression of cardiomyocyte contractile performance that is associated with a significant decrease in the peak [Ca2+]i transient. These effects are likely to be mediated through ETA receptors and involve the PKC pathway.
Delta enkephalin analogue [D-Ala(2),D-Leu(5)]enkephalin (DADLE) has been shown to protect dopamine transporters from methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. In the present study, we demonstrate that exposure of embryonic ventral mesencephalic cells to DADLE (0.01 g/ml), prior to intrastriatal transplantation, enhanced functional recovery and graft survival in 6-hydroxydopamine-induced hemiparkinsonian rats. At 6 and 8 weeks posttransplantation, animals that received DADLE-treated cell grafts exhibited significantly higher (near normal) spontaneous locomotor behaviors, as well as trends of greater reversal of motor asymmetrical behaviors compared with animals that received nontreated cell grafts. Histological examination revealed that animals transplanted with DADLE-treated cell grafts exhibited about twice the number of surviving tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive grafted neurons compared with those animals that received nontreated cell grafts. These results suggest that DADLE should be considered as an adjunctive agent for neural transplantation therapy in Parkinson's disease.
Inhibition by endothelin antagonist is a potential therapy in heart failure. However, the effect of endothelin inhibition during the development of heart failure has not been evaluated. The goal of our study was to examine the acute hemodynamic effects of the mixed endothelin receptor antagonist bosentan in the control state and at different stages of heart failure induced by right ventricular pacing (250 bpm) in conscious dogs.
Nine dogs were chronically instrumented for the measurements of left ventricular pressure and its first derivative (dP/dt), cardiac output, left ventricular regional wall thickness and aortic pressure. Bosentan (3 mg/kg, i.v. bolus) and placebo were given at control, at 1 week of pacing (stage of left ventricular dysfunction with perserved cardiac output) and at 3 weeks of pacing (phase of heart failure with low cardiac output).
With the development of heart failure, baseline plasma endothelin level increased progressively. Placebo did not induce hemodynamic and plasma endothelin changes during the 30 min recording at any stage. At control, bosentan did not change hemodynamics. At 1 and 3 weeks of pacing, bosentan did not modify left ventricular myocardial function indices but reduced mean arterial pressure (by 7 +/- 2 and 8 +/- 1 mm Hg respectively, p < 0.005). Bosentan increased stroke volume at 3 weeks of pacing only.
Endothelin inhibition by endothelin antagonist bosentan, decreases aortic pressure in both early left ventricular dysfunction and in heart failure in contrast with the control state. In the phase of heart failure with low cardiac output, bosentan increases stroke volume. In the early left ventricular dysfunction, bosentan, by reducing arterial pressure, may limit the deterioration of cardiac function through a reduction of the workload imposed on the heart.
Thromboembolic events have recently been reported following diverse regimens of chemotherapy for breast cancer. This is a report of a 39-year-old woman, a diagnosed case of locally advanced breast cancer, who received many regimens of chemotherapy. She presented with deep venous thrombosis 2 months after starting the cisplatinum-navelbine regimen. Protein C deficiency was the only abnormal coagulation test that normalized after cessation of chemotherapy.
Subgroup analysis of children (5-12 years) with autism enrolled in an 8-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of risperidone for pervasive developmental disorders. The primary efficacy measure was the Aberrant Behavior Checklist-Irritability (ABC-I) subscale. Data were available for 55 children given risperidone (n=27) or placebo (n=28); mean baseline ABC-I ( +/- SD) was 20.6 (8.1) and 21.6 (10.2). Risperidone [mean dose ( +/- SD): 1.37 mg/day (0.7)] resulted in significantly greater reduction from baseline to endpoint in ABC-I versus placebo [mean change ( +/- SD): -13.4 (1.5) vs. -7.2 (1.4), P<0.05; ES=-0.7]. The most common adverse effect with risperidone was somnolence (74% vs. 7% with placebo). Risperidone treatment was well tolerated and significantly improved behavioral problems associated with autism.
The stability of sleep was examined in two kinds of induced insomnia, namely after caffeine administration and after hypnotic drug withdrawal. The duration of each episode of any one sleep stage or any episode of intervening wakefulness plus drowsiness was determined. After caffeine there was an increase in longer episodes of intervening wakefulness plus drowsiness, but no significant change in the episode duration of any of the sleep stages. In the case of drug withdrawal there was no change in the episode duration of intervening wakefulness plus drowsiness, but there was a significant shortening of episode duration in sleep stages 2 and 3+4, with a similar trend for REM sleep episodes. Caffeine 'insomnia' thus seems characterized by increased stability of wakefulness, and hypnotic withdrawal 'insomnia' by decreased stability fo sleep. The type of analysis undertaken in this study could increase understanding of other types of insomnia.
Diprivan in its emulsion formulation as an intravenous induction agent was studied in 125 patients undergoing general anaesthesia for short duration, minor procedures, at Kenyatta National Hospital, Nairobi, Kenya. The drug was found to be effective as it caused loss of consciousness in all the studied patients within 40 seconds when injected intravenously. The induction period was associated with pain at injection site in 31.2%, some muscle movements in 15.2% and hiccups in 8.8% of all the cases. There was a significant fall in mean arterial blood pressure in all the cases at two minutes after induction of anaesthesia with no observed concomitant changes in pulse rate.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR gamma) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of ligand-dependent transcriptional factors with beneficial effects in diabetes mediated by improved insulin sensitivity and lipid metabolism, but potential adverse effects in atherosclerosis by promoting in vitro foam cell formation. We explored whether a PPAR gamma agonist, troglitazone (TGL), affects sclerosis by mechanisms unrelated to insulin and lipid effects in a model of nondiabetic glomerulosclerosis.
Adult male Sprague Dawley rats underwent 5/6 nephrectomy and were treated for 12 weeks as follows: control (CONT), no further treatment; triple antihypertensive therapy (TRX); and TGL or TGL + TRX. Functional, morphological, and molecular analyses were performed.
Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was increased in CONT and TGL groups (161 +/- 1 and 160 +/- 3 mm Hg), but not in TGL + TRX and TRX (120 +/- 3 vs. 126 +/- 1 mm Hg, P < 0.0001 vs. non-TRX). Serum triglyceride and cholesterol levels in all groups remained normal except for slightly higher serum cholesterol levels in TRX group. TGL groups had reduced proteinuria, serum creatinine, and glomerulosclerosis versus CONT, in contrast to no significant effect with TRX alone (sclerosis index, 0 to 4+ scale: CONT 1.99 +/- 0.42, TGL 0.85 +/- 0.12, TGL + TRX 0.56 +/- 0.14, TRX 1.30 +/- 0.21; TGL, P < 0.05; TGL + TRX, P = 0.01 vs. CONT). Glomerular cell proliferation, assessed by proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), was decreased after treatment with TGL or TGL + TRX, in parallel with decreases in glomerular p21 mRNA and p27 protein compared with CONT and TRX (PCNA + cells/glomerulus: CONT 2.04 +/- 0.64, TGL 0.84 +/- 0.21, TGL + TRX 0.30 +/- 0.07, TRX 1.38 +/- 0.37; TGL, P < 0.05, TGL + TRX, P < 0.01 vs. CONT). Glomerular plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) immunostaining was decreased in TGL or TGL + TRX groups (0 to 4+ scale, CONT 2.42 +/- 0.32, TGL 1.40 +/- 0.24, TGL + TRX 1.24 +/- 0.17, TRX 2.53 +/- 0.24; TGL or TGL + TRX vs. CONT, P < 0.05), with a parallel decrease in PAI-1 mRNA by in situ hybridization. Glomerular and tubular transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) mRNA expression was decreased with TGL treatment. Glomerular macrophages, present in CONT and TRX rats, did not express PPAR gamma, in contrast to PPAR gamma + macrophages in control carotid artery plaque. PPAR gamma was expressed in resident cells.
Our results demonstrate in vivo that the PPAR gamma ligand TGL ameliorates the progression of glomerulosclerosis in a nondiabetic model. Macrophages show phenotypic diversity in glomerular versus vascular sclerosis, with macrophage PPAR gamma expression in only the latter. PPAR gamma beneficial effects are independent of insulin/glucose effects and are associated with regulation of glomerular cell proliferation, hypertrophy, and decreased PAI-1 and TGF-beta expression.
Intralesional injection of low-dose 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) has recently been used as an experimental modality for treating keloid scarring and has shown promising efficacy in improving scar appearance and preventing recurrence of the keloid.
We sought to explore the cellular- and molecular-based evidence for the observed clinical benefits.
Primary cell lines of keloid fibroblasts were treated with 5-FU at a range of lower doses (∼10 mg mL(-1) ) in monolayer culture and subjected to examination for cell viability, proliferative potential, apoptosis, cell cycle and associated proteins involved in cell cycle control.
5-FU significantly inhibited cell proliferation of keloid fibroblasts in the full dose range used in this study. The DNA synthesis was completely inhibited by 5-FU at 72 h, and significant cell apoptosis was observed at concentrations ≥ 1 mg mL(-1) for a period over 72 h. 5-FU caused a significant delay in cell cycle progression and the G2/M phase arrest. 5-FU induced p53 and p21 accumulation together with a decrease in cyclin B1 and Bcl-2 levels in treated keloid fibroblasts.
Our data indicate that low-dose 5-FU (as low as 1 mg mL(-1) ) induces significant inhibition of proliferation, G2/M cell cycle arrest and apoptosis but not immediate cell death of keloid fibroblasts. The lack of tissue necrosis is a particular benefit as further scarring is likely to be prevented. These results support the use of low-dose 5-FU as a potential modality for treating keloid scars.
