The correlation between hyperprolactinaemia induced by the administration of neuroleptic drugs, disturbances of the vaginal cycle and mammary gland stimulation in rats was investigated as a test model simulating the clinical syndrome of hyperprolactinaemia and amenorrhoea with anovulation. In acute experiments in which clozapine, sulpiride and chlorpromazine were administered orally to rats of both sexes, there were rapid increases in the level of prolactin in the serum with peak values between 15 and 60 min. The responses of female rats to various doses of sulpiride were consistently higher than those of male rats. Hyperprolactinaemia induced by sulpiride in dioestrous rats failed to desensitize the ovaries to the ovulatory effect of exogenous luteinizing hormone releasing hormone. Studies of these substances and of metoclopramide, haloperidol and thioridazine were then carried out in females rats by daily oral administration over a period of 13 days. The increases in the level of prolactin in the serum were paralleled by disruption of the vaginal cycle up to and including constant dioestrus and by mammary gland stimulation which, like the preceding phenomena, showed dose-dependence. The potencies of these six neuroleptics, as estimated from their effects on the mammary gland, appeared to be haloperidol greater than sulpiride greater than or equal to metoclopramide = thioridazine greater than chlorpromazine greater than clozapine.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of theophylline on tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) release by human blood monocytes (BMo), and rat BMo and alveolar macrophages (AM). BMo and AM were incubated in the absence or presence of theophylline, and the cell-free supernatants were harvested and tested for TNF-alpha activity by bioassay. Theophylline dose-dependently reduced TNF-alpha release by human BMo: significant inhibition was observed at 100 microns (41 +/- 5.9% of controls) and at 50 microns (59 +/- 4.8% of controls), while the inhibitory activity of theophylline at 10 microns (71 +/- 8.9% of controls) was not statistically significant. This activity was maximal at 2 h and declined at 4 h (59 +/- 5.2% of controls) and 24 h (89 +/- 3.1% of controls). Northern analysis performed on ribonucleic acid (RNA) extracted from human BMo demonstrated that theophylline was able to reduce TNF-alpha gene expression. Comparable levels of inhibition of TNF-alpha release were observed on rat BMo and AM (rat BMo 42 +/- 4.9% of controls; rat AM 38 +/- 1.7% of controls), suggesting that BMo and AM are equally susceptible to suppression of TNF-alpha release induced by theophylline. These results indicate that theophylline suppresses TNF-alpha release by mononuclear phagocytes. Since TNF-alpha is involved in the pathogenesis of bronchial hyperresponsiveness and asthma, our results suggest that the therapeutic activity of theophylline might be partly related to its effect on TNF-alpha release.
Sumatriptan has been used successfully in the acute treatment of migraine since 1991. Most patients (70-80%) experience pain relief 2-4 hours after receiving 100 mg sumatriptan orally. During last few years efficacy of lower doses has been studied. Many authors proved that 50 mg of sumatriptan may be as effective as 100 mg. Our study confirmed that 50 mg oral dose of sumatriptan is sufficient in many patients. Headache relief was achieved in 58% of treated patients after single dose. The second dose of sumatriptan was effective in next 14% of patients. Totally headache relief after two doses of sumatriptan was achieved in 72% of patients. The sumatriptan 50 mg was well tolerated; only 10% of patients reported adverse events, which were minor and transient.
Niemann-Pick C disease (NPC) is a vesicular trafficking disorder primarily caused by mutations in the Npc1 gene and characterized by liver dysfunction and neuropathology. Altered hepatic copper metabolism has recently been reported in NPC disease. Therefore, we aimed to analyze the effects of a copper deficient diet and copper chelation using d-penicillamine on copper homeostasis in the liver of Npc1(-/-) mice of different ages. We examined liver metal ion content by AAS, and copper and iron metabolism gene expression in the liver using qPCR in Npc1(+/+) and Npc1(-/-) mice. We found higher copper and lower iron content in the liver of Npc1(-/-) mice of different ages, compared to controls; these changes in copper and iron content were correlated with increased ceruloplasmin, metallothionein 1, and transferrin receptor gene expression and decreased gene expression of Commd1, ferritin-light chain and ferroportin in the liver of Npc1(-/-) mice of different ages. Npc1(-/-) mice responded to a copper-deficient diet with a decrease in copper content in the liver, bile and heart. These results correlated with a reduction in the hepatic expression of ceruloplasmin and metallothionein 1 during the first week of treatment. d-penicillamine revealed hepatic adaptive response and an improvement in hepatic function in Npc1(-/-) mice without any effect on neurological functions. Our results confirm that the NPC1 protein is required for copper and iron homeostasis. To our knowledge, this is the first report documenting the hepatic adaptive response to low-copper intake in a Npc1(-/-) mouse model.
Except for bleeding complications, other serious adverse reactions of coumarin anticoagulants such as hepatotoxicity or skin necrosis are comparatively rare. Nonetheless, a small number of coumarin-induced (sub-) acute liver failures has been published.
A retrospective analysis was performed of patients treated for liver disease between 1992 and 2002 at our department to evaluate the incidence, clinical findings and histopathology of coumarin-induced hepatotoxicity.
The retrospective analysis revealed eight cases of phenprocoumon-induced hepatotoxicity, including three cases of (sub-) acute liver failure which resulted in two orthotopic liver transplantations and one fatal outcome. Five patients with phenprocoumon-induced hepatitis recovered well after anticoagulation was switched to another coumarin derivate or subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin. In all patients liver injury was predominantly of an hepatitic type. In the cases of (sub-) acute liver failure massive confluent liver cell necroses were histologically present, whereas among patients without liver failure mild portal to moderate active lobular hepatitis were observed. A retrospective analysis by BfArM (German Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices) revealed 4390 cases of possible phenprocoumon-related adverse reactions since 1990, 2% of which had presented with hepatitis and 0.2% with liver failure.
Phenprocoumon-induced liver disease is an uncommon complication, which can, however, cause (sub-) acute liver failure.
A rat model was used to determine whether the metabolism of halothane is changed in the presence of cirrhosis and whether exacerbation of liver dysfunction is correlated with such a change. Cirrhosis was produced by gavaging enzyme-induced male Wistar rats with carbon tetrachloride in corn oil once weekly for 12 weeks. Control rats received corn oil only. After a 3-week period without treatment, blood and urine were collected from each rat for determination of background levels of inorganic fluoride, bromide, and trifluoroacetic acid (halothane metabolites) and for assessment of liver function. Rats were then anesthetized with 1.05% halothane in 50% oxygen for 3 h. Following anesthesia, serial blood and urine samples were taken to monitor halothane metabolism and liver function. No differences were observed between cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic rats in serum levels and urinary excretion of halothane metabolites. However, serum levels of SGOT and SGPT were significantly increased about 1.5-fold in the noncirrhotic group and about 2.5-fold in the cirrhotic group after anesthesia. The increased levels observed in the cirrhotic group were significantly greater than in the noncirrhotic group. The results imply that the exacerbation of liver dysfunction after halothane anesthesia is most likely related to an indirect effect, such as change in liver blood flow, rather than to toxic metabolites.
The effects of tacrine (5 mg/kg i.p.) in lithium chloride (LiCl; 12 mEq/kg i.p.)-pretreated (24 h beforehand) animals and of kainate (10 mg/kg i.p.) on brain citrulline, the co-product of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis, were studied in rats. High performance liquid chromatography analysis of whole brain tissue homogenates from rats treated with LiCl and tacrine revealed a significant increase in citrulline content before the onset of seizures. This effect was prevented in a stereoselective manner by N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10 mg/kg i.p., given 20 min before tacrine), an inhibitor of NO synthase. By contrast, kainic acid (10 mg/kg i.p.) did not affect significantly brain citrulline during the pre-convulsive period. In conclusion, our data indicate that in rats seizures induced by LiCl and tacrine but not kainic acid are triggered by excessive NO production in the brain.
To test the hypotheses that manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI) is useful in evaluating intraretinal ion dysregulation in wild-type (WT) and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) overexpressor mice.
Central intraretinal ion activity and retinal thickness were measured from high-resolution data of light- and dark-adapted WT C57BL/6 mice (to gauge MEMRI sensitivity to normal visual processing in mice) and dark-adapted diabetic and nondiabetic WT and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase overexpressor (SOD1OE) mice. Glycated hemoglobin and retinal vascular histopathology were also determined.
In WT mice, light adaptation reduced outer retinal manganese uptake compared with that in dark adaptation; no effect on inner retinal uptake was found. In diabetic WT mice, intraretinal manganese uptake became subnormal between 1.5 and 4 months of diabetes onset and then relatively increased. Central retinal thickness, as determined with MEMRI, decreased as a function of age in diabetic mice but remained constant in control mice. Nondiabetic SOD1OE mice had normal retinal manganese uptake but subnormal retinal thickness and supernormal acellular capillary density. At 4.2 months of diabetes, SOD1OE mice had normal manganese uptake and no further thinning; acellular capillaries frequency did not increase by 9 to 10 months of diabetes.
In emerging diabetic retinopathy, MEMRI provided an analytic measure of an ionic dysregulatory pattern that was sensitive to SOD1 overexpression. The potential benefit of SOD1 overexpression to inhibit retinal abnormality in this model is limited by the retinal and vascular degeneration that develops independently of diabetes.
A 36-year old man, having injured himself severely by smashing windows in a rage of fury, was arrested by the police. He died despite resuscitation attempts. The forensic autopsy showed many superficial skin lacerations, bruises and minor brain swelling, but there was no definitive cause of death. Toxicological analysis showed a high concentration of mephedrone in femoral blood (5.1mg/L) and traces of cocaine, MDMA and oxazepam. The remaining dose of mephedrone in the stomach contents was estimated at 113 mg. Tablets that were found in the house of the deceased also contained mephedrone. We attribute this man's death to a fatal oral intake of mephedrone, which probably led to a state of excited delirium. This was aggravated by blood loss from multiple wounds.
In this study, we have investigated the expression of cytokine mRNAs in mice cutaneously exposed to formaldehyde using semiquantitative RT-PCR. We show that formaldehyde induced the long-lasting expression of IL-4 and IFN-gamma mRNAs and the transient expression of IL-13 mRNA in mouse spleen and draining lymph nodes. The transient increases in IL-2, IL-15, IL-12p40, IL-15 and IL-18 mRNAs, but long-lasting IL-15 mRNA were only seen in the formaldehyde-exposed mouse spleen. Moreover, a weak contact hypersensitivity (CH) and the significant increases in IL-4 and IFN-gamma mRNAs were detected in the ear skin of formaldehyde-cutaneously exposed mice when rechallenged mouse ears. Furthermore, CH as measured by mouse ear swelling response was positively correlated with IL-4 and IFN-gamma mRNA levels in the challenged ears. This study thus suggests that the induction of Th1 and Th2 cytokine mRNAs, particularly IL-4 and IFN-gamma, are a common immunological feature caused by contact allergens irrespective of strong or weak contact allergens. The analysis of IL-4 and IFN-gamma mRNAs may be useful markers in establishing the novel test for predicting chemical sensitizing potentials.
Asthma has become a public health issue since the 1960's. Factors associated with asthma are environmental and genetic. This study is based on a random sample of 742 students aged 13-14 attending various schools at Polokwane, in the Province of Limpopo in South Africa. Survey logistic regression and multi-level analyses were used for data analysis. The study identifies three key determinants of asthma at the district, school and individual levels. The study shows that persistent cough (OR = 4.01), exposure to smoke at the household level (OR = 2.39) and lack of access to flush toileta at the household level (OR = 1.89) are key predictors of asthma in children. Variability at the level of districts accounts for 46% of total variance. Variability at the level of schools accounts for 33% of total variance.
R56865 has been described as a substance that protects cells from intracellular Na+ and Ca2+ overload. The aim of this study was to investigate its mechanism of action, which is at present unknown.
The haemodynamic and (rate dependent) electrophysiological effects of R56865 (0.48 mg.kg-1) were examined and compared with its antiarrhythmic effect on ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia (n = 10), and ventricular tachycardia occurring within 24 h of occlusion of the left anterior descending artery (n = 8). The experiments were all performed in dogs.
In anaesthetised dogs R56865 increased (p < 0.05) the cycle length of the sinus rhythm, the corrected QT duration (+8%) and the effective refractory period (+16%) of the right ventricle. No rate dependency was found. R56865 had no effect on blood pressure, conduction, or refractoriness of the AV node, nor on conduction in the ventricle. In conscious dogs, R56865 did not change the cycle length of the sinus rhythm, but it did increase the QT duration (+5%, p < 0.05). The cycle length of the slower ouabain induced ventricular tachycardias which were terminated by R56865 increased to a greater extent (+55%) than that of the non-suppressible, faster ventricular tachycardias (+16%): 335(SD 30) ms, n = 5 v 285(10) ms, n = 5. The effect of R56865 on ventricular tachycardias 24 h after infarction was considered to be of minor antiarrhythmic importance.
R56865 has (1) class III effects, (2) a partial effect in terminating ouabain induced ventricular tachycardias which is inverse rate dependent, and (3) a weak effect on ventricular tachycardias 24 h after infarction.
Serotoninergic appetite-suppressant drugs, fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, were withdrawn from the market in September 1997 on account of two major cardiopulmonary complications: primary pulmonary hypertension and valvular regurgitation. The valvular heart diseases involve mainly left-sided valves, and contrary to physiological valvular regurgitations, they appear mostly on the aortic valve. Prolonged exposure (> 3 months) appears to confer a higher risk of cardiac valve involvement. Pathological features are similar to carcinoid or ergot alkaloid-induced valve diseases, and suggest a common pathophysiological mechanism which would also explain pulmonary hypertension by the toxic effect of high levels of circulating serotonin. After the first reports documenting a dramatically high prevalence of valvular side effects (up to 33% according to the Food and Drug Administration), recent studies reported a lower prevalence and severity. The long-term outcome and the real incidence are unknown and require further research and epidemiological data. A clinical survey of the patients exposed to serotoninergic appetite-suppressants is necessary, to be repeated 6 to 8 months later in the absence of an initial cardiac murmur. Doppler echocardiographic examination should be performed after prolonged exposure (> 3 months) or a high dosage of these drugs, in circumstances such as the presence of cardiovascular symptoms, a cardiac murmur, or an uncertain cardiac examination because of weight of patients.
This is a case report of a 15-year-old boy who developed benign intracranial hypertension after 3 weeks of levofloxacin intake. The headache, diplopia, and papilledema resolved within a week after levofloxacin was withdrawn. Physicians must be aware that quinolone antibiotics can potentially cause intracranial hypertension.
The cardiac effects of chemotherapeutic regimens using high doses of cyclophosphamide (180 mg/kg over four days) were assessed in 32 patients with hematologic malignant neoplasms. Left ventricular systolic function, determined by the fractional shortening on echocardiogram, declined substantially five to 16 days after the initiation of cyclophosphamide therapy. Although pericardial effusion on echocardiogram occurred in 33% of the patients studied, ECG voltage decreased five to 14 days after beginning cyclophosphamide therapy even in those patients without pericardial effusion. Congestive heart failure was noted in nine patients (28%) within three weeks of cyclophosphamide administration. Six of these patients (19%) died of myocardial failure. Pericardial tamponade occurred in six patients (19%), including five who died of myocardial failure. Histopathologic and electron microscopic findings showed endothelial injury and a hemorrhagic myopericarditis. Cyclophosphamide in this high dose is associated with a toxic, often fatal, pericardiomyopathy. Depression of ECG voltage and systolic left ventricular function, though common, do not necessarily predict clinical cardiac deterioration.
During a double-blind, randomized study on 30 patients affected with classic or definite rheumatoid arthritis, the efficacy and safety of treatment with diftalone in a per oral dosage of 500 mg/day were compared with those of indomethacin given orally at doses of 50-75 mg/day initially and 100 mg/day subsequently, for a treatment period of 24 months. In this long-term study, diftalone demonstrated that its effectiveness and safety in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis are clearly comparable to those of indomethacin.
The hypothesis that cysteinyl-leukotrienes (LTC4, LTD4 and LTE4) are mediators of allergen-induced airway obstruction in asthmatics was tested with the specific receptor antagonist ICI-204,219, in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, cross-over bronchoprovocation study. On three occasions, cumulative bronchial challenge with specific allergen was performed in 10 males with mild allergic asthma. The first control session established the baseline provocative dose of allergen producing a decrease in forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) by 20% (PD20FEV1). The two rechallenges were performed 2 h after oral administration of placebo or 20 mg of ICI-204,219. The allergen dose-response relations were highly reproducible, producing PD20 values at the control session and after placebo treatment which varied by no more than 0.7-1.3 fold (95% confidence interval (95% CI)). After ICI-204,219, the median cumulated allergen dose was 5.5 fold higher, and the group geometric mean PD20 was increased 2.5 times. Furthermore, the recovery time after the immediate bronchoconstriction was shorter (40 vs 60 min). The wheal and flare responses to intradermally injected LTD4 were somewhat inhibited by ICI-204,219, whereas responses to histamine were unaffected. However, the findings suggest that skin testing with LTD4 is unlikely to predict the degree of leukotriene-antagonism in the airways. The findings confirm and extend the indications that cysteinyl-leukotrienes are important mediators of allergen-induced airway obstruction, and that leukotriene-antagonists should be evaluated as a potential new therapy in allergic asthma.
Organic mental disorder was observed in a 29-year-old female in the prognostic period after the onset of carmofur-induced leukoencephalopathy. Symptoms such as euphoria, emotional lability and puerile attitude noted in the patient were diagnosed as organic personality syndrome according to the criteria defined in the DSM-III-R. It is referred to as a frontal lobe syndrome. Brain CT revealed a periventricular low density area in the frontal white matter and moderate dilatation of the lateral ventricles especially at the bilateral anterior horns. Consequently, carmofur-induced leukoencephalopathy may uncommonly result in organic personality syndrome in the residual state. It may be attributed to the structural damage to the frontal lobe.
The SOX family of transcription factors has been implicated in cell fate specification during embryogenesis. One member of this family, Sox9, has been shown to regulate both chondrogenesis and sex determination in the mouse embryo. Heterozygous mutations in Sox9 result in Campomelic Dysplasia (CD), a lethal human disorder characterized by autosomal XY sex reversal, severe skeletal malformations and several craniofacial defects. Sox9 is also expressed in neural crest progenitors but very little is known about the function of Sox9 in the neural crest. We have cloned the Xenopus homolog of the Sox9 gene. It is expressed maternally and accumulates shortly after gastrulation at the lateral edges of the neural plate, in the neural crest-forming region. As development proceeds, Sox9 expression persists in migrating cranial crest cells as they populate the pharyngeal arches. Depletion of Sox9 protein in developing embryos, using morpholino antisense oligos, causes a dramatic loss of neural crest progenitors and an expansion of the neural plate. Later during embryogenesis, morpholino-treated embryos have a specific loss or reduction of neural crest-derived skeletal elements, mimicking one aspect of the craniofacial defects observed in CD patients. We propose that Sox9 is an essential component of the regulatory pathway that leads to cranial neural crest formation.
1. The effects of L-DOPA on postural hypotension and carotid occlusion pressor effect were studied, mainly in cats; the recovery of the blood pressure upon tilting was used as a measure of postural hypotension.2. L-DOPA (30 mg/kg) partially depressed the carotid occlusion pressor effect and caused some degree of postural hypotension, L-DOPA (100 mg/kg) had more marked effects; the responses returned to control after 90 to 150 minutes. L-DOPA itself caused a pressor response in all cats.3. The dopa decarboxylase inhibitor N(1)-(DL-seryl)-N(2)-(2,3,4-trihydroxybenzyl) hydrazine (RO4-4602, 50 and 10 mg/kg) had no effect itself on the tilt response but completely prevented the effects of L-DOPA on the carotid occlusion pressor effect and postural hypotension.4. After RO4-4602 (3 and 1 mg/kg), L-DOPA (100 mg/kg) caused a brief rise of blood pressure followed by a longer lasting fall in horizontally-orientated cats (i.e. ;supine' hypotension). No postural hypotension was observed after L-DOPA under these conditions.5. Noradrenaline elicited only small and transient effects on postural hypotension, but dopamine's effects were more marked and longer lasting. Pressor dose-response relationships for noradrenaline were the same before and after L-DOPA, as well as in cats pretreated with L-DOPA for 4 days.6. In cats with kidneys and intestines removed, the tilt reflex was still present. Dose-response curves to L-DOPA were the same as in normal animals. RO4-4602 (3 mg/kg) prevented postural hypotension and block of the carotid occlusion pressor effect; supine hypotension was also observed after L-DOPA.7. The recovery response to tilting in spinal cats was markedly depressed or absent unless the blood pressure was elevated by angiotensin, in which experiments L-DOPA depressed the recovery upon tilting (i.e. induced postural hypotension).8. Blood pressure responses to tyramine were increased after 10 mg/kg of L-DOPA, but depressed after 100 mg/kg. The response to tyramine was not depressed, however, when RO4-4602 was given to block the dopa-dopamine conversion.9. The response to sympathetic stimulation in pithed rats was depressed after L-DOPA and dopamine, but not after alpha-methyldopa.10. alpha-Methyldopa (300 mg/kg) given acutely caused a moderate degree of postural hypotension and a more marked postural hypotension if given for two days.11. It is concluded that it is possible to differentiate between the supine and postural hypotension caused by L-DOPA and that supine hypotension is due to a central effect and postural hypotension to an extracerebral effect. Postural hypotension is discussed in relation to six hypotheses presented to explain its effect. Postural hypotension after L-DOPA is probably not due to a-adrenoceptor blockade, a central effect or any effect on the kidney. The most likely hypothesis is that L-DOPA forms dopamine which acts as a false transmitter in the peripheral sympathetic nervous system.
A 68-year-old woman had reversible nonoliguric acute renal failure and yellow pigmentation of her skin and sclerae after ingesting phenazopyridine hydrochloride, 200 mg four times a day for six weeks. Although she began to recover renal function promptly after the drug therapy was discontinued, there was a further decline in her glomerular filtration rate after an oral cholecystogram and intravenous pyelogram. Phenazopyridine-induced acute renal failure is rare, but its early recognition is important so that additional nephrotoxicity from studies using roentgenographic contrast material may be avoided in patients with this problem.
Nicotine, the main psychoactive ingredient in tobacco, readily crosses the placental barrier to cause growth and neurobehavioral abnormalities in the offspring. The current study was designed to assess whether nicotinic action causes long lasting teratogenic effects and synaptic dysfunctions. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were infused with nicotine via osmotic minipumps at a dose of 6 mg/kg/day corresponding to the dose receiving during heavy smoking. A battery of behavioral tests and electrophysiological experiments were performed during specific postnatal periods. A spectrum of developmental and behavioral modifications in adolescent, young-adult and aged animals resulted after prenatal nicotine exposure. The potentially teratogenic effect of nicotine was clearly demonstrated in both genders by changes in developmental reflexes, exploratory and novelty seeking behavior, as well as a higher level of anxiety, and changes in individual and group responses in learning and memory. Most of the behavioral abnormalities were transitional with advancing age (6 months), although cognitive deficits measured by a two-way active avoidance task were long-lasting for male rats. Electrophysiological studies show decreased excitatory postsynaptic responses (mEPSCs) mediated by AMPA receptors in the hippocampus. These results suggest that teratogenic effect of nicotine on cognition is age and gender-specific, long-lasting and associated with AMPA receptor function.
A 36-year-old male with acute myeloid leukaemia was treated with liposomal amphotericin B for a breakthrough fungal infection with Absidia corymbifera during voriconazole and caspofungin therapy for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Four episodes of hyperkalaemia developed with a highly probable relation to infusion of liposomal amphotericin B, of which the last episode was characterised by severe, refractory hyperkalaemia and fatal cardiac arrest. The available literature on severe hyperkalaemia and cardiac arrest during administration of both conventional and liposomal amphotericin B is reviewed here and revealed only four similar cases. The most likely mechanism of toxicity is the release of potassium from a variety of mammal cells including erythrocytes and endothelial cells. Whether prevention of toxicity can be established by decreasing the infusion rate is unclear but conceivable.
We hypothesized that resveratrol, a natural phytoalexin found in grapes, can prevent oxidative stress, obesity and its related disturbances in obese rats programmed by early weaning. Lactating Wistar rats were separated into two groups: early weaning (EW) - dams who were wrapped with a bandage to interrupt the lactation in the last 3 days of lactation; control - dams whose pups had free access to milk during all lactation. At the 150th day, EW offspring were randomly subdivided into EW+resveratrol (EW+Res) - resveratrol (30 mg/kg/day); EW+vehicle (EW) - rats that received 0.5% (w/v) aqueous methylcellulose. The control group received vehicle. Rats were treated by gavage daily for 30 days. EW offspring developed hyperphagia, higher body weight, visceral obesity, higher systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (+15% and +20%, respectively; P<.05) and higher serum triglycerides (TG) and low-density lipoprotein but lower high-density lipoprotein (+55%, +33% and -13%, respectively; P<.05). Resveratrol normalized food intake, SBP and DBP and prevented obesity and dyslipidemia in EW+Res. EW rats had higher plasma and liver thiobarbituric-acid-reactive substances (TBARS) and lower plasma superoxide dismutase (SOD) and liver glutathione peroxidase activities (+51%, +18%, -58%, -31%, respectively; P<.05), and resveratrol normalized both plasma and liver TBARS and increased the activity of SOD and catalase in plasma. EW rats presented liver steatosis and higher liver TG, and resveratrol prevented these hepatic alterations. In conclusion, this study demonstrated a potential therapeutic use of resveratrol in preventing obesity and oxidative stress and reducing the risk of hypertension, dyslipidemia and steatosis in adult rats programmed by early weaning.
A series of novel arylpiperazines bearing a pyrrolidin-2-one fragment were synthesized and evaluated for their binding affinity for alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors (ARs) as well as their antiarrhythmic and antihypertensive activities. The highest affinity for the alpha1-AR was displayed by 1-{3-[4-(2-chloro-phenyl)-piperazin-1-yl]-propyl}-pyrrolidin-2-one 7, which binds with a pKi = 7.13. The highest affinity for the alpha2-AR was shown by 1-{3-[4-(4-chloro-phenyl)-piperazin-1-yl]-propyl}-pyrrolidin-2-one 18, which binds with a pKi = 7.29. Among the compounds tested, 1-{3-[4-(2-ethoxy-phenyl)-piperazin-1-yl]-propyl}-pyrrolidin-2-one 13 had the highest prophylactic antiarrhythmic activity in epinephrine-induced arrhythmia in anesthetized rats. Its ED50 value was 1.0 mg/kg intravenously (iv). The compounds with a hydroxy group in the 4-position of the phenyl ring or two substituents such as fluorine atoms in the 2 and 4 positions of the phenyl ring significantly decreased systolic and diastolic pressure in normotensive anesthetized rats at a dose of 2.5 mg/ kg iv, and their hypotensive effects lasted for longer than an hour.
Thalidomide has immunomodulatory and anti-angiogenic properties which may underlie its activity in cancer. After its success in myeloma, it has been investigated in other plasma cell dyscrasias, myelodysplastic syndromes, gliomas, Kaposi's sarcoma, renal cell carcinoma, advanced breast cancer, and colon cancer. Thalidomide causes responses in 30-50% of myeloma patients as a single agent, and acts synergistically with corticosteroids and chemotherapy. Thalidomide results in the reduction or elimination of transfusion-dependence in some patients with myelodysplastic syndrome. Responses have also been seen in one-third of patients with Kaposi's sarcoma, in a small proportion of patients with renal cell carcinoma and high-grade glioma, and in some patients with colon cancer in combination with irinotecan. The drug is being investigated currently in a number of clinical trials for cancer. Drowsiness, constipation, and fatigue are common side effects, whereas peripheral neuropathy and skin rash are seen in one-third. A minority of patients experience bradycardia. Thrombotic phenomena are especially common when thalidomide is combined with chemotherapy. Adverse effects severe enough to necessitate cessation of therapy are seen in around 20% of patients. A therapeutic trial of thalidomide is essential in all patients with relapsed or refractory myeloma. In other cancers, the best way to use the drug is in the setting of clinical trials. In the absence of access to studies or alternative therapeutic options, thalidomide could be considered singly or in combination with standard therapy.
