We designed a 3-month open label trial of melatonin prophylaxis in children with primary headache. After a one month baseline period without receiving preventive drugs, all children received a 3-month course of melatonin, 3 mg, administered orally, at bedtime. A total of 22 children were enrolled (10 boys, mean age 12.2+/-2.6 years, age range 6-16 years), 13 had recurrent migraine without aura, 1 with aura and 8 had chronic tension-type headache. When the trial ended, 14 of the 21 subjects reported that the headache attacks had decreased by more than 50% in respect to baseline and 4 of them reported having no headache attacks. After receiving melatonin for one month one subject dropped out because of excessive daytime sleepiness. Our promising results warrant randomized placebo-controlled trials in children to assess the real effectiveness of melatonin in preventing primary headache.
A randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of enterally administered dexamethasone on the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia. A total of 23 infants with a birth weight less than 1500 g who were dependent on artificial ventilation 3 to 4 weeks of age received dexamethasone (n = 12) or saline placebo (n = 11). Dexamethasone (0.5 mg/kg per day) was given in tapering doses for 7 days followed by hydrocortisone (8 mg/kg per day) which was progressively reduced for a total of 17 days of therapy. Infants who received dexamethasone required less oxygen on days 8 and 17 (P less than .05) and were more likely to extubate 8 days after therapy than infants in the control group (respectively 8/12 vs 3/11 infants, P less than .05; P = .12 after Yates correction). The use of dexamethasone significantly shortened median duration of mechanical ventilation (4 vs 22 days, P less than .05) but had no effect on length of oxygen therapy, hospitalization, home oxygen therapy, occurrence and severity of retinopathy of prematurity, rate of growth, and mortality. No significant complications resulted from dexamethasone therapy. Measurements of plasma dexamethasone levels confirmed the absorption of drug from the gastrointestinal tract (23.7 ng/mL in dexamethasone vs 4.6 ng/mL in the control group, P less than .05). Dexamethasone administration resulted in short-term improvements in pulmonary function but did not ameliorate the hospital course of infants with bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
The effect of the anticonvulsant sodium valproate on cerebral brainstem energy metabolism has been investigated. Stupor and coma were produced in mice by the intraperitoneal injection of sodium valproate at a dose of 600 mg/kg. Glucose, glycogen, ATP, and phosphocreatine were measured in small tissue samples from the ascending reticular activating system. Levels of all metabolites were either normal or elevated in precoma and comatose mice as compared to controls. These data are consistent with the concept that sodium valproate does not have a primary action through depletion of high energy phosphates.
To document and measure various parameters and outcomes in patients prescribed clozapine in a forensic psychiatric setting.
A retrospective file review was conducted on patients prescribed clozapine. Parameters and outcomes were recorded and compared against a group prescribed other antipsychotics, matched for sex and diagnosis.
Patients prescribed clozapine had higher rates of substance misuse syndromes and comorbidity when compared to patients prescribed other antipsychotics. Clozapine was found to be effective in treatment of psychosis. High rates of adverse effects were noted. Discontinuation of clozapine for a variety of reasons was common.
Patients identified as treatment resistant who are prescribed clozapine are often more complex in the pattern of illness and subsequent needs. Clozapine is effective in the treatment of psychosis in this forensic service. Its benefits need to be balanced against the potential for adverse effects and problems ensuring adherence. Regular, objective monitoring of clinical and adverse effects would aid patient safety, clinical decision-making and future research.
To evaluate the role of microtubule-associated variables as potential predictors of response and clinical outcome in patients with advanced breast cancer receiving single-agent docetaxel or doxorubicin chemotherapy.
The analysis was done on 173 tumor samples from patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have participated in the TAX-303 phase III trial in which patients were randomly assigned to receive docetaxel or doxorubicin. Expression of total alpha- and beta-tubulin, classes II to IV beta-tubulin isotypes, and tau protein was evaluated by immunohistochemistry on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumors from the primary breast cancer.
We observed that patients with "high" expression of class III beta-tubulin isotype had a higher probability of response to docetaxel than to doxorubicin treatment (odds ratio, 1.9; 95% confidence interval, 1.01-3.7; P = 0.05). No difference was observed in terms of time to progression or in terms of overall survival.
This study suggests that the superiority of docetaxel over doxorubicin seems to be confined to the subgroup of patients with "high" expression of class III beta-tubulin isotype.
Combat-related post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is often complicated with other psychiatric comorbidities, and is refractory to treatment.
The aim of an open, comparative 6-week study was to compare olanzapine and fluphenazine, as a monotherapy, for treating psychotic combat-related PTSD.
Fifty-five male war veterans with psychotic PTSD (DSM-IV criteria) were treated for 6 weeks with olanzapine (n=28) or fluphenazine (n=27) in a 5-10 mg/day dose range, once or twice daily. Patients were evaluated at baseline, and after 3 and 6 weeks of treatment, using Watson's PTSD scale, Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), Clinical Global Impression Severity Scale (CGI-S), Clinical Global Impression Improvement Scale (CGI-I), Patient Global Impression Improvement Scale (PGI-I) and Drug Induced Extra-Pyramidal Symptoms Scale (DIEPSS).
At baseline, patient's data (age, duration of combat experience and scores in all measurement instruments) did not differ. After 3 and 6 weeks of treatment, olanzapine was significantly more efficacious than fluphenazine in reducing symptoms in PANSS (negative, general psychopathology subscale, supplementary items), Watson's PTSD (avoidance, increased arousal) subscales, CGI-S, CGI-I, and PGI-I scale. Both treatments affected similarly the symptoms listed in PANSS positive and Watson's trauma re-experiencing subscales. Fluphenazine induced more extrapyramidal symptoms. Prolongation of the treatment for 3 additional weeks did not affect the efficacy of either drug.
Our data indicate that both fluphenazine and olanzapine were effective for particular symptom profile in psychotic combat-related PTSD. Olanzapine was better than fluphenazine in reducing most of the psychotic and PTSD symptoms, and was better tolerated in psychotic PTSD patients.
Alteration in serum prolactin (PRL) levels may reflect changes in central dopamine activity, which modulates the behavioral effects of cocaine. Therefore, serum PRL may have a potential role as a biological marker of drug severity and treatment outcome in cocaine dependence.
We investigated whether serum PRL levels differed between cocaine-dependent (CD) subjects and controls, and whether PRL levels were associated with severity of drug use and treatment outcome in CD subjects.
Basal PRL concentrations were assayed in 141 African-American (AA) CD patients attending an outpatient treatment program and 60 AA controls. Severity of drug use was assessed using the Addiction Severity Index (ASI). Measures of abstinence and retention during 12 weeks of treatment and at 6-month follow-up were employed as outcome variables.
The basal PRL (ng/ml) in CD patients (9.28+/-4.13) was significantly higher than controls (7.33+/-2.94) (t=3.77, P<0.01). At baseline, PRL was positively correlated with ASI-drug (r=0.38, P<0.01), ASI-alcohol (r=0.19, P<0.05), and ASI-psychological (r=0.25, P<0.01) composite scores, and with the quantity of cocaine use (r=0.18, P<0.05). However, PRL levels were not significantly associated with number of negative urine screens, days in treatment, number of sessions attended, dropout rate or changes in ASI scores during treatment and at follow-up. Also, basal PRL did not significantly contribute toward the variance in predicting any of the outcome measures.
Although cocaine use seems to influence PRL levels, it does not appear that PRL is a predictor of treatment outcome in cocaine dependence.
The dopaminergic pathways are involved in natural and drug reward related processes.
To compare the respective involvement of the dopaminergic receptors D1, D2 and D3 in natural-seeking versus drug-seeking behaviour and evaluate any concomitant expression of locomotor sensitisation.
In separate experiments, male Wistar rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.25 mg/infusion) or to press a lever to obtain food pellets. Following a prolonged period of extinction, reinstatement of lever responding was measured following non-contingent food delivery, cocaine (15 mg/kg), D1-like (SKF 82958, 0.25 mg/kg), D2-like (quinelorane, 0.25 mg/kg) and D3-like (7-OHDPAT, 0.25 mg/kg) agonists. To demonstrate parallel expression of behavioural sensitisation, locomotor activity was recorded during the reinstatement sessions.
Cocaine and quinelorane administrations reinstated cocaine-seeking behaviour and induced the expression of locomotor sensitisation, whereas SKF 82958 and 7-OHDPAT had either no effect or non-specific effects. In the food-seeking experiment, we found that quinelorane and 7-OHDPAT did not reinstate lever pressing. Cocaine increased responding on both active and inactive levers, whereas SKF 82958 had a more specific effect with higher responding on the previously food-associated lever.
Our results indicate that expression of locomotor sensitisation and reinstatement of cocaine-seeking but not food-seeking behaviours are in part supported by common dopaminergic substrates, among which the D2 receptors play a crucial role.
Several nitriles have been demonstrated to cause hair cell loss in the inner ear of the rat, but the susceptibility of other species to this toxic effect has not been investigated. Adult male Swiss mice were administered (po) control vehicle, cis-crotononitrile (2.75 mmol/kg), or 3,3'-iminodipropionitrile (IDPN, at 8, 16, and 24 mmol/kg), and the changes in vestibular function were assessed by behavioral endpoints. In addition, surface preparations of the vestibular sensory epithelia were examined for hair cell loss using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). IDPN, in a dose-dependent manner, and cis-crotononitrile induced both vestibular dysfunction and loss of hair bundles. Male Dunkin Hartley guinea pigs were administered IDPN (0, 1.6, 2.4, or 3.2 mmol/kg, ip), and their vestibular and auditory sensory epithelia were examined by SEM. The guinea pigs developed behavioral abnormalities indicative of vestibular dysfunction, with more overt effects observed in the animals treated with larger doses, and displayed a dose-dependent loss of hair bundles in both the vestibular and the auditory epithelia. Frogs (Rana perezi) were administered IDPN (0, 16, 24, or 32 mmol/kg, ip), and their sensory epithelia in the inner ear were examined by SEM. IDPN caused behavioral abnormalities indicative of vestibular dysfunction and loss of hair bundles. We conclude that some nitriles are thorough ototoxic compounds affecting hair cells in a wide range of species. This conclusion highlights the potential interest of this toxic effect and offers new animal models in which to decipher its basis.
Vitamin A hepatotoxicity has been reported at doses exceeding 50,000 IU/day. At 25,000 IU vitamin A per day, although elevated liver enzymes may be seen, hepatotoxicity is rare. We report a case of severe hepatotoxicity associated with the habitual daily ingestion of 25,000 IU of vitamin A bought as an over-the-counter dietary supplement. With the general availability of high-dose supplements and recent literature emphasizing the importance of vitamin A adequacy, the potential for vitamin A hepatotoxicity may increase. Health professionals should remain aware of the potential for vitamin A hepatotoxicity and elicit a vitamin A history in all patients being evaluated for liver dysfunction.
Aconitine (AC) is a highly toxic compound present in plants of the genus Aconitum. The transcellular transport mechanism of AC was investigated using Caco-2 cells. The flux of AC was time- and concentration-dependent in both apical-to-basolateral and the reverse direction. The efflux of AC was more than two-fold that in the opposite direction. The influx of AC was temperature-, pH- and Na(+)-dependent. Glucose markedly decreased the absorption of AC. However, the efflux of AC was temperature- and pH-dependent, but Na(+)-independent. Cyclosporin A and verapamil, both inhibitors of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), significantly decreased the efflux of AC. In addition, MK-571, an inhibitor of multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2), exhibited the same trend but to a lesser extent. These results indicate that both the influx and efflux of AC across Caco-2 monolayers were through an active process. A pH-dependent carrier-mediated transport system was the major absorption mechanism and a sodium-dependent glucose transporter may be involved. The active efflux of AC across Caco-2 cells was mediated mainly by ABC-transporter P-gp. It is involved in reducing the toxicity of AC to organisms and is the major reasons for the poor absorption of AC in vivo.
The present study examines the dose-response relationship for 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) promotion of histologic and biochemical parameters by using a two-stage model for hepatocarcinogenesis in female Sprague-Dawley rats initiated with a single intraperitoneal dose of 175 mg of diethylnitrosamine (DEN)/kg body weight at 70 days of age. Starting 2 weeks after initiation, treatment groups of 8-10 rats were given TCDD by gavage in corn oil once every 2 weeks for 30 weeks. Doses were 3.5, 10.7, 35.7, and 125 ng TCDD/kg body weight/day. A significant body weight reduction was present in the noninitiated group that received 125 ng TCDD. Relative liver weight was statistically increased in initiated rats treated with > or = 10.7 ng TCDD and in noninitiated rats treated with > or = 35.7 ng TCDD. Histopathologic evidence of cytotoxicity was dose-related in all TCDD-treated groups. There was a statistically significant dose response in the bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) S-phase labeling index (LI) in the DEN-initiated rats (p < 0.01) and a marginally significant trend in the saline-treated rats (p = 0.10), but proliferating cell nuclear antigen S-phase LI and growth fraction within altered hepatic foci showed no increase. Among the DEN-initiated groups there was a significant increase in glutathione S-transferase altered hepatic foci stereological parameters in the 125 ng TCDD group. This study demonstrates that dose-response relationships for TCDD's effects on cell proliferation growth of altered hepatic foci are different from previously reported effects on P450 gene expression, indicating that different biological or biochemical responses may exhibit different dose-response relationships.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lamivudine treatment in hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-negative and hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA-positive chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients is associated with poor sustained response. A previous study has shown that short-term lamivudine therapy in HBeAg-positive patients with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) > 5x upper limit of normal (ULN) could achieve a high HBeAg response rate and low lamivudine resistance rate. We, therefore, prospectively treated 85 HBeAg-negative CHB patients with ALT > 5x ULN by lamivudine for 6-12 months. The mean pretreatment levels were as follows: ALT (normal < 36 U/I) 533 U/I (range: 180-2,418 U/I); total bilirubin (normal < 1.3 mg/dl) 2.0 mg/dl (range: 0.2-29.6 mg/dl), HBV DNA (normal, undetectable) 1.6 x 10(8) copies/ml (range: 1.4 x 10(5)-1.7 x 10(9) copies/ml). After a mean of 7.4 months (6-12 months) treatment, 69 (81%) patients achieved complete response. In a follow-up, 12 months after stopping lamivudine therapy, 33 (39%) patients showed sustained complete response. Patients with sustained response were younger than the relapsed patients (39.7 +/- 11.9 years versus 47.0 +/- 10.3 years; P = 0.005). The emergence of lamivudine-resistant variant HBV was documented in two patients (2%). It is concluded that in HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B patients with ALT levels above 5x ULN, a 6-12 month course of lamivudine therapy may achieve sustained an off-treatment response in approximately one-third of patients.
ALK gene rearrangement defines a new molecular subtype of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In a recent phase 1 clinical trial, the ALK tyrosine-kinase inhibitor (TKI) crizotinib showed marked antitumour activity in patients with advanced, ALK-positive NSCLC. To assess whether crizotinib affects overall survival in these patients, we did a retrospective study comparing survival outcomes in crizotinib-treated patients in the trial and crizotinib-naive controls screened during the same time period.
We examined overall survival in patients with advanced, ALK-positive NSCLC who enrolled in the phase 1 clinical trial of crizotinib, focusing on the cohort of 82 patients who had enrolled through Feb 10, 2010. For comparators, we identified 36 ALK-positive patients from trial sites who were not given crizotinib (ALK-positive controls), 67 patients without ALK rearrangement but positive for EGFR mutation, and 253 wild-type patients lacking either ALK rearrangement or EGFR mutation. To assess differences in overall survival, we assessed subsets of clinically comparable ALK-positive and ALK-negative patients.
Among 82 ALK-positive patients who were given crizotinib, median overall survival from initiation of crizotinib has not been reached (95% CI 17 months to not reached); 1-year overall survival was 74% (95% CI 63-82), and 2-year overall survival was 54% (40-66). Overall survival did not differ based on age, sex, smoking history, or ethnic origin. Survival in 30 ALK-positive patients who were given crizotinib in the second-line or third-line setting was significantly longer than in 23 ALK-positive controls given any second-line therapy (median overall survival not reached [95% CI 14 months to not reached] vs 6 months [4-17], 1-year overall survival 70% [95% CI 50-83] vs 44% [23-64], and 2-year overall survival 55% [33-72] vs 12% [2-30]; hazard ratio 0·36, 95% CI 0·17-0·75; p=0·004). Survival in 56 crizotinib-treated, ALK-positive patients was similar to that in 63 ALK-negative, EGFR-positive patients given EGFR TKI therapy (median overall survival not reached [95% CI 17 months to not reached] vs 24 months [15-34], 1-year overall survival 71% [95% CI 58-81] vs 74% [61-83], and 2-year overall survival 57% [40-71] vs 52% [38-65]; p=0·786), whereas survival in 36 crizotinib-naive, ALK-positive controls was similar to that in 253 wild-type controls (median overall survival 20 months [95% CI 13-26] vs 15 months [13-17]; p=0·244).
In patients with advanced, ALK-positive NSCLC, crizotinib therapy is associated with improved survival compared with that of crizotinib-naive controls. ALK rearrangement is not a favourable prognostic factor in advanced NSCLC.
Pfizer Inc, V Foundation for Cancer Research.
The Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) scoring system has been established as a reliable measure of short-term mortality risk in patients with end-stage chronic liver disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic value of the MELD scoring as a predictor of fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) and death in patients with acetaminophen poisoning. Prospectively, serial measurements of the 3 MELD components--INR, bilirubin, and creatinine--were performed in 460 patients with acetaminophen-induced liver injury. Starting on the first day after the day of overdose, MELD score was significantly higher in patients who eventually developed hepatic encephalopathy (HE) than in those who did not. HE developed in 63 of 142 patients with a MELD score above 18 at 48-72 hours after the overdose (positive predictive value 44%) compared with 2 of 182 patients with a MELD score of 18 or below (negative predictive value 99%). Among 124 patients with FHF, a threshold MELD score of 33 on the day after the onset of HE had sensitivity of 60%, specificity of 69%, positive predictive value of 65%, and negative predictive value of 63%. However, the discriminative power of MELD score was not superior to that of INR alone or of the King's College Hospital criteria.
MELD score may be useful as a predictor of FHF in patients admitted with acetaminophen toxicity. However, as a predictor of death from FHF, MELD score did not provide more information than the King's College Hospital criteria or INR alone.
To describe a case of drug-induced rhabdomyolysis that occurred because of an inadvertent duplication in statin therapy.
Tertiary care academic teaching hospital in Oklahoma, December 2005.
A 45-year-old white man received the combination therapy simvastatin 80 mg/ezetimibe 10 mg (Vytorin-Merck/Schering-Plough) daily after a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) procedure. This patient was also receiving simvastatin 80 mg daily and cyclosporine 150 mg twice daily, which had been prescribed before CABG. The use of two simvastatin products prescribed at high doses subsequently led to rhabdomyolysis and renal failure.
Statin therapy was discontinued at admission, and the patient was aggressively hydrated with 0.45% sodium chloride injection containing 50 mEq of sodium bicarbonate per liter at a rate of 250 mL/hour to alkalinize his urine. Hydration therapy alone decreased the patient's serum creatine kinase level to 910 units/L by day 7, but his serum creatinine remained elevated at 2.7 mg/dL. To manage rhabdomyolysis during hospitalization, the patient received a total of 6.7 liters of 0.45% sodium chloride injection with 50 mEq of sodium bicarbonate per liter. The patient was discharged 7 days after admission to a rehabilitation facility for continued strengthening of muscle tissue.
The increased use of combination drug products poses an increased risk of therapeutic duplication in patients. The medication reconciliation process and proper counseling by pharmacists is necessary to avoid these potentially harmful errors.
The antialcoholism drug disulfiram has shown recent promise as a pharmacotherapy for treating cocaine dependence, probably via inhibition of dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of dopamine (DA) to norepinephrine (NE). We previously showed that DBH knockout (Dbh -/-) mice, which lack NE, are susceptible to seizures and are hypersensitive to the psychomotor, rewarding, and aversive effects of cocaine, suggesting that disulfiram might exacerbate cocaine-induced seizures (CIS) by inhibiting DBH. To test this, we examined CIS in wild-type and Dbh -/- mice following administration of disulfiram or the selective DBH inhibitor nepicastat. We found that Dbh genotype had no effect on CIS probability or frequency, whereas disulfiram, but not nepicastat, increased the probability of having CIS in both wild-type and Dbh -/- mice. Both disulfiram and nepicastat increased CIS frequency in wild-type but not Dbh -/- mice. There were no genotype or treatment effects on serum cocaine levels, except for an increase in disulfiram-treated Dbh -/- mice at the highest dose of cocaine. These results suggest that disulfiram enhances CIS via two distinct mechanisms: it both increases CIS frequency by inhibiting DBH and increases CIS frequency in a DBH-independent manner.
It has been hypothesized that sensitization of the neurochemical effects within the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system might account for specific aspects of the addiction process. We have recently developed a self-administration procedure which produces increases in responding reinforced by cocaine on a progressive ratio (PR) schedule. This may reflect an increased motivation to self-administer cocaine, one hallmark of addiction.
The goal of this experiment was to investigate behavioral and neurochemical changes associated with increased cocaine self-administration on a PR schedule.
Rats self-administered cocaine over 14 days under a PR schedule. Cocaine-stimulated locomotor activity was evaluated before as well as 1 or 14 days after self-administration training. Cocaine-induced DA changes in the core and shell of the nucleus accumbens in the same animals were also examined.
Subjects showed increased responding over time, to about 200% of baseline. Cocaine-induced locomotor activation was decreased at both withdrawal times compared to naïve animals. Microdialysis showed no differences after self-administration in the nucleus accumbens core dopamine response at either time point. There was, however, a significant decrease in the dopamine response to cocaine in the shell of the nucleus accumbens.
The present results demonstrate that a progressive increase in breakpoints on a PR schedule can be established in rats at a time when the ability of cocaine to increase extracellular DA levels and stimulate locomotor activity is reduced. Therefore, sensitization of the mesolimbic DA system does not account for the observed change in drug-taking behavior.
A series of novel arylpiperazines bearing a pyrrolidin-2-one fragment was synthesized and evaluated for the binding affinity of the alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-adrenoceptors (AR) and for the antiarrhythmic and hypotensive activities of the compounds. The most potent and selective compound 1-[2-hydroxy-3-[4-[(2-hydroxyphenyl)piperazin-1-yl]propyl]pyrrolidin-2-one 8 binds with pK(i) = 6.71 for alpha(1)-AR. Derivative 8 was also the most active in the prophylactic antiarrhythmic test in adrenaline-induced arrhythmia in anaesthetized rats. Its ED(50 )value equals 1.9 mg/kg (i.v.). Compounds with substituents such as a fluorine atom 4, a methyl 5, or a hydroxyl 8 group, or two substituents such as fluorine/chlorine atoms and methoxy groups in the phenyl ring, significantly decreased the systolic and diastolic pressure in normotensive anesthetized rats at a dosages of 5-10 mg/kg (i.v.). It was found that the presence of the piperazine ring and a hydroxy group in the second position of the propyl chain are critical structural features in determining the affinity of the compounds tested.
In the present study we have established novel intermittent protocols featuring a high fat (HF) diet for efficient induction of large intestinal tumors with a relatively small amount of 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP). In protocol 1, F344 male rats were first fed a diet containing 400 p.p.m. PhIP for 2 weeks, followed by continuous administration of a HF diet without PhIP for 108 weeks. In protocol 2, 2 week PhIP treatments were repeated three times with 4 week intervals on the HF diet alone, followed by continuous feeding of the HF diet for 42 weeks. At termination of the experiments, 16 (3 of 19) and 45% (9 of 20) of the rats had developed a total of three and 13 large intestinal tumors with protocols 1 and 2, respectively. The tumor incidence in protocol 2 was comparable with that observed with continuous feeding of 400 p.p.m. PhIP for 52 weeks, after exposure to only approximately 10% of the amount of carcinogen. Five of nine (55%) tumors harbored mutations in either the beta-catenin or Apc gene, while all demonstrated accumulation of beta-catenin protein in the cytoplasm and nucleus. This suggests that other unknown genetic alterations in the Wnt-Apc-beta-catenin signaling pathway could have been involved in the development of tumors. By further modifying this intermittent protocol with HF diet, one could expect more efficient induction of lesions with much smaller amounts of PhIP in a shorter period. In addition, this model could provide a means to elucidate genetic alterations in large intestinal tumors induced by relatively low levels of carcinogenic insult, mimicking the cases of human colon carcinogenesis induced by exposure to environmental carcinogens.
A case of acute arterial spasm of the lower extremities, after the ingestion of methysergide, is presented. Arterial spasm was documented by arteriography, and return to normality followed discontinuation of the drug.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are widespread environmental contaminants, which are known to be carcinogenic and teratogenic. These compounds cause a range of macroscopic malformations, particularly to the craniofacial apparatus and cardiovascular system during vertebrate development. However, little is known concerning microscopic effects, especially on the sensitive early life stages or on the molecular basis of developmental neurotoxicity. Using the rockfish (Sebastiscus marmoratus), we explored the neurodevelopmental defects caused by early-life exposure to environmentally relevant concentrations of pyrene, a 4-ring PAH. The results showed that pyrene substantially disrupted the cranial innervation pattern and caused deficiency of motor nerves. The expression of a protein associated with axon growth, growth associated protein 43, was decreased in the central nervous system after treatment with pyrene. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) plays a vital role in a variety of processes, including neuronal development, synaptic plasticity, and neuronal survival and death. Our results showed that the expression of Ca²⁺/calmodulin dependent kinase II and cAMP-response element-binding, which belong to the NMDAR pathway, were increased in a dose-dependent manner after exposure to pyrene. Acetylcholine, an important neurotransmitter which is known to suppress retinal cells neurite outgrowth, was increased by pyrene exposure. Nitric oxide (NO) acts as an activity-dependent retrograde signal that can coordinate axonal targeting and synaptogenesis during development. The level of NO was decreased in a dose-dependent manner following exposure to pyrene. Taken together, the defects in neurodevelopment and the damage to related mechanisms provided the basis for a better understanding of the neurotoxic effects of pyrene.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a ubiquitous compound that is emerging as a possible toxicant during embryonic development. BPA has been shown to epigenetically affect the developing nervous system, but the molecular mechanisms are not clear. Here we demonstrate that BPA exposure in culture led to delay in the perinatal chloride shift caused by significant decrease in potassium chloride cotransporter 2 (Kcc2) mRNA expression in developing rat, mouse, and human cortical neurons. Neuronal chloride increased correspondingly. Treatment with epigenetic compounds decitabine and trichostatin A rescued the BPA effects as did knockdown of histone deacetylase 1 and combined knockdown histone deacetylase 1 and 2. Furthermore, BPA evoked increase in tangential interneuron migration and increased chloride in migrating neurons. Interestingly, BPA exerted its effect in a sexually dimorphic manner, with a more accentuated effect in females than males. By chromatin immunoprecipitation, we found a significant increase in binding of methyl-CpG binding protein 2 to the "cytosine-phosphate-guanine shores" of the Kcc2 promoter, and decrease in binding of acetylated histone H3K9 surrounding the transcriptional start site. Methyl-CpG binding protein 2-expressing neurons were more abundant resulting from BPA exposure. The sexually dimorphic effect of BPA on Kcc2 expression was also demonstrated in cortical neurons cultured from the offspring of BPA-fed mouse dams. In these neurons and in cortical slices, decitabine was found to rescue the effect of BPA on Kcc2 expression. Overall, our results indicate that BPA can disrupt Kcc2 gene expression through epigenetic mechanisms. Beyond increase in basic understanding, our findings have relevance for identifying unique neurodevelopmental toxicity mechanisms of BPA, which could possibly play a role in pathogenesis of human neurodevelopmental disorders.
It is still undetermined which GTP-binding (G) protein is involved in the regulation of prolactin (PRL) release and through which effector. This study shows that, when compared to normal pituitary tissue, the levels of alpha o protein were very low in dopamine (DA)-resistant, PRL-secreting pituitary tumors 7315a and MtTW15, while alpha o mRNA was present in the two tumors. In the MtTW15 tumor alpha i1, alpha i2 and alpha i3 levels were decreased while those of alpha s42 and alpha s47 were increased, and in the 7315a tumor alpha i2, alpha i3 and beta levels were decreased and those of alpha s47 increased. In an estrone-induced, DA-sensitive prolactinoma the levels of alpha i3 were greatly reduced. DA was unable to inhibit basal PRL release by 7315a and MtTW15 and basal cAMP accumulation by adenomatous and MtTW15 cells. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) increased both cAMP accumulation and PRL release by all cell preparations which could be suppressed by DA with adenomatous and 7315a but not with MtTW15 cells. These and previously published results provide circumstantial evidence that alpha o, alpha i1 and alpha i3 are all involved in the transduction of the DA inhibitory message while alpha s47 transduces cAMP activating messages and alpha s42 is responsible for the constitutive activation of L-type Ca2+ channels, adenylate cyclase and baseline PRL release.
