Unexpected deaths occurred in studies involving a nude mouse model of mammary cancer that required subcutaneous implantation of 0.5 mg twenty-one-day release estrogen pellets for growth of the estrogen-dependent mammary tumor xenograft BT474c. Early deaths occurred in female nude mice and were associated with urinary retention, frequently with cystitis. Drug treatment had no effect on the incidence or severity of cystitis. Histological findings did not alter significantly over various time points following pellet implantation. Changes were not seen in males or in females receiving lower doses of estradiol even when the duration of administration was prolonged, suggesting that a threshold level was required for the onset of urinary retention. Because of the influence of estrogen on micturition, immunohistochemistry for estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) in the urinary bladder was carried out, which did not demonstrate any differences between females implanted with 0.5 mg twenty-one-day release estrogen pellets and nonimplanted females. Although previous publications have concentrated on possible mechanisms of action, this paper describes the histopathological changes seen in the urinary bladder of female nude mice resulting from exposure to high levels of estradiol.
Malignant lymphoma of diffuse large cell type, was diagnosed in a 70-year-old man with tumors of the nasal cavity and right testis. He was treated with Epi-VEPA regimen and relapsed in the right thalamus just after achieving remission. Total cranial irradiation was effective, but multiple skin lesions were present at the time. He then suffered from renal failure and delayed clearance of MTX after high-dose methotrexate (MTX) administration with citrovorum factor (CF). The serum concentration of MTX decreased to 0.09 microM within 285 hours by multi-clearance techniques as continuous arteriovenous hemoperfusion (CAVH), plasma exchange (PEX), peritoneal dialysis (PD) and charcoal hemoperfusion (CH). Better MTX clearance was observed in CH and PEX than in CAVH and PD, with higher effect in PEX than in CH or CAVH. The patient suffered severe mucositis and myelosuppression, but fatal harm of MTX was prevented. CH and PD were considered the best combination of clearance techniques for removing serum MTX in delayed methotrexate clearance with renal disturbance.
This paper describes seven patients with radiolucent gallstones in functioning gallbladders who did not respond to chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA). Despite large doses (greater than or equal to 19 mg CDCA/kg/day), CDCA-rich bile (CDCA conjugates 70-97% of total biliary bile acids) and greater than or equal to one year's treatment, their fasting duodenal bile remained supersaturated with cholesterol and their gallstones did not dissolve. Five patients came to cholecystectomy, gallstone analysis and liver biopsy for measurement of hepatic cholesterogenesis (HMGCoAR activity). In three who stopped CDCA before surgery, the mean HMGCoAR (pmol/mg microsomal protein/min) of 50.2 was higher than in our untreated gallstone controls (32.2 +/- SEM 2.0; P less than 0.05). Two patients who took CDCA until surgery had a mean HMGCoAR of 33.5--more than twice that in CDCA-treated gallstone controls. These findings suggest that non-response to CDCA may be related to high or unsuppressed hepatic cholesterogenesis. In one patient who did not respond to CDCA, treatment with 19 mg ursodeoxycholic acid/kg/day did desaturate his bile.
The mechanism by which NC-1900, a new pGlu-Asn-Cys(Cys)-Pro-Arg-Gly-NH(2) (AVP(4-9)) analog, improves spatial memory in rats using an eight-arm radial maze was examined. Even at very low doses (0.2 ng/kg for s.c., 1 microg/kg for p.o., 1 fg for i.c.v.) NC-1900 improved scopolamine-induced impairment of spatial memory. NC-1900 (1 ng/kg, s.c.) also improved impairment of spatial memory induced by pirenzepine, a muscarinic(1) (M(1)) receptor antagonist, and by KN-62, a Ca2+/calmodulin (CaM)-dependent protein kinase II inhibitor. [Pmp(1), Tyr(Me)(2)]-Arg(8)-vasopressin, a vasopressin(1A) (V(1A)) receptor antagonist, and nicardipine, L-type Ca2+ blocker, but not OPC-31260, a V(2) antagonist, suppressed the effect of NC-1900 on scopolamine-induced impairment of spatial memory. A microdialysis study showed that NC-1900 did not affect acetylcholine release in the ventral hippocampus (VH) of intact rats or of scopolamine-treated rats. NC-1900 (1 microM) increased [Ca2+](i) in the VH than in the dorsal hippocampus (DH). Pretreatment with nicardipine (1 microM) and Ca2+ -free conditions inhibited the NC-1900-induced [Ca2+](i) response in the VH. Whereas co-administration of NC-1900 (1 microM) and carbachol (500 microM) increased [Ca2+](i) in the VH. Moreover, nicardipine concentration-dependently inhibited the increase in [Ca2+](i) induced by the co-administration of NC-1900 and carbachol in the VH. These results suggest that NC-1900 activates the V(1A) receptor at the postsynaptic cholinergic nerve, and causes a transient influx of intracellular Ca2+ through L-type Ca2+ channels, to interact with the M(1) receptor. The activation of these Ca2+ -dependent processes induced by NC-1900 may be involved in the positive effect of NC-1900 on scopolamine-induced impairment of spatial memory.
This report describes a Japanese family with vessel and craniofacial abnormalities. Although the clinical findings of the patient's father fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for Marfan syndrome, arterial tortuosity, aneurysms, hypertelorism and a bifid uvula were noted in both the patient and his father. These findings were compatible with the clinical manifestations that were previously reported in Loeys-Dietz syndrome. A molecular genetic analysis demonstrated a heterozygous missense mutation of the transforming growth factor-beta receptor II gene in both the patient and his father, which thus caused Loeys-Dietz syndrome. This is the first Japanese family case report of typical Loeys-Dietz syndrome.
A 10% calcium chloride solution or normal physiological saline was instilled onto the intact dorsal surface of the spinal cord via a specially constructed catheter-canopy system fixed above the T9 level in conscious rats. Within 5 min after calcium instillation rats developed flaccid paralysis of the lower limbs with sensory loss. Sensory loss was accompanied by abnormal or negative evoked potentials. Rats instilled with physiological or 10% sodium chloride remained normal. Rats were sacrificed at 1, 16 and 48 h post-calcium exposure and following full functional recovery from paralysis. Spinal cords were removed for histologic and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis. Histologic examination for catecholamines using SPG histofluorescence showed loss of catecholamine-containing varicosities in gray matter below calcium exposure which returned to normal levels upon sensorimotor recovery of hindlimbs about 14 days pce. Light microscopic examination of vascular permeability and general morphology of cord tissue axons and neurons remained normal in calcium and saline instilled rats. HPLC analysis of spinal cord below calcium exposure, also showed norepinephrine (NE) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) tissue level reductions which returned to normal upon sensorimotor recovery of paralysis about 2 weeks later. No significant changes were noted in dopamine or serotonin levels in any group. Our findings suggest an impairment of ascending and descending tract transmitter transport, specifically reflected in the noradrenergic bulbospinal pathway. The results implicate a neurofilament-microtubule disassembly in axonal cytoskeleton triggered by the sudden calcium influx.
In this randomized, single-blind, case-controlled, prospective study, the incidence and outcome of ceftriaxone-associated biliary pseudolithiasis in Chinese children was evaluated via ultrasonography. A total of 108 children diagnosed with hepatobiliary infection or pneumonia were randomized to receive ceftriaxone or ceftazidime. Serial gallbladder sonograms were obtained on days 1, 5 - 7 and 10 - 14 of therapy. Gallstones were detected in 43.10% of patients in the ceftriaxone-treated group and in 2.00% of the ceftazidime-treated group. The incidence of pseudolithiasis was significantly higher in the ceftriaxone-treated than the ceftazidime-treated group. Biliary precipitation abnormalities appeared after 2 - 7 days of treatment. After gallstones were found, the drug was stopped and symptoms resolved within 1 - 2 days. This study suggests that the risk of ceftriaxone-associated biliary pseudolithiasis should be considered when treating Chinese children.
In an open study 31 patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation for various haematological diseases received fluconazole as prophylaxis or treatment of fungal infections. In 26 of these patients an antecedent oral prophylaxis with polyene antimycotics had failed to prevent infections with Candida species. Five of the 31 patients received fluconazole as primary prophylaxis because of non-compliance for polyene antimycotics. Fluconazole was administered orally at a daily dose of 100 mg and 200 mg, respectively (n = 29), or intravenously at a dose of 100 mg and 400 mg (n = 2). Cure or efficient prophylaxis was achieved in 22/31 patients (71%) after a median of 52 (9 to 493+) treatment days. In three patients (10%) Candida was eradicated but the infection reappeared 14-28 days after cessation of the drug; in 6 patients (20%) the infection was persistent or progressive. Four patients developed lethal Aspergillus infection while on fluconazole medication. A moderate and reversible elevation of liver function tests under therapy was observed in 9 patients and was possibly attributable to fluconazole in three of them (10%). One patient developed tremor which resolved after cessation of fluconazole. No other adverse drug reactions could be noted. We conclude that fluconazole is a relatively safe and effective drug for the prevention and treatment of superficial and, possibly, deep Candida infections in severely immunocompromised patients. However, it is presumably without preventive value in Aspergillus infections.
Dexrazoxane [(DZR), ADR 529, ICRF-187] ameliorates doxorubicin (DOX)-induced cardiotoxicity in animals, and is recommended as a cardioprotectant in patients receiving cumulative doses of DOX above 300 mg/m2. A DZR:DOX dose ratio of 10:1 is recommended based on studies in patients receiving 50 mg/m2. Since DOX may be used at much higher doses in certain clinical settings, we evaluated the ability of DZR to protect against cardiomyopathy in animals given bolus doses of DOX at varying dose levels. The severity and extent of the cardiomyopathy were evaluated histologically and expressed as the mean total score (MTS). Mice were given 10 doses of DOX (2 or 4 mg/kg) over a 7-week period. Without DZR, the MTS 4 weeks after the last treatment was 3.7 with 4 mg/kg DOX and 1.3 with 2 mg/kg DOX. DZR at 5:1, 10:1, and 20:1 dose ratios caused a dose-dependent decrease in the MTS but was less efficacious with the higher, more cardiotoxic dose of DOX. Rats were given DOX at 0.2, 0.4, and 0.8 mg/kg with a 20:1 ratio of DZR weekly for 13 weeks. Cardiomyopathy was most severe with the highest dose of DOX in the absence of DZR, especially in males, and progressed during the 6 weeks following the last treatment. DZR reduced the MTS in both sexes but in the males given the highest dose of DOX, there was still a significant amount of cardiac damage compared to vehicle-treated controls. Dogs were given 0.1, 0.3, and 0.8 mg/kg DOX with 20:1 DZR for 13 weeks. DZR reduced the MTS significantly (P < 0.05) in males and females but cardiac lesions were still present in each of the DZR-treated dogs. The results indicate that although DZR is highly effective in attenuating the cardiomyopathy caused by DOX, dose ratios of DZR:DOX capable of providing total or nearly complete cardioprotection at low doses of DOX are less efficacious at higher doses of DOX. One possible explanation for this effect is the marked pharmacokinetic difference between DZR and DOX, with DZR undergoing a much more rapid rate of elimination from the body compared to DOX. These findings point to the need for further studies to optimize the dose scheduling of DZR before using it clinically with bolus doses of DOX above those currently recommended.
Previous work has demonstrated that direct injections of methylnaloxonium (MN), a relatively lipophobic quaternary opiate antagonist, in the area of the nucleus raphe pontis (RPn) significantly attenuated alfentanil-induced rigidity. It was hypothesized that other hindbrain sites, particularly the other raphe nuclei, might play a role in this rigidity. Therefore, a study was performed in which 57 rats, divided into four groups, were implanted with chronic guide cannulae directed at brain sites anterior, lateral, or posterior to the RPn. After each animal was pretreated with intracerebral injections of MN, alfentanil (0.5 mg/kg) was administered subcutaneously. Electromyographic activity was recorded from the gastrocnemius muscle as a measure of hindlimb rigidity. Each animal was subsequently injected at 4 to 5 day intervals with MN two additional times at sites 1 and 2 mm deeper, respectively, than the initial injection. Data were thus obtained on animals treated with either MN or saline at 3 successive histologically identified sites which were either anterior, lateral or posterior to the RPn. The administration of MN into two specific sites in the region just lateral to the nucleus raphe pontis significantly [F(1,38) = 18.68 and 5.02 respectively, p less than 0.05] reversed the rigidity produced by systemic alfentanil administration. There was a weak effect of MN injections anterior to the RPn but this could not be localized to any one site. These results suggest that discrete brainstem regions involved in opiate action can be sensitively and selectively identified by direct intracranial injections of a lipophobic opiate antagonist.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
p53 gene transfer has been proposed as a potential therapeutic option for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Compared to other commonly used gene transfer vectors such as adenovirus and retrovirus, recombinant adeno-associated virus serotype 2 (rAAV2) has shown promising results in human clinical trials. Significant enhancement in the gene transfer efficiency is needed, however, for HCC applications. In the present study, we applied chemotherapy drug Doxorubicin (DOX) to induce rAAV2 transduction of hepatomas. Using reporter assays, we showed that the DOX-treated hepatomas became more susceptible to rAAV2 infection in comparison to untreated controls: the permissiveness increased >350-fold and >120-fold for HepG2 (p53 wild-type) and Hep3B (p53 null) hepatomas, respectively. Using the induced permissiveness, we applied rAAV2-p53 transduction to restore p53 expression in the p53-null Hep3B hepatomas. Compared to rAAV2-p53 transduction alone, rAAV2-p53 transduction with DOX resulted in a >16-fold induction of p53 expression. The transduced Hep3B expressed as much as 380% more immunoreactive p53 in comparison to the wild-type p53 expression in the HepG2 hepatomas. Significantly, when Hep3B cells were treated with 0.5 muM of DOX and rAAV2-p53 (MOI = 10) for twelve hours, the cell viability dropped to 66% four days after the administration. This decrease in cell viability was similar to that of treatment with 1 microM of DOX alone in the absence of rAAV2. The 50% reduction in DOX administration--from 1 microM to 0.5 microM--revealed the antitumor property of the rAAV2-p53 transduction as well as the joint cytotoxicity of DOX and rAAV2-p53 against the p53-null hepatomas. We conclude that DOX mediates the enhancement effect on rAAV2 transduction of human hepatomas. Combined DOX and rAAV2-p53 administration may facilitate more efficient treatment for the HCC caused by p53 mutations.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in a range of disease states, including end-stage renal failure treated with hemodialysis. Hemodialysis with vitamin E-modified membranes reduces lipid peroxidation, but the effect on erythrocyte integrity has not been determined. This study compared antioxidant defense parameters and the resistance of erythrocytes to free radical-mediated hemolysis in patients dialysed with cellulose acetate membranes at baseline and with a vitamin E-modified membrane (Excebrane Clirans; Terumo Corporation) for 13 wk. Resistance of erythrocytes to free radical attack was assessed in vitro using the peroxyl hemolysis test. The time to 50% hemolysis (T50%) increased significantly during the first 6 wk of Excebrane use (p < 0.05), but this parameter returned to baseline by 13 wk. Glutathione concentration and erythrocyte superoxide dismutase activity were unchanged during the study, but glutathione peroxidase activity increased from low levels at baseline and became significantly higher at 6 and 13 wk (p < 0.001). Total erythrocyte polyunsaturated fatty acid content and C18:2 level increased (p < 0.001) and saturated fatty acids (total, C16:0, C18:0, C22:0 and C24:0) decreased (p < 0.03). Total monounsaturated fatty acid content was unchanged. The increased resistance of erythrocytes to hemolysis, the increased glutathione peroxidase activity, and the increased degree of unsaturation of fatty acids in the erythrocyte membrane are compatible with a reduction of oxidative stress during hemodialysis with vitamin E-modified membranes.
We investigated mutations in the gene coding for guanylate-cyclase activating protein 2 (GCAP2), also known as GUCA1B gene, in Japanese patients with retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and tried to identify phenotypic characteristics associated with mutations in the gene.
Genomic DNA samples from 63 unrelated patients with autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa (ADRP) and 33 patients with autosomal recessive retinitis pigmentosa (ARRP) were screened by single-strand conformational polymorphism analysis followed by direct sequencing. Clinical features associated with a mutation were demonstrated by visual acuity, visual field testing, fundus photography, and electroretinography.
A novel transitional mutation converting GGA to AGA at codon 157 (G157R) was identified. This mutation has been found in three index patients from three independent families. Phenotypic examination of seven members of the three families revealed that this mutation was associated with RP with or without macular involvement in five members, macular degeneration in one member, and asymptomatic normal phenotype in one member. In addition, previously unknown polymorphic changes including V29V, Y57Y, T87I, and L180L were identified.
A racial difference exists in the spectrum of mutations and/or polymorphisms in the GCAP 2 gene between British and Japanese populations. Our findings suggest that the mutation in the GCAP 2 gene can cause one form of autosomal dominant retinal dystrophy, with variable phenotypic expression and incomplete penetrance.
Insomnia associated with chronic schizophrenia and after clozapine discontinuation represents a common, but mostly not predominant, complaint and often does not respond sufficiently to classical hypnotics. We report the case of a 46-year-old patient with schizophrenia who developed a rebound insomnia confirmed by polysomnography after discontinuation of long-term treatment with clozapine and changing to sertindole therapy. Zolpidem, zolpiclone and chloral hydrate only led to short-term improvement of subjective sleep quality. An add-on therapy with 300 mg quetiapine resulted in improved subjective quality of sleep regarding sleep latency and the number of nocturnal awakenings. The combination of the two neuroleptics did not lead to increased QTc intervals (normal QTc < 450 ms) or metabolic side effects. In conclusion, the combination of sertindole and quetiapine might be a safe and effective combination in therapy-refractory insomnia after clozapine discontinuation in schizophrenia.
Cannabidiol (CBD), a Cannabis sativa constituent, may present a pharmacological profile similar to mood stabilizing drugs, in addition to anti-oxidative and neuroprotective properties. The present study aims to directly investigate the effects of CBD in an animal model of mania induced by D-amphetamine (D-AMPH). In the first model (reversal treatment), rats received saline or D-AMPH (2 mg/kg) once daily intraperitoneal (i.p.) for 14 days, and from the 8th to the 14th day, they were treated with saline or CBD (15, 30 or 60 mg/kg) i.p. twice a day. In the second model (prevention treatment), rats were pretreated with saline or CBD (15, 30, or 60 mg/kg) regime i.p. twice a day, and from the 8th to the 14th day, they also received saline or D-AMPH i.p. once daily. In the hippocampus CBD (15 mg/kg) reversed the d-AMPH-induced damage and increased (30 mg/kg) brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression. In the second experiment, CBD (30 or 60 mg/kg) prevented the D-AMPH-induced formation of carbonyl group in the prefrontal cortex. In the hippocampus and striatum the D-AMPH-induced damage was prevented by CBD (15, 30 or 60 mg/kg). At both treatments CBD did not present any effect against d-AMPH-induced hyperactivity. In conclusion, we could not observe effects on locomotion, but CBD protect against d-AMPH-induced oxidative protein damage and increased BDNF levels in the reversal model and these effects vary depending on the brain regions evaluated and doses of CBD administered.
This report presents data on visual evoked potentials (VEPs) and brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs), as well as neurologic, ophthalmologic and otologic assessments performed on 120 patients with beta-thalassemia major undergoing long-term DFO treatment. A total of 32 patients showed abnormal VEPs and 14 abnormal BAEPs; seven had both VEP and BAEP abnormalities; 12 had sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL); 18 had conductive hearing loss, while 14 showed a combination of SNHL and conductive hearing loss. After DFO administration was modified (taking in consideration the serum ferritin levels) patients with abnormal findings were retested. The values of 15 patients of 23 who underwent VEP examinations had been normalized. Eleven of 15 who repeated the BAEP test had also gained normal values. The audiogram had not returned to normal in any patient with SNHL. In a second repetition of the examinations, no change was observed. It is concluded that in a great percentage of thalassemics at least one of the above examinations shows abnormal values. These abnormalities are mostly reversible, and probably reflect a dysfunction of the visual or auditory system, due either to DFO neurotoxicity or to iron overload or both.
The cytokine IL-6 plays a significant role in liver regeneration in conjunction with additional growth factors (HGF, TNF-alpha, and TGF-alpha). Many IL-6 effects depend on a naturally occurring soluble IL-6 receptor (sIL-6R). Here, the chimeric protein hyper-IL-6, constructed from the human IL-6 protein fused to a truncated form of its receptor, was found to have superagonistic IL-6 properties, and as such, enhanced liver cell regeneration. Hyper-IL-6 reversed the state of hepatotoxicity and enhanced the survival rates of rats suffering from fulminant hepatic failure after D-galactosamine administration. The hyper-IL-6 protein has a significant potential for use in the treatment of severe human liver diseases.
Many patients with neuropathic pain have coexistent sensory deficits. Neuropathic pain may be alleviated by a variety of drugs but sensory deficits are assumed to be permanent. In an audit of the effects of gabapentin therapy on patients with neuropathic pain, monthly detailed sensory examinations were performed during the first three months of treatment. Of five patients with sensory deficits who tolerated gabapentin therapy, three showed marked improvement of their sensory deficits associated with pain alleviation. The cases are presented and possible explanations for the observed sensory improvements are discussed. These findings raised exciting neurophysiological questions in addition to being of potential importance to the clinical problem of neurotrophic tissue injury.
Alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) causes intrahepatic cholestasis by injuring biliary epithelial cells. Adaptive regulation of hepatobiliary transporter expression has been proposed to reduce liver injury during cholestasis. Recently, the oxidative stress transcription factor Nrf2 (nf-e2-related factor 2) was shown to regulate expression of hepatobiliary transporters. The purpose of this study was to determine whether ANIT-induced hepatotoxicity and regulation of hepatobiliary transporters are altered in the absence of Nrf2. For this purpose, wild-type and Nrf2-null mice were administered ANIT (75 mg/kg po). Surprisingly, ANIT-induced hepatotoxicity was similar in both genotypes at 48 h. Accumulation of bile acids in serum and liver was lower in Nrf2-null mice compared with wild-types treated with ANIT. Transporter mRNA profiles differed between wild-type and Nrf2-null mice after ANIT. Bsep (bile salt export pump), Mdr2 (multidrug resistance gene), and Mrp3 (multidrug resistance-associated protein) efflux transporters were increased by ANIT in wild-type, but not in Nrf2-null mice. In contrast, mRNA expression of two hepatic uptake transporters, Ntcp (sodium-taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide) and Oatp1b2 (organic anion transporting peptide), were decreased in both genotypes after ANIT, with larger declines in Nrf2-null mice. mRNA expression of the transcriptional repressor of Ntcp, small heterodimeric partner (SHP), was increased in Nrf2-null mice after ANIT. Furthermore, hepatocyte nuclear factor 1alpha (HNF1alpha), which regulates Oatp1b2, was downregulated in ANIT-treated Nrf2-null mice. Preferential upregulation of SHP and downregulation of HNF1alpha and uptake transporters likely explains why Nrf2-null mice exhibited similar injury to wild-types after ANIT. A subsequent study revealed that treatment of mice with the Nrf2 activator oltipraz protects against ANIT-induced histological injury. Despite compensatory changes in Nrf2-null mice to limit ANIT toxicity, pharmacological activation of Nrf2 may represent a therapeutic option for intrahepatic cholestasis.
This report presents new findings regarding a recessive insertional mutation in the transgenic line TgN2742Rpw that causes deafness and circling behavior in mice homozygous for the mutation. The mutant locus was mapped to a region on mouse chromosome 10 close to three spontaneous recessive mutations causing deafness: Ames waltzer (av), Waltzer (v), and Jackson circler (jc). Complementation testing revealed that the TgN2742Rpw mutation is allelic with av. Histological and auditory brainstem response (ABR) evaluation of animals that have the new allele balanced with the av(J) allele (called compound heterozygotes, TgN2742Rpw/av(J)) supports our genetic analysis. ABR evaluation shows complete absence of auditory response throughout the life span of TgN2742Rpw/av(J) compound heterozygotes. Scanning electron microscopy revealed abnormalities of inner and outer hair cell stereocilia in the cochleae of TgN2742Rpw mutants at 10 days after birth (DAB). The organ of Corti subsequently undergoes degeneration, leading to nearly complete loss of the cochlear neuroepithelium in older mutants by about 50 DAB. The vestibular neuroepithelia remain morphologically normal until at least 30 DAB. However, by 50 days, degenerative changes are evident in the saccular macula, which progresses to total loss of the saccular neuroepithelium in older animals. The new allele of av reported here will be designated av(TgN2742Rpw).
Compared to other calcium channel blockers (CCBs), overdose with dihydropyridine CCBs are considered relatively benign due to their vascular selectivity. Although not a sustained-release preparation, amlodipine's prolonged duration of effect is concerning following overdose. In addition, angiotensin II receptor blocker blunting of vasoconstrictive and sympathetic compensatory responses could exacerbate calcium channel blocker toxicity. We describe severe toxicity associated with an overdose of amlodipine and valsartan.
A 75-year-old woman presented to the ED 45 minutes after a witnessed suicidal ingestion of a "handful" of amlodipine and valsartan tablets. Hypotension, which appeared two hours after ingestion, was refractory to crystalloids and colloids, calcium gluconate, epinephrine, norepinephrine, phenylephrine, and vasopressin infusions. High-dose insulin euglycemia (HIE) therapy, and treatment with glucagon and naloxone were successful in improving her hemodynamic status. In this combined overdose, right heart catheterization demonstrated both negative inotropic effects and decreased systemic vascular resistance.
Co-ingestion of amlodipine with valsartan produced profound toxicity. Early institution of HIE therapy may be beneficial to reverse these effects.
One hundred patients were studied prospectively to assess the incidence of spasm of the choledochoduodenal sphincter during biliary tract surgery performed under a fentanyl-supplemented anesthetic technique. The incidence of failure of passage of contrast medium into the duodenum was 3%. In each of the three patients with cholangiographic evidence of sphincter spasm, contrast medium flowed freely into the duodenum after the intravenous administration of 2 mg of glucagon. It is concluded that spasm of the choledochoduodenal sphincter is an uncommon occurrence during fentanyl-supplemented anesthesia and that this method of anesthesia is suitable for biliary tract surgery.
We describe the clinical features, liver histology, and ultrastructure in reversible diclofenac-induced hepatitis and review previous reports of this entity. Although rarely reported, diclofenac hepatitis may be severe, and even fatal. Symptoms, which develop from 1 week to 11 months after starting the drug, include jaundice, pruritus, fever, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and rash. Bilirubin and alkaline phosphatase are mildly elevated, transaminases often markedly so. The nature of the idiosyncratic injury appears variable, some cases having features of a hypersensitivity reaction, most being more suggestive of a toxic metabolic effect. Light microscopy shows a nonspecific hepatitis with portal and lobular activity, and focal hepatocellular injury that may progress to zonal or massive necrosis. The ultrastructural features in our case are typical of drug or toxin injury. This may be of value in distinguishing this entity from other forms of hepatitis, which is important in view of the frequent reversibility of this potentially lethal form of injury.
Tako-tsubo syndrome (TTS) refers to the apical ballooning of the left ventricle observed when angiographic ventriculography is performed in patients presenting with electrocardiographic changes suggestive of acute coronary syndrome (new transient ST-segment deviation (>0.05 mV) or T-wave inversion (>0.2 mV)), mild elevation of cardiac markers, but normal coronary arteries at the angiogram.
A 54-year-old woman developed the characteristic features of TTS 44 hours following nortriptyline overdose. The admission ECG showed increased QRS duration rapidly reversible after sodium bicarbonate infusion. There was a minimal increase in troponin I level. The ECG performed at the time of chest pain revealed deeply negative T waves in leads I, II, III, aVF, V1 to V6 and remained abnormal at 5 weeks follow-up. In contrast, a complete recovery of left ventricular function was observed within one week.
The pathophysiology of TTS, a variant of myocardial stunning, is still incompletely understood but could be related to sympathetic overstimulation. The possibility of TTS following toxic exposure is discussed.
Calcium channel blockers are increasingly used in the treatment of hypertension. Newer calcium channel blockers of the dihydropyridine group have longer elimination half-lives (t1/2) that permit once-daily dosage and are generally better tolerated than their parent compound. In this study, the efficacy and safety of lacidipine and amlodipine were compared in 65 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension attending the hypertension outpatient clinic of a teaching hospital in a randomized double-blind cross-over trial with dose titration. Lacidipine and amlodipine both significantly reduced systolic blood pressure (SBP: by 19.2 +/- 13.5 and 22.3 +/- 15.3 mm Hg, respectively) and diastolic BP (DBP: 13.3 +/- 4.2 and 12.3 +/- 5.3 mm Hg, respectively) 24 h postdose. There were no significant differences in their antihypertensive effects. The incidence of adverse events (AE) was 3% for lacidipine and 8% for amlodipine. The incidence of withdrawal from the study due to side effects was 0% for lacidipine and 3% for amlodipine. These results suggest that lacidipine is well-tolerated, and is as effective as amlodipine as a once-daily antihypertensive agent.
Autosomal recessive childhood-onset severe retinal dystrophy (arCSRD) designates a heterogeneous group of disorders affecting rod and cone photoreceptors simultaneously. The most severe cases are termed Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA), while the less aggressive forms are usually considered juvenile retinitis pigmentosa. Recently, mutations in the retinal-specific guanylate cyclase gene were found in patients with LCA. Disease genes implicated in other forms of arCSRD are expected to encode proteins present in the neuroretina or in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). The RPE, a monolayer of cells separating the vascular-rich choroid and the neuroretina, is in intimate contact with the outer segments of rods and cones via the microvilli surrounding the photoreceptors. The RPE expresses a tissue-specific and evolutionarily highly conserved 61 kD protein (RPE65) present at high levels in vivo. Although the function of RPE65 is not yet known, an important role in the RPE/photoreceptor vitamin-A cycle is suggested by the fact that RPE65 associates both with serum retinol-binding protein and with the RPE-specific 11-cis retinol dehydrogenase, an enzyme active in the synthesis of the visual pigment chromophore 11-cis retinal. Here we report that the analysis of RPE65 in a collection of about 100 unselected retinal-dystrophy patients of different ethnic origin revealed five that are likely to be pathogenic mutations, including a missense mutation (Pro363Thr), two point mutations affecting splicing (912 + 1G-->T and 65 + 5G-->A) and two small re-arrangements (ins144T and 831del8) on a total of nine alleles of five patients with arCSRD. In contrast to other genes whose defects have been implicated in degenerative retinopathies, RPE65 is the first disease gene in this group of inherited disorders that is expressed exclusively in the RPE, and may play a role in vitamin-A metabolism of the retina.
