Cerebral amyloid angiopathy is commonly associated with normal aging and Alzheimer's disease and it is also the principal feature of hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis Dutch type, a familial condition associated to a point mutation G to C at codon 693 of the amyloid beta (Abeta) precursor protein gene resulting in a Glu to Gln substitution at position 22 of the Abeta (E22Q). The patients carrying the AbetaE22Q variant usually present with lobar cerebral hemorrhages before 50 years of age. A different mutation described in several members of three Italian kindred who presented with recurrent hemorrhagic strokes late in life, between 60 and 70 years of age, also associated with extensive cerebrovascular amyloid deposition has been found at the same position 22, this time resulting in a Glu to Lys substitution (E22K). We have compared the secondary structure, aggregation, and fibrillization properties of the two Abeta40 variants and the wild type peptide. Using flow cytometry analysis after staining with propidium iodide and annexin V, we also evaluated the cytotoxic effects of the peptides on human cerebral endothelial cells in culture. Under the conditions tested, the E22Q peptide exhibited the highest content of beta-sheet conformation and the fastest aggregation/fibrillization properties. The Dutch variant also induced apoptosis of cerebral endothelial cells at a concentration of 25 micrometer, whereas the wild type Abeta and the E22K mutant had no effect. The data suggest that different amino acids at position 22 confer distinct structural properties to the peptides that appear to influence the onset and aggressiveness of the disease rather than the phenotype.
Tetrabamate (Atriums), widely used in the treatment of tremor and ethanol-withdrawal symptoms, has been incriminated as a potential cause of reversible acute hepatitis.
We report here on 11 patients who experienced tetrabamate-related liver injury, in order to evaluate their clinical, histopathological and evolutive features.
Between 1987 and 1998, 34 cases of tetrabamate-associated acute hepatitis were spontaneously reported to the regional pharmacovigilance center of Lyon. Eleven cases were considered probably to be drug-induced.
There were three males and eight females aged 31-82 years (mean, 57 years). The duration of treatment ranged from 33 to 206 days, and indication for treatment was depressive disorders, tremor or prevention of alcohol withdrawal symptoms. Clinical symptoms were asthenia (n = 9), jaundice (n = 3) and/or diffuse rash (n = 3). The pattern of liver injury was cytolytic (n = 10) or cholestatic (n = 1). Three patients presented biological features of hepatic failure. A percutaneous liver biopsy was performed in six patients. Histological examination of the liver specimen showed a large spectrum of lesions: massive hepatocellular necrosis (n = 1), centrilobular and nonconfluent hepatocyte necrosis (n = 2), intracellular cholestasis (n = 3), and granulomatous hepatitis (n = 1). Tetrabamate was discontinued in all patients. In seven patients, a complete recovery was observed 3 weeks to 3 months after drug withdrawal. Two patients, despite a rapid improvement of liver function tests, died from unrelated causes. The remaining two patients died from irreversible hepatic failure.
Our data strongly suggest that tetrabamate may induce acute liver injury, which may eventually result in life-threatening liver failure.
Erythropoietic protoporphyria (EPP) is an inherited defect of the ferrochelatase (FECH) gene characterized by the accumulation of toxic protoporphyrin in the liver and bone marrow resulting in severe skin photosensitivity. We previously described successful gene therapy of an animal model of the disease with erythroid-specific lentiviral vectors in the absence of preselection of corrected cells. However, the high-level of gene transfer obtained in mice is not translatable to large animal models and humans if there is no selective advantage for genetically modified hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) in vivo. We used bicistronic SIN-lentiviral vectors coexpressing EGFP or FECH and the G156A-mutated O6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) gene, which allowed efficient in vivo selection of transduced HSCs after O6-benzylguanine and BCNU treatment. We demonstrate for the first time that the correction and in vivo expansion of deficient transduced HSC population can be obtained by this dual gene therapy, resulting in a progressive increase of normal RBCs in EPP mice and a complete correction of skin photosensitivity. Finally, we developed a novel bipromoter SIN-lentiviral vector with a constitutive expression of MGMT gene to allow the selection of HSCs and with an erythroid-specific expression of the FECH therapeutic gene.
Adefovir dipivoxil is effective in patients with lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV). However, little is known about its role in Korean patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis. We retrospectively evaluated the efficacy and safety of adefovir dipivoxil in patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis with lamivudine resistance, and we compared this to the patients having compensated liver disease.
The patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic liver disease were enrolled and they received adefovir dipivoxil 10 mg daily. The clinical course and the biochemical and virological response of the decompensated cirrhosis group were compared with those of the patients with compensated liver disease group.
One-hundred and one patients (the decompensated cirrhosis group, n=53; the compensated liver disease group, n=48) were evaluated. During the following up, 13 patients in the decompensated group and 4 patients in the compensated group dropped out of the treatment (P=0.011). After adefovir treatment, the proportion of patients with serum HBV DNA below 0.5 pg/mL in the decompensated group was less than that in the compensated group (50.9% vs. 83.3%, P=0.001), but the rates of normalized ALT, HBeAg loss and HBeAg seroconversion did not differ. The change of the Child-Pugh score in the decompensated group was 9.1 +/- 1.8 to 6.9 +/- 1.6 (P<0.001). The biochemical response in decompensated group was slower than that in the compensated group. Renal toxicity was not observed in either group.
These results suggest that adefovir dipivoxil would be an effective and safe treatment for patients with decompensated liver cirrhosis with lamivudine resistance, but its effect might be limited and slower for decompensated cirrhosis.
Neonatal SHR and WKY rats were treated with diethylstilbestrol or propylene glycol (controls). Control SHR had higher blood pressures than WKY rats. Neonatal diethylstilbestrol treatment delayed the onset and full expression of hypertension in the male SHR but had no effect on blood pressure in the other animals. Neonatal diethylstilbestrol treatment had an adverse effect on body weights of male SHR and WKY rats through 98 days of age (not statistically decreased thereafter). Adult female SHR and WKY rats treated neonatally with diethylstilbestrol had body weights significantly greater than the control females. Neonatal treatment with diethylstilbestrol resulted in precocious puberty in female SHR and WKY rats. Control female SHR and WKY rats and female SHR treated neonatally with diethylstilbestrol had attenuated angiotensin - II induced drinking response from the central administration of estrogen in adulthood. The angiotensin II - induced drinking response was not significantly attenuated by central estrogen in adult WKY females exposed neonatally to diethylstilbestrol. Neonatal diethylstilbestrol treatment of WKY female rats appears to have altered neuroendocrine secretions that control CNS drinking behavior.
This is a report of a case of acute myocardial infarction which was probably induced by the oral administration of bromocriptine. A 55-year-old man was admitted because of suspected hypothyroidism and dwarfism. The endocrinological examination revealed primary hypothyroidism, and levothyroxine sodium replacement therapy was started. Nine days later, the bromocriptine test was performed for dwarfism. Two hours after the oral administration of 2.5 mg bromocriptine, he had severe chest pain associated with loss of consciousness and hypotension. His electrocardiogram showed marked ST depression and T wave inversion, but no abnormal Q waves. Serial myocardial enzymes and electrocardiograms confirmed acute non-transmural myocardial infarction. During coronary angiography performed about three months later, coronary arterial spasm was induced by the intravenous administration of ergonovine maleate. This experience suggests that bromocriptine, a derivative of ergot alkaloids, can cause coronary arterial spasm, and subsequent myocardial infarction. To our knowledge, bromocriptine-induced myocardial infarction has not been previously reported in Japan.
The deregulation of translation markedly contributes to the malignant phenotype in cancers, and the assembly of the translation initiating complex eIF4F is the limiting step of this process. The mammalian Target of Rapamycin Complex 1 (mTORC1) is thought to positively regulate eIF4F assembly and subsequent oncogenic protein synthesis through 4E-BP1 phosphorylation. We showed here that the translation inhibitor 4EGI-1 decreased the clonogenic growth of leukemic progenitors and induced apoptosis of blast cells, with limited toxicity against normal hematopoiesis, which emphasize the importance of translation deregulation in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) biology. However, the mTORC1 inhibitor RAD001 (a rapamycin derivate) did not induce AML blast cell apoptosis. We herein demonstrated that mTORC1 disruption using raptor siRNA or RAD001 failed to inhibit 4E-BP1 phosphorylation in AML. Moreover, RAD001 failed to inhibit eIF4F assembly, to decrease the proportion of polysome-bound c-Myc mRNA, and to reduce the translation-dependent accumulation of oncogenic proteins. We identified the Pim-2 serine/threonine kinase as mainly responsible for 4E-BP1 phosphorylation on the S(65) residue and subsequent translation control in AML. Our results strongly implicate an mTORC1-independent deregulation of oncogenic proteins synthesis in human myeloid leukemogenesis. Direct inhibition of the translation initiating complex thus represents an attractive option for the development of new therapies in AML.
Chloramine T has been widely used as a disinfectant in many areas such as kitchens, laboratories and hospitals. It has been also used as a biocide in air fresheners and deodorants which are consumer products; however, little is known about its toxic effects by inhalation route. This study was performed to identify the subacute inhalation toxicity of chloramine T under whole-body inhalation exposure conditions. Male and female groups of rats were exposed to chloramine T at concentrations of 0.2, 0.9 and 4.0 mg/m³ for 6 hr/day, 5 days/week during 4 weeks. After 28-day repeated inhalation of chloramine T, there were dose-dependently significant DNA damage in the rat tissues evaluated and inflammation was histopathologically noted around the terminal airways of the lung in both genders. As a result of the expression of three types of antioxidant enzymes (SOD-2, GPx-1, PRX-1) in rat's lung after exposure, there was no significant change of all antioxidant enzymes in the male and female rats. The results showed that no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) was 0.2 mg/m³ in male rats and 0.9 mg/m³ in female rats under the present experimental condition.
The case is reported of a 35-year-old lady on long-term anticoagulation with warfarin who developed a spontaneous acute compartment syndrome in the forearm. Despite a delay in diagnosis, an extensive decompression resulted in complete recovery.
To observe the oxidative stress and skin disease related genes expression in cells exfoliated from buccal mucous and blood in patients with arseniasis caused by coal-burning pollution in Guizhou.
Buccal and blood cell samples were collected from arsenicosis patients and healthy subjects residing in Guizhou. Total RNA was isolated for related genetic transcript analysis. Real-time PCR (RT-PCR) was employed to detect the change of related gene expression. Serum indicators of liver injury, such as serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), were detected.
Serum levels of ALT in arsenic patients were significantly higher than those in controls (36.9 +/- 17.4 / 25.8 +/- 2.4, t = 0.019, P < 0.05) even when no symptom was found in these patients. Buccal K10 gene was overexpressed (3.6 +/- 0.9 / 1.8 +/- 0.7, t = 0.041, P < 0.05) and MT-1 expression was significantly lower (0.8 +/- 0.5 / 3.9 +/- 0.4, t = 0.028, P < 0.05) in arsenic patients than that in control while the expressions of other genes were the same as those of controls.
The expressions of MT-1 and K10 gene in buccal mucous cells may be regarded as sensitive molecular markers for skin and hepatic pathologic changes in arsenic patients. Protection of liver function should be considered as an important step in arseniasis prevention and control.
Parkinson's disease, the most common adult neurodegenerative movement disorder, demonstrates a brain-wide pathology that begins pre-clinically with alpha-synuclein aggregates ("Lewy neurites") in processes of gut enteric and vagal motor neurons. Rostral progression into substantia nigra with death of dopamine neurons produces the motor impairment phenotype that yields a clinical diagnosis. The vast majority of Parkinson's disease occurs sporadically, and current models of sporadic Parkinson's disease (sPD) can utilize directly infused or systemic neurotoxins.
We developed a differentiation protocol for human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma that yielded non-dividing dopaminergic neural cells with long processes that we then exposed to 50 nM rotenone, a complex I inhibitor used in Parkinson's disease models. After 21 days of rotenone, ~60% of cells died. Their processes retracted and accumulated ASYN-(+) and UB-(+) aggregates that blocked organelle transport. Mitochondrial movement velocities were reduced by 8 days of rotenone and continued to decline over time. No cytoplasmic inclusions resembling Lewy bodies were observed. Gene microarray analyses showed that the majority of genes were under-expressed. qPCR analyses of 11 mtDNA-encoded and 10 nDNA-encoded mitochondrial electron transport chain RNAs' relative expressions revealed small increases in mtDNA-encoded genes and lesser regulation of nDNA-encoded ETC genes.
Subacute rotenone treatment of differentiated SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells causes process retraction and partial death over several weeks, slowed mitochondrial movement in processes and appears to reproduce the Lewy neuritic changes of early Parkinson's disease pathology but does not cause Lewy body inclusions. The overall pattern of transcriptional regulation is gene under-expression with minimal regulation of ETC genes in spite of rotenone's being a complex I toxin. This rotenone-SH-SY5Y model in a differentiated human neural cell mimics changes of early Parkinson's disease and may be useful for screening therapeutics for neuroprotection in that disease stage.
Recently, a new asthma susceptibility gene, GPRA (G-protein-related receptor for asthma), has been identified by positional cloning. Initial association studies in a Finnish and Canadian population suggested an association with asthma and elevated serum IgE levels.
In a large, nested case-control study, associations between GPRA polymorphisms, asthma, and serum IgE levels were analyzed.
Using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) technology, 1,872 German children aged 9 to 11 years (including 624 children with asthma and/or bronchial hyperresponsiveness) were genotyped for seven polymorphisms in the GPRA gene.
Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was assessed, and association studies with single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and haplotypes were performed.
SNP 546333 increased the risk for asthma (odds ratio [OR], 1.40; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.04-1.88; p = 0.025) and concomitant asthma and bronchial hyperresponsiveness (BHR; OR, 2.38; 95% CI, 1.22-4.66; p = 0.009). Also, SNP 585883 was associated with asthma (OR, 1.34; 95% CI, 1.04-1.72; p = 0.022) and asthma in combination with BHR (OR, 2.71; 95% CI, 1.45-5.09; p = 0.001). Furthermore, SNP 585883 was associated with elevated serum IgE levels (OR, 1.63; 95% CI, 1.10-2.42; p = 0.015). Haplotype combinations of risk alleles increased the OR for asthma to 1.83 (95% CI, 1.08-3.08; p = 0.024) and for asthma and concomitant BHR to OR 3.51 (95% CI, 1.08-11.37; p = 0.036).
These results indicate that GPRA polymorphisms increase the susceptibility for asthma and BHR, and to a lesser degree for the elevation of serum IgE, in a German population, confirming initial observations in other white populations.
Clinical reports have demonstrated that berberine is a potential antidiabetic agent, but the underlying mechanism is unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate if berberine exerts its hypoglycemic action via inhibiting intestinal disaccharidases using in vivo and in vitro experiments. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats received berberine (100 or 200 mg/kg) orally once daily or acarbose (40 mg/kg) orally twice daily for 5 weeks. Disaccharidase activities and sucrase-isomaltase (SI) complex messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in intestinal regions were assessed. The same treatment was operated in normal rats. Sucrose and maltose loading tests were also documented. In addition, Caco-2 cells were cultured in medium containing berberine or berberine plus chelerythrine. Compound C or H-89 for 5 days, disaccharidase activities, and SI complex mRNA levels were measured. The animal experiments showed that berberine significantly decreased the disaccharidase activities and SI complex mRNA expression both in diabetic rats and normal rats. Berberine can also significantly lower postprandial blood glucose levels induced by sucrose or maltose loading in normal rats. The cellular results showed that berberine may suppress disaccharidase activities and downregulate SI complex mRNA expression in a concentration-dependent manner. Only H-89, an inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA), may reverse the decrease in disaccharidase activities and SI complex mRNA expression induced by berberine. In conclusion, berberine suppresses disaccharidase activities and SI complex mRNA expression with beneficial metabolic effects in diabetic states. The inhibitory effect, at least partly, involves the PKA-dependent pathway.
Meningitis is usually produced by an infectious agent, but there are multiple noninfectious causes. Drug-induced aseptic meningitis (DIAM) is an important entity and has been reported as an uncommon adverse reaction with numerous agents. Thus, DIAM constitutes a diagnostic and patient management challenge. We present a patient with three episodes of aseptic meningitis due to amoxicillin, and then review the literature on this rare idiosyncratic event which may occur after local or systemic drug administration. A 77-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with fever, headache, and neck stiffness. Seven days before admission he had a dental and gingival inflammation. He was treated with two oral doses of 500 mg daily of amoxicillin for one week. The seventh day he awoke with the complaints that prompted hospital admittance. Amoxicillin was stopped 1 day before his admission. From his history we knew of two similar episodes: The first episode was after a dental procedure 3 months before this incident. He had received a 1-week course of postprocedure amoxicillin of 500 mg daily and had similar headache, fever, and chills during the entire course of treatment. He wasn't admitted to the hospital, because he stopped taking amoxicillin and he felt spontaneous pain relief after taking symptomatic pain treatment. The second episodes was 6 months after his first admission, he had been admitted to our hospital with the same symptoms. Amoxicillin was stopped and changed with intravenous (IV) ceftriaxone (CTRX) for 10 days due to suspected partial untreated meningitis. The patient improved rapidly within 2 days and was discharged from the hospital. On the basis of these three confirmed episodes of meningitis after recurrent exposure to amoxicillin, with repetitive negative testing for viral, bacterial, and mycobacterial micro-organisms, we diagnosed aseptic meningitis induced by amoxicillin. To our knowledge, this is the seventh well documented publication of such a severe side effect of a commonly used antibiotic.
We sought to determine whether flow cytometric analysis of circulating fetal blood cells could be used to rapidly detect perturbations of fetal erythropoiesis. In addition, we wanted to determine whether this approach would allow sample collection by exsanguination instead of fetal cardiac puncture, a difficult technique used to prevent contamination of samples with maternal erythrocytes. To monitor fetal erythropoiesis from gestational day (GD) 14-20, we analyzed the cell size, RNA content, and percentage of circulating liver-derived reticulocytes relative to yolk-sac-derived erythroblasts. As a model toxicant, we chose 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), since we previously observed that maternal administration at 20-40 mg/kg on gestational day (GD) 14 produced fetal anemia on GD 16-17, as evidenced by dose-dependent decreases in the cell counts, hematocrit, and hemoglobin content of fetal blood obtained by cardiac puncture. We report herein that 48 hr after maternal 5-FU administration, both cardiac and peripheral blood samples exhibited a dose-dependent decrease in the relative percentage of reticulocytes, indicating a reduced rate of reticulocyte release from the fetal liver. Moreover, at 30 and 40 mg/kg, reticulocytes exhibited increased size and reduced RNA content on GD 16, but elevated RNA content (indicative of premature release) by GD 18. These data suggest that 5-FU inhibits both erythroid cell proliferation and RNA synthesis reversibly, resulting in an anemia that triggers compensatory release of immature reticulocytes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In order to determine the effect of inflammation on brain glycolysis in the absence of leukocyte infiltration, [14C]deoxyglucose autoradiography and hematoxylin-eosin (HE) counter-staining were applied to mice at various times after the induction of chemotoxic inflammatory brain lesions by the systemic administration of goldthioglucose. Glycolysis was intensely stimulated in affected circumventricular organs, without cellular infiltration. This result is consistent with the activation of anaerobic glycolysis by inflammatory sequelae that culminate in ischemic hypoxia in the lesion sites.
Patients present to emergency departments with a variety of complications related to cocaine abuse. Emergency physicians must be aware of the life- and limb-threatening complications to avoid undue mortality and morbidity. We present the case of a patient with aortic dissection who developed the acute onset of abdominal pain 5 minutes after subcutaneous cocaine use. Four previous reports of cocaine-associated aortic dissection are reported in the literature. These cases and other reports of intra-abdominal vascular injuries related to cocaine use are reviewed. Cocaine's mechanism of action as it relates to aortic dissection and some of the pharmacologic agents available for treatment are discussed.
Cancer patients who have been treated with systemic adjuvant chemotherapy have described experiencing deteriorations in cognition. A widely used chemotherapeutic agent, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), readily crosses the blood-brain barrier and so could have a direct effect on brain function. In particular this anti mitotic drug could reduce cell proliferation in the neurogenic regions of the adult brain. In contrast reports indicate that hippocampal dependent neurogenesis and cognition are enhanced by the SSRI antidepressant Fluoxetine. In this investigation the behavioural effects of chronic (two week) treatment with 5-FU and (three weeks) with Fluoxetine either separately or in combination with 5-FU were tested on adult Lister hooded rats. Behavioural effects were tested using a context dependent conditioned emotional response test (CER) which showed that animals treated with 5-FU had a significant reduction in freezing time compared to controls. A separate group of animals was tested using a hippocampal dependent spatial working memory test, the object location recognition test (OLR). Animals treated only with 5-FU showed significant deficits in their ability to carry out the OLR task but co administration of Fluoxetine improved their performance. 5-FU chemotherapy caused a significant reduction in the number of proliferating cells in the sub granular zone of the dentate gyrus compared to controls. This reduction was eliminated when Fluoxetine was co administered with 5-FU. Fluoxetine on its own had no effect on proliferating cell number or behaviour. These findings suggest that 5-FU can negatively affect both cell proliferation and hippocampal dependent working memory and that these deficits can be reversed by the simultaneous administration of the antidepressant Fluoxetine.
Plasma ACTH, cortisol, and cyclic-AMP levels of eleven heroin addicts were dertermined before and after treatment with a fast detoxification procedure using acupuncture and electrical stimulation (AES) together with the administration of limited doses of naloxone. At the end of the treatment period, the average plasma ACTH, cortisol, and cyclic-AMP level rose 130,83, and 24 percent, respectively. In view of the appearance of mild withdrawal signs during this method of treatment, the observed increases in ACTH and cortisol levels probably reflect the inability of AES to suppress withdrawal symptoms induced by naloxone completely. The mechanism underlying this new method of treatment is discussed in relation to AES's ability to stimulate the secretion of endorphins.
Vincristine is a well known neurotoxic chemotherapeutic agent. Dose dependent and cumulative peripheral neuropathy is the main dose limiting side effect of chemotherapy with vincristine. The mechanisms responsible for the neurotoxic effects of vincristine have not yet been fully understood. This prospective study was directed at determining whether vincristine treatment interferes with the function of the medial olivocochlear bundle.
Fifteen children suffering from leukemia were subjected to tympanogram, stapedial muscle reflex, pure tone audiometry and transient evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAEs) in the absence and presence of contralateral white noise on day 1 and on day 22 of treatment with vincristine. The function of the medial olivocochlear bundle was assessed by the phenomenon of suppression of otoacoustic emissions by contralateral application of white noise.
The study revealed a statistically significant decrease of contralateral suppression amplitudes in all cases after three sessions of chemotherapy with vincristine. On the contrary no alterations were observed in pure tone audiometry thresholds. A non-significant decrease of the mean TEOAEs' amplitudes was also noted. When analyzed by frequency, however, this decrease reached the level of statistical significance at two frequencies.
Vincristine treatment seems to exert a neurotoxic effect on the efferent olivocochlear system, which takes place early in the course of chemotherapy. This is a new aspect to be added to the possible mechanisms underlying the toxicity of vincristine in the auditory periphery. Whether changes in efferent function might contribute to understanding the mechanisms of neurotoxicity caused by vincristine, or find any clinical application as a predictor or early detector of neurological side effects of vincristine still remains to be seen.
Owing to its anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, vasoconstrictive, and immune-modulating properties, clobetasol propionate is used to treat psoriasis. This study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and cosmetic acceptability of clobetasol propionate lotion compared with its vehicle and with clobetasol propionate cream in the treatment of moderate to severe plaque-type psoriasis. A total of 222 patients were treated. After 4 weeks of treatment, clobetasol propionate lotion was more efficient than vehicle lotion and of equivalent efficacy as clobetasol propionate cream. Cosmetic acceptability was significantly better with clobetasol propionate lotion than with clobetasol propionate cream. Clobetasol propionate lotion was efficient, safe, and well tolerated and offers a significantly higher cosmetic advantage in the treatment of moderate to severe plaque-type psoriasis compared with clobetasol propionate cream.
The concentrations of nitric oxide (NO), the neuronal messenger molecule, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), the inhibitory neurotransmitter, and the activity of gamma-aminobutyric acid transaminase (GABA-T), the enzyme involved in the degradation of GABA, were measured in the brain of rats treated with graded doses (1.25, 2.5, 5.0 mg/kg) of sodium nitroprusside (SNP), the donor of NO. The effect of SNP was tested alone and in combination with phenobarbitone (PB), the GABA potentiating antiepileptic drug, against picrotoxin (PCT) (5 mg/kg)-induced convulsions in rats. The results of these studies showed that NO released from SNP (2.5 mg/kg) had a potential to inhibit GABA-T activity resulting in an increase in the concentration of GABA in the brain. Thus, SNP (2.5 mg/kg) was able to inhibit PCT-induced convulsions and was able to produce an additive anticonvulsant action with PB. However, a much greater increase in the concentration of NO by 5.0 mg/kg of SNP did not change the activity of GABA-T and the concentration of GABA, and promoted the convulsant action of PCT. These results suggest that a moderate increase in the concentration of NO following the administration of its donor SNP (2.5 mg/kg) results in an enhancement of the concentration of GABA in the brain and in an inhibition of PCT-induced convulsions independently and additively with PB and that a marked increase in NO concentration after the administration of a larger dose of SNP (5.0 mg/kg) results in proconvulsant action.
We reported a 15-year-old boy with an acute myelomonocytic leukemia and FK 506-induced leukoencephalopathy. He was received FK 506 for graft versus host disease occurred after peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. He, four weeks later, had generalized seizures and consciousness disturbance. The serum level of FK 506 was high (27.5 ng/ml). His brain MRI showed abnormal high intensity areas in the frontal and parietal white matter lesions on T2-weighted images. Neuropathological studies revealed the destruction of myelin sheeths and axons in the cerebral white matter corresponded with abnormal lesions on MRI. There were calcification and mineralization in the small vessel walls of the cortex and white matter. Osteopontin immunoreactivity was detected in the endothelial cells of small vessels. These findings suggest that the vascular damage was involved in the FK 506-induced leukoencephalopathy.
Hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] induces hematological signs of microcytic anemia in rodents. Considering that Cr(VI) can oxidize ferrous (Fe(2+)) to ferric (Fe(3+)) iron, and that only the former is transported across the duodenum, we hypothesize that, at high concentrations, Cr(VI) oxidizes Fe(2+) in the lumen of the small intestine and perturbs iron absorption. Herein we report that 90-day exposure to Cr(VI) in drinking water resulted in dose-dependent decreases in Fe levels in the duodenum, liver, serum, and bone marrow. Toxicogenomic analyses from the duodenum indicate responses consistent with Fe deficiency, including significant induction of divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1, Slc11a2) and transferrin receptor 1 (TFR1, Tfr1). In addition, at ⩾20mg Cr(VI)/L in drinking water, Cr RBC:plasma ratios in rats were increased and exceeded unity, indicating saturation of reductive capacity and intracellular absorption of Cr(VI) into red blood cells (RBCs). These effects occurred in both species but were generally more severe in rats. These data suggest that high concentrations of Cr(VI) in drinking limit Fe absorption and alter iron homeostasis. Furthermore, some effects observed at high doses in recent Cr(VI) chronic and subchronic bioassays may be explained, at least in part, by iron deficiency and disruption of homeostasis.
Cyclic GMP levels were dose-dependently increased by excitatory drugs such as picrotoxin, pentetrazol, oxotremorine and harmaline in mouse cerebellum and medial forebrain (parts of the cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, thalamus, striatum and midbrain) in vivo. Cyclic AMP levels remained unchanged under these conditions. Pretreatment with diazepam completely abolished the effect of picrotoxin and harmaline and significantly reduced the effects of pentetrazol and oxotremorine on cyclic GMP levels, but the tremor due to harmaline and oxotremorine was not blocked. Pretreatment with pentobarbital also prevented or strongly reduced changes in cyclic GMP levels elicited by excitatory drugs without abolishing the tremorigenic effects of harmaline and oxotremorine. Pretreatment with atropine was only effective in blocking cyclic GMP rise and tremor induced by oxotremorine and picrotoxin. Since pentobarbital and diazepam also decreased cyclic GMP levels in a dose-dependent manner in brains of control animals, the changes in cyclic GMP levels observed after administration of excitatory drugs appear to be related to the arousal reaction of the central nervous system.
Peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumors are highly malignant small cell neoplasms. A 27-year-old female presented with a 6-month history of right-sided facial pain and progressive weakness of the facial muscles. She had non-pulsative tinnitus, progressive right hearing loss and facial palsy. T2-weighted MRI showed a heterogeneous hyperintense lesion invading the right internal auditory canal. Surgical removal was performed. Pathological examination showed sheets of small cells with irregular nuclei. Immunohistochemical studies demonstrated positive immunoreactivity for neuron-specific enolase, synaptophysin, chromogranin, vimentin, S-100 protein and p30-32 MIC-2 gene product. The patient was treated with chemotherapy (etoposide, vincristine, adriamycin, ifosfamide and actinomycin D) and radiotherapy. After 65 months of follow-up, the patient presented with cervical metastasis. Radical cervical dissection was performed and the patient was treated with a second course of chemotherapy. At control MRI after 29 months of follow-up the patient showed no signs of local recurrence or distant metastasis.
This prospective study was designed to determine the safety and efficacy of low dose warfarin in the prophylaxis of thromboembolic disease in patients receiving diethylstilbestrol therapy for advanced prostatic carcinoma.
Patients were stratified to receive 1 mg. warfarin and 3 mg. diethyl-stilbestrol daily (younger than 65 years) or 1 mg. warfarin and 2 mg. diethylstilbestrol daily (older than 65 years). Efficacy of therapy was determined by measuring serum prostate specific antigen (PSA), testosterone and international normalized ratio. Patients were monitored for signs and symptoms of hypercoagulability, bleeding and fluid retention.
Of the 32 patients enrolled in the study 6 were lost to followup and 4 died of advanced prostatic disease (2), pneumonia (1) and myocardial infarction (1). Patients were followed for a total of 272 months. Median patient age was 73.5 years. Median pretreatment serum PSA was 95.4 microg./l. with a median pretreatment serum testosterone value of 12.9 nmol./l. After 3 months of therapy the median serum PSA was 1.5 microg./l. with a median serum testosterone value of 0.1 nmol./l. Adverse events were common. In 10 patients (31%) clinically significant proximal deep venous thrombosis developed, 2 (7%) had a myocardial infarction, 2 (7%) had transient ischemic attacks, 1 had new prolonged chest pain and 1 had marked dyspnea due to congestive heart failure. Clotting factor assays performed in a subset of 7 patients demonstrated that factor VII failed to normalize.
The significant thromboembolic toxicity associated with the hypercoagulable state induced by diethylstilbestrol is not reduced by fixed low dose warfarin therapy.
