Cocaine use is associated with adverse events in nearly every organ system. Cardiovascular complications include hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke, aortic dissection, cardiomyopathy, accelerated coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, and sudden cardiac death. Syncope may be the presenting symptom in these conditions. However, cocaine-induced bradyarrhythmias have been scarcely mentioned. As this case exemplifies, clinicians should be aware of this association when they evaluate syncope, especially in young patients.
The mechanisms underlying levodopa-induced dyskinesias are unclear. They might involve impairment of the buffering capacity for dopamine, resulting from loss of nigral dopaminergic cells and the subsequent degeneration of their terminals in striatum. This study investigated the role of striatal buffering in the development of dyskinesias. We used nomifensine, a selective dopamine reuptake blocker, to pharmacologically impair presynaptic buffering capacity in normal squirrel monkeys. Dyskinesias were assessed at 30-min intervals for 4 h after twice-daily treatment with drug. As previously reported by our group, animals receiving levodopa alone (15 mg/kg) exhibited dyskinetic behavior. Treatment with nomifensine alone (3 mg/kg) also induced dyskinesias. Furthermore, combining levodopa with nomifensine significantly increased dyskinesias. Over 4 weeks of treatment, the animals developed tolerance to the dyskinesia-inducing effect of nomifensine. The development of tolerance was prevented by concurrent treatment with levodopa. These results show that impairing buffering by preventing dopamine reuptake can induce dyskinesias and can also augment levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Thus, this study suggests that diminished buffering capacity for dopamine could play a role in the development of dyskinesias, and that an endogenous mechanism might exist that ameliorates dyskinesias.
The effect of electrolytic lesion of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) on yawning and penile erection induced by apomorphine, oxytocin and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH1-24) was studied in male rats. In sham-operated rats, apomorphine (50 micrograms/kg s.c.), oxytocin (30 ng i.c.v.), and ACTH1-24 (10 micrograms i.c.v.) significantly increased the number of yawning and penile erection episodes. In PVN-lesioned rats, apomorphine- and oxytocin-, but not ACTH-induced responses were strongly reduced. These results confirm our previous observations showing that the PVN has a crucial role in the expression of yawning and penile erection induced by dopamino-mimetic drugs and oxytocin, and suggest that ACTH-derived peptides induce the above responses by a mechanism not involving PVN hypothalamic dopamine or oxytocin.
We previously reported that nelfinavir (NFV) induces G(1) cell-cycle block and apoptosis selectively in liposarcoma cell lines due to increased SREBP-1 (sterol regulatory element binding protein-1) expression in the absence of increased transcription. We postulate that NFV interferes with regulated intramembrane proteolysis of SREBP-1 and ATF6 (activating transcription factor 6).
Time-lapse, confocal microscopic studies show that NFV inhibits the nuclear translocation of full-length SREBP-1-EGFP and ATF6-EGFP fusion proteins. siRNA-mediated knockdown of site-1 protease (S1P) and/or site-2 protease (S2P) leads to inhibition of SREBP-1 intracellular trafficking to the nucleus and reduces liposarcoma cell proliferation. Treatment of LiSa-2 liposarcoma cells with 3,4-dichloroisocoumarin, a serine protease inhibitor of S1P, did not affect SREBP-1 processing. In contrast, 1,10-phenanthroline, an S2P-specific inhibitor, reproduces the molecular and biological phenotypes observed in NFV-treated cells, which implicates S2P as a target of NFV. In vivo evaluation of NFV in a murine liposarcoma xenograft model leads to inhibition of tumor growth without significant toxicity.
NFV-induced upregulation of SREBP-1 and ATF6 results from inhibition of S2P, which together with S1P mediates regulated intramembrane proteolysis from their precursor to their transcriptionally active forms. The resulting endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and concurrent inhibition of the unfolded protein response induce caspase-mediated apoptosis.
These results provide new insight into the mechanism of NFV-mediated induction of ER stress and cell death in liposarcomas and are the first to report targeting S2P for cancer therapy.
Cannabis can produce and/or exacerbate psychotic symptoms in vulnerable individuals. Early exposure to cannabis, particularly in combination with genetic factors, increases the risk of a subsequent, primary, psychotic disorder. Because paranoia is a common feature of stimulant abuse and cocaine-dependent individuals frequently endorse a history of cannabis abuse, we examined whether early cannabis exposure, in conjunction with polymorphic variation in the catechol-O-methyl transferase gene (COMT Val158Met), influences the risk for cocaine-induced paranoia (CIP).
Cannabis-use history was obtained in 1140 cocaine-dependent individuals from a family-based (affected sibling pair) study using the Semi-Structured Assessment for Drug Dependence and Alcoholism (SSADDA). Logistic regression and generalized estimating equations' analyses were used to examine the role of adolescent-onset cannabis use (< or =15 years of age) on CIP risk, both controlling for previously implicated CIP risk factors and familial relationships, and considering potential interactions with COMT Val158Met genotype.
Cocaine-dependent individuals who endorsed CIP had significantly higher rates of adolescent-onset cannabis use than those without CIP (62.2% vs. 50.2%; chi(2)=15.2, df=1, p<0.0001), a finding that remained after controlling for sibling correlations and other risk factors. There were no effects of COMT genotype or genotype by early cannabis onset interactions. A modest (OR=1.4) and nearly significant (p=0.053) effect of CIP status in probands on CIP status in siblings was also noted.
Adolescent-onset cannabis use increases the risk of CIP in cocaine-dependent individuals. COMT genotype and its interaction with early cannabis exposure did not emerge as significant predictors of CIP. In addition, trait vulnerability to CIP may also be familial in nature.
Fischer-344 rats of both sexes were exposed to halothane (2-bromo-2-chloro-1,1,1-trifluoroethane) at a concentration of 50 p.p.m. for twelve weeks. During the course of the experiment, weight gain of both sexes was depressed and serum alanine aminotransferase activities were elevated, compared to control animals. The temporal pattern of alanine aminotransferase elevation differed between the sexes. After 12 weeks of exposure, liver/body weight ratio was increased in both sexes, and pathological changes were observed in their livers. Livers of all halothane-exposed animals showed focal liver cell necrosis, considerable lobular disarray and occasional mitoses. Many liver cells showed fatty change. None of these changes were observed in any control animals. These results indicate that prolonged exposure to a low concentration of halothane caused mild liver damage with regeneration. This finding may be of significance to humans occupationally exposed to halothane.
Two patients on long-term lithium therapy developed the nephrotic syndrome. Ultrastructural study of a renal biopsy in each case showed extensive glomerular epithelial cell foot process fusion. Lithium was withdrawn in each case. The nephrotic syndrome cleared without steroid therapy and has not recurred 18 months later in one patient. The other patient required a further course of treatment with lithium and the nephrotic syndrome returned. Further biopsy revealed a more severe glomerular lesion. The nephrotic syndrome responded again to withdrawal of lithium and institution of steroid therapy. Lithium is known to cause acute renal failure and tubulo-interstitial disease, but the recently described association with proteinuria or nephrotic syndrome is little recognized.
'Recreational' use of ketamine is spreading rapidly among young people. In healthy individuals an acute dose of the N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist ketamine induces marked psychosis-like effects and cognitive impairments, but little is known about the long-term effects of the drug.
To evaluate the long-term neuropsychiatric or cognitive consequences.
A total of 150 individuals were assessed, 30 in each of five groups: frequent ketamine users, infrequent ketamine users, abstinent users, polydrug controls and non-users of illicit drugs. Twelve months later, 80% of these individuals were re-tested.
Cognitive deficits were mainly observed only in frequent users. In this group, increasing ketamine use over the year was correlated with decreasing performance on spatial working memory and pattern recognition memory tasks. Assessments of psychological wellbeing showed greater dissociative symptoms in frequent users and a dose-response effect on delusional symptoms, with frequent users scoring higher than infrequent, abstinent users and non-users, respectively. Both frequent and abstinent using groups showed increased depression scores over the 12 months.
These findings imply that heavy use of ketamine is harmful to aspects of both cognitive function and psychological wellbeing. Health education campaigns need to raise awareness among young people and clinicians about these negative consequences of ketamine use.
Tiapride, a substituted benzamide derivative having chemical structure similar to sulpiride and metoclopramide, has been demonstrated to be a selective dopamine receptor blocking agent of the central nervous system, especially the D2-receptor. The purpose of present study was to investigate efficacy and safety of Tiapride in patients with various forms of dyskinesia in long-term treatment. Severity of dyskinesia was rated using the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) developed by the National Institute of Mental Health (U.S.A.). Rating was made before, on week 1,2 and thereafter at 1 to 2 month interval. Adverse reaction was also checked on severity, onset, course and treatment. In patients with parkinsonism, Hoehn Yahr's Grading was also administered. Based on these recording, overall improvement rating (OIR), overall safety rating (OSR) and usefulness, taken OIR and OSR in combination into account, were evaluated at the end of week 4 and at study completion. The results are summarized as follow; Tiapride was given to 17 patients aged 39 to 81 (average: 62.8) in total, 9 with idiopathic dyskinesia, 5 with Meige's syndrome and 3 with parkinsonism developing dyskinesia induced by L-DOPA. Daily doses were ranged from 50 mg in patients with parkinsonism to 600 mg in those with Meige's syndrome. Administration period was 35 to 748 days (average: 324 days). 1. Overall improvement rating (OIR); OIR showed that Tiapride was "markedly improved" in 3 patients, "moderately improved" in 10 and "slightly improved" in 4 on week 4, increasing up to "markedly improved" in 8, "moderately improved" in 6 and "slightly improved" in 3, respectively at study completion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of intramuscular artemether (intramuscular loading dose of 160 mg, followed by 80 mg daily for another 6 doses), in comparison with that of quinine (intravenous infusion of loading dose of 20 mg/kg, followed by 10 mg/kg q 8 hourly for 7 days), on the electrocardiograph of severe falciparum malaria patients were investigated in 102 Thai patients (92 males, 10 females) admitted to Pra Pokklao Hospital, Chantaburi, southeast of Thailand. Fifty patients (19 with quinine and 31 with artemether) were eligible for ECG analysis. Hypotension was found significantly more common in the quinine group (13 vs 2 cases). Thirteen, 5 and 1 patients with quinine treatment, respectively, had tachycardia, non-specific T-wave change and QTc prolongation. No significant dysrhythmia was found despite high plasma quinine concentrations. Five patients died; their ECGs were not significantly different from those who survived. In the group with intramuscular artemether, 17 cases had tachycardia prior to artemether treatment. QTc prolongation and non-specific T-wave change were found in 2 and 6 cases. One patient had RBBB and second degree AV-block on Day 1, but returned to normal on Day 2. No other dysrhythmia or other significant changes in ECG tracing which would suggest any effect of artemether on cardiovascular system were observed.
Aberrant signaling of the nuclear facotr (NF-kappaB) pathway has been identified as a mediator of survival and apoptosis resistance in leukemias and lymphomas. Here, we report that cell death of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma cell lines induced by inhibition of the NF-kappaB pathway is independent of caspases or classic death receptors. We found that free intracellular iron and reactive oxygen species (ROS) are the main mediators of this cell death. Antioxidants such as N-Acetyl-l-cysteine and glutathione or the iron chelator desferrioxamine effectively block cell death in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma cell lines or primary T cells from Sézary patients. We show that inhibition of constitutively active NF-kappaB causes down-regulation of ferritin heavy chain (FHC) that leads to an increase of free intracellular iron, which, in turn, induces massive generation of ROS. Furthermore, direct down-regulation of FHC by siRNA caused a ROS-dependent cell death. Finally, high concentrations of ROS induce cell death of malignant T cells. In contrast, T cells isolated from healthy donors do not display down-regulation of FHC and, therefore, do not show an increase in iron and cell death upon NF-kappaB inhibition. In addition, in a murine T-cell lymphoma model, we show that inhibition of NF-kappaB and subsequent down-regulation of FHC significantly delays tumor growth in vivo. Thus, our results promote FHC as a potential target for effective therapy in lymphomas with aberrant NF-kappaB signaling.
Migraine and fibromyalgia are prevalent and disabling disorders with few preventive medications approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Neuromodulators (or antiepileptic drugs; AEDs) are often effective in the treatment of these conditions. Divalproex sodium and topiramate are FDA-approved AEDs for migraine. For fibromyalgia, pregabalin has recently been approved in the United States. We review the use of AEDs in the preventive treatment of these highly prevalent disorders.
While estrogen receptor (ER)-targeted therapeutics have clearly been a success in the treatment of breast cancer, the orphan estrogen-related receptors (ERRs) represent novel targets for future development. The ERRs, comprising ERRalpha, ERRbeta and ERRgamma, bind and regulate transcription via estrogen response elements (EREs) and extended ERE half-sites termed ERR response elements (ERREs), but do not bind endogenous estrogens. The emerging role of ERRalpha and ERRgamma in modulating estrogen responsiveness, substituting for ER activities, and serving as prognosticators in breast and other cancers is providing an impetus for the identification of compounds which target these proteins. Moreover, ERRalpha plays a role in energy homeostasis and will likely be targeted for the treatment of metabolic disorders. Multiple classes of synthetic ligands have already been identified. The phytoestrogens genistein, daidzein, biochanin A and 6,3'4'-tryhydroxyflavone have been reported as ERRalpha agonists. The phenolic acyl hydrazones GSK4716 and GSK9089 act as selective agonists of ERRbeta and ERRgamma. The organochlorine pesticides toxaphene and chlordane, and the synthetic compound XCT790 antagonize ERRalpha. The synthetic estrogen diethylstilbestrol antagonizes all three ERRs. The selective estrogen receptor modulators 4-hydroxytamoxifen and 4-hydroxytoremifene antagonize ERRgamma. The rational development of synthetic ligands for the ERRs may soon provide new agents to supplement the repertoire of antihormonal therapies to combat breast cancer. Moreover, expression of ERRs in other cancers and metabolic disorders may provide a targeted treatment strategy for these patients as well.
A patient with symptomatic epilepsy receiving only phenytoin developed choreoathetosis and orofacial dyskinesias. These movement disorders disappeared when the drug was stopped and reappeared when the patient was challenged. Throughout the period of treatment, concentrations of phenytoin in serum were consistently low within the therapeutic range. Interfering symptoms from the cardiovascular system and the absence of some classic symptoms of phenytoin intoxication (nystagmus and dysarthria) contributed to delay the diagnosis. The patient died in hospital and autopsy of the brain showed rather localized encephalomalacies of corpus striatum. The pathogenic action of phenytoin and the role of preexisting brain lesions are discussed. Phenytoin must be suspected as the cause, when patients on this drug present with uncontrolllable epilepsy or neurological or mental deterioration.
RPE65, a membrane-associated protein in the retinal pigment epithelium, is the isomerohydrolase essential for regenerating 11-cis retinal, the chromophore for visual pigments. RPE65 mutations are associated with inherited retinal dystrophies. Here we report that single point mutations of RPE65, Y144D and P363T, identified in patients with Leber's congenital amaurosis (LCA), significantly decreased the stability of RPE65. Moreover, these mutations altered subcellular localization of RPE65 and abolished its isomerohydrolase activity. These observations suggest that the decreased protein stability and altered subcellular localization of RPE65 may represent a mechanism for these mutations to lead to vision loss in LCA patients.
Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors are G protein-coupled receptors, some of which are localized in the spinal cord dorsal horn, and are involved with pain perception. The anti-nociceptive effects of intrathecal (i.t.) pretreatment with various mGlu receptor agonists and antagonists were assessed in Long Evans rats with mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity after sub-dermal injection of capsaicin in the hindpaw. Selective group II (aminopyrrolidine-2R,4R-dicarboxylate, APDC) and group III (l-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate, L-AP4) agonists, as well as selective mGlu(1) (1-aminoindan-1,5(R,S)-dicarboxylic acid, AIDA) and mGlu(5) (2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine, MPEP) receptor subtype antagonists were compared with that of an NMDA receptor antagonist (dizocilipine maleate, MK-801). The rats were observed for signs of capsaicin-induced mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity 15 min after capsaicin injection, and 20 min following i.t. drug administration. Results indicate there was a dose-dependent reduction in capsaicin-induced mechanical hypersensitivity for all mGlu receptor agents; with maximal increases in mechanical thresholds that were 7-fold for AIDA and APDC, 7.5-fold for L-AP4 and 5.6-fold for MPEP. However, only a weak reduction (often non-significant) in thermal hypersensitivity was observed with each of the mGlu receptor drugs; thermal latencies were maximally increased by 125% (AIDA), 0% (MPEP), 8% APDC and 205% (L-AP4). By contrast, the highest dose of MK-801 was able to significantly reduce both mechanical (maximal 6.67-fold increase in threshold) and thermal (maximal 3-fold increase in latencies) hyperalgesia. We conclude that mGlu receptors contribute to the development of mechanical allodynia, but not thermal hyperalgesia, following capsaicin injury; while iGluRs may contribute to both thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity.
The present study examines alterations in the cytoplasmic immunoreactivity of brain beta-endorphin, an endogenous opioid peptide regarded as the mediator of both euphoria and antinociceptive systems, in relation to toxicities due to cocaine and combined cocaine-ethanol. Beta-endorphin-immunoreactive cells were visualized and counted in adjacent sections from male rat brains at the level of the arcuate nucleus. In this region, cytoplasmic beta-endorphin immunoreactivity is prevalent. An intraperitoneal injection of cocaine (75 or 15 mg/kg) was given 15 min after an intraperitoneal injection of 3 g/kg ethanol or vehicle. With a fatally toxic dose (75 mg/kg) of cocaine, the number of neurons exhibiting cytoplasmic beta-endorphin immunoreactivity (immunoreactive nerve cells) was significantly increased immediately after the drug administration. Ethanol further enhanced the effects of both 15 and 75 mg/kg of cocaine. When the immunoreactivity was visually estimated by computer imaging analysis, lightly stained, weakly immunoreactive cells with photographic light absorption values greater than 50% were enhanced in the cocaine-ethanol groups compared to the cocaine only groups. Fatal toxicities were only observed in the groups treated with the high cocaine doses (75 mg/kg), with or without ethanol. In these groups, the number of strongly immunoreactive cells had increased significantly compared to the other groups. In the group treated with the high cocaine dose (75 mg/kg) plus ethanol, an increased frequency of late deaths that occurred over 1 h after the drug administration was observed, together with a decreased severity of cocaine-induced seizures and an early enhancement of weakly immunoreactive cells. Unlike the strongly immunoreactive cells, the weakly immunoreactive cells appeared to be continuously enhanced, based on an experiment examining beta-endorphin immunoreactivity at 24 h after an injection of 50 mg/kg cocaine.
The antithrombotic activity of a series of benzopyranopyrimidine derivatives was investigated in platelet-dependent and independent pulmonary thromboembolism in mice. Intraperitoneal subacute treatment with 2-morpholino derivative 3c significantly prevented paralysis due to collagen plus epinephrine-induced pulmonary thrombosis while 2-piperidino substituted derivative 3h significantly protected mice from paralysis caused by thrombin-induced intravascular fibrin formation at dosage not affecting bleeding time. These compounds, previously proved to be effective as antiplatelet agents in vitro, were in vivo more potent as antithrombotics than lysine acetylsalicylate and possessed lower prohemorrhagic activity than the reference drug. Although their ineffectiveness on clotting times, PT and APTT, allows the involvement of coagulation pathways to be ruled out, the mechanisms underlying the favourable benefit risk ratio for these two compounds remain to be further clarified.
The goals of this study of a hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) regimen of alternating floxuridine and 5-fluorouracil were to evaluate the treatment-related toxic effects, the antitumor response rate, and patient survival.
Fifty-seven consecutive patients were treated with implanted HAI pumps and received a regimen of alternating floxuridine (0.1 mg/kg/day continuous HAI for 7 days) followed by a weekly HAI pump bolus of 5-fluorouracil (15 mg/kg for 3 weeks). Any changes in treatment plan because of toxicity, antitumor response, and survival were recorded.
Thirty-one (54.4%) patients responded to this HAI regimen; 14 (24.5% )patients had stable disease, and 12 (21.1%) progressed during treatment. Responders or patients with stable disease had a significantly (P < 0.05) improved survival rate (19 months median) compared with patients in whom disease progressed (12 months median). Two (3.5%) patients developed biliary sclerosis and 12 (21.1%) had mild transient liver function abnormalities. The liver alone or in combination with another area was the site of first progression of disease in 40 (70.2%) patients.
This regimen had reversible or no hepatobiliary toxicity in more than 95% of patients. Tumor reduction or stabilization of disease was observed in 79% of the patients, who had a median survival of 19 months. Reduced toxicity and more effective chemotherapeutic regimens may increase the likelihood of survival after HAI chemotherapy for unresectable colorectal liver metastases.
Although quinidine has been reported to induce QT interval prolongation and torsades de pointes clinically, the only experimental model currently available for quinidine-induced torsades de pointes requires the concurrent use of ischemia, reperfusion and cardiac pacing of the isolated, perfused heart. Our purpose in this study was to determine the circumstances under which quinidine might elicit torsades de pointes consistently in the intact dog. We found that maintenance of therapeutic plasma quinidine concentrations, alone, did not induce the arrhythmia. Rather, arrhythmia induction required the additional application of aconitine, which induces early afterdepolarizations and triggered activity. When aconitine was applied to two epicardial sites in dogs having quinidine-induced QT interval prolongation greater than 10%, torsades de pointes occurred in 80% of instances. When QT prolongation was less than 10%, aconitine-induced torsades de pointes was seen in only 21% of animals. Our results suggest that in a previously healthy heart quinidine-induced QT prolongation is, itself, insufficient to induce torsades de pointes consistently, and two independent sites of ectopic activity are needed as well. The ectopic foci appear to modulate one another's impulse initiation or activation sequence, thereby giving rise to the classical "twisting of the points" associated with the arrhythmia.
Cachexia is a common problem in chronic heart failure (CHF) that may be partly mediated by activation of the sympathetic nervous system. The effects of beta-adrenergic receptor blocker (BB) therapy on body weight in cachectic and noncachectic subjects with CHF has not been previously reported.
Body weight and plasma norepinephrine, leptin, and insulin levels were measured in 27 subjects with CHF before and after 6 months of beta-adrenergic receptor blockade with carvedilol or long-acting metoprolol. Before BB therapy, baseline weight, plasma leptin, and plasma insulin levels did not differ between cachectic and noncachectic subjects. Baseline plasma norepinephrine levels were increased in cachectic subjects when compared with noncachectic subjects (930+/-248 pg/mL versus 503+/-109 pg/mL, P=.063). After 6 months of BB therapy, subjects with baseline cachexia demonstrated significantly greater weight gain (+5.2+/-9.6 versus +0.8+/-5.0 kg, P=.027), greater increase in plasma leptin levels (+3.7+/-3.9 versus +1.2+/-4.3 ng/mL, P=.030), and greater decrease in plasma norepinephrine levels (-374+/-261 versus -41+/-122 pg/mL, P=.012) when compared with noncachectic subjects.
Six months of BB therapy with carvedilol or long-acting metoprolol is associated with differential effects on body weight and hormonal levels in cachectic and noncachectic subjects with CHF. Further work is needed to determine the role the sympathetic nervous system in the pathogenesis of cachexia in patients with CHF.
To describe the histopathological features of a series of patients with ketamine-related cystitis.
Seventeen patients with ketamine-related cystitis, who had undergone biopsy, were identified and reviewed. Twelve showed ulceration with significant urothelial atypia. In 10 of these, immunohistochemistry was performed; 9/10 had high p53 immunoreactivity and 7/10 had moderate to high levels of Ki67 reactivity, but all were negative for cytokeratin 20.
Ketamine can lead to reactive urothelial changes that can mimic carcinoma in situ, but the long-term cancer risk remains unknown.
The development of alcoholic fatty liver is associated with reduced adipocyte-derived adiponectin levels, decreased hepatic adiponectin receptors, and deranged hepatic adiponectin signaling in animals. Peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) plays a key role in the regulation of adiponectin in adipose tissue. The aim of the present study was to test the ability of rosiglitazone, a known PPAR-gamma agonist, to reverse the inhibitory effects of ethanol on adiponectin expression and its hepatic signaling, and to attenuate alcoholic liver steatosis in mice. Mice were fed modified Lieber-DeCarli ethanol-containing liquid diets for 4 wk or pair-fed control diets. Four groups of mice were given a dose of either 3 or 10 mg.kg body wt(-1).day(-1) of rosiglitazone with or without ethanol in their diets for the last 2 wk of the feeding study. Coadministration of rosiglitazone and ethanol increased the expression and circulating levels of adiponectin and enhanced the expression of hepatic adiponectin receptors (AdipoRs) in mice. These increases correlated closely with the activation of a hepatic sirtuin 1 (SIRT1)-AMP-activated kinase (AMPK) signaling system. In concordance with stimulated SIRT1-AMPK signaling, rosiglitazone administration enhanced expression of fatty acid oxidation enzymes, normalized lipin 1 expression, and blocked elevated expression of genes encoding lipogenic enzymes which, in turn, led to increased fatty acid oxidation, reduced lipogenesis, and alleviation of steatosis in the livers of ethanol-fed mice. Enhanced hepatic adiponectin-SIRT1-AMPK signaling contributes, at least in part, to the protective action of rosiglitazone against alcoholic fatty liver in mice.
Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is a severe developmental disorder caused by mutations in the DHCR7 gene coding for 7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC) reductase, the enzyme involved in the last step of cholesterol biosynthesis. SLOS homozygotes exhibit marked deficiency of cholesterol in plasma and tissues with concomitant increase in 7-DHC. Ultraviolet A (UVA) photosensitivity has been recognized as part of SLOS with maximal response occurring at 350 nm. 7-DHC itself has no UVA absorption and so cannot be the direct cause of SLOS photosensitivity. However, cholesta-5,7,9(11)-trien-3beta-ol (9-DDHC), a metabolite of 7-DHC, has been detected in plasma from SLOS patients. Because 9-DDHC has strong absorption in the UVA range (approximately 15,000 @ 324 nm), we have examined its photobiology to determine whether it could be involved in SLOS photosensitivity. High levels of 7-DHC (0.65 mg/100 g wet weight) and measurable amounts of 9-DDHC (0.042 mg/100 g wet weight) were found in skin lipids extracted from CD-1 mice treated with AY9944 (trans-1,4-bis(2-chlorobenzylaminomethyl)cyclohexane dihydrochloride), an inhibitor of 7-DHC reductase. Human HaCaT keratinocytes treated with 9-DDHC (10 microM) and then immediately exposed to UVA (15 J/cm2) exhibited an 88% decrease in viability (compared to dark controls). No damage was observed in cells exposed to 7-DHC/UVA or UVA alone. However, HaCaT keratinocytes treated with 7-DHC (5 microM) for 15 h and then exposed to UVA (30 J/cm2) were damaged. 9-DDHC was detected in keratinocytes incubated with 7-DHC. Reactive oxygen species were detected in 9-DDHC/UVA-exposed cells using the fluorescent probe 5-(and 6-)-chloromethyl-2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate acetyl ester. Singlet oxygen was generated when 9-DDHC was UVA irradiated in CCl4. UVA irradiation of 9-DDHC in acetonitrile generated superoxide and carbon-centered and alkoxyl radicals which were trapped by 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline N-oxide. These findings suggest that reactive oxygen species generated by 9-DDHC may play a role in the UVA skin photosensitivity of SLOS patients. Furthermore, several statin drugs inhibit 7-DHC reductase, in addition to hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoenzymeA reductase, so that 9-DDHC may also be responsible for statin-derived photosensitivity, dermatoses, and cataract formation. Finally, we have previously detected 9-DDHC in skin lipids from normal subjects, so this sterol may also be the skin chromophore responsible for skin photoaging and UV-induced skin cancer.
