Our objective was to evaluate the toxicity and antitumor efficacy of concurrent biochemotherapy in metastatic melanoma patients and the effectiveness of adding temozolomide to protect the brain from metastases. Twenty-three patients with advanced inoperable melanoma were hospitalized for 5-6 days for the following treatment: cisplatin 20 mg/m daily for 4 days, vinblastine 1.6 mg/m daily for 4 days and oral temozolomide 250 mg/m daily for 5 days, with 18 x 10 IU/m intravenous interleukin-2 by continuous infusion for 4 days (the dose was cut daily by 50%) and 5 x 10 U/m interferon-alfa subcutaneously daily for 5 days, repeated at 28-day intervals for a maximum of nine courses. According to the standard World Health Organization response criterion, the objective response rate was 43.4% and the median survival was 18.6 months. All but one patient survived for more than 12 months, and no responding patient progressed first in the brain. Substituting dacarbazine by temozolomide in the MD Anderson melanoma section protocol appears to offer protection against dissemination of brain metastases, equal activity in the periphery and a possible lower incidence of toxicity due to the oral route.
This report is of a case of a previously fit 65-year-old woman who developed postoperative liver dysfunction following an anaesthetic involving isoflurane. Biliary ultrasound demonstrated gallstones. However, serum antibodies to trifluoroacetylated proteins were detected, suggesting that immune sensitisation to the anaesthetic could have contributed to the impaired liver function.
This is the first report to show that a copper-transporting P-type adenosine triphosphatase, ATP7B, is expressed in certain breast carcinomas, and a priori knowledge of its expression is important for the choice of therapy. We investigated the hypothesis that ATP7B, which was shown to be associated with cisplatin resistance in vitro, is expressed in certain breast carcinomas. To test this hypothesis, ATP7B expression and protein level were examined in 41 breast carcinomas using RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. ATP7B gene / protein could be detected in 22.0% (9 / 41) of breast carcinomas and ATP7B gene expression was correlated well with the protein expression. In nine ATP7B-positive tumors, adjacent normal breast tissue was similarly analyzed, revealing that ATP7B is upregulated in breast carcinoma. ATP7B gene expression in poorly differentiated carcinoma was significantly higher than that in well- / moderately differentiated carcinoma (P = 0.012). Furthermore, we found no association between the ATP7B gene / protein expression and that of MDR1, MRP1, LRP and BCRP. These findings suggested that ATP7B gene expression might be a chemoresistance marker for cisplatin in patients with poorly differentiated breast carcinoma.
We describe a case of a 9-year-old boy with the severe acute liver injury caused by idiosyncrasy after the administration of valproate. The liver biopsy performed during the first days after the onset of the disease revealed the necrosis of more than 50% of hepatocytes but the injury was almost fully reversible which was well demonstrated by the second biopsy five months later. After five years an evidence for the immunologic idiosyncrasy caused by valproate was still present, which was demonstrated in vitro by blastic transformation of lymphocytes from the patient. The boy is quite healthy and epilepsy is under control of suximide. The family was informed that the boy could be treated with valproate never more.
There is an emerging body of data suggesting that bipolar disorder is associated with DNA damage. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of ouabain in rats results in manic-like alterations. We evaluated DNA damage of peripheral blood, cerebrospinal fluid and hippocampus of rats after i.c.v. ouabain injection. Ouabain-induced hyperlocomotion was examined in an open field. Additionally, we used single cell gel electrophoresis (comet assay) to measure early transient damage in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), hippocampus and blood; and the micronucleus test to measure persistent damage in total blood samples of rats after ouabain administration. Our findings demonstrated that ouabain induced hyperlocomotion in rats, and this response remained up to 7 days following a single i.c.v. injection. In addition, we observed that the persistent increase in the rat spontaneous locomotion is associated with increased hippocampal and peripheral index of early DNA damage in rats. No significant alterations were observed in the micronucleus frequency in total blood samples of the rats after the ouabain i.c.v. injection. These results suggest that ouabain may induce peripheral and central early DNA damage, but this early damage may be repaired.
Botulinum neurotoxin serotype A (BoNT/A) inhibits acetylcholine release at the neuromuscular junction in isolated muscles, and ouabain can partially block its effect. However, it is not clear whether ouabain attenuates BoNT/A-induced neuromuscular paralysis in vivo. In this work, we investigated the effects of ouabain on BoNT/A-induced neuromuscular paralysis in mice. Ouabain was administered to mice intraperitoneally immediately after a single injection of BoNT/A into skeletal muscle. The effects of ouabain on BoNT/A-induced muscle paralysis were assessed by quantitative monitoring of muscle tension and digit abduction via the digit abduction scoring (DAS) assay. A single administration of ouabain significantly prolonged BoNT/A-induced neuromuscular paralysis. Moreover, consecutive daily injection of ouabain exacerbated BoNT/A-induced neuromuscular paralysis, and led to a significant decrease in both twitch and tetanic forces as assayed in isolated BoNT/A-injected muscles. We next looked at the effects of ouabain on BoNT/A-induced muscle atrophy. Administration of ouabain led to a decrease in the myofibrillar cross-sectional area (CSAs) by 14 post-BoNT/A injection. In addition, repeated administration of ouabain increased mRNA expression levels of ubiquitin ligases, which are markers of muscle atrophy, in BoNT/A-injected muscle. These results suggest that ouabain exacerbates BoNT/A-induced neuromuscular paralysis via a marked progression of BoNT/A-induced muscle atrophy.
The aim of this study was to examine whether a vaginal Escherichia coli colonization, mimicking the one seen in UTI-prone females, could be induced by local cephadroxil administration. When five adult cynomolgus monkeys were given a vaginal flush with a P-fimbriated E. coli strain, none became persistently colonized. When such colonization attempts were preceded by cephadroxil administration a persistent colonization occurred in 9/10 experiments. Cephadroxil also promoted a spread of fecal E. coli strains to the vagina. Reduction of the anaerobic vaginal flora can explain the breakdown of the colonization resistance. Clinical observations suggest that accumulation of E. coli around the urethral orifice increases the risk of UTI. Therefore antibiotics which promote such colonization may increase the risk for UTI in susceptible patients. From this point of view antibiotics such as cephadroxil may be less suitable for treatment of UTI-susceptible patients.
Epidemiological studies indicate the incidence of asthma is increased in obese and overweight humans. Responses to ozone (O(3)), an asthma trigger, are increased in obese (ob/ob) mice lacking the satiety hormone leptin. The long form of leptin receptor (Ob-R(b)) is required for satiety; mice lacking this receptor (db/db mice) are also substantially obese. Here, wild-type (WT) and db/db mice were exposed to air or O(3) (2 ppm) for 3 h. Airway responsiveness, measured by the forced oscillation technique, was greater in db/db than WT mice after air exposure. O(3)-induced increases in pulmonary resistance and airway responsiveness were also greater in db/db mice. BALF eotaxin, IL-6, KC, and MIP-2 increased 4 h after O(3) exposure and subsided by 24 h, whereas protein and neutrophils continued to increase through 24 h. For each outcome, the effect of O(3) was significantly greater in db/db than WT mice. Previously published results obtained in ob/ob mice were similar except for O(3)-induced neutrophils and MIP-2, which were not different from WT mice. O(3) also induced pulmonary IL-1beta and TNF-alpha mRNA expression in db/db but not ob/ob mice. Leptin was increased in serum of db/db mice, and pulmonary mRNA expression of short form of leptin receptor (Ob-R(a)) was similar in db/db and WT mice. These data confirm obese mice have innate airway hyperresponsiveness and increased pulmonary responses to O(3). Differences between ob/ob mice, which lack leptin, and db/db mice, which lack Ob-R(b) but not Ob-R(a), suggest leptin, acting through Ob-R(a), can modify some pulmonary responses to O(3).
We encountered a 91-year-old woman with atrial fibrillation complicating bradycardia while she was receiving therapy with an L/N-type calcium channel blocker, cilnidipine, for hypertension, which is an unusual observation for the dihydropyridine class of calcium channel blockers. Therefore, we compared the dromotropic effect of cilnidipine with that of an L-type calcium channel blocker, nicardipine, which has a similar hypotensive activity. The canine isolated, blood-perfused atrioventricular node preparation was used. Cilnidipine as well as nicardipine slowed atrioventricular nodal conduction in a dose-related manner. However, the dromotropic action of cilnidipine was about five times less potent than that of nicardipine. These experimental results may suggest that we experienced an atypical clinical event of cilnidipine in a very old woman; otherwise one can speculate that the N-type calcium channel inhibitory component of cilnidipine might have played a role in exerting the negative dromotropic effect in this patient.
In this study, we investigated the effects of both 25 and 50 mg daily doses of rofecoxib on the endothelial functions of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). For this purpose, 34 patients with documented severe CAD and who were under aspirin treatment (300 mg/day) were randomized to receive 4 weeks of treatment with a placebo (n = 10, group I), rofecoxib 25 mg/day (n = 12, group II), and rofecoxib 50 mg/day (n = 12, group III). Brachial artery vasodilator responses were measured in order to evaluate endothelial function. The percentage of change in endothelial-dependent vasodilation in groups I, II, and III were similar at the baseline level and showed no significant change after treatment (6.2+/-3.9% vs. 5.9+/-3.1% and 5.8+/-3.3% vs. 5.6+/-3.8% and 6.1+/-4.5% vs. 5.8+/-4.1%, respectively; P > 0.05). Compared with the baseline, endothelium-independent vasodilatation, as assessed by nitroglycerine (NTG), remained unchanged after the treatment period (11.2+/-6.9% vs. 10.3+/-7.1% and 11.2+/-6.3% vs. 9.9+/-5.1% and 9.5+/-4.9% and 8.8+/-4.6%, respectively; P> 0.05). Treatment with both doses also showed no significant effects on high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) levels and resting arterial diameters (P > 0.05). In conclusion, 4 weeks of treatment with standard and high doses of rofecoxib showed no significant effects on either endothelial-dependent or independent vasodilator response or plasma hs-CRP levels in patients with severe CAD taking concomitant aspirin.
Migraine is a painful and debilitating disorder with a significant genetic component. Steroid hormones, in particular estrogen, have long been considered to play a role in migraine, as variations in hormone levels are associated with migraine onset in many sufferers of the disorder. Steroid hormones mediate their activity via hormone receptors, which have a wide tissue distribution. Estrogen receptors have been localized to the brain in regions considered to be involved in migraine pathogenesis. Hence it is possible that genetic variation in the estrogen receptor gene may play a role in migraine susceptibility. This study thus examined the estrogen receptor 1 (ESRalpha) gene for a potential role in migraine pathogenesis and susceptibility. A population-based cohort of 224 migraine sufferers and 224 matched controls were genotyped for the G594A polymorphism located in exon 8 of the ESR1 gene. Statistical analysis indicated a significant difference between migraineurs and non-migraineurs in both the allele frequencies (P=0.003) and genotype distributions (P=0.008) in this sample. An independent follow-up study was then undertaken using this marker in an additional population-based cohort of 260 migraine sufferers and 260 matched controls. This resulted in a significant association between the two groups with regard to allele frequencies (P=8 x 10(-6)) and genotype distributions (P=4 x 10(-5)). Our findings support the hypothesis that genetic variation in hormone receptors, in particular the ESR1 gene, may play a role in migraine.
Dutch cardiac surgery centers lack consistency in management with respect to the prevention of postoperative constipation. Although not based on any evidence, the administration of lactulose syrup is widely used. Because it often causes intestinal discomfort such as abdominal pain, bowel cramps, and feelings of distention, a study was performed in postoperative cardiac surgery patients who were given either standard care (routine administration of lactulose syrup twice daily) or laxative on indication. Postoperative constipation appeared equally frequent in both groups, and patients who received lactulose had more symptoms of intestinal discomfort. Based on these findings, it is safe to abolish the routine management of postoperative laxatives on a cardiac surgery ward.
The nucleus accumbens is a key mediator of cocaine reward, but the distinct roles of the two subpopulations of nucleus accumbens projection neurons, those expressing dopamine D1 versus D2 receptors, are poorly understood. We show that deletion of TrkB, the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) receptor, selectively from D1+ or D2+ neurons oppositely affects cocaine reward. Because loss of TrkB in D2+ neurons increases their neuronal excitability, we next used optogenetic tools to control selectively the firing rate of D1+ and D2+ nucleus accumbens neurons and studied consequent effects on cocaine reward. Activation of D2+ neurons, mimicking the loss of TrkB, suppresses cocaine reward, with opposite effects induced by activation of D1+ neurons. These results provide insight into the molecular control of D1+ and D2+ neuronal activity as well as the circuit-level contribution of these cell types to cocaine reward.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias are a common problem, occurring in about one third of parkinsonian patients after five years of treatment. Young age of onset, disease severity, duration of therapy and total dose of L-DOPA are the variables that best correlate with the development of dyskinesias. The first manifestations of dyskinesia are usually dystonic and involve the foot homolateral to the side most affected by Parkinson's disease. With time, dyskinesias may be classified in three main categories: off dystonia, diphasic dyskinesias also called "onset and end of dose dyskinesia" and peak dose dyskinesia. Although this classification is very useful in clinical practice, the different types of dyskinesia frequently overlap in a single patient when the disease progresses. Other types of involuntary movements such as myoclonus, a tremor with an increased amplitude and akathisia have been described. The physiopathology of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias remains unclear but synaptic plasticity in striatal neurons seems to be a major phenomenon in the development of dyskinesias. Some rating scales have been developed to assess the intensity and severity of dyskinesias but their usefulness is still matter of debate.
Twenty two patients having mild to moderate hypertension were treated with a single daily dose of amlodipine for 4 weeks. Satisfactory response defined as final diastolic blood pressure < 90 mm of Hg and a reduction from baseline values > 10 mm of Hg could be achieved in 81.8% of patients in supine position and 70% of patients in standing position. Thirteen patients responded to 5 mg dose and 9 patients required 10 mg. Postural hypotension and reflex tachycardia were absent. Three patients has mild leg cramps and constipation. No deleterious effects were observed on liver, kidney and hemopoetic function, or on E.C.G. Changes. Amlodipine given once daily is effective and safe, and is a useful addition to the existing armamentarium of antihypertensive drugs.
Riluzole is a new drug representing the first active treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We report the cases of two patients who developed acute hepatitis after taking riluzole at the recommended dose (100 mg daily) for 7 and 4 weeks, respectively. In both cases, liver histology showed hepatocellular damage with inflammatory infiltration and microvesicular steatosis without fibrosis. Liver enzymes returned to normal 4 and 8 weeks, respectively, after riluzole withdrawal. In one case, the readministration of riluzole was followed by the relapse of hepatitis. These two observations strongly suggest that riluzole can induce acute hepatitis with associated hepatocellular damage and microvesicular steatosis. They also suggest that liver enzymes should be monitored during treatment with riluzole.
Fragile X Syndrome is a leading heritable cause of mental retardation that results from the loss of FMR1 gene function. Studies in mouse and Drosophila model organisms have been critical in understanding many aspects of the loss of function of the FMR1 gene in the human syndrome. Here, we establish that the zebrafish is a useful model organism for the study of the human fragile X syndrome and can be used to examine phenotypes that are difficult or inaccessible to observation in other model organisms. Using morpholino knockdown of the fmr1 gene, we observed abnormal axonal branching of Rohon-Beard and trigeminal ganglion neurons and guidance and defasciculation defects in the lateral longitudinal fasciculus. We demonstrate that this axonal branching defect can be rescued by treatment with MPEP [2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl) pyridine]. This is consistent with an interaction between mGluR signalling and fmr1 function in neurite morphogenesis. We also describe novel findings of abnormalities in the abundance of trigeminal ganglion neurons and of craniofacial abnormalities apparently due to dysmorphic cartilage formation. These abnormalities may be related to a role for fmr1 in neural crest cell specification and possibly in migration.
Meningitis due to Staphylococcus aureus is infrequent. MRSA is mainly found after neurosurgery, but MSSA may be involved in community-acquired meningitis. However, this kind of infection is not widely reported, despite its severity.
We describe the characteristics of five patients hospitalized in our ward over a period of 18 months who presented with community-acquired meningitis due to MSSA.
The patients were three men and two women with a mean age of 62 years. One patient was immunosuppressed. Neurological signs were present at the onset for only two patients. In all cases, there were extraneurological localizations of the infection, mainly in bones (spondylodiscitis, epidural abscess, arthritis) but also lung infection. Three patients with meningeal inflammation also presented with confusion. CSF analysis revealed less than 950 white blood cells, hyper-CSF-proteins, and hypo-CSF-glucose. Bacteraemia was present in all patients. The source of infection was never determined. The evolution was good for all patients with a prolonged antibiotic course. The analysis of genetic determinants for three strains revealed the presence of TSST-1 which could account for the severity of the disease.
Community-acquired MSSA meningitis is a serious infection, occurring in patients without risk factors. Hematogenous dissemination leads to multiple tissue infection. A long course of antibiotics, with high doses, is needed to treat meningitis but also extraneurological localizations. The role of TSST-1 needs to be confirmed in other patients.
Methotrexate (MTX) has activity in transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) in man and some have suggested an advantage of high-dose methotrexate versus the standard dose in controlling tumor growth and prolonging survival. MBT-2, a poorly differentiated TCC induced by the carcinogen FANFT, is both grossly and histologically similar to human TCC and has been used as an animal model. One hundred twenty C3H/HE female mice were injected in the hind limb with 7.5 X 10(4) MBT-2 tumor cells. When palpable tumors developed in all animals, therapy was initiated. Animals were randomized into a control group and nine treatment groups as follows: cisplatin (DDP), MTX32 mg, MTX50 mg, MTX80 mg, DDP + MTX32, MTX50 + Leucovorin, MTX80 + Leucovorin, DDP + MTX50 + Leucovorin, DDP + MTX80 + Leucovorin. The combination of MTX50 mg with Leucovorin + DDP and DDP alone were the two most effective regimens in controlling tumor growth and prolonging survival. No statistically significant difference was observed between the group treated by high-dose MTX alone and those treated by low-dose MTX. No toxicity was observed even when high doses of MTX were used.
