Fetal bradycardia due to uterine hypertonia was observed after the intravenous administration of pethidine (meperidine) 75 mg with promethazine 25 mg during active labour. These analgesic drugs are known to affect uterine contractions by enhancing both amplitude and frequency, but are thought to affect uterine tone minimally. Twenty cases of uterine hypertonia resulting in fetal bradycardia were monitored in a period of 6 months in women receiving these drugs during labour. In all cases, the uterine hypertonia appeared shortly after the drug administration. The uterine hypertonus as well as the fetal bradycardia were self limited and no intervention was undertaken. Recognition of this phenomenon is important in order to prevent unnecessary anxiety on the part of medical attendants.
Secondary cultures of newborn NMRI nu/nu (nude) mouse fibroblasts were used as targets for transformation by chemical carcinogen. 3-Methylcholanthrene, benzo(a)pyrene and benz(a)anthracene induced the development of foci of transformed cells in cultures, whereas no foci were obtained under similar conditions when the non-carcinogenic chemical anthracene was used. The frequency of focus formation was dependent on cell density as well as on the chemical and its concentration. The frequency of focus formation by 3-methylcholanthrene, the most potent compound tested, ranged up to 22 foci per 10(5) surviving cells, whereas benz(a)anthracene induced 1.8 foci under similar conditions. A high level of aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase, a carcinogen-activating enzyme complex, was detected in the fibroblast cultures used.
The molecular defect in the abnormal fibrinogen Dusart (Paris V) that is associated with thrombophilia was determined by sequence analysis of genomic DNA that had been amplified using the polymerase chain reaction. The propositus was heterozygous for a single base change (C-->T) in the A alpha-chain gene, resulting in the amino acid substitution A alpha 554 Arg-->Cys. Restriction analysis of the amplified DNA derived from the family members showed that his father and his two sons were also heterozygous. Electron microscopic studies on fibrin formed from purified fibrinogen Dusart demonstrated fibers that were much thinner than in normal fibrin. In contrast to the previously observed defective binding of plasminogen, the binding of thrombospondin to immobilized fibrinogen Dusart was similar to that of normal fibrinogen. Immunoblot analysis of plasma fibrinogen demonstrated that a substantial part of the fibrinogen Dusart molecules were disulfide-linked to albumin. The plasma of the affected family members also contained fibrinogen-albumin complexes. Furthermore, small amounts of high molecular weight complexes containing fibrinogen were detected in all the heterozygous individuals. These data indicate that the molecular abnormality in fibrinogen Dusart (A alpha 554 Arg-->Cys) results in defective lateral association of the fibrin fibers and disulfide-linked complex formation with albumin, and is associated with a family history of recurrent thrombosis in the affected individuals.
"Crack" cocaine (alkaloidal cocaine) induces ischemic stroke. However, the mechanisms by which this occurs are not well documented in humans. We present pertinent information on three patients whose ischemic strokes involved the territory of the internal carotid artery and were associated with crack use.
These patients were investigated clinically, radiologically, intraoperatively, and/or histopathologically at the same institution, and the diagnostic evaluations did not reveal a definite cardiac or hematologic cause of stroke. Large filling defects were noted on conventional carotid angiography in two of these patients; in the third patient, the histopathological changes were compatible with vasospasm. To our knowledge, these changes have not been previously documented in human arteries.
We suggest that some brain infarcts among crack cocaine users may result from vasospasm of large arteries and secondary intravascular thrombosis.
A patient who received tocolysis with nifedipine developed neuromuscular blockade after 500 mg of magnesium sulfate was administered. This reaction demonstrates that nifedipine can seriously potentiate the toxicity of magnesium. Caution should be exercised when these two tocolytics are combined.
The preventative value of progesterone in preterm labor has been recently recognized, especially when it is administered via vaginal suppository. This study was undertaken to evaluate the effect of progesterone on interleukin-6 (IL-6) production in human uterine cervical fibroblasts (UCFs) treated with lipopolysaccharides (LPS).
Human uterine cervical tissue was obtained at term, prior to the onset of labor, during the scheduled cesarean section or cesarean hysterectomy. Primary UCF cultures were established and confirmed by immunohistochemistry. IL-6 mRNA and protein expressions were examined by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively.
Lipopolysaccharides stimulation induced a clear time- and dose-dependent increase in IL-6 mRNA and protein levels in UCFs (P < 0.05). Progesterone treatment significantly attenuated LPS-induced increases in IL-6 mRNA and protein expressions in UCFs (P < 0.05). Estrogen exposure had no effect on LPS-induced IL-6 up-regulation and did not modulate the effects of progesterone.
Our preliminary results suggest that vaginal progesterone might prevent spontaneous preterm labor through a mechanism involving anti-inflammatory effects on UCFs, particularly suppression of IL-6 production.
The use of neuroleptics in the acute management of traumatic brain injury (TBI) is controversial and may be detrimental to recovery. The following case report describes a patient developing neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) secondary to the use of haloperidol given to control the patient's agitation. The patient began to exhibit symptoms consistent with NMS (high fever, dystonia, diaphoresis, tachycardia, and decerebrate posturing) shortly after administration of the haloperidol. Upon transfer to a rehabilitation hospital, the symptoms persisted. When NMS is suspected, the first intervention is to remove the offending agent; thus, the administration of haloperidol was suspended, and the patient was placed on Amantadine and propranolol. Amantadine was used to increase the availability of dopamine to the mid-brain region, and the propranolol was used to control the fever, which was believed to be central in origin. The patient was able to complete his rehabilitation with no further incidence of fever or agitation. The patient met or exceeded all short-term physical therapy goals and was able to complete most of the neuropsychological tasks presented. The patient returned home 38 days after admission to the rehabilitation hospital and was able to perform most activities of daily living. At the 6-months follow-up visit, the patient was considering entrance into an adult vocational school.
Ovarian follicular growth and development are regulated by extraovarian and intraovarian factors, which influence granulosa cell proliferation and differentiation. However, the molecular mechanisms that drive follicular growth are not completely understood. Ovarian follicular cysts are one of the most common causes of reproductive failure in dairy cattle. Nevertheless, the primary cause of cyst formation has not been clearly established. A gene expression comparison may aid in elucidating the causes of ovarian cyst disease. Our objective was to identify differentially expressed genes in ovarian granulosa cells between normal dominant and cystic follicles of cattle. Granulosa cells and follicular fluid were isolated from dominant and cystic follicles collected via either ultrasound-guided aspiration from dairy cows (n = 24) or slaughterhouse ovaries from beef cows (n = 23). Hormonal analysis for progesterone, estradiol, and androstenedione in follicular fluid was performed by RIA. Total RNA was extracted and hybridized to 6 Affymetrix GeneChip Bovine Genome Arrays (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA). Abundance of mRNA for differentially expressed selected genes was determined through quantitative real-time reverse-transcription PCR. Follicular cysts showed greater (P < 0.05) progesterone, lesser (P < 0.05) estradiol, and no differences (P > 0.10) in androstenedione concentrations compared with noncystic follicles. A total of 163 gene sequences were differentially expressed (P < 0.01), with 19 upregulated and 144 downregulated. From selected target genes, quantitative real-time reverse-transcription PCR confirmed angiogenin, PGE(2) receptor 4, and G-protein coupled receptor 34 genes as upregulated in cystic follicles, and Indian hedgehog protein precursor and secreted frizzled-related protein 4 genes as downregulated in cystic follicles. Further research is required to elucidate the role of these factors in follicular development and cyst formation.
Lithium is still the treatment of choice in bipolar affective disorder. The patient presented here represents an example of the possible severity of metabolic defects resulting from lithium use. In this case, it caused severe intractable nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI). Our case report draws attention to 2 important messages. The first is the complexity in treating psychiatric patients that is often not borne out in the medical literature. The second is the role and power of pharmacological augmentation. While the role of these agents has been appreciated for some time, the use of carbamazepine and of drug combinations is not as well recognized. We emphasize the clinical features of NDI, lithium's metabolic sequelae and furthermore collate the most up-to-date account of the signalling effects conferred by these agents in a summary diagram.
Inflammation has been hypothesized to play a role in the development of hypertension. The high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) is a well-studied marker of systemic inflammation that has a predictive power with regard to the development of hypertension. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that hs-CRP plasma levels are altered in hypertension. Moreover, the study was to assess whether chronic antihypertensive treatment with doxazosin would normalize hs-CRP and nitrites/nitrates. We measured plasma levels of hs-CRP and nitrites/nitrates in 44 normotensive subjects and in 44 patients with hypertension before and after doxazosin therapy for 4 months. hs-CRP plasma levels were significantly higher (P < 0.007) in untreated hypertensive group compared to controls. Significant decrease was observed for hs-CRP (P < 0.05) in hypertensive patients after antihypertensive treatment. Nitrites/nitrates were significantly lower (P < 0.0001) in the untreated hypertensive group compared to controls. A significant increase was observed for nitrites/nitrates (P < 0.05) in hypertensive patients after antihypertensive treatment. These results suggest that doxazosin treatment exerts anti-inflammatory effects in addition to its antihypertensive properties in hypertensive patients.
Disturbances in central serotonin function have been implicated in impulsive and aggressive behavior. A deletion/insertion polymorphism within the 5-HT transporter promoter gene (5-HTTLPR) is thought to be associated with disturbed impulse control, anxiety, and depression. The serotonin transporter (5-HTT) is the primary action site for selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Several studies of major depression have shown that the l allele of 5-HTTLPR is associated with better SSRI antidepressant effects than the s allele.
This study investigates the association between response of impulsivity to treatment with fluoxetine and 5-HTTLPR polymorphism in 49 personality disordered patients. Additionally, we studied TPH1, 5HT1B and 5HT2C receptor polymorphisms as predictors of response in this population.
Results reveal that patients with the l/l genotype of 5-HTTLPR had a significantly better response to fluoxetine when compared to s allele carriers, as evaluated on the basis of total (P<0.05) and Aggression subscale (P<0.01) Overt Aggression Scale Modified-score percentage change. There were no significant associations between fluoxetine response and TPH1 (A218C) (-6525 A>G) (-5806 G>T), HTR1B (G861C) and HTR2C (G68C) genotype groups.
This is the first study assessing the association between these polymorphisms and anti-impulsive response to fluoxetine in personality disorder. As the s genotype is associated with a poorer selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors response in major depression, bulimia nervosa and borderline personality disorder, it could represent a common biological background for SSRI response.
The efficacy of an immunomodulator, Baypamun N, was tested in 4-10-month-old horses which were exposed to stress by weaning, transport and commingling with yearlings from different breeders (crowding). Verum (n = 26) and placebo animals (n = 27) received three intramuscular injections of the investigational preparations (days 0, 2, 9) starting at the day of commingling in one stable. The incidence of acute respiratory disease was high during the first 4 weeks after commingling. Approximately 50% of all horses showed seroconversion due to field infection by EHV1 and EHV4 during the observation period. The clinical scores in the Baypamun N group were significantly reduced by 40.3% (P < 0.05) compared to the placebo group. The proportion of horses with purulent nasal discharge during the observation period (4 weeks) was also significantly reduced by 58.7% (P < 0.01) in the Baypamun N group. Fifty per cent of the horses injected with Baypamun N showed no purulent nasal discharge and therefore no signs of complicated disease of the upper respiratory airways in contrast to only 14.8% in the non-protected placebo group. The challenge conditions studied in this investigation were rather severe because of the permanent exposure of Baypamun N treated individuals to the non-separated and untreated horses (n = 51). This indicates that treatment with Baypamun N is a successful tool to avoid severe clinical consequences of stress in young horses.
The authors relate their clinical experience with 46 panic disorder patients who were receiving 3-10 mg/day of alprazolam. Fifteen (33%) developed symptoms consistent with DSM-III criteria for major depression despite remission of their panic symptoms. Clinicians should be alert to this potentially reversible complication.
Recent reports have suggested that neurotensin (NT) and some of its analogues resemble neuroleptics, for example alpha-flupenthixol (FLU), in their ability to suppress locomotor activity. The results obtained support this conclusion, but only if total photocell counts (the "traditional" index) are considered. An improved method of measuring activity--where subjects have to interrupt photocell beams in sequence before a ("conditional") count is registered--suggested, in direct contrast to the total counts index, that the stable analogue of neurotensin [D-Trp11]-neurotensin (DTNT) increased activity slightly (Sahgal and Keith, 1986). The present report is on the effects of DTNT (0-8 microgram/rat, i.c.v.) and FLU (0-1 mg/kg, i.p.) on hyperactivity induced by D-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.). The usual total counts index of activity suggested that FLU and DTNT blocked the increase. On the other hand, conditional count data suggested that only FLU was effective. Both measures indicated that FLU and amphetamine, administered separately, suppressed and enhanced activity, respectively. In contrast, DTNT at these doses had no significant effect on the conditional counts but markedly suppressed total counts. Subsequent observation of DTNT-treated rats placed in small open fields, suggested that the peptide induced marked circling (ambulatory) behaviour, at the cost of other behavioural categories, especially rearing and grooming. It is argued that (a) DTNT may not resemble neuroleptics in its effects on motor behaviour and (b) conditional activity counts, and also measures relating to brief interruptions of photocell beams, can provide useful additional information concerning motor activity.
The expanding use of GSM devices has resulted in public concern. Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) is a way for protein degradation in the lysosomes and increases under stress conditions as a cell defense response. α-synuclein, a CMA substrate, is a component of Parkinson disease. Since GSM might constitute a stress signal, we raised the possibility that GSM could alter the CMA process. Here, we analyzed the effects of chronic exposure to a low GSM-900MHz dose on apoptosis and CMA. Cultured cerebral cortical cells were sham-exposed or exposed to GSM-900MHz at specific absorption rate (SAR): 0.25W/kg for 24 h using a wire-patch cell. Apoptosis was analyzed by DAPI stain of the nuclei and western blot of cleaved caspase-3. The expression of proteins involved in CMA (HSC70, HSP40, HSP90 and LAMP-2A) and α-synuclein were analyzed by western blot. CMA was also quantified in situ by analyzing the cell localization of active lysosomes. 24 h exposure to GSM-900MHz resulted in ∼0.5°C temperature rise. It did not induce apoptosis but increased HSC70 by 26% and slightly decreased HSP90 (<10%). It also decreased α-synuclein by 24% independently of CMA, since the localization of active lysosomes was not altered. Comparable effects were observed in cells incubated at 37.5°C, a condition that mimics the GSM-generated temperature rise. The GSM-induced changes in HSC70, HSP90 and α-synuclein are most likely linked to temperature rise. We did not observe any immediate effect on cell viability. However, the delayed and long term consequences (protective or deleterious) of these changes on cell fate should be examined.
This study determined the relationship between ethanol intake and spontaneous and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity. Locomotion was studied in high-preferring (HP; > 70% of total fluid intake consumed as alcohol) and low-preferring (LP; < 20% of total fluid intake consumed as alcohol) male Wistar rats with free access to water and a 6% (v/v) ethanol solution for 3 weeks. Following an alcohol-free 3-week period, the animals were tested for spontaneous motor activity for 1 h. One week later, locomotion was recorded in the same activity boxes following a subcutaneous injection with d-amphetamine sulfate (1 mg/kg). For determination of plasma levels of corticosterone, blood samples were taken immediately after each of the two tests for locomotor activity. There was no difference between HP and LP rats with regard to spontaneous locomotor activity. Neither were there any differences in plasma levels of corticosterone between the groups. Amphetamine stimulated locomotion in both HP and LP rats, but to a significantly greater extent in HP animals. Both groups had higher blood levels of corticosterone after the amphetamine test than after the drug-free test, but the corticosterone increase was significantly larger in the HP than in the LP rats. These data indicate that the same neural substrate (e.g., the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system) may mediate important aspects of both ethanol drinking and amphetamine responsiveness. Individual differences in the properties of this substrate may account for the finding that ethanol drinking and amphetamine responsiveness covary. A possible explanation for this association may be that prior consumption of ethanol sensitizes the neural substrate responsible for amphetamine-induced hyperactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The modifying effect of the experimentally induced liver cirrhosis on the diethylnitrosamine (DENA)-hepatocarcino-genesis was investigated in male Fischer 344 rats. Cirrhosis was produced by either repeated intragastric doses of CCl4 for 3 months or by simultaneous administration of CCl4 and phenobarbital (PB) in drinking water for 6 weeks. The hepatocarcinogenic regimen consisted of multiple ip. administrations of DENA (10 mg/kg b.w. per dose, up to a total dose of 200 mg/kg b.w.). All the animals were killed 8 months after starting the experiment. The chronic CCl4-post-treatment exerted a strong promoting effect, while the established cirrhosis completely prevented the formation of hepatocellular carcinomas.
The gastroprokinetic agent metoclopramide is known to stimulate catecholamine secretion from pheochromocytomas. The aim of the study was to investigate the mechanism of action of metoclopramide and expression of serotonin type 4 (5-HT(4)) receptors in pheochromocytoma tissues. Tissue explants, obtained from 18 pheochromocytomas including the tumor removed from a 46-year-old female patient who experienced life-threatening hypertension crisis after metoclopramide administration and 17 additional pheochromocytomas (9 benign and 8 malignant) were studied. Cultured pheochromocytoma cells derived from the patient who previously received metoclopramide were incubated with metoclopramide and various 5-HT(4) receptor ligands. In addition, total mRNAs were extracted from all the 18 tumors. Catecholamine- and granin-derived peptide concentrations were measured in pheochromocytoma cell incubation medium by HPLC and radioimmunological assays. In addition, expression of 5-HT(4) receptor mRNAs in the 18 pheochromocytomas was investigated by the use of reverse transcriptase-PCR.
Metoclopramide and the 5-HT(4) receptor agonist cisapride were found to activate catecholamine- and granin-derived peptide secretions by cultured tumor cells. Metoclopramide- and cisapride-evoked catecholamine- and granin-derived peptide productions were inhibited by the 5-HT(4) receptor antagonist GR 113808. 5-HT(4) receptor mRNAs were detected in the patient's tumor and the series of 17 additional pheochromocytomas. This study shows that pheochromocytomas express functional 5-HT(4) receptors that are responsible for the stimulatory action of metoclopramide on catecholamine- and granin-derived peptide secretion. All 5-HT(4) receptor agonists must therefore be contraindicated in patients with proven or suspected pheochromocytoma.
The antiarrhythmic effects of the calcium blocker verapamil and the beta adrenoreceptor blocker propranolol were examined in aminophylline toxic dogs. Eighteen dogs were intubated and ventilated after induction of anaesthesia (pentobarbitone 30 mg/kg and paccuronium 0.1 mg/kg). All animals were rendered toxic by aminophylline infusion; an initial dose of 50 mg/kg over five minutes with subsequent doses of 10 mg/kg over 30 seconds. Twenty minutes after each aminophylline infusion, the dog was challenged with phenylephrine (10 to 20 micrograms/kg). This resulted in short duration hypertension and reproducible emergence of ventricular arrhythmias. The dogs were divided into three groups of six animals each. Group I (control) received no antiarrhythmics whereas Group II received verapamil 0.2 mg/kg and Group III received propranolol 0.1 mg/kg for the treatment of persistent ventricular arrhythmias. Both verapamil and propranolol exerted an antiarrhythmic effect in aminophylline induced ventricular arrhythmias. The efficacy of verapamil was independent of the accompanying reduction in blood pressure and systemic vascular resistance as subsequent phenylephrine induced hypertension could not reinstitute these arrhythmias. Propranolol appeared less effective since it did not completely suppress the arrhythmias in three dogs and could not prevent emergence of PVC's in four following repeat phenylephrine challenge. Further development of this animal model may be useful for the better understanding of ventricular arrhythmias.
Long-acting injectable risperidone represents the first clinically available depot atypical antipsychotic. The present study used positron emission tomography (PET) to evaluate its dopamine D(2) binding profile at doses of 25, 50, or 75 mg administered every 2 weeks.
After achieving stabilization with one of the doses, nine patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder underwent [(11)C]raclopride PET to measure D(2) occupancy. Participants were scanned twice during the 2-week injection interval: within 3 days after injection (postinjection) and within 5 days before the next injection (preinjection). At the same time, plasma was collected for measurements of risperidone plus 9-hydroxyrisperidone.
Mean post- and preinjection D(2) occupancy levels for the 25-, 50-, and 75-mg doses were 71.0% and 54.0%, 74.4% and 65.4%, and 81.5% and 75.0%, respectively. There was a significant correlation between dose and plasma concentrations of risperidone plus 9-hydroxyrisperidone, and the estimated plasma concentration associated with 50% D(2) occupancy (ED(50)) was 11.06 ng/ml. Prolactin levels were not correlated with drug levels or D(2) occupancy.
All three doses of injectable risperidone showed peak D(2) occupancy levels above the 65% threshold associated with optimal clinical response; the 75-mg dose approximated the 80% threshold linked to increased risk of extrapyramidal symptoms. Doses of 25 or 50 mg should provide therapeutic efficacy while minimizing the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms.
Neuroinflammation occurs after seizures and is implicated in epileptogenesis. CCR2 is a chemokine receptor for CCL2 and their interaction mediates monocyte infiltration in the neuroinflammatory cascade triggered in different brain pathologies. In this work CCR2 and CCL2 expression were examined following status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine injection.
SE was induced by pilocarpine injection. Control rats were injected with saline instead of pilocarpine. Five days after SE, CCR2 staining in neurons and glial cells was examined using imunohistochemical analyses. The number of CCR2 positive cells was determined using stereology probes in the hippocampus. CCL2 expression in the hippocampus was examined by molecular assay.
Increased CCR2 was observed in the hippocampus after SE. Seizures also resulted in alterations to the cell types expressing CCR2. Increased numbers of neurons that expressed CCR2 was observed following SE. Microglial cells were more closely apposed to the CCR2-labeled cells in SE rats. In addition, rats that experienced SE exhibited CCR2-labeling in populations of hypertrophied astrocytes, especially in CA1 and dentate gyrus. These CCR2+ astroctytes were not observed in control rats. Examination of CCL2 expression showed that it was elevated in the hippocampus following SE.
The data show that CCR2 and CCL2 are up-regulated in the hippocampus after pilocarpine-induced SE. Seizures also result in changes to CCR2 receptor expression in neurons and astrocytes. These changes might be involved in detrimental neuroplasticity and neuroinflammatory changes that occur following seizures.
The convulsant profile of lindane was investigated in OF1 and NMRI mice lines in relation to other convulsants acting at the GABAA and NMDA receptor complexes. Thus, a specific GABA-gated chloride channel blocker, PTX, a GABAA receptor antagonist, PTZ, and an excitatory amino acid receptor agonist, NMDA, were used. Antagonism of the convulsant effects of each of these drugs was investigated with (+)MK-801, a blocker of the NMDA-operated cation channel, and with nifedipine, a voltage-dependent calcium channel antagonist. While no differences in potency for PTX or PTZ to induce seizures were observed between OF1 and NMRI mice, lindane was approximately 80 and 90% more potent in its ability to induce seizures and lethality, respectively, in OF1 than in NMRI mice. Brain lindane concentrations at the moment of convulsion, measured after ED100 doses of lindane (400 and 200 mg/kg for NMRI and OF1 mice, respectively), did not differ between OF1 and NMRI mice, suggesting that the different potency of lindane between these mouse lines is a consequence of pharmacokinetic factors. Furthermore, (+)MK-801 antagonized seizures induced by either lindane, PTX or PTZ with similar potencies in both mouse lines. These results, coupled with the different pharmacokinetics of lindane in OF1 and NMRI mice, suggest that the distinct effects of lindane in these mice are not mediated by different activities at either NMDA or GABAA receptor complexes. Nonetheless, nifedipine antagonized lindane-induced seizures with a three-fold higher potency in NMRI than in OF1 mice. In contrast, nifedipine failed to antagonize PTX and PTZ convulsions in both OF1 and NMRI mice. These results suggest that besides the GABAA receptor complex other mechanisms related to calcium mobilization may be involved in the convulsant action of lindane.
Administration of glucocorticoid to patients with head injury has previously been demonstrated to impair memory. We hypothesize that glucocorticoids promote post-traumatic hippocampal apoptosis, resulting in retrograde memory deficiency associated with traumatic brain injury (TBI). In the present study, we tested this hypothesis by measuring spatial memory deficiency in rats subjected to fluid percussion injury (FPI) and receiving dexamethasone (DXM at 0.5-10 mg/kg) or methylprednisolone (MP at 5-30 mg/kg); we also examined neuronal apoptosis in hippocampus. Adult male Wistar rats were trained for the acquisition of spatial memory, then subjected to FPI and tested for spatial reference memory on post-injury days 7 and 14 using the Morris Water Maze. Brain tissue from injured rats was examined 24 h to 2 weeks after injury. The percent time in the goal quadrant, which measures spatial reference memory, was significantly lower in injured rats receiving either high-dose DXM or MP than in control groups. TUNEL-positive cells in hippocampus were first detected 24 h post-injury, plateauing at 48h. The number of TUNEL-positive cells was significantly higher in injured rats treated with either DXM or MP. The data suggest that glucocorticoid therapy for TBI may increase neuronal apoptosis in hippocampus and, as a result, aggravate retrograde memory deficits induced by TBI.
The tyrosine kinase inhibitor STI571 is a novel promising class of anticancer drugs. We report a case of cutaneous adverse reactions to STI571 in a young woman with blast crisis of chronic myeloid leukemia. She had first typical acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis mimicking mercury rash and then urticarial eruption. We suggest that cell pathways mediated by some tyrosine kinases might be involved in the pathogenesis of these skin eruptions.
