Anticoagulant therapy during pregnancy is problematic because both heparin and oral anticoagulants can potentially produce adverse maternal and fetal effects. Reviewing the relevant literature makes it clear that heparin is safer for the fetus than are oral anticoagulants. For the prophylaxis and treatment of venous thromboembolic disease in pregnant patients, heparin is the preferred anticoagulant because its efficacy and safety are established. However, because the efficacy of heparin in preventing systemic embolism in patients with prosthetic heart valves is not established, either adjusted-dose heparin or a combination of heparin and oral anticoagulants can be used.
ZD55-MnSOD is an E1B 55 kDa-deleted replication-competent adenovirus and armed with the therapeutic gene MnSOD. The expression of the therapeutic gene MnSOD increases with the selective replication of the oncolytic adenovirus (ZD55) so that ZD55-MnSOD has more significant activity than the replicate defective adenovirus Ad-MnSOD in vitro and in vivo. The tumor cannot be completely eradicated only with ZD55-MnSOD, although ZD55-MnSOD has obvious antitumor activity. 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is still the most effective adjuvant therapy for patients with colorectal cancer.
We reasoned that combined treatment of cancer cells with ZD55-MnSOD and 5-FU might have a synergistic effect. In vitro experiments with SW620 colorectal carcinoma cell line demonstrated that it was sensitive to ZD55-MnSOD, especially most sensitive to ZD55-MnSOD plus 5-FU treatment. Treatment with both ZD55-MnSOD and 5-FU could induce more significant apoptosis in cancer cells compared with ZD55-MnSOD or 5-FU alone, respectively. A better antitumor activity was observed by ZD55-MnSOD plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) treatment. Tumor growth was greatly inhibited by this combined treatment, and animal survival time increased.
These results show that, by using the combination therapies, a significant decrease in tumor mass can be achieved, which suggest that ZD55-MnSOD in combination with 5-FU may have potential clinical implications.
A controlled, randomized, double-blind, within-patient, crossover study was made with 50 patients (28 women and 22 men) of mean age 47 years (range, 32-69 years) who were subjected to identical bilateral gingivectomies. On one occasion, lidocaine 2% was infiltrated as the local anesthetic. On the other occasion, lidocaine 2% with epinephrine 1:80,000 was given. Postoperative pain intensity was recorded by the patients on a 100-mm visual analogue scale every hour during an 11-hour observation period. The mean pain intensity was numerically higher after lidocaine 2% at 0 hours and 1 hour postoperatively. Then the mean pain intensity after lidocaine 2% was lower than that after lidocaine 2% with epinephrine 1:80,000 throughout the remaining observation period. The difference in pain intensity was statistically significant (P < .05) at 2, 4, 5, 6, and 7 hours after surgery. Mean sum (SEM) pain intensity over the 11-hour observation period was lower (P = .03) after lidocaine 2%, 66.5 (13.4) mm than after lidocaine 2% with epinephrine 1:80,000, 92.6 (15.4) mm. The study shows that high epinephrine concentration (1:80,000) increases the postoperative pain after dental soft tissue surgery with mild pain.
Certain bioactive food components, including indole-3-carbinol (I3C) and 3,3'-diindolylmethane (DIM) from cruciferous vegetables, have been shown to target cellular pathways regulating carcinogenesis. Previously, our laboratory showed that dietary I3C is an effective transplacental chemopreventive agent in a dibenzo[def,p]chrysene (DBC)-dependent model of murine T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma. The primary objective of the present study was to extend our chemoprevention studies in mice to an analogous human neoplasm in cell culture. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that I3C or DIM may be chemotherapeutic in human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) cells. Treatment of the T-ALL cell lines CCRF-CEM, CCRF-HSB2, SUP-T1 and Jurkat with DIM in vitro significantly reduced cell proliferation and viability at concentrations 8- to 25-fold lower than the parent compound I3C. DIM (7.5 µM) arrested CEM and HSB2 cells at the G(1) phase of the cell cycle and 15 µM DIM significantly increased the percentage of apoptotic cells in all T-ALL lines. In CEM cells, DIM reduced protein expression of cyclin dependent kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4, CDK6) and D-type cyclin 3 (CCND3); DIM also significantly altered expression of eight transcripts related to human apoptosis (BCL2L10, CD40LG, HRK, TNF, TNFRSF1A, TNFRSF25, TNFSF8, TRAF4). Similar anticancer effects of DIM were observed in vivo. Dietary exposure to 100 ppm DIM significantly decreased the rate of growth of human CEM xenografts in immunodeficient SCID mice, reduced final tumor size by 44% and increased the apoptotic index compared to control-fed mice. Taken together, our results demonstrate a potential for therapeutic application of DIM in T-ALL.
An 83-year-old man developed nonfatal aplastic anemia after taking methazolamide for three months. We made a diagnosis of methazolamide-induced aplastic anemia, discontinued all medication, gave the patient platelet and red blood cell transfusions, and treated him with oxymetholone. Approximately four months after initiation of treatment, the patient felt well, and he is currently receiving packed red blood cell transfusions every three weeks.
The effect of vitamin B12 on the metabolic alterations due to tetracycline toxicity was studied experimentally on laboratory animals. Treatment of Sprague-Dawley rats with 120 or 250 mg tetracycline (i.p.) per kg per day for two or three days caused an accumulation of lipids, mainly triglycerides in the liver of 75% of animals studied, while phospholipid level tend to decrease. These doses are approximately twice and four times the recommended maximum dose for man. In the present work no direct relationship was observed between dose of tetracycline and hepatic accumulation of triglyceride, although livers of rats treated with 250 mg tetracycline/kg appeared uniformly pale yellow. Elevated serum triglyceride was found predominantly in rats treated with 120 mg/kg, while there was no obvious difference between serum triglyceride of rats treated with 250 mg tetracycline and control rats, indicating a block in the release of hepatic triglycerides. Where protection by vitamin B12 was studied, the vitamin was given i.m. (50 microgram/animal) 3 hours before the injection of 120 mg tetracycline per kg. There was a good evidence that lipid abnormalities caused by tetracycline improved by vitamin B12. Thus both hepatic and serum total lipid and triglycerides were significantly lower than those of rats treated with tetracycline, although hepatic total cholesterol was significantly increased as in case of tetracycline only.
Experiments on rats showed that blockade of hyperpolarization-activated currents moderates tachycardia induced by beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoproterenol and potentiates the increase in stroke volume produced by this agonist. Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve against the background of isoproterenol treatment augmented bradycardia and increased stroke volume. Blockade of hyperpolarization-activated currents followed by application of isoproterenol moderated vagus-induced bradycardia and had no effect on the dynamics of stroke volume.
To determine whether bucolome (5-n-butyl-1-cyclohexyl-2,4,6-trioxoperhydropyrimidine), a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent, can reverse diuretic resistance of furosemide in patients with nephrotic syndrome, we examined the inhibitory effect of bucolome on the protein binding of furosemide in serum and urine. Bucolome significantly inhibited the protein binding of furosemide not only in serum but also in urine of preparation albumin (UPA), which mimics urinary albumin concentration in patients with nephrotic syndrome by ultrafiltration method. The binding percentage of furosemide to albumin was approximately 70% in UPA. With coadministration of bucolome to healthy volunteers, renal clearance of furosemide was increased, reflecting the increase of the free fraction of furosemide in serum. Furthermore, coadministration of bucolome caused a significant increase of urine volume and sodium concentration in urine. Even at higher urine levels of furosemide, the inhibitory effect of bucolome on the protein binding of furosemide in UPA remains constant, and changes in pH at weakly acidic pH levels (pH 5.5-6.5) did not alter the inhibitory effect of bucolome. Interestingly, coadministration of bucolome with furosemide in doxorubicin (Adriamycin)-induced nephrotic syndrome model rats alleviated the diuretic resistance. These results suggest that bucolome has a potent inhibitory effect on the protein binding of furosemide in the urine and can partially restore the diuretic response of furosemide in patients with nephrotic syndrome by increasing the free fraction of furosemide at the site of action.
We report a case of specific myocardiotoxicity due to 5 F.U. not previously described in man. A 41-year-old man was admitted to the ICU for heart and renal failure, appearing 24 h after 5 days treatment with 5 F.U. and cis-platinum. Dopamine was necessary to maintain blood pressure. Two-D echocardiography and a right heart catheterisation confirmed the alteration of myocardial contractility. After 2 weeks a complete cardiac recovery occurred.
Remifentanil is being used increasingly as one component of total intravenous anesthesia. Severe postoperative pain has occasionally been reported with discontinuation of remifentanil. This study was designed to determine the involvement of conventional protein kinase Cgamma (cPKCgamma) in the inhibitory action of lidocaine on remifentanil-induced hyperalgesia of rats after propofol-remifentanil-based anesthesia. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were allocated into the following groups randomly: propofol only (P), propofol+remifentanil (R), propofol+remifentanil+lidocaine (RL), and propofol+lidocaine (L). Cumulative pain score and withdrawal response to mechanical stimulation, immunoblotting, and immunofluorescence were applied to observe remifentanil-induced hyperalgesia and cPKCgamma membrane translocation. We found that the cumulative pain score of group R increased significantly at 30, 120, and 300 minutes postanesthesia (P<0.05). After plantar incision, the withdrawal threshold on both the contralateral and the ipsilaeral side at 30, 120, and 300 minutes postanesthesia in group R was significantly lower than in groups P, RL, and L (P<0.05). Both immunoblotting and immunofluorescence showed that cPKCgamma membrane translocation increased in dorsal horn neurons of propofol-remifentanil-based anesthetized rats, which could be inhibited by systemic lidocaine. These results suggested that increased cPKCgamma membrane translocation was involved in remifentanil-induced hyperalgesia, which was inhibited by systemic lidocaine and may contribute to reduced postoperative pain in rats after propofol-remifentanil-based anesthesia.
Although non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is currently the most common form of chronic liver disease there is no pharmacological agent approved for its treatment. Since peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are closely associated with hepatic lipid metabolism, they seem to play important roles in NAFLD. However, the effects of PPAR agonists on steatosis that is a common pathology associated with NAFLD, remain largely controversial. In this study, the effects of various PPAR agonists, i.e. fenofibrate, bezafibrate, troglitazone, rosiglitazone, muraglitazar and tesaglitazar on oleic acid-induced steatotic HepaRG cells were investigated after a single 24-hour or 2-week repeat treatment. Lipid vesicles stained by Oil-Red O and triglycerides accumulation caused by oleic acid overload, were decreased, by up to 50%, while fatty acid oxidation was induced after 2-week co-treatment with PPAR agonists. The greatest effects on reduction of steatosis were obtained with the dual PPARα/γ agonist muraglitazar. Such improvement of steatosis was associated with up-regulation of genes related to fatty acid oxidation activity and down-regulation of many genes involved in lipogenesis. Moreover, modulation of expression of some nuclear receptor genes, such as FXR, LXRα and CAR, which are potent actors in the control of lipogenesis, was observed and might explain repression of de novo lipogenesis.
Altogether, our in vitro data on steatotic HepaRG cells treated with PPAR agonists correlated well with clinical investigations, bringing a proof of concept that drug-induced reversal of steatosis in human can be evaluated in in vitro before conducting long-term and costly in vivo studies in animals and patients.
Glucagon Like Peptide-1 (GLP-1) drugs are currently used to treat type-2 diabetes. Safety concerns for increased risk of pancreatitis and pancreatic ductal metaplasia have accompanied these drugs. High fat diet (HFD) is a type-2 diabetes risk factor that may affect the response to GLP-1 drug treatment. The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of diet and GLP-1 based drugs on the exocrine pancreas in mice. Experiments were designed in a mouse model of insulin resistance created by feeding a HFD or standard diet (STD) for 6weeks. The GLP-1 drugs, sitagliptin (SIT) and exenatide (EXE) were administered once daily for additional 6weeks in both mice fed HFD or STD. The results showed that body weight, blood glucose levels, and serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNFα, IL-1β, and KC) were significantly greater in HFD mice than in STD mice regardless of GLP-1 drug treatment. The semi-quantitative grading showed that pancreatic changes were significantly greater in EXE and SIT-treated mice compared to control and that HFD exacerbated spontaneous exocrine pancreatic changes seen in saline-treated mice on a standard diet. Exocrine pancreatic changes identified in this study included acinar cell injury (hypertrophy, autophagy, apoptosis, necrosis, and atrophy), vascular injury, interstitial edema and inflammation, fat necrosis, and duct changes. These findings support HFD as a risk factor to increased susceptibility/severity for acute pancreatitis and indicate that GLP-1 drugs cause pancreatic injury that can be exacerbated in a HFD environment.
Entecavir therapy is effective against lamivudine-resistant virus in patients with hepatitis B virus infection. We investigated viral load changes of YMDD mutant virus (rtM204I [YIDD sequence], rtM204V [YVDD]) in serial serum samples during entecavir treatment for lamivudine-resistant virus and determined changes in viral precore and core promoter mutants.
Nineteen patients were treated in randomized, double-blind phase II clinical trials of entecavir at 0.5 or 1.0 mg for breakthrough hepatitis due to lamivudine-resistant virus. Viral changes in YMDD mutants (rtM204I, rtM204V), amino acid changes in the polymerase reverse transcriptase region and precore/core promoter mutations at 52 weeks were determined in 18 patients.
Changes in viral loads of rtM204I and rtM204V were similar. No differences in load changes were seen betweenthe 0.5 and 1.0 mg groups. However, load changes for rtM204I alone were greater than those for the rtM204I + rtM204V mixed-type (P = 0.042, at both 40 and 52 weeks). Load changes in rtM204I and rtM204V with G1896A tended to be greater than those without. Moreover, G1896A was replaced by wild-type virus in two patients at 52 weeks.
RtM204I only or the existence of precore mutation was more sensitive to entecavir therapy against lamivudine-resistant virus.
Nonsyndromic X-linked mental retardation (MRX) is defined by an X-linked inheritance pattern of low IQ, problems with adaptive behavior, and the absence of additional specific clinical features. The 13 MRX genes identified to date account for less than one-fifth of all MRX, suggesting that numerous gene defects cause the disorder in other families. In a female patient with severe nonsyndromic mental retardation and a de novo balanced translocation t(X;7)(p11.3;q11.21), we have cloned the DNA fragment that contains the X-chromosomal and the autosomal breakpoint. In silico sequence analysis provided no indication of a causative role for the chromosome 7 breakpoint in mental retardation (MR), whereas, on the X chromosome, a zinc-finger gene, ZNF41, was found to be disrupted. Expression studies indicated that ZNF41 transcripts are absent in the patient cell line, suggesting that the mental disorder in this patient results from loss of functional ZNF41. Moreover, screening of a panel of patients with MRX led to the identification of two other ZNF41 mutations that were not found in healthy control individuals. A proline-to-leucine amino acid exchange is present in affected members of one family with MRX. A second family carries an intronic splice-site mutation that results in loss of specific ZNF41 splice variants. Wild-type ZNF41 contains a highly conserved transcriptional repressor domain that is linked to mechanisms of chromatin remodeling, a process that is defective in various other forms of MR. Our results suggest that ZNF41 is critical for cognitive development; further studies aim to elucidate the specific mechanisms by which ZNF41 alterations lead to MR.
Because traditional nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs are associated with increased risk for acute cardiovascular events, current guidelines recommend acetaminophen as the first-line analgesic of choice on the assumption of its greater cardiovascular safety. Data from randomized clinical trials prospectively addressing cardiovascular safety of acetaminophen, however, are still lacking, particularly in patients at increased cardiovascular risk. Hence, the aim of this study was to evaluate the safety of acetaminophen in patients with coronary artery disease.
The 33 patients with coronary artery disease included in this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study received acetaminophen (1 g TID) on top of standard cardiovascular therapy for 2 weeks. Ambulatory blood pressure, heart rate, endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilatation, platelet function, endothelial progenitor cells, markers of the renin-angiotensin system, inflammation, and oxidative stress were determined at baseline and after each treatment period. Treatment with acetaminophen resulted in a significant increase in mean systolic (from 122.4±11.9 to 125.3±12.0 mm Hg P=0.02 versus placebo) and diastolic (from 73.2±6.9 to 75.4±7.9 mm Hg P=0.02 versus placebo) ambulatory blood pressures. On the other hand, heart rate, endothelial function, early endothelial progenitor cells, and platelet function did not change.
This study demonstrates for the first time that acetaminophen induces a significant increase in ambulatory blood pressure in patients with coronary artery disease. Thus, the use of acetaminophen should be evaluated as rigorously as traditional nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs and cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, particularly in patients at increased cardiovascular risk.
URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00534651.
The study was conducted to compare the presence of cardiotoxicity after the treatment of Hodgkin's disease with the standard ABVD or BEACOPP protocol. We examined 29 patients treated by means of the ABVD regimen and 34 treated with the BEACOPP regimen. Using rest echocardiography we assessed the left ventricular function before and after the therapy. One year after the completion of therapy, a control examination was performed with a battery of tests; the rest and dynamic stress echocardiography and cardiopulmonary tests were carried out to assess cardiopulmonary performance. A similar significant deterioration of ejection fraction and diastolic function was apparent after the treatment in both sub-groups with a further progression at the one-year control. Only one patient from the BEACOPP sub-group showed a pathological drop of EF <50%. The most affected parameters of left ventricular function (LV) were Doppler indices. We found a significant relationship of the parameters of LV function compared with age, the cumulative dose of doxorubicin and the cumulative dose of radiotherapy. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that diastolic dysfunction correlated with advanced age and the cumulative dose of doxorubicin, and decreased cardiopulmonary performance with advanced age, radiotherapy, and female gender. Both parameters were significantly influenced by the presence of hypertension. The used regimens demonstrated similar subclinical cardiotoxicity, thus the most aggressive regimen, BEACOPP, is not accompanied by a higher rate of cardiac impairment. The clinical value of such subclinical cardiotoxicity will be estimated in a further prospective follow-up.
Amiodarone is one of the most efficient and safe antiarrhythmic drugs in the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF). Although pro-arrhythmic effects of amiodarone therapy are rare, the aim of the present study was to identify clinical constellations which may lead to amiodarone-associated pro-arrhythmia.
Sixty-three consecutive patients (pts) (49 males; 64+/-10.3 years; 35 with coronary heart disease, 17 with lone AF) were retrospectively included in this study. All received an oral (92.1%) or i.v. (7.9%) loading dose of amiodarone for the treatment of AF. Cardiac diseases, concomitant medical treatment, and incidence of pro-arrhythmic effects were analysed. Three pts (4.8% of the total population) developed a clinical relevant, polymorphic ventricular tachyarrhythmia, 3-48 h after initiation of amiodarone loading. Coronary heart disease was present in all of these pts, and in two of them left ventricular ejection fraction was severely reduced. The mean QTc in these pts was only slightly prolonged; mean heart rate was significantly decreased compared with the total study population (61.0+/-7.5 vs. 74.5+/-24.1 bpm; P < or = 0.05). In all pts with pro-arrhythmia, amiodarone (two pts i.v., one patient oral) was initiated during concomitant beta-blocker/digitalis therapy. Twenty-five per cent of the patients receiving this 'triple' therapy developed ventricular arrhythmia.
The present study implies that initiation of amiodarone therapy in pts with structural heart disease and AF that are concomitantly treated with beta-blockers and digitalis may have an increased risk of amiodarone-associated pro-arrhythmia.
Current endeavour focuses on human genetic factors that contribute to susceptibility to or protection from tuberculosis (TB). Monocytes are crucial in containing Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, and the monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) cytokine plays a role in their recruitment to the site of infection. The G allele of the MCP-1 promoter polymorphism at position -2581 relative to the ATG transcription start codon has been described to be associated in Mexican and Korean TB patients with increased susceptibility to TB. We genotyped this and additional MCP-1 variants in sample collections comprising more than 2000 cases with pulmonary TB and more than 2300 healthy controls and 332 affected nuclear families from Ghana, West Africa, and more than 1400 TB patients and more than 1500 controls from Russia. In striking contrast to previous reports, MCP-1 -2581G was significantly associated with resistance to TB in cases versus controls [odds ratio (OR) 0.81, corrected P-value (P(corr)) = 0.0012] and nuclear families (OR 0.72, P(corr) = 0.04) and not with disease susceptibility, whereas in the Russian sample no evidence of association was found (P = 0.86). Our and other results do not support an association of MCP-1 -2581 with TB. In the Ghanaian population, eight additional MCP-1 polymorphisms were genotyped. MCP-1 -362C was associated with resistance to TB in the case-control collection (OR 0.83, P(corr) = 0.00017) and in the affected families (OR 0.7, P(corr) = 0.004). Linkage disequilibrium (LD) and logistic regression analyses indicate that, in Ghanaians, the effect results exclusively from the MCP-1 -362 variant, whereas the effect of -2581 may in part be explained by its LD with -362.
The toxicity of petroleum hydrocarbons to marine aquatic organisms has been widely investigated; however, the effects on freshwater environments have largely been ignored. In the Australian freshwater environment, the potential impacts of petroleum hydrocarbons are virtually unknown. The toxicity of crude oil and related compounds were measured in the sensitive early life stages of the crimson-spotted rainbowfish (Melanotaenia fluviatilis). Waterborne petroleum hydrocarbons crossed the chorion of embryonic rainbowfish, reducing survival and hatchability. Acute exposures resulted in developmental abnormalities at and above 0.5 mg/L total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH). Deformities included pericardial edema, disturbed axis formation, and abnormal jaw development. When assessing the acute toxicities of the water-accommodated fraction (WAF) of crude oil, dispersants, dispersant-oil mixtures, and naphthalene to larval rainbowfish, the lowest to highest 96-h median lethal concentrations for day of hatch larvae were naphthalene (0.51 mg/L), dispersed crude oil WAF (DCWAF)-9527 (0.74 mg/L TPH), WAF (1.28 mg/L TPH), DCWAF-9500 (1.37 mg/L TPH), Corexit 9500 (14.5 mg/L TPH), and Corexit 9527 (20.1 mg/L). Using naphthalene as a reference toxicant, no differences were found between the sensitivities of larval rainbowfish collected from adults exposed to petroleum hydrocarbons during embryonic development and those collected from unexposed adults.
We describe a 1-day-old neonate born after 39 weeks of gestation with the unusual presentation of apneic seizures. He manifested apnea during the first 12 hours of life. Prolonged video electroencephalography (EEG) monitoring captured electrographic seizures in the right centro-temporal region, which correlated with the onset and duration of clinical bouts of apnea and oxygen desaturation. The longest event lasted more than 2 minutes, without development of bradycardia. The clinical seizures resolved after administration of phenobarbital with normalization of the EEG several days later. Head ultrasound disclosed an echogenic mass in the right temporal lobe, corroborated as hemorrhage on brain magnetic resonance imaging. This report emphasizes the importance of EEG in the evaluation of full-term neonates with recurrent unexplained apnea.
Decreased heart rate variability (HRV) has been associated with future cardiac morbidity and mortality and is often used as a marker of altered cardiac autonomic balance in studies of health effects of airborne particulate matter. Fewer studies have evaluated associations between air pollutants and cardiac arrhythmia.
We examined relationships between cardiac arrhythmias, HRV, and exposures to airborne particulate matter.
We measured HRV and arrhythmia with ambulatory electrocardiograms in a cohort panel study for up to 235 hr per participant among 50 nonsmokers with coronary artery disease who were ≥ 71 years of age and living in four retirement communities in the Los Angeles, California, Air Basin. Exposures included hourly outdoor gases, hourly traffic-related and secondary organic aerosol markers, and daily size-fractionated particle mass. We used repeated measures analyses, adjusting for actigraph-derived physical activity and heart rate, temperature, day of week, season, and community location.
Ventricular tachycardia was significantly increased in association with increases in markers of traffic-related particles, secondary organic carbon, and ozone. Few consistent associations were observed for supraventricular tachycardia. Particulates were significantly associated with decreased ambulatory HRV only in the 20 participants using ACE (angiotensin I-converting enzyme) inhibitors.
Although these data support the hypothesis that particulate exposures may increase the risk of ventricular tachycardia for elderly people with coronary artery disease, HRV was not associated with exposure in most of our participants. These results are consistent with previous findings in this cohort for systemic inflammation, blood pressure, and ST segment depression.
Vanoxerine (GBR-12909) is a high-affinity dopamine reuptake inhibitor that was synthesized in the late 1970s and was initially tested in Europe as a potential antidepressant. In 1989, it was suggested that GBR-12909 might be useful in the treatment of cocaine addiction [346980]. The drug has completed phase I clinical trials conducted by the US National Institute on Drug Abuse for the potential treatment of cocaine abuse [346245,376621]. A multidose, safety and pharmacokinetics, open-label, fixed-order dose-escalating study has been completed. Four doses of vanoxerine in healthy normal volunteers were administered, to assess the safety and tolerability of the drug at 25, 50, 75 and 100 mg. Further development is likely to continue, pending review of the data [376621]. Dopamine transporter occupancy has also been measured. After 2 weeks of dosing at either 50, 75 or 100 mg oral vanoxerine in 8 human subjects, preliminary results of subsequent PET scans show that occupancy increased with dose, reaching 25 to 35% at 100 mg [346245]. At these doses, the drug did not cause the behavioral symptoms such as those of cocaine, suggesting that the drug does not have abuse potential. If no safety issues arise, the compound will be evaluated in trials with cocaine-dependent subjects, along with its derivative, compound 5 [346980]. It is thought that prolonged treatment with vanoxerine could reverse the addiction process, following studies in rats showing that dopamine transporter levels returned to normal when animals were switched to vanoxerine therapy immediately after cocaine administration [346980]. Vanoxerine has an affinity constant (Ki), at the human dopamine transporter, of 9 nM [347021]. Gist-Brocades originally initiated studies of vanoxerine, along with another piperazine, GBR-12935, for the treatment of cocaine dependence. The company was also investigating vanoxerine as a potential antipsychotic therapeutic agent; development for this indication has been discontinued [190331]. In 1995, the NIDA began to fund studies into the potential of vanoxerine to reduce cocaine self-administration by rhesus monkeys. Early data showed that vanoxerine could decrease cocaine-maintained responding (CMR) in rhesus monkeys, without affecting similar levels of food-maintained responding (FMR). Furthermore, a decanoate ester of a hydroxylated analog of vanoxerine, DBL-583, could decrease CMR by 80% while leaving FMR unaffected; this effect lasted almost 30 days with a single injection [227488,346980]. Similar studies have shown that, by inhibiting the dopamine transporter, for which vanoxerine has a 500-fold increased affinity in comparison to cocaine, vanoxerine could selectively reduce(1 mg/kg i.v.) or eliminate (3 mg/kg i.v.) cocaine self-administration in primates. The drug was well tolerated with no changes in blood pressure or oxygen saturation. Oral administration of the drug in clinical trials was planned following this study [346990].
Paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) is a novel cytostatic agent that has shown interesting antitumor activity in patients with advanced breast cancer. Depending on variable patient characteristics and amount and type of prior therapy, as well as the applied dose and schedule of paclitaxel, response rates have varied from 13% to 62%. However, optimal dose and schedule are still unknown. We studied a high-dose (250 to 300 mg/m2) 3-hour paclitaxel infusion schedule in a poor prognostic group of breast cancer patients who progressed or relapsed while taking anthracyclines. This regimen was given every 3 weeks. Twenty-one of the 36 patients studied had increased liver enzymes and 18 had documented liver metastases. The objective response rate was only 6%, but response rate by disease site indicated that soft tissue lesions responded in 30% of cases. For a better comparison with other reported data a uniform definition of "anthracycline refractory" is needed. Neuropathy, which was found to be dose limiting, and arthralgia/myalgia syndrome were the most frequently occurring toxicities. Both severe myelosuppression (and infections) and severe diarrhea and mucositis were reported more frequently in patients with liver dysfunction. As higher peak levels, increased areas under the concentration time curves, and longer times during which plasma concentrations were above the threshold level of 0.1 mumol/L were found in patients with elevated liver enzymes, a correlation with the observed toxicities is assumed. Further pharmacodynamic studies in such patients receiving a 3-hour infusion seem warranted.
