A 33-year-old male with diphasic dyskinesia was presented. He began to have difficulty with walking at the age of 27, and was diagnosed to have juvenile parkinsonism. For the past two years, L-dopa has been prescribed with good initial response. One year ago peripheral dopa decarboxylase inhibitor in combination with L-dopa was started, and he began to have involuntary movements. One hour after taking 2 tablets of EC dopa (L-dopa 100 mg + benserazide 25 mg), violent involuntary ballistic movements appeared in all four extremities which lasted for 15 minutes. For the following 50 minutes, his symptoms of parkinsonism markedly improved. The score of parkinsonism reduced by 58%, and he was able to walk. The plasma dopa level was increasing during this period. However, during decreasing period of plasma dopa concentration, he did not have end-of-dose dyskinesia. On the other hand, one hour after taking 500 mg of L-dopa involuntary choreic movements appeared in his right upper extremity for several minutes without any improvement of parkinsonism. Three hours and 20 minutes after taking L-dopa, he developed mild choreic movements for several minutes followed by marked improvement of parkinsonism for 30 minutes. The score of parkinsonism reduced by 79%. Thirty minutes later, he developed violent ballistic movements in all four extremities, lasting for 30 minutes followed by reappearance of parkinsonism. The concentration of plasma dopa was decreasing during this period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The utility of the crossover design in substance abuse research was examined in a 26-week, double-blind clinical trial that evaluated the efficacy of desipramine (0 or 150 mg/day) in 109 male and female cocaine- and opiate-dependent patients maintained on buprenorphine (12 mg/day) or methadone (65 mg/day). After being stabilized on buprenorphine or methadone (weeks 1-2), half of the patients were randomly assigned to receive desipramine for the first half of the trial and placebo for the second, with the order reversed for the second half. Analyses using hierarchical linear models (HLM) indicated that desipramine reduced the use of opiates only when administered at the start (rather than the middle) of the trial, whereas cocaine use was reduced when desipramine was introduced at either time.
Orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT) is an enzyme that causes the activation of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) is known to catabolize 5-FU, which is widely used in chemotherapeutic treatments for patients with a variety of malignant tumors including gastric and colorectal cancer. The expression and activities of these two enzymes therefore play important roles in the response of cancer patients to chemotherapy. However, little is known about the expression of these enzymes in gastric cancer. In the present study, we further elucidate the expression patterns of ORPT and DPD and their clinicopathological significance by immunohistochemical analysis in 221 and RT-PCR in 36 gastric cancer samples. The expression of OPRT by immunohistochemical analysis was detected in 117 (52.9%) cases, whereas DPD was detected in 66 (29.9%) cases. Moreover, the level of expression of OPRT was found to correlate with the depth of tumor invasion and a poorer prognosis. Although the mRNA and protein expression of OPRT and DPD levels did not correlate, an inverse correlation in the expression of OPRT and DPD was observed by RT-PCR. The survival benefit of post-operative adjuvant chemotherapy could not be confirmed in our present analysis. However, among the patients who had received such treatment with 5-FU or its derivatives, the prognosis in cases with low DPD levels was better than that in cases with high DPD expression by immunohistochemical analysis. These results indicate that the expression of OPRT and DPD are important predictors of both survival and the response to adjuvant chemotherapy in gastric cancer patients.
Phamacological activities of a standard ethanol extract G1 from Brazilian green propolis, typified as BRP1, was evaluated in mouse models of pain and inflammation. Intraperitoneal injection ( I. P.) of G1 inhibited acetic acid-induced abdominal constrictions with an ID (50) = 0.75 +/- 0.05 mg/kg, and in the formalin test the ID (50) values were 0.85 +/- 0.07 mg/kg and 13.88 +/- 1.12 mg/kg, respectively, for the neurogenic and inflammatory phases. The extract was ineffective when assessed in the hot-plate assay. In serotonin-induced paw edema, G1 led to a maximal inhibition (MI) of 51.6 % after 120 min when administered I. P. and of 36 % after 15 min by the oral route ( O. R.). When the inflammatory agent was complete Freund's adjuvant, inhibition of paw edema was also observed after administration of the extract by both routes. In the capsaicin-induced ear edema the ID (50) values were 1.09 +/- 0.08 mg/kg ( I. P.) and 10.00 +/- 0.90 mg/kg ( O. R.). In the acute carrageenan-induced inflammatory reaction induced by carrageenan, G1 reduced the number of neutrophils in the peritoneal cavity with IC (50) values of 0.72 +/- 0.08 mg/kg and 4.17 +/- 0.50 mg/kg, by I. P. or O. R. administration, with a preferential migration of polymorphonuclear neutrophils. IN VITRO, G1 decreased nitric oxide production in LPS-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells (IC (50) = 41.60 microg/mL), and also the luciferase activity in TNF-alpha-stimulated HEK 293 cells transfected with NF-kappaB-luciferase reporter gene driven by the nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) (IC (50) = 200 microg/mL). This extract, which at low concentrations induces anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects in mouse models, presents a high content of flavonoids, known to inhibit inducible NOS (iNOS) activity. These data taken together led us to reinforce the hypothesis in the literature that the anti-inflammatory effect of propolis may be a due to inhibition of iNOS gene expression, through interference with NF-kappaB sites in the iNOS promoter.
Bromocriptine is an ergot-derived dopamine agonist sometimes used for postpartum suppression of lactation. On rare occasions (a total of seven previous reports in the literature), use of the medication has been associated with psychotic symptomatology in postpartum patients. This case report describes a 19-year-old postpartum woman who developed severe psychotic symptoms while taking low doses of bromocriptine and pseudoephedrine. The use of bromocriptine for suppression of lactation is controversial. If prescribed for postpartum patients, bromocriptine alone or in combination with sympathomimetic drugs should be used only with caution.
Contraceptive methods, including implants, do not prevent common symptoms and adverse health events that most people experience. It is difficult, therefore, to decide whether or not the occurrence of symptoms or adverse events that are common can be attributed to use of a contraceptive method or to determine if a given method changes the likelihood of their occurrence. Based on the review of the literature, no apparent differences in the frequency of adverse events are evident between the six-implant or two-rod levonorgestrel systems and the single implant etonogestrel and nomegestrol acetate systems. The most frequent adverse events reported in clinical trials that are probably related to implant use are headaches and acne. Weight gain, dizziness, and mood changes are also frequently mentioned adverse events and are possibly steroid-related. Other possibly related adverse events, although much less frequently reported, are loss of libido, fatigue, hair loss, and other skin conditions. Persistent ovarian follicles that spontaneously disappear are a common event during use of progestin-only contraceptives, and providers should be aware of this condition to avoid unnecessary interventions. Overall, the vast experience reported in the clinical studies reviewed here show that all existing implantable contraceptives are equally safe. This can probably be attributed to the low-hormonal dose delivered by progestin-implant systems.
To study the molecular mechanism of microcystin (MC) induced liver tumorigenesis in rats.
The two-stage-medium-term tumorigenesis theory was applied to establish the animal model, and the effect of MC in liver tumor formation was evaluated by the Albert gamma-GT methods, and then, the immunohistochemical technique and image analysis were used to study the expression of the bcl-2 and bax genes during tumorigenesis.
(1) MC enhanced the formation of gamma-GT foci in liver (100%), which was significantly higher than the diethylnitrosamine (DEN) control group (22.22%) (P < 0.05). (2) MC decreased the expression of bax gene. The intensity and area of bax gene expression in the pure MC toxin group were 0.028 3 AODV and 0.007 3 ( micro m(2)/ micro m(2)) and in the DEN control group were 0.065 5 AODV and 0.024 4 ( micro m(2)/ micro m(2)), respectively. The intensity and areas of bax gene expression in the pure MC toxin group were significantly lower than those in the DEN control group (P < 0.05). (3) MC increased the expression of bcl-2 gene. The intensity and area of bcl-2 gene expression in the pure MC toxin group wee 0.097 7 AODV and 0.031 5 ( micro m(2)/ micro m(2)), respectively, and in the DEN control group were 0.046 0 AODV and 0.020 5 ( micro m(2)/ micro m(2)) respectively (P < 0.05).
(1) MC can strongly promote liver tumorigenesis. (2) The changes of bcl-2 and bax gene expression possibly play an important role in the MC induced liver tumor formation.
We investigated the effect of a 4-day oral salt load (150 mmol NaCl extra per day) on blood pressure, erythrocyte sodium transport and the activity in the renin-angiotensin system in six males with primary hypertension, who had attained normotension on chronic enalapril treatment for 4 years. The design was a placebo-controlled, randomized, two-way cross over, double-blind study, i.e. each patient served as his own control. Intracellular erythrocyte sodium and potassium content were measured by flame photomometry. The increase in the intracellular sodium concentration during 1 h in 37 degrees C incubation of whole-blood with ouabain (compared with no-ouabain) was measured to determine the rate of active sodium efflux. 24-h blood pressure registration was performed with Space-lab equipment (SL 90202) before and at the end of the salt load. Left ventricular morphology was evaluated with echocardiography and the minimal vascular resistance of the hand vascular bed with water plethysmography at baseline and after 4 years on enalapril. Four years' enalapril treatment caused a significant decrease in blood pressure, left ventricular mass and minimal vascular resistance. During the 4-day salt load average 24-h blood pressure was significantly elevated, 129+/-3/85+/-2 mmHg as compared to 124+/-2/82+/-2 mmHg during placebo treatment (p=0.025). The change (delta) in MAP during high salt intake showed a negative relationship to delta-sodium efflux rate constant (r=-0.65, p=0.047). No significant relationship was found between the blood pressure response to the salt load and structural cardiovascular changes. In conclusion, a short-term oral salt load in hypertensive patients on chronic enalapril treatment caused a blood pressure rise, which was related to cellular sodium transport but not to structural cardiovascular changes.
6[3-(1-Adamantyl)-4-methoxyphenyl]-2-naphthoic acid (Adapalene®), a synthetic aromatic retinoid specific for RARβ and RARγ receptors, has been prepared utilizing a Pd/C-mediated Suzuki coupling between 6-bromo-2-naphthoic acid and 4-methoxyphenyl boronic acid, followed by introduction of an adamantyl group in the position 3 of the formed 6-(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-naphthoic acid. The interaction of 6-(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-naphthoic acid/ethyl ester and the 3-adamantyl analogs with DNA was studied in aqueous solution at physiological conditions by UV-vis spectroscopy. The calculated binding constants K(ligand-DNA) ranged between 1.1×10(4) M(-1) and 1.1×10(5) M(-1), the higher values corresponding to those of the adamantylated compounds. Molecular modeling studies have emphasized that the intercalative binding of adapalene and its derivatives to DNA is mainly stabilized by hydrophobic interactions related to the presence of the adamantyl group.
There is strong evidence for a genetic contribution to individual differences in vulnerability to drug addictions. Studies have shown that the 68-base pair repeat polymorphism in the promoter region of the human prodynorphin gene contains a putative AP-1 binding site, and that three or four repeat copies result in greater transcriptional activation. Here, we report on a separate cohort of 302 subjects ascertained and characterized extensively by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-Fourth Edition and Addiction Severity Index criteria as: (1) a control group of 127 subjects with no history of alcohol or drug abuse or dependence; (3) a case group of 82 with cocaine dependence only; and (3) a case group of 93 with cocaine and alcohol codependence. The promoter region of the prodynorphin gene containing the repeat was amplified from genomic DNA by polymerase chain reaction and analyzed via gel electrophoresis. Statistical tests were performed with data stratified by the three major ethnic groups studied: African American, Caucasian and Hispanic. For analyses, genotypes were grouped into short (1,1; 1,2; 2,2), short/long (1,3; 2,3; 1,4; 2,4) and long (3,3; 3,4; 4,4) repeats. Deviation from Hardy-Weinberg Equilibrium in the African American control group necessitated testing for association using grouped genotypes rather than grouped alleles. In controls, a significant difference was found in grouped genotype distribution among ethnicities. We found a point-wise, but not experiment-wise across-ethnicities, significant difference in grouped genotype frequency between the cocaine/alcohol-codependent group and the controls in African Americans, with genotypes containing longer alleles found at higher frequency in the codependent group.
We have recently reported that antioxidant liposomes can be used as antidotes for mustard gas induced lung injury in guinea pigs. The maximum protection was achieved with a liposome composed of tocopherols (alpha, gamma, delta) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC) when administered after 5 min of exposure of 2-chloroethyl ethyl sulfide (CEES), a half sulfur mustard gas. We also reported an association of mustard gas-induced lung injury with an activation of MAPK/AP-1 signaling pathway and cell proliferation. The objective of the present study was to investigate whether CEES-induced MAPKs/AP-1 signaling pathway is influenced by antioxidant liposome therapy. A single dose (200 microl) of the antioxidant liposome was administered intratracheally after 5 min of exposure of CEES (0.5 mg/kg). The animals were sacrificed after 1h and 30 days of CEES exposure. Although the liposome treatment did not have any significant effect on the activation of the MAPKs family (ERK1/2, p38 and JNK1/2), it significantly counteracted the CEES-induced activation of AP-1 transcription factors and corresponding increase in the protein levels of Fos, ATF and Jun family members. The liposome treatment significantly blocked the CEES-induced increase in the protein levels of cyclin D1, a cell cycle protein and PCNA, a cell differentiation marker. Furthermore, it protected lung against CEES-induced inflammation and infiltration of neutrophils, eosinophils and erythrocytes in the alveolar space. This suggests that the protective effect of antioxidant liposome against CEES-induced lung damage is mediated via control of AP-1 signaling.
Recurrent atypical ventricular tachycardia, with a long QT interval, was documented in a 56-year-old patient 16 days after discontinuing amiodarone 200 mg and 400 mg on alternate days. Tachycardia and variable prolongation of myocardial repolarization were abolished by temporary cardiac pacing and correction of mild hypokalaemia.
Low molecular weight heparins are now widely prescribed in the treatment of thromboembolic disease and acute coronary syndromes. Anaphylaxis is a recognised but rare potentially life threatening side effect of heparin. Common clinical features of anaphylaxis are cardiovascular collapse, bronchospasm, cutaneous symptoms, angioedema, generalised oedema, or gastrointestinal symptoms. It is extremely rare, however, for patients to experience such dramatic and potentially life threatening consequences as seen in the case reported here. It has been shown that patients may be tolerant of certain low molecular weight heparins but sensitive to others. Adrenaline is regarded as the most important drug for any severe anaphylactic reaction. Administration by the intramuscular route produces significantly higher peak plasma concentrations compared with subcutaneous injection, which is clearly beneficial in the critically compromised patient. Current UK Resuscitation Council guidelines support the use of 0.5 ml of 1:1000 adrenaline to be administered intramuscularly.
Thirty patients (17 females, median age 55 years) with mild/moderate hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure 95-110 mmHg over 2 consecutive weeks) participated in a study of the efficacy and tolerability of once-daily diltiazem "controlled delivery" 180 mg-360 mg and amlodipine 5-10 mg compared with placebo (using clinic and 24-h ambulatory blood pressure measurement (Accutraker II). The study was conducted in a general practice setting using a randomized double-blind crossover design with Latin square allocation of treatment order within subjects. During each phase, doses were titrated to achieve a predose clinic sitting diastolic blood pressure of 90 mmHg. Three patients withdrew while taking amlodipine and 3 while taking placebo. The numbers of patients receiving the higher dose in each phase were as follows: placebo 22, diltiazem 12 and amlodipine 19. End-of-phase mean clinic sitting blood pressures were as follows: placebo 152/100, diltiazem 146/95 and amlodipine 140/93. End-of-phase mean 24-h ambulatory blood pressures were as follows: placebo 151/93, diltiazem 143/86 and amlodipine 137/84. Both clinic and ambulatory blood pressures were therefore significantly reduced (p < 0.01) in both active phases compared with placebo, and systolic blood pressure was also significantly lower with amlodipine compared with diltiazem. Heart rate was increased with amlodipine. Both drugs were well tolerated, and adverse events were predictable for each agent, with amlodipine causing more vasodilator side effects. Thus both amlodipine and diltiazem once-daily are effective in reducing blood pressure. While amlodipine is more potent than diltiazem in reducing systolic blood pressure, it causes more vasodilator side effects.
Medulloblastomas are the most frequent malignant brain tumors in children. Sorafenib (Nexavar, BAY43-9006), a multikinase inhibitor, blocks cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in a variety of tumor cells. Sorafenib inhibited proliferation and induced apoptosis in two established cell lines (Daoy and D283) and a primary culture (VC312) of human medulloblastomas. In addition, sorafenib inhibited phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in both cell lines and primary tumor cells. The inhibition of phosphorylated STAT3 (Tyr(705)) occurs in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In contrast, AKT (protein kinase B) was only decreased in D283 and VC312 medulloblastoma cells and mitogen-activated protein kinases (extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2) were not inhibited by sorafenib in these cells. Both D-type cyclins (D1, D2, and D3) and E-type cyclin were down-regulated by sorafenib. Also, expression of the antiapoptotic protein Mcl-1, a member of the Bcl-2 family, was decreased and correlated with apoptosis induced by sorafenib. Finally, sorafenib suppressed the growth of human medulloblastoma cells in a mouse xenograft model. Together, our data show that sorafenib blocks STAT3 signaling as well as expression of cell cycle and apoptosis regulatory proteins, associated with inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis in medulloblastomas. These findings provide a rationale for treatment of pediatric medulloblastomas with sorafenib.
To determine morphological changes in the very early stage of damage and recovery of myocardial fibers in relation to electrolytes and water content in the myocardium, experimental myocardial infarcts were produced after injection of 75 mg/kg isoproterenol (Isp) to rats weighing 270 +/- 10 g. Electrolytes were examined by an atomic absorption spectrophotometer, and histologic examination was performed by light and electron microscopy. At 30 min after Isp injection, Ca and water contents of myocardium increased, but Mg decreased. These myocardial damages showed a maximum level from 6 to 12 h after injection of Isp. It consisted of reversible injury of muscle fibers represented by eosinophilic and fatty degeneration, intermingled with coagulation necrosis of fibers which was irreversible. Most of these eosinophilic degeneration fibers recovered to normal fibers between 12 h and 3 d after the injection. The chronological changes of Ca, Mg, and water contents were well correlated to the morphological early changes of myocardial fibers, and this experimental model by using Isp may be useful for examining the recovery of damaged myocardial tissue and estimating the effects of therapeutics.
We investigated whether the serum concentration of eosinophil cationic protein (s-ECP) can be used to determine when a step-down in inhaled corticosteroid therapy is indicated for patients with chronic asthma. A total of 24 adult patients, whose symptoms were well controlled with inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate (iBDP), were studied. The dosage of iBDP was reduced by half once a month until the dose reached one-quarter of the original level. s-ECP and blood eosinophil counts were determined once a month before and during the 6-month period after the step-down. In 12 patients, moderate and frequent exacerbation occurred, thus requiring a return to the initial or twice the initial dose of iBDP. Thus, the step-down here was defined as unsuccessful. In the remaining 12 patients, the symptoms were stable over the course of the 6 months, and the step-down was defined as successful. s-ECP correlated with eosinophil counts in peripheral blood (EOS) in both the successful and the unsuccessful groups. Although EOS before the step-down did not differ significantly between the two groups, s-ECP was significantly higher in the unsuccessful group (mean 35.7 microg/L) than in the successful group (mean 17.0 microg/L, p < 0.03). Thus, s-ECP appears to be a useful marker for determining when a step-down in iBDP therapy is indicated, and thus may contribute to successful long-term management of chronic asthma.
The blood pressure response to increasing doses of hydrochlorothiazide with or without amiloride was examined in 130 elderly hypertensive patients. After four weeks of placebo, patients were randomly allocated to increasing doses of hydrochlorothiazide or hydrochlorothiazide with amiloride for 12 weeks using a parallel, double-blind study design. Both hydrochlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide with amiloride significantly reduced mean (+/- SEM) baseline supine and standing blood pressure (171 +/- 2/102 +/- 1 and 167 +/- 2/102 +/- 1 mm Hg) to 148 +/- 2/84 +/- 1 and 146 +/- 3/85 +/- 1 mm Hg, respectively, at week 16. Amiloride did not exert any additional antihypertensive effect. Only eight patients required hydrochlorothiazide at 100 mg/d, with the remainder responding to 25 to 50 mg/d. Hydrochlorothiazide decreased mean serum potassium level from 4.3 +/- 0.1 mEq/L (4.3 +/- 0.1 mmol/L) during placebo to 4.0 +/- 0.1 mEq/L (4.0 +/- 0.1 mmol/L) at week 16. Ten patients receiving hydrochlorothiazide developed hypokalemia compared with only two receiving hydrochlorothiazide with amiloride. Relatively low doses of hydrochlorothiazide (25 to 50 mg/d) effectively reduce blood pressure in elderly hypertensive patients. Hypokalemia may occur with hydrochlorothiazide alone but is much less common when hydrochlorothiazide is combined with amiloride.
Bladder lithiasis is a frequent complication in paraplegics and tetraplegics. We report on a patient where treatment of a urinary infection with antibacterial sulfamides was the causative factor in the formation of bladder stones.
In addition to the fundamental role of the extracellular glycoprotein Reelin in neuronal development and adult synaptic plasticity, alterations in Reelin-mediated signaling have been suggested to contribute to neuronal dysfunction associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). In vitro data revealed a biochemical link between Reelin-mediated signaling, Tau phosphorylation, and amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing. To directly address the role of Reelin in amyloid-beta plaque and Tau pathology in vivo, we crossed heterozygous Reelin knock-out mice (reeler) with transgenic AD mice to investigate the temporal and spatial AD-like neuropathology. We demonstrate that a reduction in Reelin expression results in enhanced amyloidogenic APP processing, as indicated by the precocious production of amyloid-beta peptides, the significant increase in number and size of amyloid-beta plaques, as well as age-related aggravation of plaque pathology in double mutant compared with single AD mutant mice of both sexes. Numerous amyloid-beta plaques accumulate in the hippocampal formation and neocortex of double mutants, precisely in layers with strongest Reelin expression and highest accumulation of Reelin plaques in aged wild-type mice. Moreover, concentric accumulations of phosphorylated Tau-positive neurons around amyloid-beta plaques were evident in 15-month-old double versus single mutant mice. Silver stainings indicated the presence of neurofibrillary tangles, selectively associated with amyloid-beta plaques and dystrophic neurites in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus. Our findings suggest that age-related Reelin aggregation and concomitant reduction in Reelin-mediated signaling play a proximal role in synaptic dysfunction associated with amyloid-beta deposition, sufficient to enhance Tau phosphorylation and tangle formation in the hippocampal formation in aged Reelin-deficient transgenic AD mice.
A patient with stage IV non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and chronic hepatitis who was treated with chemotherapy and rituximab developed fatal reactivation of hepatitis B. High viral load titers of hepatitis B DNA were demonstrated. DNA sequencing analysis revealed the presence of the precore mutant strain. Hepatitis B reactivation in patients receiving rituxmab-based chemotherapy is reviewed and the role of precore mutant virus strains resulting in fatal complications is discussed.
To evaluate the effects of PhXA41, a new prostaglandin analogue, on the intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients receiving pilocarpine treatment and the effects of pilocarpine in patients receiving PhXA41 treatment.
Twenty patients with ocular hypertension were randomized into two parallel groups. The treatment period was 2 weeks. Ten patients in group 1 were given PhXA41 twice daily during week 1 and, in addition, pilocarpine three times daily during week 2. Ten patients in group 2 received pilocarpine three times daily during week 1 and PhXA41 twice daily in addition during week 2. PhXA41 was used in a concentration of 0.006%, and pilocarpine was given in a concentration of 2%.
In group 1, the mean IOP on day 0 was 25.1 mm Hg; on day 7, 19.1 mm Hg; and on day 14, 17.6 mm Hg. In group 2, the mean IOP on day 0 was 23.8 mm Hg; on day 7, 20.4 mm Hg; and on day 14, 17.7 mm Hg.
PhXA41 had a clinically significant IOP-lowering effect (23.4% reduction on day 7 as compared with baseline day (P < .001). The corresponding value with pilocarpine was 14.3% (P < .001). When pilocarpine was added to PhXA41, the additional IOP reduction was 7.4% (P < .01) compared with 14.2% (P < .01) when PhXA41 was added to pilocarpine. The two groups were found to have an almost equal reduction in IOP on day 14 (group 1, 29.4%; group 2, 26.6%). No serious adverse reactions were seen. Some conjunctival hyperemia in the PhXA41-treated eyes was noted on day 7, as compared with the pilocarpine-treated eyes, but there were few complaints of discomfort.
This study indicated that PhXA41 could be useful in the treatment of glaucoma, as monotherapy, or in certain cases in combination with pilocarpine.
The preliminary data on efficacy and safety of oral tocainide in refractory ventricular dysrhythmia in 8 patients is described. Two patients died; one within 15 days and the other after 1750 days of continuous tocainide therapy. The cause of death in both patients was unclear. During initial administration and acute titration, oral tocainide was extremely effective in lidocaine-sensitive ventricular dysrhythmia and in patients with Q-T prolongation syndrome. Four out of 8 patients received tocainide in presence of left ventricular dysfunction and 2 out of 4 such patients died suddenly. Minor central nervous system side effects were seen in 2 patients and dermatologic adverse reaction was seen in one patient only.
A 64-year-old woman with blepharospasm, sustained clenching of the jaw, antecollis, and a strained, high-pitched phonation continued chronic trihexyphenidyl therapy despite the lack of any obvious benefit. Abrupt, accidental withdrawal of trihexyphenidyl triggered severe exacerbation of the cranial dystonia associated with inspiratory stridor and acute respiratory difficulties, prompting emergency admission. On indirect laryngoscopy, hyperadduction of the vocal folds was not the cause of the upper airway obstruction. A more likely cause of the inspiratory obstruction appeared to be forward bending of the neck combined with mouth-clenching spasms. Reinstitution of intravenous anticholinergic medication provided relatively prompt relief. We caution against abrupt interruption of anticholinergics in patients with severe segmental cranial dystonia, even in those cases in which no benefit is apparent to observers.
Little information is available on the effectiveness and safety of particular doses of isocarboxazid. In a study using isocarboxazid doses of 30 and 50 mg/day in depressed inpatients, the higher dose was well tolerated and did not result in any greater toxicity than the 30 mg dose. Significantly greater elevation of plasma serotonin (Week 2) and platelet MAO inhibition were seen with 50 mg/day. In nonmelancholic depressions, 50 mg proved to be more effective than 30 mg in symptoms of depression and anxiety. However, this did not apply to the vegetative-physiologic symptoms of depression.
