Chronically relapsing inflammation, tissue remodeling and fibrosis are hallmarks of inflammatory bowel diseases. The aim of this study was to investigate changes in connective tissue in a chronic murine model resulting from repeated cycles of dextran sodium sulphate (DSS) ingestion, to mimic the relapsing nature of the human disease.
C57BL/6 mice were exposed to DSS in drinking water for 1 week, followed by a recovery phase of 2 weeks. This cycle of exposure was repeated for up to 3 times (9 weeks in total). Colonic inflammation, fibrosis, extracellular matrix proteins and colonic gene expression were studied. In vivo MRI T 2 relaxometry was studied as a potential non-invasive imaging tool to evaluate bowel wall inflammation and fibrosis.
Repeated cycles of DSS resulted in a relapsing and remitting disease course, which induced a chronic segmental, transmural colitis after 2 and 3 cycles of DSS with clear induction of fibrosis and remodeling of the muscular layer. Tenascin expression mirrored its expression in Crohn's colitis. Microarray data identified a gene expression profile different in chronic colitis from that in acute colitis. Additional recovery was associated with upregulation of unique genes, in particular keratins, pointing to activation of molecular pathways for healing and repair. In vivo MRI T2 relaxometry of the colon showed a clear shift towards higher T2 values in the acute stage and a gradual regression of T2 values with increasing cycles of DSS.
Repeated cycles of DSS exposure induce fibrosis and connective tissue changes with typical features, as occurring in Crohn's disease. Colonic gene expression analysis revealed unique expression profiles in chronic colitis compared to acute colitis and after additional recovery, pointing to potential new targets to intervene with the induction of fibrosis. In vivo T2 relaxometry is a promising non-invasive assessment of inflammation and fibrosis.
Anaphylaxis to chlorhexidine is rare. We report a patient who experienced anaphylaxis during a whole body bath with chlorhexidine. Early signs of a type I allergy may have been masked because of previous concomitant treatment with corticosteroids and PUVA.
In rats, cortical spreading hyperaemia is coupled to a spreading neuroglial depolarization wave (spreading depression) under physiological conditions, whereas cortical spreading ischaemia is coupled to it if red blood cell products are present in the subarachnoid space. Spreading ischaemia has been proposed as the pathophysiological correlate of the widespread cortical infarcts abundantly found in autopsy studies of patients with subarachnoid haemorrhage. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether the extracellular ion changes associated with the depolarization wave may cause the vasoconstriction underlying spreading ischaemia. We induced spreading ischaemia in vivo with the nitric oxide (NO) scavenger oxyhaemoglobin and an elevated K+ concentration in the subarachnoid space while slow potential, pH, extracellular volume and concentrations of K+, Na+, Ca2+ and Cl- were measured in the cortex with microelectrodes. We then extraluminally applied an ionic cocktail (cocktail(SI)) to the isolated middle cerebral artery in vitro, matching the ionic composition of the extracellular space as measured during spreading ischaemia in vivo. Extraluminal application of cocktail(SI) caused middle cerebral artery dilatation in the absence and constriction in the presence of NO synthase inhibition in vitro, corresponding with the occurrence of spreading hyperaemia in the presence and spreading ischaemia in the absence of NO in vivo. The L-type Ca2+ inhibitor nimodipine caused the cocktail(SI)-induced vasoconstriction to revert to vasodilatation in the absence of NO in vitro similar to the reversal of spreading ischaemia to spreading hyperaemia in response to nimodipine in vivo. We found that K+ was the predominant vasoconstrictor contained in cocktail(SI). Its vasoconstrictor action was augmented by NO synthase inhibition. Our results suggest that, under elevated baseline K+ as a hallmark of any condition of energy deficiency, the extracellular ion changes represent the essential mediator of the vascular response to spreading neuroglial depolarization. In the presence of NO they mediate vasodilatation and in its absence they mediate constriction.
The present study was designed to investigate the whole plant of Pistacia integerrima Stewart in order to examine the pharmacological basis of the use of the plant in folk medicine for the treatment of infectious diseases and disorder. Phytochemical and pharmacological studies led to the isolation of a new triterpene pistagremic acid (3-methyl-7-(4,4,10,13,14-pentamethyl-3-2,3,4,5,6,7,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17-tetradecahydro-1H-cyclopenta[a]phenanthren-17-yl)-oct-3-enoic). Pistagremic acid showed significant leishmanicidal activity (IC(50): 6.71 ± 0.09 µM) against Leishmania major (DESTO) promastigotes in comparison to standard compound amphotericin B (IC(50): 0.21 ± 0.06 µM).
The 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome is a rare, aggressive myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized by constitutively active FGFR1 fusion proteins that arise from specific chromosomal translocations and which drive aberrant proliferation. Although FGFR1 inhibitors have shown in vitro activity against FGFR1 fusions, none are in use clinically and there is a need to assess additional compounds as potential therapy. Here we use cell lines and primary cells to investigate ponatinib (AP24534). Ponatinib-treated Ba/F3 cells transformed by ZMYM2-FGFR1 and BCR-FGFR1 and the FGFR1OP2-FGFR1 positive KG1A cell line showed reduced proliferation and decreased survival when compared to control cells. Inhibition induced apoptosis and reduced phosphorylation of the FGFR1 fusion proteins and substrates. Ponatinib-treated cells from 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome patients (n=5) showed reduced colony growth compared to controls. In one evaluable patient, ponatinib specifically reduced numbers of FGFR1-fusion gene positive colonies. Ponatinib, therefore, shows considerable promise for the treatment of patients with 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome.
The carcinogenicity potential of canagliflozin, an inhibitor of SGLT2, was evaluated in a 2-year rat study (10, 30, and 100 mg/kg). Rats showed an increase in pheochromocytomas, renal tubular tumors, and testicular Leydig cell tumors. Systemic exposure multiples at the highest dose relative to the maximum clinical dose were 12- to 21-fold. Pheochromocytomas and renal tubular tumors were noted in both sexes at 100 mg/kg. Leydig cell tumors were observed in males in all dose groups and were associated with increased luteinizing hormone levels. Hyperplasia was increased in the adrenal medulla at 100 mg/kg, but only a limited increase in simple tubular hyperplasia was observed in the kidney of males at 100 mg/kg. Hyperostosis occurred and was accompanied by substantial effects on calcium metabolism, including increased urinary calcium excretion and decreased levels of calcium regulating hormones (1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D and parathyroid hormone). A separate study with radiolabeled calcium confirmed that increased urinary calcium excretion was mediated via increased calcium absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. It was hypothesized that, at high doses, canagliflozin might have inhibited glucose absorption in the intestine via SGLT1 inhibition that resulted in glucose malabsorption, which increased calcium absorption by stimulating colonic glucose fermentation and reducing intestinal pH. Pheochromocytomas and adrenal medullary hyperplasia were attributed to altered calcium homeostasis, which have a known relationship in the rat. In conclusion, Leydig cell tumors were associated with increased luteinizing hormone levels and pheochromocytomas were most likely related to glucose malabsorption and altered calcium homeostasis. Renal tubular tumors may also have been linked to glucose malabsorption.
Peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) plays a central role in the process of adipocyte differentiation. This receptor and its heterodimeric partner, retinoid X receptor alpha (RXRalpha), form a DNA-binding complex that regulates transcription of adipocyte-specific genes. Troglitazone, an antidiabetic drug, has recently been identified as a synthetic ligand for PPARgamma. We studied the effects of troglitazone on proliferation and differentiation of normal and malignant hematopoietic cells. Expression of PPARgamma was easily detectable by Western blot analyses in all five myeloid leukemia cell lines. Troglitazone alone (10-5 M) did not induce differentiation in any of the cell lines; however, this compound suppressed the clonal growth (10-75% of inhibition) of all five myeloid leukemia cell lines. Myelomonocytic U937 cells, which were the most responsive to the growth suppressing effects of troglitazone, were arrested in the G1 phase of the cell cycle when cultured with this compound. Simultaneous treatment of myeloid leukemia cell lines with both troglitazone and a ligand that specifically binds either RXR (LG100268), or retinoic acid receptors (RAR, ATRA, ALART1550), or both (9-cis RA) resulted in additive suppression of clonal growth. In summary, our studies showed that troglitazone when combined with a retinoid was a moderately potent inhibitor of clonogenic growth of acute myeloid leukemia cells.
Gastric ulcer is an illness that affects a great number of people worldwide. The goal of the present research was to assess the anti-ulcerogenic activity of nymphayol (NYM), isolated from Nymphaea stellata, against an ethanol-induced ulcer model in rats. Administration of ethanol elevates the levels of the ulcer index (UI) along with causing tremendous increases in lipid peroxidation and myeloperoxidase (MPO) and significant decreases in gastric mucus, catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione (GSH), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). However, the NYM- (45 mg/kg) pretreated animals showed considerable increases in antioxidants, gastric mucus, and PGE2 level and significant decreases in UI, lipid peroxidation, and MPO level. Pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interferon-γ (IFN-γ) were increased and the level of interleukin-10 (IL-10), an anti-inflammatory cytokine, was decreased in ethanol-induced ulcerated animals, and these inequalities were amended by NYM pretreatment. Pro-apoptotic markers including caspase-8, caspase-9, and caspase-3 were decreased and Bcl-2, an anti-apoptotic marker, was increased through NYM pretreatment, as compared with the ethanol-induced ulcer group. Pretreatment with indomethacin, SC560, rofecoxib, and Nω-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) considerably prevented the ulcer protective activity of NYM (45 mg/kg), indicating the involvement of cyclooxygenase (COX) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in NYM-mediated gastroprotection against ethanol-induced ulcer. These outcomes suggest that the gastroprotective effect of NYM might be mediated by adjustment of inflammatory mediators and apoptotic markers and increasing antioxidants.
The development of apomorphine-induced (1.0 mg/kg s.c. once daily) aggressive behavior of adult male and female Wistar rats obtained from the same breeder was studied in two consecutive sets. In male animals, repeated apomorphine treatment induced a gradual development of aggressive behavior as evidenced by the increased intensity of aggressiveness and shortened latency before the first attack toward the opponent. In female rats, only a weak tendency toward aggressiveness was found. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates gender differences in the development of the apomorphine-induced aggressive behavior and indicates that the female rats do not fill the validation criteria for use in this method.
Coal tar is a complex mixture containing hundreds of compounds, at least 30 of which are polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, including the carcinogen benzo[a]pyrene (BaP). Although humans are exposed to complex mixtures on a daily basis, the synergistic or individual effects of components within a mixture on the carcinogenic process remain unclear. We have compared DNA adduct formation and cell proliferation in mice fed coal tar or BaP for 4 weeks with tumor formation in a 2 year chronic feeding study. Additionally, we have analyzed tumor DNA for mutations in the K-ras, H-ras and p53 genes. In the forestomach of mice fed either coal tar or BaP an adduct indicative of BaP was detected, with adduct levels increasing in a dose-responsive manner. K-ras mutations were detected in the forestomach tumors, with the incidence being similar in mice fed coal tar or BaP. These results suggest that the BaP within coal tar is associated with forestomach tumor induction in coal tar-fed mice. DNA adduct levels in the small intestine were not predictive of tumor incidence in this tissue; instead, the tumors appeared to result from compound-induced cell proliferation at high doses of coal tar. K-ras mutations were detected in lung tumors. Since lung tumors were not increased by BaP, coal tar components other than BaP appear to be responsible for the tumors induced in this tissue. H-ras mutations, primarily occurring at codon 61, were the most common mutation observed in liver tumors induced by coal tar. Since this mutation profile is observed in spontaneous hepatic tumors, components in the coal tar may be promoting the expansion of pre-existing lesions.
Intravenous infusion of norepinephrine is usually effective and safe to maintain adequate cerebral perfusion pressure for the management of posttraumatic intracranial hypertension. We report the case of a 17-year-old woman who suffered from traumatic intracranial bleeding and hypotension; she developed rhabdomyolysis, myoglobinuria and acute renal failure after receiving high dose norepinephrine postoperatively. Hemodialysis was begun 3 days after the onset of myoglobinuria when acute renal failure was noted, despite aggressive fluid supplementation and alkaline diuresis. After aggressive treatment and dialysis, the patient's myoglobinuria and rhabdomyolysis gradually declined. Her kidneys eventually regained normal function. We consider that systemic hypotension may have been the leading cause for development of rhabdomyolysis, and vasoconstrictors such as norepinephrine aggravated this. We emphasise the potentially devastating consequences of rhabdomyolysis when a large dose of norepinephrine is given for the treatment of hypotension during cerebral perfusion pressure-guided management.
Troglitazone (TGZ) is a synthetic thiazolidinedione drug belonging to a group of potent peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR gamma) agonists known to inhibit proliferation, alter cell cycle regulation, and induce apoptosis in various cancer cell types. TGZ is an oral anti-type II diabetes drug that can reverse insulin resistance. For more then 100 yr, aspirin, a nonselective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor, has been successfully used as an anti-inflammatory drug. Recently, Aspirin (ASA) and some other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have drawn much attention for their protective effects against colon cancer and cardiovascular disease; it has been observed that ASA's anti-tumor effect can be attributed to inhibition of cell cycle progression, induction of apoptosis, and inhibition of angiogenesis. In this report we demonstrate for the first time that, when administered in combination, TGZ and ASA can produce a strong synergistic effect in growth inhibition and G(1) arrest in lung cancer CL1-0 and A549 cells. Examination by colony formation assay revealed an even more profound synergy. In Western blot, combined TGZ and ASA also could downregulate Cdk2, E2F-1, cyclin B1, cyclin D3 protein, and the ratio of phospho-Rb/Rb. Importantly, apoptosis was synergistically induced by the combination treatment, as evidenced by caspase-3 activation and PARP cleavage. The involvement of PI3K/Akt inhibition and p27 upregulation, as well as hypophosphorylation of Rac1 at ser71, were demonstrated. Taken together, these results suggest that clinically achievable concentrations of TGZ and ASA used in combination may produce a strong anticancer synergy that warrants further investigation for its clinical applications.
To compare the effectiveness of tetracycline antibiotics versus control (placebo or conventional treatment) in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) for the reduction of disease activity as defined by American College of Rheumatology criteria.
We searched Medline (1966-February 2002), Embase (1980-February 2002), and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (Issue 1, 2002 Cochrane Library). Reference lists of published trials were searched by hand for further identification of published reports and presentations at scientific meetings. Randomized controlled trials comparing tetracyclines to control (placebo or conventional disease modifying antirheumatic therapy) were selected for inclusion if at least one of the following outcomes was reported: tender joint count (TJC), swollen joint count, patient pain score by visual analog scale, patient global assessment of disease activity, physician global assessment of disease activity, eosinophil sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP), joint space narrowing and erosions, adverse events, and quality of life as measured by the Health Assessment Questionnaire. Subjects were required to have RA as defined by the 1987 ARA criteria.
Ten randomized controlled trials including 535 individuals were reviewed. Only 3 trials were considered high quality; elements of bias could not be excluded in the remainder. Tetracyclines, when administered for > or = 3 months, were associated with a significant reduction in disease activity in RA as follows: for TJC, standardized mean difference (SMD) = -0.39, 95% CI -0.74, -0.05; and for acute phase reactants, ESR, SMD = -8.96, 95% CI -14.51, -3.42. The treatment effect was more marked in the subgroup of patients with disease duration < 1 year who were seropositive. There was no absolute increased risk of adverse events associated with tetracyclines: absolute risk difference = 0.10, 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.01, 0.21. No beneficial effect was seen on radiological progression of disease: for erosions, SMD = 0.17, 95% CI -0.29, 0.64. In addition, subgroup analysis excluding trials with doxycycline showed that minocycline alone had a greater effect on reduction of disease activity: for TJC, SMD = -0.69, 95% CI -0.89, -0.49; and for ESR, SMD = -10.14, 95% CI -14.72, -5.57.
Tetracyclines, in particular minocycline, were associated with a clinically significant improvement in disease activity in RA with no absolute increased risk of side effects. Unfortunately, the information available was inadequate to allow a detailed analysis of individual side effects in the studies. Further research is warranted to compare these agents to newer disease modifying drugs for comparable safety, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness.
Peripheral nerve conduction studies were performed in 30 epileptics, treated with DPH and results were compared with age and sex matched controls. There was significant reduction in the amplitude of sensory nerve action potential of median (26.65 +/- 14.71 mu v) and superficial radial nerve (25.65 +/- 10.08 mu v) (p < 0.001) in DPH treated group as compared to controls, (median nerve 42.64 +/- 15.93 uv and superficial radial nerve 40.72 +/- 24.74 mu v). The results suggest that DPH causes a subclinical distal axonal neuropathy in therapeutic dosage.
After an outbreak of hepatitis in Washington, D.C. in 1970 among a group of persons taking isoniazid to prevent tuberculosis, an isoniazid surveillance study was conducted among 13,838 persons in 21 participating health departments. Age appeared to be the predominant factor influencing the risk of developing isoniazid-related hepatitis, i.e., increasing age was associated with an increasing risk. Drinking alcohol, especially on a daily basis, also seemed to enhance the risk of hepatitis among persons concurrently taking isoniazid. In general, case rates among males and females of the same race, and rates among different races, were not markedly different; however, there were striking differences in the case rates among males of different races. The incidence of hepatitis varied greatly among the 21 cities, but was not unique to any geographic region, nor was it related to a specific manufacturer of isoniazid. The onset, in most cases, occurred within the first few months of treatment. Eight fatalities were reported by the 21 participating health departments, 7 occurring in one city. Black females accounted for 5 of the 8 deaths. This information provides a basis for weighing the benefits of isoniazid in preventing tuberculosis against the risk of its causing hepatitis. Close monitoring for overt signs or symptoms of hepatitis among persons receiving isoniazid preventive therapy is indicated, especially for persons greater than or equal to 35 years of age and those who drink alcoholic beverages on a daily basis.
A case of autoimmunohemolytic anemia following mefenamic acid therapy is described. A free anti-erythrocytic antibody of the IgG class was found in the serum of the patient. The same antibody was also found in the eluate of the patient's red cells. No blood group specificity could be demonstrated. Direct participation of the drug in the antibody red cell reaction could be ruled out by "facilitation" and "inhibition" tests.
The i.v. pentylenetetrazol seizure threshold was increased by 2.5 mg/kg and decreased by 15 mg/kg of a single (+)-amphetamine dose. After 7 consecutive days of amphetamine administration, tolerance developed to the decrease but not to the increase in seizure threshold. At 12--48 h after the last dose of 2.5 mg/kg seizure threshold was decreased, and at 36--48 h after the last dose of 15 mg/kg seizure threshold was increased. After acute and chronic administration of (+)-amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg) endogenous concentrations of whole brain dopamine (DA) were increased and returned to normal levels during the withdrawal period (12--48 h); endogenous norepinephrine (NE) levels were unchanged by acute and chronic drug treatment and during withdrawal. The rates of DA and NE synthesis were increased by chronic amphetamine administration at 24--48 h after drug withdrawal. An acute dose of (+)-amphetamine (15 mg/kg) decreased endogenous levels of DA and NE; normal levels of DA were detected with chronic drug treatment and during withdrawal, with NE remaining slightly depressed. The rates of synthesis of DA and NE were increased by acute and chronic amphetamine treatment and returned to normal 24--48 h after withdrawal. The rebound reversal in seizure threshold after (+)-amphetamine withdrawal suggests an abstinence syndrome that may be interpreted as evidence for the development of physical dependence to (+)-amphetamine after chronic drug administration.
HMN-176, (E)-4-(2-[2-(N-[4-methoxybenzene-sulfonyl]amino)phenyl]ethenyl) pyridine 1-oxide, is a stilbene derivative which inhibits mitosis without significant effect on tubulin polymerization and displays potent cytotoxicity against a variety of human tumor cell lines. The present study evaluated the activity profile of the antineoplastic agent HMN-176 in an ex-vivo soft agar cloning assay (human tumor colony-forming assay) in a panel of 132 human tumor specimens under 14-day continuous exposure at 0.1, 1.0, and 10.0 microg/ml. Thirty percent of specimens in the different treatment groups (39/132 in 0.1 and 1.0 test groups; 40/132 in 10.0 test group) were assessable, falling within the negative and positive control parameters. At these dose levels, responses were observed in 32% (11/34), 62% (21/34), and 71% (25/35) of assessable specimens, respectively. HMN-176 demonstrated activity towards 75% of the breast cancer specimens (6/8) treated with 1.0 microg/ml, 67% of non small-cell lung (4/6) and 57% of ovarian (4/7) cancer specimens treated with 10 microg/ml. Low levels of cross-resistance to cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, 5-fluorouracil, and etoposide were also observed. There was a positive relationship between HMN-176 concentration and effect, demonstrating greatest overall activity at 10.0 microg/ml. Evaluation of differential gene expression in drug-sensitive (A2780) and drug-resistant (A2780cp) ovarian carcinoma cell lines exposed to 0.1 microg/ml HMN-176 up to 48 h using cDNA microarrays with 1,154 known human genes revealed significant drug effects on tumor associated genes, including upregulation of tissue inhibitor matrix metalloproteinases gene (TIMP) in both cell lines, suggesting that HMN-176 could potentially overcome tumor drug resistance. In conclusion, in vitro responses demonstrate efficacy at pharmacologically relevant concentrations, which suggests that HMN-176 deserves further evaluation in clinical trials.
A 72 year old white man developed acute hepatic impairment and renal failure within 24 hours of starting intravenous amiodarone for paroxysmal ventricular tachycardia. After normal initial investigations, there was a noticeable rise in serum transaminases as well as an increase in clotting times, a decrease in renal function and a thrombocytopenia. These changes returned to normal within seven days of withdrawal of the drug without specific treatment, and the patient was later treated with oral amiodarone without any further evidence of hepatotoxicity. Intravenous amiodarone has been implicated in acute hepatic disease on four previous occasions, but it is suggested that polysorbate 80, an organic surfactant added to the intravenous infusion, is a more likely cause of this complication. Similar reactions have been described with polysorbate 80 in association with the 'E-ferol' syndrome in infants. The occurrence of acute hepatic impairment with intravenous amiodarone does not necessarily preclude the use of this drug by mouth.
Dexmedetomidine is an alpha(2)-agonist indicated for sedation in critically ill patients and procedural sedation in nonintubated patients. It is a distinctive sedative because it does not cause respiratory depression, but it may cause hypotension and bradycardia. We describe a 74-year-old man who was receiving dexmedetomidine for agitation and experienced progressive bradycardia. The patient experienced a postoperative myocardial infarction 3 days after repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm. A dexmedetomidine infusion was started at 0.11 microg/kg/hour, without a loading dose, for agitation; the patient's heart rate was 123 beats/minute and blood pressure was 147/70 mm Hg, both within normal limits. Over the next 6 hours, the dexmedetomidine infusion rate was increased to a maximum of 0.7 microg/kg/hour; the patient's heart rate progressively decreased to 21 beats/minute, followed by pulseless electrical activity. After 2 minutes of chest compressions and an intravenous bolus of atropine 0.4 mg, the patient regained a pulse. Dexmedetomidine was discontinued, and the patient's heart rate and blood pressure returned to within normal limits. The patient was discharged home 7 days later without any cardiac or neurologic sequelae. Clinicians need to be educated about the potential for dexmedetomidine to cause bradycardia progressing to pulseless electrical activity, and patients need to be closely monitored. Patients who receive dexmedetomidine and develop a greater than 30% decrease in heart rate may be at high risk for severe bradycardia leading to pulseless electrical activity. We urge caution when using dexmedetomidine, especially in patients with significant cardiac disease.
Although AhR activation regulates CD4T cell differentiation, how it works has yet to be elucidated. In the present study, using in vitro Th17 differentiation model, we examined effects of AhR activation by indoxyl 3-sulfate (I3S), a uremic toxin, on Th17 differentiation and investigated underlying mechanisms. I3S increased expression of RORγt, the master transcription factor for Th17 differentiation, and stimulated Th17 differentiation, in a comparative manner as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), a prototypical AhR ligand. Activation of STAT3, which is phosphorylated by the IL-6 signaling pathways and thus is necessary for Th17 differentiation, was strongly stimulated by I3S and TCDD. Phosphorylation of c-Src, which was shown to be activated by AhR ligands, was also increased by I3S and TCDD, and blocking of c-Src activity by 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl) pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine (PP2) inhibited phosphorylation of both c-Src and STAT3, raising a possibility that stimulatory activities of I3S and TCDD on Th17 differentiation could be exerted via increased phosphorylation of c-Src, which in turn stimulates STAT3 activation. Finally, we found that I3S worsened experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), which is primarily mediated by Th17 cells, enhancing the frequency of IL-17-producing cells in draining lymph nodes.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the world. The aim of the present study is to determine the antitumor effect of PF-04691502, a potent inhibitor of PI3K and mTOR kinases, on the apoptosis and angiogenesis of the hepatoma cancer cells. Our results indicate that treatment of cancer cells with PF-04691502 reduces cell viability and inhibits cell growth in a dose-dependent manner. PF-04691502 triggers apoptosis via a mitochondrial pathway, accompanied by activation of caspase-3, caspase-9, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). Pre-treatment of hepatoma cells with the caspase-3 inhibitor (z-DEVD-fmk) blocks the PF-04691502-induced death of these cells. In addition, growth factors-induced tube formation and the migration of HUVECs are markedly inhibited by PF-04691502 treatment. The mechanisms of anti-angiogenesis of PF-04691502 are associated with inhibiting the expression of VEGF and HIF-1α. Based on the overall results, we suggest that PF-04691502 reduces hepatocellular carcinoma cell viability, induces cell apoptosis, and inhibits cell growth and tumor angiogenesis, implicating its potential therapeutic value in the treatment of HCC.
To determine whether hypouricaemic treatment results in the disappearance of urate crystals from gouty joints and to define the time required.
In 18 patients with monosodium urate (MSU) crystal proven gout, and after the initiation of successful serum uric acid (SUA)-lowering treatment, an arthrocentesis of the asymptomatic signal joint (11 knees, 7 first metatarsophalangeal joints) was performed every 3 months to obtain a synovial fluid (SF) sample. The sample was then analysed for the presence of MSU crystals, and the number of crystals/400x field was noted. SUA levels and the duration of gout were also noted.
MSU crystals disappeared from the SF of all 18 joints after reduction of SUA to normal levels. The time required for disappearance ranged from 3 to 33 months; disappearance time correlated with the duration of gout (r(s) = 0.71; p<0.01). The median number of MSU crystals in the SF samples before urate-lowering treatment was 7.5 (2.5-11) crystals/400x field, reducing to 3 (1-6.5) crystals/400x field (p<0.05) at 3 months. Crystal counts continued to decrease after 3 months.
In gout, reduction of SUA to normal levels results in disappearance of urate crystals from SF, requiring a longer time in those patients with gout of longer duration. This indicates that urate crystal deposition in joints is reversible. Normalisation of SUA levels results in a decrease in the concentration of MSU crystals in SF in the asymptomatic gouty joints. This may partially explain the reduced frequency of gouty attacks when a patient has been treated with SUA-lowering drugs.
Previous studies have shown that carbohydrate induction of hypertriglyceridemia in normal subjects occurs at night and appears to be related to a rise of free fatty acids after diurnal feeding of high-carbohydrate formula diet. The present investigation was undertaken to observe the effect on 24-h triglyceride, free fatty acid, blood sugar, and plasma insulin profiles of inhibition of nocturnal lipolysis by glucose or nicotinic acid in normal subjects and in patients with type IV hyperlipoproteinemia. In 10 normal subjects and 10 patients with primary type IV hyperlipoproteinemia, plasma triglyceride, free fatty acid, blood sugar, and insulin levels were followed in short intervals for 24 h while a 2,400 cal, 80% carbohydrate, fat-free formula diet was given in six equal portions during the day (control experiments). This procedure was repeated in the same subjects, 10 of whom (5 normal subjects and 5 patients) received additional feedings of glucose between 2000 and 0600 h while the other 10 persons (5 normal subjects and 5 patients) were given nicotinic acid by intravenous infusion during the same time interval. Both procedures resulted in maintained lowering of free fatty acid levels over 24 h. Mitigation of carbohydrate-induced hypertriglyceridemia appeared to result from the additional glucose in normals and in patients. Nicotinic acid abolished the nocturnal rise of plasma triglyceride levels which in the control studies of normal subjects had resulted in approximate doubling of triglyceride levels in 24 h. The effectiveness of nicotinic acid in inhibiting nocturnal lipolysis and preventing carbohydrate-induction of hypertriglyceridemia might have consequences for management of endogenous hypertriglyceridemia.
Hepatocyte death results in a sterile inflammatory response that amplifies the initial insult and increases overall tissue injury. One important example of this type of injury is acetaminophen-induced liver injury, in which the initial toxic injury is followed by innate immune activation. Using mice deficient in Tlr9 and the inflammasome components Nalp3 (NACHT, LRR, and pyrin domain-containing protein 3), ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD), and caspase-1, we have identified a nonredundant role for Tlr9 and the Nalp3 inflammasome in acetaminophen-induced liver injury. We have shown that acetaminophen treatment results in hepatocyte death and that free DNA released from apoptotic hepatocytes activates Tlr9. This triggers a signaling cascade that increases transcription of the genes encoding pro-IL-1beta and pro-IL-18 in sinusoidal endothelial cells. By activating caspase-1, the enzyme responsible for generating mature IL-1beta and IL-18 from pro-IL-1beta and pro-IL-18, respectively, the Nalp3 inflammasome plays a crucial role in the second step of proinflammatory cytokine activation following acetaminophen-induced liver injury. Tlr9 antagonists and aspirin reduced mortality from acetaminophen hepatotoxicity. The protective effect of aspirin on acetaminophen-induced liver injury was due to downregulation of proinflammatory cytokines, rather than inhibition of platelet degranulation or COX-1 inhibition. In summary, we have identified a 2-signal requirement (Tlr9 and the Nalp3 inflammasome) for acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity and some potential therapeutic approaches.
Several nitrosoalkylureas tested for carcinogenic activity in Syrian hamsters have as their main effect the induction of hemangiosarcomas of the spleen, many of which appear to metastasize to the liver. To investigate whether any of these lesions in the liver might not be metastases, a group of female Syrian hamsters was surgically splenectomized and treated with nitroso-2-hydroxyethylurea (NHEU) dissolved in corn oil/ethyl acetate once a week for 22 weeks. The animals survived much longer (median 45 weeks) than a comparable group of unsplenectomized female hamsters given identical treatment (median 24 weeks). The absence of hemangiosarcomas of the liver in the splenectomized hamsters showed that the presumed metastases seen in intact animals were, in fact, just that. A second interesting conclusion is that the compound did not produce a concomitant increase in tumors of other types.
In 21 of 23 patients with hypertension unresponsive to other treatment minoxidil, a new antihypertensive drug acting via peripheral vasodilatation, lowered their blood pressure from 191 +/- 19/117 +/- 12 MM Hg to 147 +/- 13/117 +/- 12 mm Hg. The drug causes a reflex tachycardia and must therefore be combined with beta-blockers. Furthermore, an effective diuretic must also be used because minoxidil causes sodium retention. Hypertrichosis is an important side-effect for which the drug may have to be discontinued, especially in young women. Orthostasis did not occur in the reported series. The authors recommend that the drug be made available for the treatment of malignant hypertension.
