We report three male patients, with duplex confirmed chronic venous disease, who were on treatment with hydroxyurea for chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) and polycythemia vera (PV), referred to us for the management of non-healing perimalleolar ulcers of varying durations. Treatment of the ulcers, based on standard venous ulcer treatment protocols, proved futile, and one patient actually underwent surgery for varicose veins. The ulcers healed only after the discontinuation of hydroxyurea. In another patient, the ulcer continued to progress along with emergence of ankle oedema, venous eczema and lipodermatosclerosis, even after discontinuation of hydroxyurea. The short duration of treatment with the drug before the onset of ulcer and characteristic skin changes of chronic venous disease (CVD), in this patient, made us reconsider our diagnosis and this patient ultimately benefited from varicose veins surgery. Based on our experience with these cases, we have made an attempt to differentiate between the chronic venous ulcer and the drug-induced ulcer on clinical grounds.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of quetiapine in the treatment of first onset psychosis in older adolescents using risperidone as a comparator. Twenty-two patients with first onset psychosis were randomized to receive quetiapine (up to 800 mg/day) or risperidone (up to 6 mg/day) for 6 weeks. Raters blind to treatment assignment performed outcome symptom ratings. No statistical differences emerged in terms of efficacy or tolerability between the two drugs. However, there were some clinically notable differences that seem to favour the efficacy of risperidone over quetiapine. Patients taking quetiapine, although improved, showed less clinical improvement on scores for total positive and negative symptoms, clinical global severity and depression at 6 weeks than patients taking risperidone. Although both treatments were associated with weight gain and sedation, more patients on quetiapine experienced over 10% weight gain. However, fewer patients who were taking quetiapine required anticholinergic medication or experienced extrapyramidal side effects than patients taking risperidone. Risperidone was significantly more likely to be associated with elevation in serum prolactin levels in this population. In conclusion, the results in this small trial show that adolescent patients may benefit more from treatment with risperidone than quetiapine. However, those susceptible to side effects, particularly hyperprolactinaemia, may be more suitable for treatment with quetiapine.
We report an 11-year-old male with undiagnosed myopathy, who developed cardiac arrest secondary to severe rhabdomyolysis and hyperkalemia following succinylcholine administration. The patient required extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support from which he was eventually weaned successfully. He died eleven days after the cardiac arrest as a result of apparent ischemic brain injury.
We generated a mouse line harboring an autosomal-dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) mutation: the alpha4 nicotinic receptor S248F knock-in strain. In this mouse, modest nicotine doses (1-2 mg/kg) elicit a novel behavior termed the dystonic arousal complex (DAC). The DAC includes stereotypical head movements, body jerking, and forelimb dystonia; these behaviors resemble some core features of ADNFLE. A marked Straub tail is an additional component of the DAC. Similar to attacks in ADNFLE, the DAC can be partially suppressed by the sodium channel blocker carbamazepine or by pre-exposure to a very low dose of nicotine (0.1 mg/kg). The DAC is centrally mediated, genetically highly penetrant, and, surprisingly, not associated with overt ictal electrical activity as assessed by (1) epidural or frontal lobe depth-electrode electroencephalography or (2) hippocampal c-fos-regulated gene expression. Heterozygous knock-in mice are partially protected from nicotine-induced seizures. The noncompetitive antagonist mecamylamine does not suppress the DAC, although it suppresses high-dose nicotine-induced wild-type-like seizures. Experiments on agonist-induced 86Rb+ and neurotransmitter efflux from synaptosomes and on alpha4S248Fbeta2 receptors expressed in oocytes confirm that the S248F mutation confers resistance to mecamylamine blockade. Genetic background, gender, and mutant gene expression levels modulate expression of the DAC phenotype in mice. The S248F mouse thus appears to provide a model for the paroxysmal dystonic element of ADNFLE semiology. Our model complements what is seen in other ADNFLE animal models. Together, these mice cover the spectrum of behavioral and electrographic events seen in the human condition.
Atherosclerosis, a chronic inflammatory disease, underlies the pathogenesis of coronary artery disease. The present study assessed the diagnostic possibilities of inflammatory biomarkers, serum neopterin, nitrite/nitrate (NO2(-)/NO3(-)), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and their correlation with risk factors in patients with acute coronary syndromes and stable angina pectoris.
We studied 44 patients with chronic stable angina pectoris, 46 with unstable angina, 55 with acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction and 39 age-matched healthy volunteers (control group). Serum neopterin, iNOS and TNF-alpha were determined with commercially available enzyme linked immunosorbent assay methods and NO2(-)/NO3(-) by the modified cadmium-reduction method.
Mean serum neopterin levels were significantly higher in patients with unstable and stable angina pectoris in comparison to control subjects (p<0.01 and p<0.05, respectively). Serum NO2(-)/NO3(-) values were significantly elevated (p<0.01) only in patients with unstable angina. ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients with cardiac death during follow-up showed significantly lower baseline neopterin values (p<0.001), and higher NO2(-)/NO3(-) levels (p<0.05) in comparison to those without adverse events. Significantly higher NO2(-)/NO3(-) values (p<0.05) were also found in patients who had myocardial reinfarction. Serum iNOS and TNF-alpha in all patient groups were within control ranges. A strong correlation was found between neopterin and both smoking (p<0.01) and triglycerides (p<0.05) in unstable angina patients. In stable angina patients, neopterin, iNOS and TNF-alpha significantly correlated with hypertension (p<0.01) and triglycerides (p<0.05). A significant difference in neopterin concentration was found between smokers and non-smokers (p<0.05).
The results of this study suggest that in stable angina patients, if studied over time, serum neopterin or NO2(-)/NO3(-) levels may indicate future plaque instability. In ST-elevation myocardial infarction patients, neopterin and/or NO2(-)/NO3(-) levels may identify patients at long-term risk of death or recurrent acute coronary events after myocardial infarction.
Treatment for scabies is usually initiated by general practitioners; most consider lindane (gamma benzene hexachloride) the treatment of choice. Lindane is also widely used as an agricultural and industrial pesticide, and as a result the toxic profile of this insecticide is well understood. Evidence is accumulating that lindane can be toxic to the central nervous system and may be associated with aplastic anaemia. Preparations containing lindane continue to be sold over the counter and may represent a hazard to poorly informed patients. This literature review suggests that general practitioners should prescribe scabicides with increased caution for certain at-risk groups, and give adequate warnings regarding potential toxicity.
This open-label, multicenter study assessed the efficacy and tolerability of conversion to once-daily OROS hydromorphone from previous opioid agonist therapy in patients with chronic cancer pain. Patients were stabilized on their previous therapy before conversion at a 5:1 ratio of morphine sulfate to hydromorphone hydrochloride. The OROS hydromorphone dose was titrated over 3 - 21 days to achieve effective analgesia and was maintained for up to 14 days. Efficacy was assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). Adverse events and vital signs were monitored. Dose stabilization was achieved in 119 of the 127 (94%) patients who received the study medication; in 77%, stabilization was achieved with no titration steps. Mean BPI pain intensity ratings and BPI pain interference scores decreased significantly after OROS hydromorphone treatment compared with pretreatment values. Mean pain-relief level remained stable after conversion and throughout treatment with OROS hydromorphone. Adverse events were as expected for cancer patients receiving opioid agonists. There were no clinically significant changes in vital signs.
Thirty patients treated for germ cell cancer with six cycles of cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin participated in a follow-up examination of neurotoxicity 49 to 106 months after treatment. Of these, 22 patients (73%) had sensory loss; half of them complained of paresthesias. The vibration perception threshold was increased in 24 patients (80%). Auditory stimulation revealed a normal latency of the first component of the brain stem-evoked potentials Pl but an increased interpeak interval between this and Pv; reflecting a central conduction defect. Motor conduction velocity (CV) along the peroneal nerve was normal. The average sural nerve CV was decreased (P less than .01) and the sensory action potential amplitude was reduced (P less than .01). Warm perception threshold was increased in 10 patients (33%). Cortical-evoked potentials after tibial nerve stimulation had increased latencies in 29 patients (97%). The peripheral CV along the tibial nerve was slowed (P less than .01) in 19 patients, and the central conduction time from Th12 to cortex was prolonged in 15 patients (P less than .01). The changes in conduction along peripheral and central pathways after tibial nerve stimulation are compatible with a toxic effect on the sensory root ganglia causing a "dying back" axonal degeneration of central and peripheral nerve fibers.
RECK is an anti-tumoral gene whose activity has been associated with its inhibitory effects regulating MMP-2, MMP-9, and MT1-MMP. RECK level decreases as gliobastoma progresses, varying from less invasive grade II gliomas to very invasive human glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). Since RECK expression and glioma invasiveness show an inverse correlation, the aim of the present study is to investigate whether RECK expression would inhibit glioma invasive behavior. We conducted this study to explore forced RECK expression in the highly invasive T98G human GBM cell line. Expression levels as well as protein levels of RECK, MMP-2, MMP-9, and MT1-MMP were assessed by qPCR and immunoblotting in T98G/RECK+ cells. The invasion and migration capacity of RECK+ cells was inhibited in transwell and wound assays. Dramatic cytoskeleton modifications were observed in the T98G/RECK+ cells, when compared to control cells, such as the abundance of stress fibers (contractile actin-myosin II bundles) and alteration of lamellipodia. T98G/RECK+ cells also displayed phosphorylated focal adhesion kinase (P-FAK) in mature focal adhesions associated with stress fibers; whereas P-FAK in control cells was mostly associated with immature focal complexes. Interestingly, the RECK protein was predominantly localized at the leading edge of migrating cells, associated with membrane ruffles. Unexpectedly, introduced expression of RECK effectively inhibited the invasive process through rearrangement of actin filaments, promoting a decrease in migratory ability. This work has associated RECK tumor-suppressing activity with the inhibition of motility and invasion in this GBM model, which are two glioma characteristics responsible for the inefficiency of current available treatments.
The ability to selectively block the entry of leukocytes into the central nervous system (CNS) without compromising the immune system is an attractive therapeutic approach for treating multiple sclerosis (MS). Using endothelial CD146-deficienct mice as a MS model, we found that endothelial CD146 plays an active role in the CNS-directed extravasation of encephalitogenic T cells, including CD146(+) TH1 and TH17 lymphocytes. Moreover, treating both active and passive MS models with the anti-CD146 antibody AA98 significantly decreased the infiltrated lymphocytes in the CNS and decreased neuroinflammation. Interestingly, the ability of AA98 to inhibit the migration of CD146(+) lymphocytes was dependent on targeting endothelial CD146, but not lymphocytic CD146. These results suggest a key molecular target located on the blood-brain barrier endothelium that mediates the extravasation of inflammatory cells into the CNS. In addition, our data suggest that the AA98 is a promising candidate for treating MS and other CNS autoimmune diseases.
Phenazopyridine is a commonly used urinary tract analgesic. As illustrated by the case we have reported, its use may be complicated by the development of methemoglobinemia and hemolytic anemia, especially in patients with renal insufficiency.
The mechanism of hexachloro-1:3-butadiene (HCBD)-induced glutathione depletion in male and female rats has been investigated in rat liver and kidney preparations in vitro in order to characterize the enzymes involved and to study the relationship between this effect and the nephrotoxic action of this compound. HCBD caused a marked reduction in glutathione concentration when incubated with male or female hepatic microsomal or cytosolic fractions fortified with glutathione. In contrast with that reported for other halo-olefin's, the depletion of glutathione in the microsomal fraction is not related to the formation of metabolites via cytochrome P-450. The microsomal rate of depletion appeared to be due to a direct reaction catalyzed by a microsomal glutathione S-transferase. A glutathione adduct of HCBD was isolated by thin-layer chromatography and mass spectral analysis strongly indicates the structure to be as S-(1,1,2,3,4-pentachloro-1,3-butadienyl)glutathione, confirming a direct substitution reaction without prior oxidation. This conjugate was formed at a faster rate by the hepatic microsomal fraction than by the cytosolic fraction suggesting a major role for the microsomal glutathione S-transferases in the disposition of this compound. A second more polar glutathione-dependent adduct which may be a double conjugate was formed with cytosol. Glutathione adducts were also formed by male and female kidney cytosol and microsomal fractions but at a slower rate than in liver fractions. It is suggested that the glutathione conjugate of HCBD may be converted to the cysteine derivative, the structure of which is similar to that of S-dichloro-vinyl-L-cysteine and therefore may be nephrotoxic by a similar mechanism.
Active hexose-correlated compound (AHCC), an extract of basidiomycete mushroom, is used as health food to enhance the therapeutic effects and reduce the adverse effects of chemotherapy. Our previous proteomic analysis revealed that up-regulation of heat-shock protein 27 (HSP27) was responsible for gemcitabine resistance of pancreatic cancer cells. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of AHCC on the expression of HSP27 and the effect of combinatorial treatment of AHCC and gemcitabine on the gemcitabine-resistant pancreatic cancer cell line KLM1-R.
KLM1-R cells were treated with AHCC, and the expression of HSP27 as well as the cytotoxic effects of combinatorial treatment of AHCC and gemcitabine were investigated with western blotting and MTS assay, respectively.
AHCC down-regulated HSP27 and exhibited a cytotoxic effect on KLM1-R cells. Furthermore, the cytotoxic effect of the combinatorial treatment of AHCC and gemcitabine was synergistic.
This study supports the potential therapeutic benefits of combinatorial treatment of AHCC and gemcitabine for patients with pancreatic cancer.
The water disinfection byproduct bromate (BrO3(-)) produces cytotoxic and carcinogenic effects in rat kidneys. Our previous studies demonstrated that BrO3(-) caused sex-dependent differences in renal gene and protein expression in rats and the elimination of brominated organic carbon in their urine. The present study examined changes in renal cell apoptosis and protein expression in male and female F344 rats treated with BrO3(-) and associated these changes with accumulation of 3-bromotyrosine (3-BT)-modified proteins. Rats were treated with 0, 11.5, 46 and 308 mg/L BrO3(-) in drinking water for 28 days and renal sections were prepared and examined for apoptosis (TUNEL-staining), 8-oxo-deoxyguanosine (8-oxoG), 3-BT, osteopontin, Kim-1, clusterin, and p-21 expression. TUNEL-staining in renal proximal tubules increased in a dose-related manner beginning at 11.5mg BrO3(-)/L in female rats and 46 mg/L in males. Increased 8-oxoG staining was observed at doses as low as 46 mg/L. Osteopontin expression also increased in a dose-related manner after treatment with 46 mg/L, in males only. In contrast, Kim-1 expression increased in a dose-related manner in both sexes, although to a greater extent in females at the highest dose. Clusterin and p21 expression also increased in a dose-related manner in both sexes. The expression of 3-BT-modified proteins only increased in male rats, following a pattern previously reported for accumulation of α-2u-globulin. Increases in apoptosis in renal proximal tubules of male and female rats at the lowest doses suggest a common mode of action for renal carcinogenesis for the two sexes that is independent of α-2u-globulin nephropathy.
It is the purpose of this paper to show the concept of noninvasive assessment of cardiomyopathy (CM) in cytostatic treatment, esp. with daunorubicin A (A). Our follow-up study during therapy with A shows 255 patients, examined by ECG, by systolic time intervals (STI)-PEP/LVET (normal value less than or equal to 0.44) and PEPI (normal value less than or equal to 148 ms) by echocardiography (UCG) with measurement of shortening fraction (SF), normal value less than or equal to 30% and in 6 cases by microcatheter with exercise test.
(1) ECG does not predict CM. (2) 23 patients (8%) had abnormal SF in UCG, 6 patients of these having no symptoms of cardiac failure. These patients were examined by microcatheter, all 6 having abnormal values during exercise. So all patients with abnormal SF had objective signs of latent or over CM. (3) PEP/LVET was abnormal in all patients with CM, but false positive in 22% of all investigations, mostly by shortening of LVET. PEPI, abnormal in all patients with CM, was false positive only in 8.8. UCG is the most specific noninvasive method for assessment of CM in cytostatic treatment. STI are less specific, but highly sensitive to CM and therefore a useful screening method. PEPI gives the highest specificity, allowing a better selection than PEP/LVET. STI in contrast to UCG can easily be obtained outside cardiologic centers, ie., in the oncologic department itself. UCG by cardiologic units are needed only about 10-15% of investigations. If all values are abnormal, cardiotoxic treatment should be stopped, even when patients are asymptomatic.
The prevention of recurrences of bladder cancer was attemped in 48 patients by means of the combined intravesical instillation of thio-tepa and urokinase and in 28 patients through the instillation of thio-tepa alone. The recurrence rates of both therapies for the postoperative 18 months were 7.9 and 32.6 per cent, respectively, indicating a significant drop in the recurrence rate in the group subjected to the combined therapy. No significant difference was found between the 2 instillation groups in terms of the blood transmission of 32-P thio-tepa. Serious leukopenia was found in 2 of the 48 patients receiving the combined instillation therapy but we concluded that this was not attributable to the use of urokinase.
Recently, the current authors reported the presence in normotensive male and female urines of reproducibly measurable levels of naturally occurring substances in partially purified extracts of urine with inhibitory activity like glycyrrhetic acid (GA) towards both 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11 beta-OHSD) and steroid 5 beta-reductase (5 beta-SR) in vitro. Since these substances mimic two known inhibitory activities of GA, they have been named 'Glycyrrhetic Acid-Like Factors', abbreviated as 'GALFs' or, more specifically 11 beta-GALF for substance(s) active against 11 beta-OHSD, and 5 beta-GALF for those inhibitory to 5 beta-SR. Administration of glycyrrhetic acid in man leads to cortisol-dependent mineralocorticoid hypertension, owing to impaired inactivation of cortisol by 11 beta-OHSD, and may be associated with increased sensitivity to mineralocorticoids owing to impaired 5 beta-SR. In this preliminary report, the results are described of a study on the presence of GALF factors in urines collected from patients with congestive heart failure (CHF) and mild essential hypertension. The results show that in such patients there are increased amounts of both 11 beta- and 5 beta- GALFs compared to normotensive. The possible physiological significance of these results is discussed.
To investigate the association between occurrence of soft tissue sarcomas (STS) in Mantua and residence near an incinerator of industrial wastes.
Cases were subjects with histologically confirmed primary malignant STS diagnosed 1989-98 in the population resident in Mantua and in the three neighbouring municipalities. Controls were randomly extracted from population registries, matched for age and sex. Residential history was reconstructed for all study subjects since 1960. Main residence was geographically positioned according to GPS standards.
The study included 37 STS cases (17 men and 20 women) and 171 controls. The incidence of STS in the area of study was estimated as 8.8 per 100 000 in men and 5.6 per 100 000 in women. The odds ratio associated with residence within 2 km, standardised by age and sex, was 31.4 (95% CI 5.6 to 176.1), based on five exposed cases. At greater distances, risk rapidly decreased, showing a fluctuation around the null value of 1.
The study shows a significant increase in risk of STS associated with residence within 2 km of an industrial waste incinerator; an aetiological role of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) can be hypothesised.
Farnesoid X receptor (FXR, Nr1h4) and small heterodimer partner (SHP, Nr0b2) are nuclear receptors that are critical to liver homeostasis. Induction of SHP serves as a major mechanism of FXR in suppressing gene expression. Both FXR(-/-) and SHP(-/-) mice develop spontaneous hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). SHP is one of the most strongly induced genes by FXR in the liver and is a tumor suppressor, therefore, we hypothesized that deficiency of SHP contributes to HCC development in the livers of FXR(-/-) mice and therefore, increased SHP expression in FXR(-/-) mice reduces liver tumorigenesis. To test this hypothesis, we generated FXR(-/-) mice with overexpression of SHP in hepatocytes (FXR(-/-)/SHP(Tg)) and determined the contribution of SHP in HCC development in FXR(-/-) mice. Hepatocyte-specific SHP overexpression did not affect liver tumor incidence or size in FXR(-/-) mice. However, SHP overexpression led to a lower grade of dysplasia, reduced indicator cell proliferation and increased apoptosis. All tumor-bearing mice had increased serum bile acid levels and IL-6 levels, which was associated with activation of hepatic STAT3. In conclusion, SHP partially protects FXR(-/-) mice from HCC formation by reducing tumor malignancy. However, disrupted bile acid homeostasis by FXR deficiency leads to inflammation and injury, which ultimately results in uncontrolled cell proliferation and tumorigenesis in the liver.
To the well known methods for prevention of neonatal apnea like stimulation, CPAP, and mechanical ventilation the treatment with theophylline has been added recently. We studied the efficiency of theophylline therapy in 10 premature infants with apnea. The initial dosage was 6 mg theophylline/kg body-weight, followed by a dosage of 2 mg/kg for the next 12 h. The frequency of apnea thereby was significantly reduced. Only in two cases the heart rate rose above 180/min as a side effect. In no case an additional therapy was necessary.
Air pollution has been linked to increased rates of mortality, but little is known about individual characteristics related to the increase in risk.
To examine short term effects of air pollution on daily mortality in elderly people in Bordeaux and compare characteristics of subjects > or =65 years old who died with levels of particulate air pollution.
Daily mortality data from Bordeaux were used to determine the core model of mortality for the period 1988-97. The air pollution indicator was regressed on the core model of mortality, allowing control of the main effect modifiers and confounding factors of air pollution on the same day. The residual series of this regression model was classified from the lowest to the highest to determine "low level days" and "high level days". A sample of 1469 elderly people in a French cohort study were studied.
From 1988 to 1997, 543 subjects died; 55 deaths were during days with low air pollution and 51 during days with high air pollution. Only gender differed significantly according to both types of days, with a proportion of women significantly higher in high air pollution days than men. After adjustment for smoking habits, the odds ratio was 5.2 for women.
The risk of mortality between women and men was determined on days with "high air pollution levels" above the 50-90th centiles compared to below the 10th centile. No clear pattern was observed between days with low levels of air pollution and the different centiles of exposure.
In 12 patients with coronary artery disease, hypertensive periods during aortocoronary bypass surgery were treated with 1 MAC enflurane. The effect of enflurane on the major determinants of myocardial oxygen consumption was studied. Systolic arterial pressure was reduced to a level of about 120 mmHg (16 kPa). The heart rate diminished by 16.5%. The cardiac index during enflurane application was unchanged. Pulmonary artery wedge pressure was measured at short intervals and remained unchanged. The fall in arterial pressure and heart rate under unchanged preload produced a significant reduction in myocardial oxygen consumption as determined by calculation of the systolic wall tension and the tension time index. In five patients, the O2 content in coronary sinus blood was measured and the arterial-coronary sinus O2 difference was found to be diminished. In the concentration used, enflurane reduced the myocardial oxygen consumption of patients with coronary artery disease.
To study the efficacy of liver transplantation on end-stage hepatitis B related liver diseases, and the prevention and treatment strategies of hepatitis B recurrence after the transplantation.
The efficacy of combined treatment of lamivudine and hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) therapy on 24 patients who had received liver transplantation was retrospectively studied.
All the 24 patients with end-stage hepatitis B-related liver diseases treated with lamivudine alone or combined therapy of lamivudine and HBIG showed normal liver function and 21 of them lost hepatitis B virus (HBV) markers. However, the remaining 3 patients became HBsAg positive again soon after liver transplantation.
Liver transplantation is effective for patients with end-stage hepatitis B-related liver diseases. Combined treatment of lamivudine and HBIG may prevent the recurrence of hepatitis B after the operation.
Continuing concern regarding the potential health and environmental effects of depleted uranium and lead has resulted in many countries adding tungsten alloy (WA)-based munitions to their battlefield arsenals as replacements for these metals. Because the alloys used in many munitions are relatively recent additions to the list of militarily relevant metals, very little is known about the health effects of these metals after internalization as embedded shrapnel. Previous work in this laboratory developed a rodent model system that mimicked shrapnel loads seen in wounded personnel from the 1991 Persian Gulf War. In the present study, we used that system and male F344 rats, implanted intramuscularly with pellets (1 mm times 2 mm cylinders) of weapons-grade WA, to simulate shrapnel wounds. Rats were implanted with 4 (low dose) or 20 pellets (high dose) of WA. Tantalum (20 pellets) and nickel (20 pellets) served as negative and positive controls, respectively. The high-dose WA-implanted rats (n = 46) developed extremely aggressive tumors surrounding the pellets within 4-5 months after implantation. The low-dose WA-implanted rats (n = 46) and nickel-implanted rats (n = 36) also developed tumors surrounding the pellets but at a slower rate. Rats implanted with tantalum (n = 46), an inert control metal, did not develop tumors. Tumor yield was 100% in both the low- and high-dose WA groups. The tumors, characterized as high-grade pleomorphic rhabdomyosarcomas by histopathology and immunohistochemical examination, rapidly metastasized to the lung and necessitated euthanasia of the animal. Significant hematologic changes, indicative of polycythemia, were also observed in the high-dose WA-implanted rats. These changes were apparent as early as 1 month postimplantation in the high-dose WA rats, well before any overt signs of tumor development. These results point out the need for further studies investigating the health effects of tungsten and tungsten-based alloys.
Cancer chemotherapeutic drugs induce apoptosis by several pathways. Inactivation of proapoptotic genes, or activation of survival signaling, leads to chemoresistance. Activator protein 2alpha (AP-2alpha), a developmentally regulated sequence-specific DNA-binding transcription factor, has been shown to function like a tumor suppressor. Here, we show that controlled expression of AP-2alpha, using tetracycline-inducible system, increased the chemosensitivity of cancer cells by severalfold by sensitizing cells to undergo apoptosis upon chemotherapy. Under these conditions, neither AP-2alpha expression nor drug treatment resulted in apoptosis induction, whereas in combination the cancer cells underwent massive apoptosis. We found that endogenous AP-2alpha protein is induced posttranscriptionally by various chemotherapeutic drugs. Blocking the endogenous AP-2alpha by small interfering RNA in human cancer cells lead to decreased apoptosis, increased colony formation, and chemoresistance irrespective of their p53 status upon chemotherapy. We further show that 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine induced reexpression of AP-2alpha in MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells (wherein AP-2alpha expression is silenced by hypermethylation), resulted in massive apoptosis induction, increased chemosensitivity, decreased colony formation, and loss of tumorigenesis upon chemotherapy. However, in MDA-MB-231 cells transfected with AP-2alpha small interfering RNA, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine treatment failed to increase apoptosis and chemosensitivity. The treatment also resulted in increased colony formation and efficient tumor formation upon chemotherapy. These results establish an important role for AP-2alpha in cancer cell chemosensitivity and provide new insights for modifying the chemosensitivity of cancer cells by activating apoptotic pathways.
On the basis of the recent report that granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) administration after rats' partial orthotopic liver transplantation greatly improved survival rate and liver regeneration of partial graft, we here evaluated the effect of intermittent administration of G-CSF on fibrosis formation induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)). Bone marrow chimeric female C57BL/6 mice were treated with G-CSF at days 1, 7, 14, 21, and 28 after CCl(4) challenge. At day 35 after CCl(4) administration, we found that G-CSF treatment significantly reduced CCl(4)-induced liver damage and collagen deposition. In addition, levels of hepatic hydroxyproline and serum fibrosis markers in mice receiving G-CSF administration after CCl(4) challenge were significantly lower compared to those of control mice. Histological examination suggested that hepatic damage recovery was much better in these G-CSF-treated mice. Immunofluorescence and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis revealed that donor cells engrafted into host liver, had epithelium-like morphology and expressed albumin, although at low frequency. These results suggest that intermittent G-CSF treatment might initiate endogenous hepatic tissue regeneration in response to CCl(4) injury and ameliorate its fibrogenic effects.
