Previous reports demonstrated that repeated administration of peroxisome proliferators protects against acetaminophen (APAP) hepatotoxicity in mice. This protection was associated with a decrease in APAP's selective protein arylation and glutathione depletion. This study was conducted to determine if a single dose of clofibrate (CFB), rather than repeated doses, would similarly prevent APAP toxicity. CD-1 male mice received a single dose of 500 mg CFB/kg and controls were given corn oil 24 hr prior to APAP challenge. After an 18-hr fast, mice were challenged with 800 mg APAP/kg (in 50% propylene glycol) and killed at 4 or 12 hr. Other mice similarly pretreated were killed without APAP challenge. The results showed that pretreatment with a single CFB dose significantly decreased APAP-induced hepatotoxicity. At 12 hr after APAP plasma sorbitol dehydrogenase activity and the severity of hepatocellular necrosis were decreased in CFB pretreated mice. Surprisingly, no differences in hepatic nonprotein sulfhydryl (NPSH) depletion or selective arylation of target proteins in cytosol were observed at 4 hr after APAP challenge. Neither did a single dose of CFB significantly alter hepatic NPSH content prior to APAP challenge. These results indicate that protection against APAP hepatotoxicity by CFB does not require repeated administration, and the absence of significant alterations in APAP's selective protein arylation or glutathione depletion suggests that the protection against APAP hepatotoxicity after a single treatment with CFB may differ mechanistically from the protection observed after repeated CFB dosing.
Previous studies that have attempted to evaluate the effectiveness of an iso-osmolar contrast medium (IOCM) iodixanol compared to a low-osmolar contrast medium (LOCM) for contrast procedures show variable results.
To evaluate the nephrotoxicity of the IOCM iodixanol compared to the LOCM iohexol.
We performed a retrospective cohort study from April 2004 to March 2006. All contrast procedures with a pre- and post-exposure creatinine value were evaluated for inclusion. Contrast nephropathy (CN) was defined as post-exposure creatinine elevation of > or = 25% or > 0.5 mg/dl within 7 days of contrast exposure. Cases of iodixanol exposure were matched to control cases of iohexol exposure (1:1) based on age, sex, presence of diabetes, pre-exposure creatinine value, and type of imaging study performed. We matched 397 cases of iodixanol (IOCM) exposure to 397 cases of iohexol (LOCM) exposure. Cases of iodixanol which could not be matched to controls were not included in the analysis.
After adjustment for prior creatinine, medications, contrast iodine load, prior exposure to contrast material, heart failure, and hypertension, use of iodixanol did not significantly alter rates of CN compared to iohexol (OR 0.92, 95% CI 0.57-1.46; P = 0.71) or mortality (RR 0.79, 95% CI 0.59-1.06; P = 0.12).
The use of the IOCM iodixanol was not associated with statistically significant protection against contrast nephropathy or all-cause mortality compared to a matched cohort of patients receiving the LOCM iohexol.
Changes in alpha-2 adrenoreceptor density and affinity during antidepressant treatment were studied using 3H-yohimbine binding to human platelet membranes. Baseline measurements were conducted in 21 patients diagnosed as having major depressive disorder with melancholia, and an equal number of age and sex matched normal controls. No differences were observed in receptor density or binding between pre-treatment subject groups and normal matched controls. Subjects participated for 6 weeks in a trial of placebo, adinazolam, or amitriptyline. Alpha-2 adrenoreceptor binding was not significantly changed from baseline following antidepressant treatment.
A previously healthy 32-year-old man visited our clinic with a 5-week history of involuntary movement. Examination demonstrated continuous myoclonic jerks in the left elbow. Two days later, he developed generalized convulsion. Electroencephalography demonstrated small spikes over the right central region. Thus, we made a diagnosis of epilepsia partialis continua (EPC) with a secondary generalization. On admission, serum electrolytes, glucose and ceruloplasmin levels, and amino acid analysis were unremarkable. HIV serology was negative. Anticardiolipin, anti-MPO ANCA, and anti-Hu antibodies were negative. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed 151/microl lymphocytes and 23/microl polymorphs, 70 mg/dl of glucose, and 61 mg/dl of protein. Autoantibodies against the glutamate receptor subunits epsilon-2 and delta-2 were detected in the serum and CSF. Cranial MRI was unremarkable. Treatment with acyclovir and high-dose methylprednisolone failed to halt the jerks. Two weeks after admission, he developed status epilepticus, which necessitated general anesthesia. Intravenous immunoglobulin infusion gave no beneficial effects. Two months after the onset of the status epilepticus, his convulsions were controlled with zonisamide, clobazam, and carbamazepine. While he had no motor dysfunctions, he had loss of spontaneity and memory impairment. This report suggests that EPC might be the initial symptom of subacute encephalitis with a possible autoimmune mechanism.
This study compares the effects of 1,25(OH)2D3 and 24,25(OH)2D3 alone or in combination on renal osteodystrophy in rats with chronic renal failure (CRF).
One month subsequent to 5/6 nephrectomy animals were divided into four groups and treated for one or four weeks with either vehicle, 1,25(OH)2D3, 24,25(OH)2D3 or 1,25(OH)2D3 + 24,25(OH)2D3. A sham-operated group with normal renal function matched for age and weight was used as control. At the termination of the study blood chemistry, parathyroid hormone (PTH) level and bone histomorphometry were analyzed.
The main findings were: amelioration of 1,25(OH)2D3-induced hypercalcemia by 24,25(OH)2D3, and similar suppression of PTH by the two metabolites of vitamin D when administered alone or in combination. Bone histomorphometry showed that 1,25(OH)2D3 alone exerts a potent proliferative effect on the osteoblasts but severely depresses their mineralizing capacity in a dose- and time-dependent manner. By contrast, 24,25(OH)2D3 improved the mineralizing activity with only a limited effect on osteoblast proliferation. Addition of 24,25(OH)2D3 potentiated the beneficial effect of 1,25(OH)2D3 on bone-resorbing parameters and corrected the mineralization failure.
Based on the above observations we suggest that the combined treatment with 1,25(OH)2D3 and 24,25(OH)2D3 markedly improves the morphologic and metabolic abnormalities of renal osteodystrophy.
A follow-up study comprising 51 patients with chronic intrinsic asthma requiring regular daily peroral bronchodilating drugs and isoprinaline aerosol is presented. Forty-three of the patients required long-term steroid therapy as well. Patients were controlled regularly both before and during peroral treatment with terbutaline. The study was concluded after continuous terbutaline therapy for an average period of 32 months. A subjective improvement was seen in 46 patients. Out of 43 patients requiring long-term steroid treatment, 24 were able to decrease their daily dose of prednisolone and four patients could discontinue steroid therapy. Thirty-five patients decreased their isoprenaline aerosol use and four abandoned the aerosol completely. The need for hospital care was reduced by two-thirds and the total sick leave from work was decreased by two-thirds. In order to test how the bronchi responded after continuous use of terbutaline, spirometry was carried out before and after a subcutaneous injection of terbutaline at the end of the study. No indication of resistance to the drug was found. Tremor occurred occasionally in 16 patients. No toxic effects of the drug have been found.
Triple-negative breast cancers lack expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors and overexpression of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). Unlike other subgroups of patients with breast cancer, targeted therapy is currently unavailable for these patients. The aim of this study was to investigate v-src sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (Src) as a potential target for the treatment of triple-negative breast cancer.
Expression of Src was measured in 87 triple-negative and 93 non-triple-negative breast cancers. Dasatinib (an inhibitor of Src) was tested in a panel of breast cancer cell lines.
Cytoplasmic expression of Src was detected in 83 (95%) triple-negative samples versus 78 (84%) non-triple-negative samples (P = 0.012), while membrane Src was detected in 78% triple-negative compared with 38% of non-triple-negative specimens (P < 0.0001). Dasatinib inhibited growth in three of five triple-negative cell lines (IC(50) < 1 μM). Dasatinib combined with cisplatin was synergistic in the three dasatinib-sensitive cell lines (combination index < 0.9). Dasatinib, in combination with 5'-deoxy-5'-fluoruridine, displayed synergy or additivity. Moderate synergy was observed with docetaxel (Taxotere) in two cell lines but the combination was antagonistic in HCC-1143 cells.
We conclude that dasatinib with cisplatin is a rational drug combination for testing in triple-negative breast cancer.
An altered dopamine receptor status has been associated with sleep bruxism. Evidence from a functional neuro-imaging study has implicated an abnormal side imbalance in striatal D2 receptor expression in its pathophysiology. To assess the significance of this finding, we studied the effects of short-term administration of the preferential dopamine D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine on sleep bruxism in a double-blind, placebo-controlled polysomnographic and neuro-imaging study with a single crossover design. Six otherwise healthy and drug-free patients with sleep bruxism were entered into the trial. One of the patients dropped out due to an intercurrent illness, while three others were discontinued from the study due to severe adverse reactions to bromocriptine. Because of the high frequency and intensity of the side-effects, the trial was interrupted. Two patients, however, completed the trial without any adverse reactions. Their outcome measures are presented as single-patient clinical trials. Following a two-week administration of bromocriptine, both patients showed a decrease in the number of bruxism episodes per hour of sleep of about 20% to 30% with respect to the placebo. WHile no significant differences between both conditions (i.e., placebo and bromocriptine) were found for the number of bruxism bursts per episode, significantly lower root-mean-squared EMG levels per bruxism burst occurred during bromocriptine use. In association with this polysomnographically established attenuation of sleep bruxism, bromocriptine afforded a decreased normal side distribution of striatal D2 receptor binding, as was evidenced by single-photon-emission computed tomography using the radioactive D2 receptor antagonist iodine-123-iodobenzamide. This study supports previous suggestions that the central dopaminergic system may be involved in the modulation of sleep bruxism. To see if the present findings apply across a population, investigators should use a peripheral D-2 antagonist to prevent side-effects.
Recent reports suggest that high doses of methadone may prolong QTc interval and occasionally cause torsades de pointes; however, few of these studies involved the palliative care population.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of initiation of methadone on QTc interval in patients with cancer pain seen at the palliative care setting.
We enrolled 100 patients with cancer in this prospective study. Patients were followed clinically and electrocardiographically for QTc changes at baseline, 2, 4, and 8 weeks. Contributing factors for QTc prolongation such as medications, cardiovascular diseases, and electrolytes disturbances were documented. QTc prolongation was defined as greater than 430 ms in males and greater than 450 ms in females, and significant QTc prolongation was defined as QTc interval greater than 25% increase from baseline or 500 ms or more.
Electrocardiographic (ECG) assessments were available for 100, 64, 41, and 27 patients at baseline, 2-, 4-, and 8-week follow-up, respectively. At baseline prior to initiation of methadone, 28 (28%) patients had QTc prolongation. Clinically significant increase in QTc occurred in only 1 of 64 (1.6%) patients at week 2, and none at weeks 4 and 8. There was no clinical evidence of torsades de pointes, ventricular fibrillation, or sudden death. QTc prolongation was more frequent among patients with increased baseline QTc interval.
Baseline QTc prolongation was common, whereas significant QTc interval 500 ms or more after methadone initiation rarely occurred, with no evidence of clinically significant arrhythmias. This study supports the safety of methadone use for pain control in patients with advanced cancer in the palliative care setting.
Doxorubicin (DXR) is one of the most effective antineoplastic agents, but its use is limited by its myocardial toxicity. Myocardial injury reduces the cyclic variation of integrated backscatter (CV-IBS) and so the present study was designed to investigate whether CV-IBS can be used to detect the early phase of myocardial damage in patients receiving DXR. Thirty-four subjects constituted the study population, none of whom showed clinically evident heart failure. CV-IBS was obtained for both the interventricular septum and the left ventricular posterior wall in the parasternal short-axis view. Standard echographic measures of left ventricular function were also made. Subjects without DXR exposure or evident cardiac diseases served as controls. The total dose of DXR administered per patient was 339+/-164 mg/m2 (range: 95-680 mg/m2). Conventional echographic parameters, including left ventricular wall thickness, dimensions, fractional shortening, and ejection fraction, showed no significant differences between the 2 groups. In contrast, CV-IBS was significantly decreased in the DXR group compared with the control group (septum: 4.7+/-1.7 vs 7.2+/-1.9 dB, p<0.0001; posterior wall: 6.7 +/-2.2 vs 8.0+/-1.6 dB, p<0.05). CV-IBS can be used as an early indicator of DXR-induced myocardial damage in patients demonstrating normal left ventricular systolic function.
A case of heparin-induced platelet activation with thrombocytopenia and several arterial emboli in a 60-year-old woman suffering unstable angina is presented. The early recognition of the syndrome, with cessation of heparin and the use of unfractionated heparin, led to an immediate remission of the thrombocytopenia and thromboembolic complications.
Technetium-99m-labeled matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor (MPI) was used for the noninvasive assessment of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity in atherosclerotic plaques after minocycline (MC) intervention.
MMP activity in atherosclerosis contributes to plaque instability. Some antimicrobial agents may attenuate MMP activity.
Atherosclerotic lesions were produced in 38 rabbits with a high cholesterol diet for 4 months; 5 groups of rabbits, in the fourth month, received fluvastatin (FS) (n = 6), low-dose MC (n = 7), high-dose MC (n = 7), a combination of low-dose MC and FS (n = 6), or no intervention (n = 12); 8 unmanipulated rabbits were used as disease controls. Micro-single-photon emission computed tomography imaging was performed in all animals after intravenous MPI administration, followed by pathologic characterization of the aorta. A cell culture study evaluated the effect of MC on MMP production by activated human monocytes.
MPI uptake was visualized best in untreated atherosclerotic animals (percent injected dose per gram MPI uptake, 0.11 +/- 0.04%). MPI uptake was reduced in the FS (0.06 +/- 0.01%; p < 0.0001), high-dose MC (0.05 +/- 0.01%; p < 0.0001), and MC-FS (0.05 +/- 0.005%; p < 0.0001) groups. Low-dose MC did not resolve MPI uptake significantly (0.08 +/- 0.02; p = 0.167). There was no incremental benefit of the combination of MC and FS. MPI uptake showed a significant correlation with plaque MMP-2, and MMP-9 activity. MMP-9 release from tumor necrosis factor-alpha-activated macrophages was abrogated by incubation with MC.
Molecular imaging of MMP activity in atherosclerotic plaque allows for the study of the efficacy of therapeutic interventions. MC administration resulted in substantial reduction in plaque MMP activity and histologically verified plaque stabilization. MC was found to be equally effective as FS.
We report a case of severe hemorrhagic cystitis induced by prolonged busulfan therapy. The clinical course and pathological results were similar to irradiation and cyclophosphamide cystitis. Only 1 such case has been described previously. Although hemorrhagic cystitis induced by busulfan is a rare complication it should be considered in the differential diagnosis and busulfan should be discontinued immediately.
High expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) was shown to inhibit chemotherapy- and radiotherapy-induced apoptosis. We analyzed the association of COX-2 mRNA and protein expression with histomorphologic response to neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy in esophageal cancer.
Fifty-two patients with resectable esophageal cancers (cT2-4, Nx, and M0) received neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy (cisplatin, 5-5-fluorouracil, 36 Gy) followed by transthoracic en bloc esophagectomy. Histomorphologic regression was defined as major response when resected specimens contained less than 10% of residual vital tumor cells. RNA was isolated from endoscopic biopsies (paired tumor and normal tissue) before neoadjuvant treatment and quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-PCR (Taqman) assays were done to determine COX-2 mRNA expression levels standardized for beta-actin. COX-2 protein expression in pretreatment biopsies and post-therapeutic resection specimens was analyzed by immunostaining of tumor cells.
Median COX-2 mRNA expression levels were significantly (P < 0.0001) different between paired tumor (median, 2.2) and normal tissues (median, 0.159). Comparison of pre-therapeutic and posttherapeutic specimens showed a significant difference (P < 0.006) in COX-2 protein expression. Twelve of 52 tumors showed down-regulation and 3 of 52 showed up-regulation of COX-2 protein expression during neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy. High COX-2 protein expression in post-therapeutic resection specimens was significantly associated with minor histopathologic response (P < 0.04) and poor prognosis (5-year survival probabilities: 26.3 +/- 8.2% for minor and 58.6% +/- 12.9% for major histopathologic response; P < 0.01).
High COX-2 protein expression following neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy in resection specimens is significantly associated with minor histopathologic response to neoadjuvant therapy and very poor prognosis.
Premature constriction of the fetal ductus arteriosus has been described with long-term indomethacin therapy, but not in fetuses who have been exposed to the drug for less than 72 hours. The sensitivity of the ductus to extended indomethacin tocolysis increases with advancing gestational age. For this reason, it is recommended that indomethacin not be used beyond 31 weeks of gestation. In the present case the gestational age of the patient was 27 weeks and the period of indomethacin exposure was only 16 hours. Our observations of pulmonary hypertension in this case suggest that administration of indomethacin even hours before delivery can significantly affect the ductus arteriosus and the pulmonary vasculature.
The effects of anti-allergic agents on the hypersensitivity reactions to paclitaxel, an anti-cancer agent, were examined in rats. Intravenous injection of paclitaxel (15 mg/kg) caused a marked extravasation of plasma protein in lungs and a transient decrease in arterial partial oxygen pressure (PaO(2)). The paclitaxel-induced protein extravasation was inhibited by low doses (0.1-1 mg/kg) of pemirolast or high doses (30-100 mg/kg) of cromoglycate. However, ketotifen was not effective. The decrease in PaO(2) induced by paclitaxel was also significantly reversed by pemirolast. On the other hand, the paclitaxel-induced plasma extravasation was not attenuated by a histamine H(1) blocker diphenhydramine or an H(2) blocker famotidine, but was significantly reduced by a neurokinin NK(1) antagonist LY303870 (0.5 mg/kg) and an NK(2) antagonist SR48968 (1 mg/kg). The concentrations of proteins and sensory peptides such as substance P, neurokinin A and calcitonin gene-related peptide but not histamine in the rat bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were elevated by paclitaxel injection. Both cromoglycate and pemirolast reduced the paclitaxel-induced rise in proteins and sensory peptides. Therefore, we demonstrated for the first time that sensory nerve peptides are involved in paclitaxel hypersensitivity and that an anti-allergic agent pemirolast attenuates the paclitaxel response by inhibiting the release of sensory nerve peptides.
Epidemiological studies suggest that the consumption of flavonoid-rich diets decreases the risk of cardiovascular diseases. However, the target sites of flavonoids underlying the protective mechanism in vivo are not known. Quercetin represents antioxidative/anti-inflammatory flavonoids widely distributed in the human diet. In this study, we raised a novel monoclonal antibody 14A2 targeting the quercetin-3-glucuronide (Q3GA), a major antioxidative quercetin metabolite in human plasma, and found that the activated macrophage might be a potential target of dietary flavonoids in the aorta. Immunohistochemical studies with monoclonal antibody 14A2 demonstrated that the positive staining specifically accumulates in human atherosclerotic lesions, but not in the normal aorta, and that the intense staining was primarily associated with the macrophage-derived foam cells. In vitro experiments with murine macrophage cell lines showed that the Q3GA was significantly taken up and deconjugated into the much more active aglycone, a part of which was further converted to the methylated form, in the activated macrophages. In addition, the mRNA expression of the class A scavenger receptor and CD36, which play an important role for the formation of foam cells, was suppressed by the treatment of Q3GA. These results suggest that injured/inflamed arteries with activated macrophages are the potential targets of the metabolites of dietary quercetin. Our data provide a new insight into the bioavailability of dietary flavonoids and the mechanism for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent environmental pollutants that are detectable in the serum of all American adults. Amongst PCB congeners, PCB 153 has the highest serum level. PCBs have been dose-dependently associated with obesity, metabolic syndrome and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in epidemiological studies.
The purpose of this study is to determine mechanisms by which PCB 153 worsens diet-induced obesity and NAFLD in male mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD).
Male C57BL6/J mice were fed either control or 42% milk fat diet for 12 weeks with or without PCB 153 coexposure (50 mg/kg ip ×4). Glucose tolerance test was performed, and plasma and tissues were obtained at necropsy for measurements of adipocytokine levels, histology and gene expression.
In control diet-fed mice, addition of PCB 153 had minimal effects on any of the measured parameters. However, PCB 153 treatment in high-fat-fed mice was associated with increased visceral adiposity, hepatic steatosis and plasma adipokines including adiponectin, leptin, resistin and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 levels. Likewise, coexposure reduced expression of hepatic genes implicated in β-oxidation while increasing the expression of genes associated with lipid biosynthesis. Regardless of diet, PCB 153 had no effect on insulin resistance or tumor necrosis factor alpha levels.
PCB 153 is an obesogen that exacerbates hepatic steatosis, alters adipocytokines and disrupts normal hepatic lipid metabolism when administered with HFD but not control diet. Because all US adults have been exposed to PCB 153, this particular nutrient-toxicant interaction potentially impacts human obesity/NAFLD.
Tramadol ((+/-)-tramadol) is an analgesic agent formulated as a racemic mixture (1:1) of (-)- and (+)-tramadol, which differ in their potency to bind to mu-opioid receptors and to inhibit monoamine-reuptake. We investigated the stereoselectivity of in vitro tramadol-induced vasodilatation of aortic rings and its effect on the arterial blood pressure measured in conscious Wistar rats. (+)-Tramadol, but not (-)-tramadol, produced a concentration-dependent relaxation of aorta precontracted with phenylephrine. The concentration-response curve was significantly altered by the removal of endothelium. Vascular relaxation was also inhibited by pre-incubation of endothelium-intact aorta with naloxone, suggesting the involvement of opioid receptors. The vasodilatation produced by tramadol was stereoselective, and the (+)-tramadol-induced vasodilatation was mediated by mu-opioid receptors and partially dependent on endothelium integrity. The hypotensive response induced by (+)-tramadol was also observed after bolus injection of 5.0 and 10.0 mg/kg. The results indicate that only high doses of tramadol cause cardiac depression and hypotension, indicating that it can be used safely.
Bisphenol A is utilized to make polycarbonate plastics and is an environmental pollutant. Recent research has indicated that it is an endocrine disruptor and may interfere with reproductive processes. Our lab has previously shown that bisphenol A could regulate corticotrophin releasing hormone and aromatase in cultured placental cells. In the present study, the effect of bisphenol A on these two genes in the placenta was investigated in mice. Pregnant ICR mice were gavaged with bisphenol A at 2, 20 and 200mg/kg body weight/day from E13 to E16 and were euthanized at E17. Compared to the control mice, increased plasma estrogen and corticotrophin releasing hormone were observed in bisphenol A-treated mice. Messenger RNA quantification indicated that placental crh but not cyp19 was induced in mice treated with bisphenol A. Tracking the related signaling pathway, we found that protein kinase C ζ/λ and δ were activated in the placentas of bisphenol A-treated mice. As the gene promoter of crh contains CRE and the half site of ERE, either phospho-PKC or estrogen could stimulate the gene transactivation. These results indicate that bisphenol A might increase plasma concentrations of estradiol, testosterone, corticotrophin releasing hormone and placental phospho-PKC ζ/λ and δ in mice. Ultimately, the incidence of premature birth in these mice could increase.
High-dose cyclophosphamide is a well-known mobilization regimen in patients with multiple myeloma undergoing autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Highly differing rates of cardiac complications associated with high-dose cyclophosphamide have been reported. To date, no systematic clinical study has investigated high-dose cyclophosphamide mobilization regimens in multiple myeloma patients and evaluated its cardiotoxicity. We administered high-dose cyclophosphamide (4 g/m2) to 23 consecutive multiple myeloma patients and followed the patients for 15 days by serially measuring the cardiotoxicity biomarkers troponin I (TnI), brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), and endothelin 1 (ET-1). Systolic and diastolic left ventricular function was assessed by complete echocardiography before and at 6 to 8 weeks after the therapy. Patients younger than 55 years showed significant differences between basal TnI levels and TnI concentrations determined at 15 days after high-dose cyclophosphamide treatment (P = .028). Significant differences between basal BNP concentrations and BNP levels measured at 8 hours after high-dose cyclophosphamide treatment were found in the entire group of patients as well as in 2 subgroups, patients younger than 55 years and those older than 55 years (P <.0001, P <.001, and P = .001, respectively). ET-1 results for the entire group of patients showed a significant difference between baseline ET-1 values and ET-1 values determined 8 hours after high-dose cyclophosphamide administration (P = .004). Echocardiographic measurements revealed a barely nonsignificant decrease in cardiac output after high-dose cyclophosphamide infusion compared with pretreatment values (P = .06), a result in accord with echocardiographically detected increases in mild functional mitral regurgitation (P = .025). TnI levels at 15 days after the completion of treatment correlated with left ventricular diastolic dysfunction, as indicated by the s/d index (r = 0.61; P = .04). In conclusion, the significant neurohumoral activation of heart failure occurring after high-dose cyclophosphamide treatment is manifested by an increase in BNP and ET-1 levels, yet without concomitant cardiomyocyte necrosis. BNP levels and to a lesser extent ET-1 levels are much more sensitive indicators of myocardial injury than functional tests, such as echocardiography, whereas diastolic functional parameters are more sensitive predictors of early cyclophosphamide-induced cardiotoxicity. Mild functional mitral regurgitation may develop in patients given high-dose cyclophosphamide therapy.
Rebound insomnia, a worsening of sleep difficulty beyond baseline levels, can complicate the physician's attempt to use regularly scheduled drug holidays in the management of insomniac patients. Quazepam, a benzodiazepine with a long half-life, has been shown to exhibit carryover effectiveness for the first night or two following withdrawal. This finding suggests a potential utility for an alternate-night drug regimen in which the withdrawal features of the compound serve as a potential benefit.
A randomized, double-blind, three-compartment, parallel-group design of 5 weeks' duration, comparing quazepam 15 mg, triazolam 0.5 mg, and placebo, was conducted in 65 insomniac subjects. This study was a nonpolysomnographic study utilizing sleep questionnaires.
No differences were noted between quazepam and triazolam on treatment nights. Evidence of carryover effectiveness with quazepam and rebound effects with triazolam were noted on off-treatment nights.
The efficiency of alternate-night therapy with quazepam should be rigorously evaluated using polysomnographic determinations.
Classic Hodgkin's lymphoma (cHL) most often involves lymph nodes, and gastric involvement is rare. Hodgkin's and Reed-Sternberg (H-RS) cells in cHL are known to often lack expression of several B-lineage markers, such as CD20, CD79a, Oct-2, and Bob-1. We present an extremely rare case of mixed-cellularity cHL in the stomach in which expression of these B-cells was detected immunohistochemically. The patient was an 83-year-old Japanese woman who developed a sensation of abdominal fullness and appetite loss. Endoscopic and abdominal computed tomography examinations revealed a gastric ulcer lesion and swelling of para-aortic lymph nodes, respectively. A subtotal gastrectomy was performed, and the histopathologic diagnosis was established as a typical cHL compatible with stomach origin. The patient underwent postoperative chemotherapy of 3 cycles of ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine) and has since been in complete remission. Immunohistochemically, the H-RS cells in the cHL were positive not only for CD30 but also for CD20, CD79a, Oct-2, and Bob-1, whereas they were negative for CD3, CD15, CD45, EMA, and ALK1. Our patient may have had an intermediate cHL disease overlapping that of non-Hodgkin's peripheral B-cell lymphoma, possibly reflecting derivation from germinal-center B-cells.
We previously reported that lafutidine ((I)-2-(furfurylsulfinyl)-N-[4-[4-(piperidinomethyl)-2-pyridyl]oxy-(Z)-2-butenyl] acetamide), a novel histamine H(2)-receptor antagonist, protects the small intestine against indomethacin-induced damage, mediated by capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons (CSN).
In the present study, we investigated whether or not the protective action of lafutidine against indomethacin-induced intestinal damage is mediated by endogenous nitric oxide (NO). Male SD rats were given indomethacin (10 mg/kg, s.c), killed 24 hr later, and the small intestinal mucosa was examined. Lafutidine (10 mg/kg) and capsaicin (10 mg/kg) was given p.o. twice 0.5 hr before and 9 hr after indomethacin. The NO synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME: 10 mg/kg) or the selective iNOS inhibitor aminoguanidine (10 mg/kg) was given s.c. 1 hr before lafutidine, while L-arginine (200 mg/kg) was given i.p. 10 min before L-NAME.
Indomethacin produced severe lesions in the small intestine, accompanied by increases in enterobacterial translocation in the mucosa. Both lafutidine and capsaicin significantly reduced the severity of these lesions, together with suppression of bacterial translocation. The protective action of lafutidine as well as capsaicin was almost totally abolished by L-NAME but not aminoguanidine, in a L-arginine-sensitive manner. Both lafutidine and capsaicin significantly increased intestinal mucus secretion, and these effects were also attenuated by prior administration of L-NAME. The exogenous NO donor NOR-3 prevented indomethacin-induced intestinal lesions at the dose that stimulated the mucus secretion and inhibited the bacterial translocation.
These results suggest that lafutidine protects the small intestine against indomethacin-induced damage, the action being dependent on CSN and mediated by endogenous NO produced by cNOS. The protective action of lafutidine may be attributable to suppression of the bacterial translocation following indomethacin, probably due to stimulation of intestinal mucus secretion.
Following coronary embolisation and onset of left ventricular failure 27 awake dogs were randomly assigned to infusion of saline (controls), nitroprusside, or dobutamine (a new inotropic agent). Nitroprusside and dobutamine both increased cardiac output and lowered left ventricular filling pressure while raising coronary sinus flow. Dobutamine, however, increased myocardial oxygen consumption whereas nitroprusside reduced it. Therefore vasidilators may be more beneficial than inotropic agents in acute myocardial infarction.
Multiple lines of evidence have implicated the CAV-1 gene in prostate cancer progression. CAV-1 is located within the prostate cancer aggressiveness locus at 7q31-33, and was identified as being overexpressed in prostate tumors. Mutation screening was performed as well as a case-control study to examine if polymorphisms in CAV-1 are associated with prostate cancer aggressiveness in a German population.
We sequenced the CAV-1 promoter region and its open reading frame in prostate cancer families with linkage to chromosome 7q31-33. Additionally, 105 unrelated familial prostate cancer probands, 190 sporadic cases, and 191 controls were genotyped at four intronic single nucleotide polymorphisms. Resulting haplotypes were tested for association using age at diagnosis, tumor grade, TNM stage, and follow up information to stratify for aggressive disease.
No mutation was found in the CAV-1 coding region or in the promoter. One of the 11 observed haplotypes showed an increased frequency in cases with high tumor stage (P = 0.03).
This is the first report providing evidence for CAV-1 being involved in predisposition to aggressive prostate cancer. The association of a potential risk haplotype agrees well with a role of CAV-1 in tumor progression but needs further confirmation.
Dysesthesia and sensory and reflex loss in the legs developed in a patient treated for seizures with phenytoin (diphenylhydantoin) for one year. Her serum drug levels had been in the therapeutic range, and no other clinical toxic reactions had been noted. The peripheral neuropathy resolved when phenytoin therapy was discontinued.
Inflammation processes may play a critical role in the pathogenesis of the degenerative changes and cognitive impairments associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are reported to be effective in reducing the risk of developing AD or cognitive impairments. Present experiments were performed to study the possible effect of various NSAIDs on cognitive performance of young, aged and scopolamine or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) treated mice (an animal model of AD) using one trial step through type of passive avoidance and in elevated plus maze task. Chronic administration of NSAIDs at the ED(50) doses (nimesulide, rofecoxib and naproxen for 15 days) significantly reversed the age or scopolamine-induced retention deficits in both test paradigms. However, in both the memory paradigms chronic administration of NSAIDs failed to modulate the retention performance of young mice. Acute administration of LPS (50 mcg/mouse, i.p.) significantly exhibited retention deficits after 24 h and seventh day of its administration in both test paradigms. Chronic administration (7 days) of rofecoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor (1.92 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly reversed the LPS-induced retention deficits in both tests. The results of this study showed chronic treatment of NSAIDs reverses the cognitive deficits in age and scopolamine or LPS treated mice. These findings establish a link between the central nervous system expression of various pro-inflammatory cytokines and learning impairment in mice.
