To investigate the safety and effectiveness of the combination of paclitaxel, cisplatin and gemcitabine as second-line in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) sensitive to first-line cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
From June 1997 to December 1998, 26 patients with stage IIIB or IV NSCLC received paclitaxel 125 mg/m2, as a one-hour infusion, followed by cisplatin 50 mg/m2 and gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2, intravenously, on day 1 and 8, every 3 weeks. Twenty-three patients were male; the median age was 59 years (range 44-70); The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status was 0 to 1 in 88% of patients; 16 patients had stage IV disease and 7 patients had 3 or more sites of disease. The predominant histology was adenocarcinoma in 14 patients. Prior treatment involved cisplatin plus vinorelbine in 14 patients and cisplatin plus mitomycin C plus vindesine in 12 cases.
Seven (27%; exact 95% confidence limits: 11.6-47.8%) patients achieved a partial response to treatment whilst 7 (27%) had stable disease. The median duration of response was 22 weeks (range, 18 to 34 weeks). The median overall survival was 24 weeks (range, 8 to 36 weeks). The main toxicities were: grade 3-4 neutropenia in 9 (34%) patients; grade 2-3 peripheral neuropathy in 10 (38%); and grade 2-3 asthenia in 15 (57%) cases.
The paclitaxel, cisplatin and gemcitabine combination is active as a second-line regimen in patients with advanced NSCLC, but with mild toxicity. It seems suitable for patients with advanced NSCLC as a first-line treatment.
The development of hypomania, mania and transient mood elevation within 2-3 days of antidepressant discontinuation, and lasting days to several weeks has been reported in unipolar depressed patients. Imipramine and desipramine are the antidepressants most frequently associated with the above phenomena. A reported case of transient mood elevation following abrupt reduction but not discontinuation of desipramine therapy in a woman with unipolar depression is described. The phenomenon was observed and documented on two separate occasions. Mood elevation occurred despite decreased plasma levels of the drug. Relapse followed despite maintenance of dose and similar drug plasma levels. Factors which could account for the transitory improvement of mood are examined. It is suggested that the patient's improvement in mood may have occurred due to a rebound paradoxical therapeutic effect. The features of the presented case history which appear to support this hypothesis are discussed. Also the clinical implications of this phenomenon are reviewed.
Exposure to quartz and high concentrations of other poorly soluble particles can lead to the development of lung tumors in the rat. The mechanisms involved in particle-induced carcinogenesis seem to include inflammation-associated production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and DNA damage. ROS induce 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoGua) and a panel of other oxidation products in DNA. In proliferating cells such DNA lesions can lead to various types of mutations, which might be critical for cancer-related genes with respect to tumor formation. Quartz is known to mediate the induction of 8-oxoGua in the nuclear DNA of lung cells when applied to the lung of rats. We have investigated the time- and dose-dependent biologic effects of quartz and, as a control, corundum, on cell proliferation and various pulmonary inflammation and toxicity markers in rat bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF); on the induction of 8-oxoGua in the DNA of rat lung cells; and on the cellular levels of p53 wild-type and p53 mutant (mut) protein. Rats were exposed by intratracheal instillation to various amounts of quartz (0.3, 1.5, or 7.5 mg/rat) or corundum (0.3, 1.5, or 7.5 mg/rat) and measured at Days 7, 21, and 90 after exposure. Corundum had no adverse effects except a slight elevation of 8-oxoGua at a dose of 7.5 mg/rat. However, significant changes in the BALF were detected at all quartz doses. 8-oxoGua was significantly increased only at 1.5 and 7.5 mg quartz/rat. The amount of cells with detectable p53 wild-type protein levels was increased at 1.5 and 7.5 mg quartz/rat at 7 and 21 d. Elevated amounts of cells with enhanced p53 mut protein levels were measured at all time points after instillation of 7.5 mg quartz/rat.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a multi-functional cytokine involved in inflammation, repair and angiogenesis in asthmatic airway. This study aimed to evaluate the role of VEGF in immediate bronchoconstriction induced by TDI inhalation, and in chronic TDI-asthma patients. 11 newly diagnosed TDI-asthma patients (group I), 12 chronic TDI-asthma patients with persistent asthma symptoms followed for >4 yr and 15 unexposed healthy controls were enrolled. In group I, induced sputum and serum were collected before and 7 hr after placebo- and TDI-bronchoprovocation test (BPT). In group II, induced sputum and serum were collected every 2 yr. VEGF levels were measured by ELISA. There were no significant differences in sputum and serum VEGF levels between patients and controls. Before and after placebo and TDI-BPT, no significant changes were noted in sputum and serum VEGF levels of group I. In group II patients, sputum VEGF showed variable changes at 1-yr, then decreased significantly at 2-yr (p<0.05), while serum VEGF showed variable changes at 2-yr, which decreased significantly at 4-yr (p<0.05). These results suggest that VEGF may play a minor role in immediate bronchoconstriction after TDI-BPT. In chronic TDI-asthma, VEGF may be involved to 2 yr after the diagnosis and the contribution may decrease after then.
We sought to evaluate predictors of clinical outcome, angiographic success, and adverse effects after intra-arterial administration of urokinase for acute ischemic stroke.
We designed a Brain Attack program at University Hospitals of Cleveland for diagnosis and treatment of patients presenting within 6 hours of onset of neurological deficit. Patients with ischemia referable to the carotid circulation were treated with intra-arterial urokinase. Angiographic recanalization was assessed at the end of medication infusion. Intracerebral hemorrhage was investigated immediately after and 24 hours after treatment. Stroke severity was determined, followed by long-term outcome.
Fifty-four patients were treated. There was improvement of >/=4 points on the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale from presentation to 24 hours after onset in 43% of the treated patients, and this was related to the severity of the initial deficit. Forty-eight percent of patients had a Barthel Index score of 95 to 100 at 90 days, and total mortality was 24%. Cranial CT scans revealed intracerebral hemorrhage in 17% of patients in the first 24 hours, and these patients had more severe deficits at presentation. Eighty-seven percent of patients received intravenous heparin after thrombolysis, and 9% of them developed a hemorrhage into infarction. Angiographic recanalization was the rule in complete occlusions of the horizontal portion of the middle cerebral artery, but distal carotid occlusions responded less well to thrombolysis.
The intra-arterial route for thrombolysis allows for greater diagnostic precision and achievement of a higher concentration of the thrombolytic agent in the vicinity of the clot. Disadvantages of this therapy lie in the cost and delay. Severity of stroke and site of angiographic occlusion may be important predictors of successful treatment.
The nitric oxide (NO) inhibitor nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) may act as an otoprotectant against high-frequency hearing loss caused by gentamicin, but further studies are needed to confirm this.Aminoglycoside antibiotics are still widely used by virtue of their efficacy and low cost. Their ototoxicity is a serious health problem and, as their ototoxic mechanism involves the production of NO, we need to assess the use of NO inhibitors for the prevention of aminoglycoside-induced sensorineural hearing loss. In this experimental study we used 30 Sprague-Dawley rats, 27 of which had gentamicin instilled into the middle ear. The otoprotectant L-NAME was administered topically to 12/27 animals. Its effect was determined in terms of attenuation of hearing loss, measured by shifts in the auditory brainstem response threshold. L-NAME reduced gentamicin-induced hearing loss in the high-frequency range, but gave no protection in the middle or low frequencies.
Tall T waves and pronounced prolongation of the QT interval developed 24 hours after an apparently complete recovery from an acute anaphylactic reaction to oral ampicillin in a previously healthy woman of 29. These electrocardiographic abnormalities gradually subsided over five days. The prolongation of the QT interval has not previously been reported after anaphylaxis.
Increased susceptibility to gastric mucosal injury is observed in portal hypertensive gastropathy (PHG). In this study, the effects of zinc L-carnosine, an anti-ulcer drug, were evaluated on expression of heat shock protein (hsp) 72 and cytoprotection in gastric mucosa in a rat model of PHG.
Portal hypertensive gastropathy with liver cirrhosis was induced by bile duct ligation for 4 weeks in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Expression of gastric mucosal hsp72 was evaluated by Western blotting at 6 h after intragastric administration of L-carnosine, zinc sulfate, or zinc L-carnosine. Blood was also collected for determination of serum zinc level. Mucosal protective abilities against hydrochloric acid (HCl) (0.6N) followed by pretreatment with L-carnosine, zinc sulfate or zinc L-carnosine were also studied.
L-carnosine, zinc sulfate, and zinc L-carnosine induced hsp72 in gastric mucosa of rats with bile duct ligation. Zinc sulfate and zinc L-carnosine suppressed HCl-induced mucosal injury. However, L-carnosine could not suppress HCl-induced mucosal injury. Serum zinc levels were significantly elevated after zinc L-carnosine administration. Furthermore, pretreatment with zinc L-carnosine (30-300 mg/kg) increased the expression of hsp72 in gastric mucosa and prevented HCl-induced mucosal injury in rats with bile duct ligation in a dose-dependent manner.
Zinc derivatives, especially zinc L-carnosine, protected portal hypertensive gastric mucosa with increased hsp72 expression in cirrhotic rats. It is postulated that zinc L-carnosine may be beneficial to the mucosal protection in PHG as a 'chaperone inducer'.
A 77 year-old woman developed severe hepatitis. No cause was found apart from alendronate medication. The hepatitis resolved after alendronate was stopped.
The repeated administration of mercury to Brown Norway (BN) rats induces the production of autoantibodies to laminin 1 and other autoantigens, accompanied by renal deposition of immunoglobulins and a membranous glomerulonephropathy. A graft-versus-host-like (GVHL) syndrome, characterized by widespread necrotizing leukocytoclastic vasculitis of the bowel, skin, and other tissues, has also been observed after mercury treatment of BN rats. These findings have suggested that the autoimmunity caused by the administration of mercury to BN rats may result as a xenobiotic-induced GVHL effect under the control of OX22+ T lymphocytes. However, previous studies of mercury-induced autoimmunity have never reported any evidence of GVHL lesions. Therefore, we have carefully examined various tissues from a large group of BN rats injected with HgCl(2) to identify possible areas of inflammatory reactions that may have been unnoticed in previous investigations. In addition, we have determined by flow cytometry whether exposure to mercury results in percentage and numerical alterations of OX22+ or other lymphocyte subpopulations in lymphoid organs of HgCl(2)-treated BN rats. The present article confirms that mercury induces autoimmune responses to laminin 1 but does not corroborate the hypothesis of a GVHL syndrome regulated by OX22+ lymphocytes. First, changes in OX22+ cells during treatment with HgCl(2) were infrequent and had no significant correlation with the kinetics of autoimmune responses to laminin 1. Second, we detected no GVHL lesions in skin and intestine of mercury-treated BN rats.
Developmental ethanol exposure from maternal consumption of alcoholic beverages and many other consumer products has been linked to developmental abnormalities in humans and animal models. The sensitivity of an individual to ethanol-induced perturbation of developmental processes is strongly influenced by genetic factors. In this study, we show that there are strain- and dose-dependent differences in sensitivity to developmental ethanol exposure in zebrafish (Danio rerio), suggesting that genetic variation within regulatory factors, influencing critical developmental pathways, is responsible for these differences. Embryos/larvae from genetically distinct strains of zebrafish [Ekkwill (EK), AB, and Tuebingen (TU)] were treated with different concentrations of ethanol. Embryo/larval survival, neurocranial and craniofacial skeletal development, and CNS cell death were analyzed. EK was the most resistant strain to the embryolethal effects of ethanol exposure but had the greatest increase in ethanol-induced cell death. AB survival was affected moderately, as were the neurocranial and craniofacial skeletal structures and ethanol-induced cell death. TU had the lowest survival rate but was the most resistant to alterations in neurocranial and craniofacial skeletal elements. No single strain is the most sensitive or the most resistant to any of the phenotypes examined, suggesting that alcohol influences each of these pathways independently. Further analysis of the molecular and biochemical pathways underlying the strain-dependent differences reported herein could lead to a significant advancement in our mechanistic understanding of the teratogenic effects of ethanol in humans.
Some widely used antidepressants such as imipramine, clomipramine, and citalopram have been found to possess antineoplastic effects. In the present study, these compounds were found to induce apoptotic cell death in human acute myeloid leukemia HL-60 cells. Apoptosis induced by the antidepressants was identified by electron microscopy and conventional agarose gel electrophoresis and was quantitated by propodium iodide staining and the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) via flow cytometry. Treatment with apoptosis-inducing concentrations of the antidepressants (80 microM imipramine, 35 microM clomipramine, or 220 microM citalopram) caused induction of caspase-3/caspase-3-like activity, which was monitored by the cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), the loss of the 32 kD caspase-3 (CPP32) precursor, and the cleavage of the fluorescent CPP32-like substrate PhiPhiLux. Pretreatment with a potent caspase inhibitor benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethyl-ketone (zVAD-fmk) inhibited antidepressant-induced CPP32/CPP32-like activity and apoptosis. Furthermore, activation of caspase induced by the antidepressants was preceded by the hypergeneration of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS). These results suggested that the antidepressants may induce apoptosis via a caspase-3-dependent pathway, and induction of apoptosis by the antidepressants may provide a clue for the mechanism of their antineoplastic effects.
1 In a group of 23 patients with documented ischaemic heart disease who experienced angina pectoris, oral oxyfedrine (24 mg three times daily) was compared with isosorbide dinitrate (10 mg three times daily) and placebo in a double-blind double-crossover clinical trial. 2 Isosorbide dinitrate appeared no better than placebo, either in terms of symptomatic relief or ECG responses to exercise. Thirty eight per cent of patients complained of headaches and 28% had to cease taking the drug for this reason. 3 Oxyfedrine produced statistically significant improvements in both symptom level (P < 0.01) and ECG ST-segment responses to exercise (P < 0.01). The only side effect noted was a reversible loss of taste sensation by one patient. 4 Neither drug produced any adverse changes in any haematological or biochemical parameters. 5 Oxyfedrine is, therefore, to be preferred to isosorbide dinitrate, being both much better tolerated and more efficacious.
The heat/capsaicin sensitization model induces cutaneous sensitization by using a combination of heat and topical capsaicin. It has been suggested that the stability and duration of the cutaneous sensitization are due to a synergistic effect between heat and capsaicin. The aim of this study was to evaluate a possible synergistic effect between heat and capsaicin in inducing cutaneous sensitization. Twenty healthy male volunteers completed this random order, 4-session study. Three different stimulation combinations were used to induce cutaneous sensitization: day A, heat and capsaicin; day B, heat alone; day C, capsaicin alone. Combination A was repeated on day D to determine between day reproducibility. Rekindling was performed 3 times at 40-minute intervals to maintain stable areas of secondary hyperalgesia. Brief thermal sensitization (45 degrees C for 3 minutes) was induced at each session. Within and between day reproducibility was calculated. There was no difference between the size of areas of secondary hyperalgesia after stimulation with heat/capsaicin compared to heat and capsaicin stimulation alone. The within day reproducibility was better with heat/capsaicin than with either stimulation alone. There was no synergistic or additive effect between heat and capsaicin in inducing cutaneous sensitization. Rekindling seems to be the important factor in maintaining stable and long-lasting cutaneous sensitization.
Hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) has recently been recognized as a clonal leukemic lesion, which is due to a specific oncogenic event that generates hyperactive platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha-derived tyrosine kinase fusion proteins. In the present work, the effect of retinoids on the leukemic hypereosinophilia-derived EoL-1 cell line and on primary HES-derived cells has been investigated. We show that all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) inhibits eosinophil colony formation of HES-derived bone marrow cells and is a powerful inducer of apoptosis of the EoL-1 cell line. Apoptosis was shown in the nanomolar concentration range by phosphatidylserine externalization, proapoptotic shift of the Bcl-2/Bak ratio, drop in mitochondrial membrane potential, activation of caspases, and cellular morphology. Unlike in other ATRA-sensitive myeloid leukemia models, apoptosis was rapid and was not preceded by terminal cell differentiation. Use of isoform-selective synthetic retinoids indicated that retinoic acid receptor-alpha-dependent signaling is sufficient to induce apoptosis of EoL-1 cells. Our work shows that the scope of ATRA-induced apoptosis of malignancies may be wider within the myeloid lineage than thought previously, that the EoL-1 cell line constitutes a new and unique model for the study of ATRA-induced cell death, and that ATRA may have potential for the management of clonal HES.
Tg737 mutant mice exhibit pathologic conditions in numerous tissues along with skeletal patterning defects. Herein, we characterize the skeletal pathologic conditions and confirm a role for Tg737 in skeletal patterning through transgenic rescue. Analyses were conducted in both the hypomorphic Tg737(orpk) allele that results in duplication of digit one and in the null Tg737(delta2-3betaGal) allele that is an embryonic lethal mutation exhibiting eight digits per limb. In early limb buds, Tg737 expression is detected throughout the mesenchyme becoming concentrated in precartilage condensations at later stages. In situ analyses indicate that the Tg737(orpk) mutant limb defects are not associated with changes in expression of Shh, Ihh, HoxD11-13, Patched, BMPs, or Glis. Likewise, in Tg737(delta2-3betaGal) mutant embryos, there was no change in Shh expression. However, in both alleles, Fgf4 was ectopically expressed on the anterior apical ectodermal ridge. Collectively, the data argue for a dosage effect of Tg737 on the limb phenotypes and that the polydactyly is independent of Shh misexpression.
The mammalian middle ear cavity contains a chain of three ossicles (the malleus, incus, and stapes), which develop from the mesenchyme of the first two branchial arches. Mice deficient in the Msx1 homeobox gene exhibit craniofacial abnormalities, including the absence of the malleal processus brevis that is normally attached to the upper part of the tympanic membrane. Here, we show that the expression of Msx1 and Msx2 overlaps in the malleal primordium during early embryonic development. A functional redundancy of Msx1 and Msx2 in the development of the middle ear is suggested by the stronger hypomorphism in the malleus of Msx1(-/-)/Msx2(-/-) embryos, including the absence of the malleal manubrium and the malleal processus brevis. The expression of Bmp4, a known downstream target of Msx1 in several developing craniofacial organs, was down-regulated in the malleal primordium, particularly in the region of the developing malleal manubrium, of Msx1 and Msx1(-/-)/Msx2(-/-) embryos. Msx genes, thus, appear to act in a cell autonomous manner, possibly by regulating Bmp4 expression, in the formation of the malleus. Transgenic rescue of the cleft palate of Msx1(-/-) mice overcame the neonatal lethality and allowed Msx1(-/-) mice to grow into adulthood but retain the phenotype of the absence of the malleal processus brevis. The availability of this animal model for the first time allowed us to measure auditory evoked potentials to assess the functional significance of the malleal processus brevis. The results demonstrated unimpaired auditory function in Msx1(-/-) mice. In addition, mutant mice appeared normal in balance behavior and in the vestibular evoked potential screening test. These results indicate that the malleal processus brevis is not necessary for sound transmission and seems dispensable for normal hearing and balance in mammals.
Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB), is a pivotal transcription factor involved in the activation of the TNF-alpha and IL-1beta genes. Activation of NF-kappaB in synovial cells is a feature seen in arthritis patients. Resveratrol, a polyphenolic, natural phytoalexin found with particularly high levels in grape skin and red wine is potent and specific inhibitor of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta induced NF-kappaB activation. We aimed to determine the in vivo effects of intra-articular injections of resveratrol on cartilage and synovium in an experimental rabbit inflammatory arthritis model.
Arthritis was induced by intra-articular injection of three times of 50 mug lipopolysaccharide (LPS) at day 0, 4 and 8 at 4-day intervals into the knee joints of rabbits. To the test group, 10 muMol/kg resveratrol in the DMSO was injected in the knees at day 0 and then it was continued once daily for 2 weeks. To the control group the same time and amount of DMSO was injected the knees of rabbits. All rabbits were killed 1 week after the last injection and cartilage tissue and synovium were evaluated with semiquantitative scoring histologically.
According to control group in the resveratrol group, significantly decreased cartilage destruction was determined by H&E staining (p = 0.04). Loss of matrix proteoglycan content in the cartilage was much lower, as determined by safranin O staining (p = 0.03). We also observed marked synovial inflammation after intra-articular injection to control knees, but not in the resveratrol treated group knees (p = 0.01).
This study suggests that intra-articular injection of resveratrol may protect cartilage against the development of experimentally induced IA.
Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to assess the effect of an astrocytic Na+2Cl-K+ cotransporter inhibitor, a novel torasemide derivative, on the time course and spatial evolution of a focal cerebral ischemia in the rat. The drug (1 mg/ kg, i.p.) was injected 30 min before middle cerebral artery occlusion and diffusion-weighted images were acquired at various times thereafter. The results showed that the drug reduced the size of the hyperintensity during the first hours, but did not affect the time constant of growth or the final size. The temporary reduction of the cytotoxic oedema induced by the torasemide derivative, demonstrates an antioedematous activity.
Prescribed since 1948 to control chronic alcoholism, disulfiram may present severe toxicity for optic nerve as reported by the authors. The neuropathy usually recovers completely in 1-5 months after stopping treatment.
The effect of the benzodiazepine antagonist Ro15-1788 has been tested against caffeine (200-300 mg/kg i.p.) induced convulsions in mice. It offered protection in lower doses (10 mg/kg i.p.) than had been effective previously against other convulsants such as bicuculline and leptazol. In contrast, diazepam was much less active against caffeine than against the other convulsants and offered no significant protection in doses up to 1 mg/kg i.p. If Ro15-1788 only acts on benzodiazepine receptors then one explanation for the increased activity of Ro15-1788 compared with diazepam against caffeine is that caffeine exerts its convulsant action through a direct effect on benzodiazepine receptors but is more potent at displacing diazepam than Ro15-1788 or alternatively it acts on a sub-class of benzodiazepine receptors that bind Ro15-1788 more effectively than diazepam.
Treatment with thioridazine resulted in hyperpyrexia and ventricular tachycardia in a young woman who was later shown to have thyrotoxicosis. The reasons why hyperthyroidism may enhance thioridazine toxicity are reviewed.
To report the case of an infertile female patient with cystic fibrosis who was diagnosed with endocervical metaplasia of the endometrium at diagnostic hysteroscopy and successfully treated with an oral estroprogestinic formulation.
Case report.
University hospital.
A 27-year-old infertile female patient with cystic fibrosis.
Hysteroscopy with multiple random biopsies was performed at the time of the first visit and after a 10-month cycle with an oral estroprogestinic formulation.
Hysteroscopic evaluation with target biopsy; histological examinations of endometrial specimens.
Our patient benefited from a 10-month cycle with an oral estroprogestinic formulation. At the control visit we noticed a significant improvement in the hysteroscopic appearance of her endometrium, and the histological examination confirmed the complete reversion of the metaplastic alterations previously observed.
The present report suggests a novel histological alteration possibly involved in affecting fertility in women with cystic fibrosis. In addition, the positive response to the estroprogestinic treatment observed in our patient poses new questions regarding the relationship between ovarian hormones and cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein regulation, offering interesting perspectives for a hormonal therapy in the treatment of subfertility in women with cystic fibrosis.
Cancer of the upper aerodigestive tract, including esophageal and tongue carcinomas, is a major cause of cancer deaths worldwide. Esophageal and tongue cancers have both been associated with dietary zinc deficiency (ZD), and cyclooxygenase (COX-2) is often overexpressed in these cancers. Using rat models, we examined whether zinc regulates COX-2 expression in these cancers.
Expression of COX-2 protein and mRNA in rat lingual and esophageal epithelia in control (zinc sufficient [ZS]) rats, during ZD, and after intragastric zinc replenishment (ZR) were determined by immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. COX-2 gene expression, cell proliferation, and apoptosis were analyzed in ZD, ZR, and ZD rats treated with the COX-2 inhibitors celecoxib and indomethacin. Tumor development in ZD rats treated by continuous exposure to the carcinogen 4-nitroquinoline 1 oxide (NQO), which causes tongue tumors in rats, was compared with those in NQO-treated ZS rats. Statistical tests were two-sided.
The esophagus and tongue of ZD rats were hyperplastic and expressed COX-2 protein and mRNA at 8- to 14.7-fold higher levels than control rats. Within hours ZR reduced COX-2 overexpression to threefold that in control rats and reversed the hyperplastic phenotypes. The esophagus of ZD rats treated with celecoxib or indomethacin showed a reduction in cell proliferation and stimulation of apoptosis. NQO treatment resulted in greater incidence of lingual squamous cell carcinomas (74% versus 22%, difference = 52%, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 20% to 80%, P = .015) and greater tumor multiplicity (13.1 versus 4.3, difference = 8.8, 95% CI = 7.0 to 10.6, P = .018) in ZD than ZS rats. Of 23 NQO-treated ZD rats, 39% (9) and 61% (14) harbored esophageal and forestomach tumors, respectively, whereas none of the NQO-treated ZS rats did.
COX-2 overexpression accompanies hyperplasia in ZD rats. Increased cell proliferation in NQO-treated ZD rats facilitates the development of tumors at multiple sites. The finding that zinc regulates COX-2 expression in vivo in an animal model may lead to prevention or therapeutic possibilities for upper aerodigestive tract cancer.
Angiographic evaluation of heparin-induced thromboembolism in 3 patients who suffered disastrous consequences revealed a distinctive radiographic appearance consisting of mural filling defects quite unlike atheromatous plaques. These lesions were broad-based, isolated, gently lobulated excrescences which produced 30-95% narrowing of the arterial lumen. In eache case, the lesions were located proximal to sites of arterial occlusion.
