A 39-year-old woman developed a severe sensorimotor polyneuritis after simultaneous ingestion of ethanol and disulfiram in high doses. The disorder was similar to other cases of disulfiram neuropathy, but was acute and more severe. Disulfiram can cause a fulminant polyneuropathy that is not always benign and reversible.
The development of safer drugs is a high priority for pharmaceutical companies. Among the various toxicities caused by drugs, cardiotoxicity is an important issue because of its lethality. In addition, cardiovascular toxicity leads to the attrition of many drug candidates in both preclinical and clinical phases. Although histopathological and blood chemistry examinations are the current gold standards for detecting cardiotoxicity in preclinical studies, the large number of withdrawals from clinical studies owing to safety problems indicate that a more sensitive tool is required. We recently identified 32 genes that were candidate genomic biomarkers for cardiotoxicity in rats. Based on their functions, the present study focused on 8 of these 32 genes (Spp1, Fhl1, Timp1, Serpine1, Bcat1, Lmcd1, Rnd1 and Tgfb2). Diagnostic accuracy for the genes was determined by a receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) analysis using more cardiotoxic and non-cardiotoxic compounds. In addition, an optimized support vector machine (SVM) model that was composed of Spp1 and Timp1 was newly constructed. This new multi-gene model exhibited a much higher diagnostic accuracy than that observed for plasma cardiac troponin I (cTnI), which is one of the most useful plasma biomarkers for cardiotoxicity detection. Furthermore, we determined that this multi-gene model could predict potential cardiotoxicity in rats in the absence of any cardiac histopathological lesions or elevations of plasma cTnI. Overall, this multi-gene model exhibited advantages over classic tools commonly used for cardiotoxicity evaluations in rats. Our current results suggest that application of the model could potentially lead to the production of safer drugs.
To report a case of digoxin toxicity thought to be secondary to clarithromycin therapy.
A 78-year-old white woman with congestive heart failure taking digoxin 0.25 mg po qd presented to our hospital with nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. She had taken clarithromycin 500 mg po bid for 3 days, and a serum digoxin concentration obtained the day of admission was 4.4 mug/L. An electrocardiogram (ECG) done on admission revealed ST segment changes consistent with digoxin effect and later asymptomatic, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia (NSVT). Clarithromycin was discontinued and digoxin was withheld at admission, resulting in the resolution of symptoms, ECG abnormalities, and NSVT on day 3 of hospitalization. On day 5 her serum digoxin concentration was 1.5 micrograms/L and digoxin therapy was reinstituted at a dose of 0.125 mg/d po.
This is the fourth published case implicating clarithromycin as the cause of digoxin toxicity. This interaction is most likely due to clarithromycin eradication of digoxin-metabolizing gut flora, thereby increasing digoxin bioavailability.
Approximately 10% of patients are thought to be extensive presystemic metabolizers of digoxin and may therefore be most susceptible to a drug interaction with clarithromycin. Serum digoxin concentrations in such patients should be monitored closely during clarithromycin therapy.
Two hours after taking 100 mg of flecainide, a patient developed gastrointestinal complaints, dizziness and shortness of breath. The ECG demonstrated novel prolonged JT interval with negative T wave in the precordial leads. During admission, several attacks of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia occurred. The plasma drug concentration was 814 mg/l. Although the tachycardia was non-sustained, cardiovascular collapse developed. Serum electrolytes were normal and myocardial infarction was excluded. The patient is now free of symptoms without medications.
To describe a patient who developed fatal pulseless electrical activity following treatment with risperidone.
A 34-year-old white woman with no history of cardiac disease was initiated on risperidone therapy for an acute exacerbation of chronic schizophrenia. The patient developed postural hypotension and the risperidone dosage was held at 2 mg bid. On day 5 of risperidone therapy, the patient developed cardiac arrest and was treated for pulseless electrical activity. Her electrocardiogram revealed a prolonged QRS interval of 160 msec and an abnormal QTc interval of 480 msec. Despite resuscitative efforts, the patient became asystolic and was pronounced dead.
Adverse cardiac events are rarely associated with risperidone therapy. Prolongation of the QRS and QTc intervals have been reported to occur following two cases of presumed risperidone overdose and also in 8 of 380 patients in a double-blind study reported by the manufacturer. Although other possibilities exists, risperidone cannot be ruled out as the cause of the patient's fatal episode of pulseless electrical activity.
Prolongation of the QTc interval with severe adverse effects remains a possibility with the use of risperidone.
Chromium (Cr) (III), an essential microelement of living organisms, was reported to exhibit potential antidepressant properties in preclinical and clinical studies. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of CrCl(3) ip administration in the forced swim test (FST) in mice and the involvement of glutamatergic and serotonergic receptors in the antidepressant-like activity of chromium. CrCl(3) in a dose of 12 mg/kg, but not in doses of 6 or 32 mg/kg, reduced the immobility time in the FST. The locomotor activity was reduced by CrCl(3) in a dose of 32 mg/kg. Moreover, the reduction of the immobility time induced by the active dose (12 mg/kg) of CrCl(3) was completely abolished by NBQX (10 mg/kg; an antagonist of the AMPA receptor) pretreatment and partially inhibited by ritanserin (4 mg/kg; an antagonist of 5-HT(2A/C) receptor), WAY 1006335 (0.1 mg/kg; an antagonist of 5-HT(1A) receptor) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (75 mg/kg; agonist of NMDA receptor) administration. The present study demonstrates the antidepressant-like activity of chromium in the mouse FST and indicates the major role of the AMPA receptor and participation of NMDA glutamatergic and 5-HT(1) and 5-HT(2A/C) serotonin receptors in this activity.
Sequential anti-hepatitis B virus (HBV) therapy may lead to the selection of complex mutants. We analyzed the genetic and phenotypic evolution of the viral quasispecies of a patient who received successively lamivudine, add-on adefovir+lamivudine, followed by lamivudine+adefovir+hepatitis B immunoglobulins (HBIg) after orthotopic liver transplantation.
For genotypic analysis, a 1310-bp region of the polymerase gene was amplified, cloned, and sequenced. Huh-7 cells were transfected to compare the replication fitness of HBV mutants and their susceptibility to drugs.
At baseline, all HBV genomes carried a wild-type (wt) RT gene but 22% harbored the sP120S and 55% the sC107stop mutations within the surface (S) gene associated with vaccine escape. Following viral breakthrough to lamivudine monotherapy, a complex mixture of lamivudine-resistant HBV strains prevailed. Interestingly, among these mutants emerged a population harboring only the rtL180M+A181V mutations, conferring lamivudine-resistance in vitro. After addition of adefovir to the ongoing treatment, viral load dropped, and the patient underwent an orthotopic liver transplantation and received HBIg. As viral load rose again, a single viral population was progressively selected, harboring the rtV173L+L180M+A181V+N236T and sP120S mutations. In vitro, this last mutant showed a level of replication reduced by only 30% compared to wt HBV and a strong resistance to both lamivudine (>1000-fold) and adefovir (>10-fold). It remained sensitive to tenofovir both in vitro and in vivo.
We report the selection of a complex HBV mutant that escaped the antiviral pressure of lamivudine, adefovir, and HBIg, and provide insight on the process of selection via genotypic and phenotypic analysis.
We evaluated the use of combination therapy (ciprofibrate 100 mg or bezafibrate 400 mg plus fluvastatin 40 mg) in 23 patients (n = 13 in the ciprofibrate group) with established cardiovascular disease. Both treatments achieved a significant (P< or =0.01) decrease in the total cholesterol (TC) (32 and 21%), triglycerides (TG) (53 and 46%) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) (36 and 26%) levels and the TC/high-density lipoprotein (HDL) (42 and 31%) and LDL/HDL (46 and 35%) ratios. HDL levels were increased (19% for both treatment groups), but this rise only achieved significance (P=0.01) in the ciprofibrate group. Although the two patient groups were not strictly matched, the reduction in serum TC and LDL levels was greater with ciprofibrate (32 and 36%, respectively; P< or =0.001) than with bezafibrate (21 and 26%, respectively; P< or =0.01). There was a significant reduction in plasma fibrinogen levels (36.4 and 13.5% in the ciprofibrate and bezafibrate group, respectively). None of the patients reported myalgia or had abnormal creatine kinase activity or liver function tests. Combination therapy is worth considering in high-risk patients because of the advantages associated with this option. Combination therapy is competitively priced when compared with high doses of statins. An end-point-based trial is needed.
In general, the cardiovascular system is more resistant to the toxic actions of local anaesthetics than is the central nervous system. However, if sufficient doses and blood levels of local anaesthetics are achieved, signs of profound cardiovascular depression may be observed. Differences exist between local anaesthetics in terms of their relative potential for cardiotoxicity. The CC/CNS ratio for bupivacaine and etiodcaine is less than for lidocaine. In addition, bupivacaine may precipitate ventricular arrhythmias and ventricular fibrillation. Local tissue toxicity can occur following the administration of local anaesthetics. In general, neural tissue appears to be relatively resistant to the irritant effects of local anaesthetic drugs. However, large dosages of chloroprocaine solutions administered intrathecally have been associated with prolonged sensory-motor deficits in a few patients due probably to the low pH and presence of sodium bisulfite in the chloroprocaine solutions. In general, the incidence of toxic reactions to local anaesthetic agents is extremely low. However, as with any class of pharmacological agents, local anaesthetics may cause severe toxic reactions, due usually to the improper use of these drugs.
A patient who had a generalized epileptiform convulsion after intra-amniotic prostaglandin F2 alpha administration with intravenous oxytocin infusion is described. The convulsion was possibly due to either or both of these drugs. The aetiological associations are reviewed. Intra-amniotic prostaglandins and intravenous oxytocin are frequently used to induce mid-trimester abortions, and the case described serves as a reminder of some of the dangers associated with this procedure.
4,4'-Methylene dianiline (4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane, DAPM), which is used in the polymer industry, causes hepatobiliary damage in exposed humans. Our objectives were to characterize the acute toxicity of DAPM in liver, particularly on secretion of biliary constituents and on biliary epithelial cell gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) activity. Biliary cannulas were positioned in Sprague-Dawley male rats under pentobarbital anesthesia. After 1 hr of control bile collection, each rat was given 250 mg DAPM/kg (50 mg/ml) po in 35% ethanol or 35% ethanol only; bile was collected for a further 4 hr. Groups of rats were also examined for liver injury and biliary function at 8 and 24 hr after DAPM. Four hours after DAPM administration, main bile duct cells were severely damaged with minimal damage to peripheral bile ductule cells. Focal periportal hepatocellular necrosis and extensive cytolysis of cortical thymocytes occurred by 24 hr. Serum indicators of liver injury were elevated by 4 hr and continued to rise through 24 hr. By 4 hr, biliary protein concentration was increased 4-fold while concentrations of biliary bile salt, bilirubin, and glutathione were decreased by approximately 80, 50, and 200%, respectively. DAPM also induced a striking effect on biliary glucose with an approximately 20-fold increase. Histochemical staining of main bile duct GGT was absent by 8 hr after DAPM. Bile flow was diminished by 40% at 4 hr; three of five rats had no bile flow by 8 hr and none had any bile flow by 24 hr. These results indicate that DAPM rapidly diminishes bile flow and alters the secretion of biliary constituents and is highly injurious to biliary epithelial cells.
Cerebral ischemia can activate endogenous reparative processes, such as proliferation of endogenous neural progenitor cells (NPCs) in the subventricular zone (SVZ). Most of these new cells die shortly after injury. The purpose of this study was to examine a novel strategy for treatment of stroke at 1 week after injury by enhancing the survival of ischemia-induced endogenous NPCs in SVZ.
Adult rats were subjected to a 90-minutes middle cerebral artery occlusion. A p53 inhibitor pifithrin-alpha (PFT-alpha) was administered to stroke rats from days 6 to 9 after middle cerebral artery occlusion. Locomotor behavior was measured using an activity chamber. Proliferation, survival, migration, and differentiation of endogenous NPCs were examined using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling, and immunohistochemistry.
PFT-alpha enhanced functional recovery as assessed by a significant increase in multiple behavioral measurements. Delayed PFT-alpha treatment had no effect on the cell death processes in the lesioned cortical region. However, it enhanced the survival of SVZ progenitor cells, and promoted their proliferation and migration. PFT-alpha inhibited the expression of a p53-dependent proapoptotic gene, termed PUMA (p53-upregulated modulator of apoptosis), within the SVZ of stroke animals. The enhancement of survival/proliferation of NPCs was further found in SVZ neurospheres in tissue culture. PFT-alpha dose-dependently increased the number and size of new neurosphere formation.
Delayed treatment with a p53 inhibitor PFT-alpha is able to modify stroke-induced endogenous neurogenesis and improve the functional recovery in stroke animals.
1,3-Butanediol is an ethanol dimer that induces systemic ketosis. It has previously been shown to increase hypoxic survival time and reduce neurologic deficit in several experimental preparations. The aim of this study was to determine if the mechanism of 1,3-butanediol-induced cerebral protection was elevation of blood ketone levels, blood glucagon levels, or both. Blood beta-hydroxybutyrate levels, glucagon levels, or both produced by a previously reported protective dose of 1,3-butanediol (47 mmol/kg) were simulated by direct i.v. infusion of the ketone beta-hydroxybutyrate and glucagon separately and in combination, and the effect on hypoxic survival time in instrumented Levine rats (unilateral carotid ligation and hypoxic exposure) was determined. To test if the mechanism was a direct or osmotic effect of the alcohol, an equimolar dose of ethanol (47 mmol/kg) was administered and the effect on hypoxic survival time was compared with that produced by 1,3-butanediol. As in previous studies, 1,3-butanediol significantly increased hypoxic survival time (241% of control, Scheffe p less than 0.05). Various doses of beta-hydroxybutyrate and glucagon were infused to approximate the blood levels of beta-hydroxybutyrate and glucagon produced by a protective dose of 1,3-butanediol. Although beta-hydroxybutyrate or glucagon infusions produced blood levels of these substances that were comparable with those produced by administering butanediol, they failed to prolong hypoxic survival time as long as 1,3-butanediol. No correlation was detected between hypoxic survival time and blood levels of beta-hydroxybutyrate, glucagon, insulin, or glucose. An equimolar dose of ethanol did not significantly increase hypoxic survival time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It has been proposed that nitric oxide (NO) induced headache in primary headaches may be associated with release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). In the present study we aimed to investigate plasma levels of CGRP during headache induced by the NO donor glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) in 16 patients with chronic tension-type headache and 16 healthy controls. The subjects were randomly allocated to receive 0.5 microg/kg/min GTN or placebo over 20 min on two headache-free days. Blood samples were collected at baseline, 10, 20 and 60 min after start of infusion. Both patients and controls developed significantly stronger immediate headache on the GTN day than on the placebo day and the headache was significantly more pronounced in patients than in controls. There was no difference between the area under the CGRP curve (AUCCGRP) on GTN vs. placebo day in either patients (P=0.65) or controls (P=0.48). The AUCCGRP recorded on the GTN day did not differ between patients and controls (P=0.36). Both in patients and controls, CGRP levels changed significantly over time, on both the GTN and placebo days (P < 0.05). The present study indicates that NO-induced immediate headache is not associated with release of CGRP.
Ecstasy use is prevalent among young people and often co-occurs with other drug use, but little is known about the past 12-month and lifetime psychiatric comorbidity and specific additional drug abuse among young adult ecstasy users in the general population. To provide this information, we compared current ecstasy users to former users, other illicit drug users, and non-illicit drug users.
Data were gathered in a face-to-face survey of the United States conducted in the 2001-2002 (NESARC). Participants were household and group quarters residents aged 18-29 years (n=8666). We measured current ecstasy use defined as any use in the past year; former ecstasy use as use prior to the past year only; other lifetime drug use included any drug other than ecstasy; lifetime non-illicit drug use as no illicit drug use. Associations were determined for nine other classes of illicit drugs, eight personality disorders, and seven mood and anxiety disorders.
Of current ecstasy users, 44% used >3 other classes of illicit drugs in the past year, compared to 1.6% of non-ecstasy drug users. Current ecstasy use was associated with current anxiety (OR=3.7), specifically panic disorder (OR=7.7) and specific phobia (OR=4.1), also alcohol abuse (OR=21.6) and dependence (OR=4.1) and any personality disorder (OR=5.1) compared to non-illicit drug users.
Results indicate important differences in comorbidities of current and former ecstasy users compared to other drug users and lifetime non-illicit drug users that may affect phenotype definitions and etiologic studies. Ecstasy use may represent a distinct population of drug users for which unique treatments may be necessary.
We conducted a prospective, randomised single-blind study in 48 adult women undergoing laparoscopic gynaecological surgery to assess the incidence of suxamethonium-induced myalgia. Anaesthesia was induced with either thiopentone or propofol. All other aspects of clinical care were standardised between the groups. The propofol group had a significantly lower incidence of suxamethonium myalgia (19%) compared with the thiopentone group (63%) (P < 0.05). The mechanism of this effect is not understood.
It is well established that disruption of apoptosis may lead to tumor initiation, progression or metastasis. It is also well documented that many anticancer drugs induce apoptosis. In the earlier studies, the dopamine D2 receptor agonist bromocriptine (BC) and somatostatin analog octreotide (OCT) were found to inhibit the growth of the estrogen-induced rat prolactinoma. Our previous investigations, applying the TUNEL method showed the involvement of the pro-apoptotic effect in the action of BC, and to a lesser degree, in the action of OCT. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the pro-apoptotic action of these drugs involves the increased expression of Bax--a member of Bcl-2 protein family which is known to play an important role in the regulation of apoptosis. Male four-week Fisher 344 rats were used in the experiment. Capsules containing diethylstilboestrol (DES) were implanted subcutaneously. Six weeks after the implantation the rats were given OCT (2 x 25 microg/animal/24), BC (3 mg/kg b.w./24 h) or OCT and BC at the above doses for 10 days. Bax expression was detected by immunohistochemistry. Prolactin (PRL) in blood serum was measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA). It has been found that both OCT and BC, alone or in combination, significantly reduce the tumor weight. Both OCT and BC suppressed PRL levels, but the inhibitory effect of BC was stronger than that of OCT. It has been found that the treatment with OCT and BC, alone or in combination, causes a significant increase in Bax expression in the rat prolactinoma cells. Our findings indicate that anti-tumoral action of bromocriptine and to some extent the action of octreotide in the experimental rat prolactinoma is connected with the induction of apoptosis and is associated with increased Bax expression.
Flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMO) represent a gene family involved in the oxidative metabolism of a variety of xenobiotics, pesticides and drugs. A new function for FMO proteins has been recently uncovered: yeast FMO has been demonstrated to take part in maintaining the redox balance, catalysing the oxidation of reduced glutathione (GSH) to glutathione disulfide (GSSG). The GSSG/GSH balance is an important buffering system for reactive oxygen species and its involvement has been documented in ALS and other neurodegenerative disorders. Human FMO genes present different mutations, which may be related to ethnicity, altered metabolic activity and, in some cases, specific diseases. The human FMO1 gene presents 20 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located in coding regions, intronic sequences and untranslated regions. The FMO1 gene has also recently been found underexpressed in spinal cord of ALS patients. Using SSCP and direct sequencing, we studied the allelic and genotypic frequency of two 3'UTR SNPs of the FMO1 gene in sporadic ALS patients compared to a healthy control population. We found a significantly higher frequency of these two polymorphisms, exclusive of the female population, in SALS patients compared to controls (p<0.01), suggesting that specific allelic variants of the FMO1 gene might be associated to susceptibility to develop ALS.
The effects of the rhizome of Gastrodia elata Blume (Orchidaceae) (abbreviated as GE) and its active constituents on learning and memory by using the one-trial passive avoidance task were studied in rats. At the 1.0 g/kg dose administered for one week, the methanol extract of GE significantly prolonged the shortened step-through latency induced by scopolamine in the passive avoidance task. Furthermore, at the 50.0 mg/kg dose administered for one week, the ethyl acetate and n-butanol fractions of the methanol extract prolonged the shortened step-through latency induced by scopolamine in rats. Gastrodin, isolated from the n-butanol fraction of the methanol extract, and p-hydroxybenzyl alcohol, isolated from the ethyl acetate fraction of the methanol extract, also significantly prolonged the shortened step-through latency induced by scopolamine on the passive avoidance task. These results suggested that gastrodin and p-hydroxybenzyl alcohol may be the active constituents of GE.
Flosequinan (BTS 49465) is a putative, selective direct-acting balanced vasodilator currently undergoing evaluation for the treatment of congestive heart failure (CHF) and hypertension. We examined the pharmacologic action of flosequinan and compared it to milrinone and nitroprusside (SNP). In ferret papillary muscle, in vitro, flosequinan (1-100 microM) increased the rate of force development up to 116%. The effect was not blocked by nadolol (10 microM). Flosequinan was less effective than milrinone and SNP as a relaxant of canine renal and coronary arteries, in vitro, since 100 microM of flosequinan produced less than 50% relaxation of the arteries, whereas milrinone or SNP (100 microM) produced between 85 and 125% relaxation of the precontracted arteries. Flosequinan, SNP, and milrinone (100 microM) completely relaxed precontracted canine mesenteric veins. Fifteen minutes after intraduodenal administration (i.d.) of flosequinan (0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 mg/kg) to anesthetized dogs (n = 7), mean left ventricular (LV) dP/dT increased by 11, 27, and 54%, respectively, whereas total peripheral resistance (TPR) decreased by 4, 4, and 13%, and mean arterial pressure (MAP) decreased by 7, 14, and 23%, respectively. flosequinan was 4.6 times more potent as a positive inotrope than as a vasodilator. The hemodynamic profile of milrinone was similar to that of flosequinan, except milrinone produced greater increases in LV dP/dT and decreases in MAP and TPR. In contrast, SNP (1, 3, and 10 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) decreased TPR (7, 18, and 34%, respectively) and MAP (14, 32, and 41%, respectively) without any increase in LV dP/dT. In dogs with propranolol-induced heart failure (PIHF), flosequinan (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg, i.d.) increased mean myocardial dP/dT by 54 and 84% (n = 5) and MAP, but decreased TPR. The data show that (a) the hemodynamic effects of flosequinan in the normal and PIHF dogs were primarily due to positive inotropy rather than to arterial vasodilation and (b) the positive inotropic effect of flosequinan is independent of catecholamines, since it occurred in dogs with PIHF. The beneficial effect of flosequinan in patients with CHF may not be mediated by balanced vasodilation.
We reviewed the records of 44 patients under age 55 with bipolar affective disorder, who were without known systemic illness and receiving lithium prophylactically for a minimum of 6 months. We systematically collected all demographic, family history, and clinical side-effect data. In addition, laboratory results of renal function were compiled. Polyuria was the earliest and most frequent side effect of lithium therapy. Patients receiving other psychotropic medication, plus lithium, showed a significant increased prevalence of polyuria particularly after 3 months of exposure to medication, as compared to patients receiving lithium alone. The onset of polyuria was correlated with duration of lithium treatment and patient's age at initiation of therapy. Our data suggest that polypharmacy, duration of exposure to lithium ion and patient age each predict the development of delayed polyuria, a symptom consistent with interstitial nephritis.
Human myeloproliferative disorders form a range of clonal haematological malignant diseases, the main members of which are polycythaemia vera, essential thrombocythaemia, and idiopathic myelofibrosis. The molecular pathogenesis of these disorders is unknown, but tyrosine kinases have been implicated in several related disorders. We investigated the role of the cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase JAK2 in patients with a myeloproliferative disorder.
We obtained DNA samples from patients with polycythaemia vera, essential thrombocythaemia, or idiopathic myelofibrosis. The coding exons of JAK2 were bidirectionally sequenced from peripheral-blood granulocytes, T cells, or both. Allele-specific PCR, molecular cytogenetic studies, microsatellite PCR, Affymetrix single nucleotide polymorphism array analyses, and colony assays were undertaken on subgroups of patients.
A single point mutation (Val617Phe) was identified in JAK2 in 71 (97%) of 73 patients with polycythaemia vera, 29 (57%) of 51 with essential thrombocythaemia, and eight (50%) of 16 with idiopathic myelofibrosis. The mutation is acquired, is present in a variable proportion of granulocytes, alters a highly conserved valine present in the negative regulatory JH2 domain, and is predicted to dysregulate kinase activity. It was heterozygous in most patients, homozygous in a subset as a result of mitotic recombination, and arose in a multipotent progenitor capable of giving rise to erythroid and myeloid cells. The mutation was present in all erythropoietin-independent erythroid colonies.
A single acquired mutation of JAK2 was noted in more than half of patients with a myeloproliferative disorder. Its presence in all erythropoietin-independent erythroid colonies demonstrates a link with growth factor hypersensitivity, a key biological feature of these disorders.
Identification of the Val617Phe JAK2 mutation lays the foundation for new approaches to the diagnosis, classification, and treatment of myeloproliferative disorders.
This report examines the sociodemographic and substance use characteristics, co-occurring psychological status, substance abuse consequences, and prior experiences with substance abuse treatment among patients with cocaine-associated chest pain presenting to an emergency department chest pain observation unit.
This was a consecutive cohort of patients in the emergency department chest pain observation unit aged 18-60 years with low to moderate risk for acute coronary syndrome and recent cocaine use. Responses on standardized and validated instruments were used to examine demographic and clinical characteristics of the sample and to compare patients who met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) criteria for past three-month substance abuse or substance dependence with patients who did not.
Of 145 eligible patients identified between June 1, 2002, and February 29, 2004, 86% met criteria for a lifetime DSM-IV substance use disorder and 50% met past three-month criteria. Approximately one half of the total sample reported substantial symptoms of depression. Substance use frequency and consequences, depression, and psychological distress were significantly more severe among those with past three-month substance use diagnoses; however, most sociodemographic characteristics were not associated with substance use diagnoses. Interest in treatment services and treatment history was also significantly associated with the presence of a substance use disorder diagnosis.
Findings regarding diversity in alcohol and drug involvement, current level of psychological functioning, depressive symptomatology, and interest in treatment services provide useful information for designing emergency department-based interventions for this population.
Calcium antagonists have previously been shown to be effective in the treatment of mania. In the present study we used dextroamphetamine administered to humans as a model of mania, to determine whether the calcium antagonist diltiazem would prevent dextroamphetamine-induced changes. This may help determine whether diltiazem is likely to be useful in the treatment of mania. Ten healthy volunteers were enrolled in this double-blind, placebo-controlled, balanced crossover study. Subjects received either oral diltiazem (60 mg) and placebo, placebo and dextroamphetamine (20 mg), diltiazem and dextroamphetamine, or placebo alone. Subjective and sleep changes were measured using visual analogue scales. Attentiveness and visual reaction times were measured repeatedly as were diastolic and systolic blood pressure. The results showed that dextroamphetamine alone produced a number of subjective changes, cardiovascular changes and changes in reaction time. Diltiazem significantly attenuated the cardiovascular changes, but not the subjective or reaction time changes. It is hypothesized that these findings may represent effects of diltiazem on noradrenergic neurotransmission. The results are tentatively supportive of suggestions that diltiazem may be clinically useful in the treatment of mania, as is another calcium channel antagonist, verapamil.
Dibenzo[a,l]pyrene (DB[a,l]P) (dibenzo[def,p]chrysene) is a highly carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) that has been identified in tobacco smoke and is found in our environment due to incomplete combustion of organic matter. Its metabolites are known to form stable DNA adducts in bacteria and mammalian cells, and can lead to tumors in animal models. Glucuronidation of major metabolites of DB[a,l]P by the uridine-5'-diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) family of enzymes is an important route of detoxification of this pro-carcinogen. The focus of the current study was to characterize the glucuronidation of the pro-carcinogenic enantiomers DB[a,l]P-(+)-trans-11S,12S-diol and DB[a,l]P-(-)-trans-11R,12R-diol. Glucuronidation assays with HEK293 cell lines overexpressing individual human UGT enzymes demonstrated that UGTs 1A1, 1A4, 1A7, 1A8, 1A9, 1A10, and 2B7 glucuronidated one or both DB[a,l]P-trans-11,12-diol enantiomers. Three glucuronide conjugates were observed in activity assays with UGTs 1A1 and 1A10, while two glucuronides were formed by UGTs 1A7, 1A8, and 1A9, and one glucuronide was made by UGT1A4 and UGT2B7. Enzyme kinetic analysis indicated that UGT1A9 was the most efficient UGT at forming both the (+)-DB[a,l]P-11-Gluc and (-)-DB[a,l]P-11-Gluc products, while UGTs 1A1 and 1A10 were the most efficient at forming the (+)-DB[a,l]P-12-Gluc product (as determined by k(cat)/K(M)). Incubations with human liver microsomes showed the formation of three diastereomeric glucuronide products: (+)-DB[a,l]P-11-Gluc, (+)-DB[a,l]P-12-Gluc, and (-)-DB[a,l]P-11-Gluc, with an average overall ratio of 31:32:37 in four liver specimens. Human bronchus and trachea tissue homogenates demonstrated glucuronidation activity against both DB[a,l]P-trans-11,12-diol enantiomers, with both tissues producing the (+)-DB[a,l]P-11-Gluc and (+)-DB[a,l]P-12-Gluc with little or no formation of (-)-DB[a,l]P-11-Gluc. These results indicate that multiple UGTs are involved in the stereospecific glucuronidation of DB[a,l]P-trans-11,12-diol in a pattern consistent with their expression in respiratory tract tissues and that glucuronidation may be an important first-line detoxification mechanism of DB[a,l]P metabolites.
The present study has been undertaken to investigate the possible link between calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) and opioid receptor transduction systems in the neuroprotective mechanism of pharmacological preconditioning. Occlusion of the bilateral carotid artery for 17 min, followed by reperfusion for 24 h, was employed to produce ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) induced cerebral injury in mice. Cerebral infarct size was measured by using triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining. Memory was assessed using the Morris water maze (MWM) test. Degree of motor incoordination was evaluated using the inclined beam walk test, rota-rod test, and lateral push test. Morphine (8 mg/kg, ip), an opioid agonist, and capsaicin (0.1 mg/kg, iv), a CGRP releasing agent, were administered 24 h before surgery to separate groups of animals to induce pharmacological preconditioning. Bilateral carotid artery occlusion, followed by reperfusion, produced a significant increase in the cerebral infarct size and impaired memory as well as motor coordination. Morphine and capsaicin treatment produced both a significant decrease in the cerebral infarct size and a reversal of I/R-induced impairment of memory and motor-coordination. Morphine-induced (8 mg/kg, ip) neuroprotective effects were completely decreased by sumatriptan (8 mg/kg, ip, a CGRPrelease inhibitor) administered 1 h before and 6 h and 12 h after morphine administration. Capsaicin-induced neuroprotection was decreased by naloxone (5 mg/kg, ip, an opioid antagonist) administered 1 h before and 6 h and 12 h after capsaicin administration. These findings indicate that the transduction systems mediating morphine- and capsaicin-induced pharmacological preconditioning in brain are possibly interlinked with one another.
The clinical efficacy and safety of realgar (arsenic sulfide, As(4)S(4)) in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia in China have given rise to an upsurge in research on the underlying mechanism. We prepared realgar nanoparticles (RNPs) to examine their effect on the differentiation of HL-60 cells. Treatment with RNPs at 6 microM for 72 h induced cell differentiation that was assessed by morphological change, NBT reductive ability, and elevation of CD11b expression at both mRNA and protein levels. The RNP-induced differentiation was synergized, enhanced and suppressed by the inhibition of p38 MAPK, JNK and ERK pathways, respectively. Our findings demonstrate that MAPK signaling pathways are closely related to the RNP-induced differentiation in HL-60 cells.
