A case of drug-associated immune hemolysis in a patient taking tolmetin for arthritic pain is described. Serologic tests showed that in the absence of tolmetin, the patient had a negative antibody screening test but a strongly positive direct antiglobulin test. An eluate prepared from the patient's red cells caused agglutination of all cells tested. However, addition of tolmetin revealed a high-titered tolmetin-dependent antibody in the patient's serum; the addition of tolmetin did not affect the results obtained with the eluate. within 3 months after the patient discontinued tolmetin, his hematocrit had increased to 45 percent, and his jaundice and bilirubinuria had disappeared. These results are similar to those described for zomepirac, another of the group of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications.
Hereditary pheochromocytoma (PCC) is often caused by germline mutations in one of nine susceptibility genes described to date, but there are familial cases without mutations in these known genes. We sequenced the exomes of three unrelated individuals with hereditary PCC (cases) and identified mutations in MAX, the MYC associated factor X gene. Absence of MAX protein in the tumors and loss of heterozygosity caused by uniparental disomy supported the involvement of MAX alterations in the disease. A follow-up study of a selected series of 59 cases with PCC identified five additional MAX mutations and suggested an association with malignant outcome and preferential paternal transmission of MAX mutations. The involvement of the MYC-MAX-MXD1 network in the development and progression of neural crest cell tumors is further supported by the lack of functional MAX in rat PCC (PC12) cells and by the amplification of MYCN in neuroblastoma and suggests that loss of MAX function is correlated with metastatic potential.
Autosomal dominant polycystic liver disease results from mutations in PRKCSH or SEC63. The respective gene products, glucosidase IIβ and SEC63p, function in protein translocation and quality control pathways in the endoplasmic reticulum. Here we show that glucosidase IIβ and Sec63p are required in mice for adequate expression of a functional complex of the polycystic kidney disease gene products, polycystin-1 and polycystin-2. We find that polycystin-1 is the rate-limiting component of this complex and that there is a dose-response relationship between cystic dilation and levels of functional polycystin-1 following mutation of Prkcsh or Sec63. Reduced expression of polycystin-1 also serves to sensitize the kidney to cyst formation resulting from mutations in Pkhd1, the recessive polycystic kidney disease gene. Finally, we show that proteasome inhibition increases steady-state levels of polycystin-1 in cells lacking glucosidase IIβ and that treatment with a proteasome inhibitor reduces cystic disease in orthologous gene models of human autosomal dominant polycystic liver disease.
To elucidate the early effects of lithium treatment on the kidney, arginine-vasopressin (AVP) binding sites in the renal medulla were measured by radiolabeled receptor assay (RRA) in rats injected intraperitoneally with lithium chloride (4 mmol/kg body weight) for 7 days. After the 8th day, urine volume of rats injected lithium (Li group) increased and was significantly larger than that of the control rats that were injected physiological saline (control group). On the same day, the AVP binding capacities of renal medulla membranes of the Li group (Bmax = 28.9 +/- 7.2 fmol/100 micrograms protein) were significantly lower than that of the control group (Bmax = 50.0 +/- 6.3 fmol/100 micrograms protein), but there was no difference in the dissociation constant between the two groups. Our findings suggested that lithium-induced diabetes insipidus was due to a reduction in the number of AVP binding sites in the kidney.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a movement disorder with prominent tau neuropathology. Brain diseases with abnormal tau deposits are called tauopathies, the most common of which is Alzheimer's disease. Environmental causes of tauopathies include repetitive head trauma associated with some sports. To identify common genetic variation contributing to risk for tauopathies, we carried out a genome-wide association study of 1,114 individuals with PSP (cases) and 3,247 controls (stage 1) followed by a second stage in which we genotyped 1,051 cases and 3,560 controls for the stage 1 SNPs that yielded P ≤ 10(-3). We found significant previously unidentified signals (P < 5 × 10(-8)) associated with PSP risk at STX6, EIF2AK3 and MOBP. We confirmed two independent variants in MAPT affecting risk for PSP, one of which influences MAPT brain expression. The genes implicated encode proteins for vesicle-membrane fusion at the Golgi-endosomal interface, for the endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response and for a myelin structural component.
In a study of 50 patients with uncomplicated arterial hypertension the administration of hydrochlorothiazide, 50 to 100 mg daily or every other day, with or without reserpine, 0.25 mg daily, resulted in a fall in the mean blood pressure from 182/113 to 144/92 mm Hg. The mean duration of therapy was 19 months. The mean serum potassium concentration was 4.3 mmol/l before the onset of therapy. It fell during the first 6 weeks of treatment, but seldom below 3.5 mmol/l, then rose gradually and spontaneously to 4.1 mmol/l after 19 months of therapy. All the patients remained asymptomatic. These findings bring into question the routine use of potassium supplements or a potassium-sparing diuretic, such as spironolactone or triamterene, during the treatment of hypertension with diuretics such as the thiazides. The use of potassium supplements or a potassium-sparing agent may induce hyperkalemia in spite of the simultaneous administration of a diuretic that acts more proximally. Since hyperkalemia is potentially lethal, the serum potassium concentration should be carefully monitored in any patient receiving potassium supplements or a potassium-sparing agent.
The cells of many solid tumors have been found to contain supernumerary centrosomes, a condition known as centrosome amplification. Centrosome amplification, accompanied by the overexpression of an associated kinase, Aurora A (AurA), has been implicated in mechanisms leading to mitotic spindle aberrations, aneuploidy, and genomic instability. Using a well-established rat mammary model favorable for experimental carcinogenesis, we analyzed centrosome amplification as a cellular marker for early stages of transformation and its regulation by the kinase ratAurA. Parity or treatment with estrogen and progesterone conferred resistance to tumorigenesis, as well as to overexpression of ratAurA and to centrosome amplification. ratAurA, cloned from a rat mammary gland cDNA library, is a bona fide Ser/Thr kinase, and sequence comparison demonstrated high homology to members of the entire AurA kinase family. Using immunocytochemical localization with confocal microscopy, we found ratAurA to be localized at the centrosome in normal and neoplastic tissues of the rat mammary gland. Normal ductal epithelium and stromal cells displayed an expected complement of one to two centrosomes/cell, whereas comparable cells in methylnitrosourea-treated animals displayed significantly elevated centrosome numbers. In tumors, 46% of cells showed more than two centrosomes/cell, and ratAurA expression levels coincided with higher centrosome numbers. Both centrosome numbers and ratAurA expression were permanently elevated. Centrosome amplification was found to occur at a very early, premalignant stage prior to detectable lesions after treatment with methylnitrosourea, a condition that was not detected in mammary glands of rats made refractory to the carcinogen via pregnancy or estrogen and progesterone treatment. Our results indicate that hormones influence kinase expression, and progesterone had the major effect on ratAurA expression levels. Cumulatively, these results suggest that ratAurA overexpression and centrosome amplification were linked to tumor development and progression and may serve as early markers in tumorigenesis.
1. GYKI 52466 is a benzodiazepine derivative that has muscle relaxant and anticonvulsant properties thought to be mediated by highly selective, noncompetitive antagonism of non-NMDA receptors. However, recent electrophysiological data showed that, in addition to non-NMDA receptors, the GABAA-receptor associated benzodiazepine site is involved in the depressant effect of GYKI 52466 on spinal reflex transmission. In view of the structural similarities between the 2,3 benzodiazepine derivative GYKI 52466 and 1,4-benzodiazepines such as diazepam, the benzodiazepine site of GABAA receptor complex could also be involved in the anticonvulsant activity of GYKI 52466, which has not yet been proven. This prompted us to study the effect of the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, flumazenil, on anticonvulsant and adverse effects of GYKI 52466 in different seizure models in mice. The non-NMDA antagonist, NBQX and diazepam were used for comparison. 2. Seizure threshold models for different types of generalized seizures were used. The threshold for maximal (tonic) electroshock seizures (MES) was significantly increased by GYKI 52466 (10-20 mg kg-1), NBQX (80-120 mg kg-1) and diazepam (5 mg kg-1) shortly after i.p. drug administration. The same dose-range of the non-NMDA antagonists also significantly increased the threshold for myoclonic and clonic seizures induced by i.v. infusion of pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), although the magnitude of threshold increases obtained with the respective drugs, differed, at least in part, from that seen in the MES experiments. GYKI 52466 was clearly less potent in increasing PTZ thresholds for myoclonic and clonic seizures than on the MES threshold, while NBQX exerted about the same potency in both models. In contrast to the non-NMDA antagonists, diazepam was capable of increasing themyoclonic and clonic PTZ seizure threshold at much lower doses than the MES threshold. The PTZ threshold for tonic seizures was markedly increased by GYKI 52466, while NBQX and diazepam were clearly less potent in this respect.3. With respect to adverse effects, GYKI 52466 and NBQX induced significant seizure threshold increases in the different seizure models only at doses which caused sedation and ataxia, while diazepam increased the myoclonic and clonic PTZ seizure threshold at doses below those inducing motor impairment.4. Flumazenil (5-20 mg kg-1) antagonized the anticonvulsant and adverse effects of diazepam but not GYKI 52466. Instead, the anticonvulsant effect of GYKI 52466 was potentiated by flumazenil in some experiments. The anticonvulsant activity of NBQX was slightly reduced by flumazenil in the MES model but not in the PTZ test.5. The data indicate that the GABAA receptor-associated benzodiazepine site is not critically involved in anticonvulsant or adverse effects of GYKI 52466. However, both GYKI 52466 and NBQX were unable to increase seizure thresholds at doses below those inducing sedation and motor impairment,thus demonstrating that non-NMDA antagonists lack a selective anticonvulsant action in standard models of generalized seizures.
We describe a case of cocaine-associated acute myocardial infarction managed by cardiac catheterization and intracoronary thrombolysis. Based on this and other reported cases, it appears that an invasive approach to the management of cocaine-associated acute myocardial infarction is advantageous over intravenous thrombolysis. Such a strategy would define the pathophysiology of acute myocardial infarction in the setting of cocaine use and allow mechanical intervention should pharmacologic therapy be unsuccessful.
The incidence of pain on injection of propofol has been reported to be 70%. A new propofol formulation with a 10% emulsion of long- and medium-chain triglycerides (LCT/MCT) is associated with less pain on injection. Our goal was to compare the effect of propofol-LCT/MCT on the incidence of pain versus propofol with lidocaine 40 mg IV pretreatment injected as a Bier's block. Two hundred healthy women scheduled for ambulatory gynecological procedures were allocated to 1 of 2 groups in a randomized double-blind fashion. Group LIDO received lidocaine 2% 2 mL injected with a tourniquet 1 min before propofol 1% 2 mg/kg IV; group LCT/MCT received NaCl 0.9% 2 mL with tourniquet 1 min before propofol-LCT/MCT 1% 2 mg/kg IV. Spontaneous verbal expressions of pain, movement of hand, frowning, and moaning during the injection were recorded. The incidence and severity of pain were assessed 30 min and 6 h after surgery. Recall of pain was considered with a visual analog scale (VAS) score >1, and pain was graded as VAS 0-10. More women reported spontaneous verbal expression of pain with propofol-LCT/MCT (47% versus 24%; P = 0.0014; relative risk 1.61 [95% confidence interval, 1.22-2.13]). Among women with a painful injection, there was no difference after surgery regarding the intensity of pain or recall of pain. In contrast to previous reports, we found that propofol-LCT/MCT resulted in a more frequent incidence of pain than propofol 1% with IV lidocaine pretreatment. This may be due to the diversity of pain definitions used in studies or to the lack of premedication in our study.
We investigated the effects of ethinyl estradiol (5 mg/kg body wt daily for 5 days, orally) and/or iron sorbitol (50 mg/kg body wt daily for 5 days, i.m.) on bile flow, bile salt independent fraction (BSIF), hepatic delta-aminolevulinate synthase (ALA-S) and uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (URO-D) in female rats. Ethinyl estradiol administration was associated with a significant decrease of bile flow and BSIF and an increase in URO-D activity in comparison to control values. Iron alone did not modify biliary parameters, but significantly increased the activity of ALA-S. Combined treatment with ethinyl estradiol plus iron partially corrected the reduction of BSIF and restored the activity of ALA-S and URO-D to control levels. Thus iron appears to exert a partially protective effect against ethinyl estradiol-induced cholestasis. No porphyrinogenic effect was observed.
The mortality and morbidity rates from cancer metastasis have not declined in Taiwan, especially because of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Resveratrol has been shown to have benefits such as cardioprotection, providing antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer properties in previous studies. Therefore, HCC cells were subjected to treatment with resveratrol and then analyzed to determine the effects of resveratrol on the migration and invasion.
Modified Boyden chamber assays revealed that resveratrol treatment significantly inhibited cell migration and invasion capacities of Huh7 cell lines that have low cytotoxicity in vitro, even at a high concentration of 100 µM. The results of casein zymography and western blotting revealed that the activities and protein levels of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) were inhibited by resveratrol. Western blot analysis also showed that resveratrol inhibits phosphorylation of JNK1/2. Tests of the mRNA level, real-time PCR, and promoter assays evaluated the inhibitory effects of resveratrol on u-PA expression in HCC cells. The chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay showed that reactive in transcription protein of nuclear factor SP-1 was inhibited by resveratrol.
Resveratrol inhibits u-PA expression and the metastasis of HCC cells and is a powerful chemopreventive agent. The inhibitory effects were associated with the downregulation of the transcription factors of SP-1 signaling pathways.
Indoprofen, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agent, was investigated in a double-blind, randomized study in 44 osteoarthritic patients for its influence on haemostatic parameters and therapeutic effects. Twenty-two patients received indoprofen orally, 600 mg daily, and a similar group took acetylsalicylic acid 3 g daily for 21 days. Platelet count, partial thromboplastin time and prothrombin time showed no variations. Bleeding time wa prolonged and platelet aggregation reduced by both drugs. The effects of ASA, however, were significantly greater. Indoprofen, unlike ASA, showed almost no residual effect seven days after stopping medication. The therapeutic responses to indoprofen and ASA were comparable. However, adverse reactions (pyrosis and gastric pain) were much more frequent in the ASA group (15 patients) than in the indoprofen group (2 patients).
Male and female C3H mice were fed a diet containing 0.5% or 0.05% of the antioxidant butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT). After 10 months, male but not female animals had a significantly increased incidence of liver tumors compared to animals kept on a BHT-free control diet. In a second experiment, male BALB/c mice were treated subcutaneously with the carcinogens dimethylhydrazine (DMH) or intrarectally with methylnitrosourea (MNU). A diet containing 0.5% BHT significantly increased the incidence of colon tumors in DMH treated animals but had no effect in mice given MNU. It is concluded that the effect of BHT on tumor development depends on strain and target organ examined and possibly also on the chemical carcinogen used.
Docetaxel is a complex diterpene obtained from Taxus Brevifolia, and it is one of the most widely used anticancer agents. The main mechanism of citotoxic action depends on stabilization of microtubules leading to cell mitotic arrest. Independently from the schedule, the primary dose limiting toxicity of docetaxel using is neutropenia. The most common acute side effects related with docetaxel are hypersensivity reactions and dermatitis. There are also other toxicities that may be cumulative in both onset and severity; an important dose limiting side effect in patients who receive multiple cycles of the drug is fluid retention. In previous clinical trials docetaxel resulted often associated with fluid retention, even if phisiopatology of this effect is still unknown. In the majority of cases its manifestations are edema or pleural effusion. We report two cases of patients who developed repeated episodes of pericardial effusion after docetaxel infusion.
Anthracycline therapy is limited by a cardiotoxicity that may eventually lead to chronic heart failure which is thought to be prevented by ACE inhibitors (ACEi). However, the protective effect of ACEi in early stages of this specific injury remains elusive. Activated nuclear transcription factors peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) regulate cellular metabolism, but their involvement in anthracycline cardiomyopathy has not been investigated yet. For this purpose, Wistar rats were administered with daunorubicin (i.p., 3 mg/kg, in 48 h intervals) or co-administered with daunorubicine and enalaprilat (i.p., 5 mg/kg in 12 h intervals). Control animals received vehicle. Left ventricular function was measured invasively under anesthesia. Cell-shortening was measured by videomicroscopy in isolated cardiomyocytes. Expression of PPARs mRNA in cardiac tissue was measured by Real-Time PCR. Although the hemodynamic parameters of daunorubicin-treated rats remained altered upon ACEi co-administration, ACEi normalized daunorubicin-induced QT prolongation. On cellular level, ACEi normalized altered basal and isoproterenol-stimulated cardiac cell shortening in daunorubicine-treated group. Moreover, anthracycline administration significantly up-regulated heart PPARα mRNA and its expression remained increased after ACEi co-administration. On the other hand, the expression of cardiac PPARβ/δ was not altered in anthracycline-treated animals, whereas co-administration of ACEi increased its expression. Conclusively, effect of ACEi can be already detected in sub-acute phase of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity. Altered expression of heart PPARs may suggest these nuclear receptors as a novel target in anthracycline cardiomyopathy.
Tacrolimus ointment is increasingly used for anti-inflammatory treatment of sensitive areas such as the face, and recent observations indicate that the treatment is effective in steroid-aggravated rosacea and perioral dermatitis. We report on rosaceiform dermatitis as a complication of treatment with tacrolimus ointment.
Six adult patients with inflammatory facial dermatoses were treated with tacrolimus ointment because of the ineffectiveness of standard treatments. Within 2 to 3 weeks of initially effective and well-tolerated treatment, 3 patients with a history of rosacea and 1 with a history of acne experienced sudden worsening with pustular rosaceiform lesions. Biopsy revealed an abundance of Demodex mites in 2 of these patients. In 1 patient with eyelid eczema, rosaceiform periocular dermatitis gradually appeared after 3 weeks of treatment. In 1 patient with atopic dermatitis, telangiectatic and papular rosacea insidiously appeared after 5 months of treatment.
Our observations suggest that the spectrum of rosaceiform dermatitis as a complication of treatment with tacrolimus ointment is heterogeneous. A variety of factors, such as vasoactive properties of tacrolimus, proliferation of Demodex due to local immunosuppression, and the occlusive properties of the ointment, may be involved in the observed phenomena. Future studies are needed to identify individual risk factors.
Agents which interact with alpha- or beta-adrenoceptors were evaluated for efficacy in preventing seizures and death from a lethal dose of cocaine. Rats were first pretreated with the test drug(s), then subjected to an intraperitoneal LD86 of cocaine (70 mg/kg). In this model, control vehicle-pretreated animals developed seizures within six minutes, followed by death within 10 minutes. Significant protection against death was afforded by pretreatment with clonidine (0.25 mg/kg), prazocin (5.0 to 20 mg/kg), propranolol (8.0 to 32 mg/kg), or labetalol (40 mg/kg). Surviving animals still experienced seizures as judged through behavior and EEG recordings. Phentolamine did not affect the incidence of seizures or death. Two nonadrenoceptor agents were also studied: hydralazine reduced the incidence of death and seizures at 5.0 and 10 mg/kg, but reserpine did not alter the incidence of death or seizures. A combination of prazocin and propranolol did not provide additional protection compared to single agents. We conclude that the pathogenesis of acute cocaine death is complex, and that this toxicity can be antagonized by agents having either central or peripheral effects.
Intracerebral hemorrhage is a major complicating factor of thrombolytic therapy of stroke. To investigate the incidence of bleeding in animals with a diseased vascular system, thrombolysis was carried out in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) after clot embolism of the right middle cerebral artery (MCA). Three hours after embolism SHR were treated with either recombinant tissue-plasminogen activator (rt-PA) or saline, and neurological deficits and intracerebral hemorrhages were evaluated after 3 days survival. Rt-PA-treated SHR exhibited a significantly higher incidence of hemorrhages than untreated rats but neurological deficits and survival rates showed a non-significant trend for improvement. This model offers the possibility of investigating the pathophysiology of post-thrombolytic complications in a clinically relevant small animal model.
The National Bladder Cancer Group undertook a study to determine the effectiveness and toxicity of mitomycin in patients who failed on thiotepa. A total of 117 patients with residual superficial transitional cell bladder cancer (Ta, T1, Tis) who had previously failed on intravesical thiotepa were treated with 40 mg of mitomycin instilled intravesically weekly for eight weeks. Four to six weeks after the last treatment, tumor response was evaluated by cystoscopy, biopsy of the site of the index lesion, and cytology. In 57 patients (48.7%), visible tumor had been ablated. Results of cystoscopy, biopsy, and cytology were negative in 32 (27.4%) patients. Eleven patients (9.4%) had no visible tumor and negative cytology unconfirmed by biopsy. In 14 patients (12%) who had complete destruction of the tumor at cystoscopy, and biopsy specimen was negative for tumor, cytology was positive, indicating a partial response. Six patients (5.1%) withdrew from the study before the first evaluation because of local toxicity (cystitis).
To assess the correlation between antiretroviral treatment and dyslipidaemia in HIV-infected patients, and the role of bezafibrate as a lipid-lowering agent.
We retrospectively compared serum lipid levels of five groups of 40 patients, each of them treated with either saquinavir hard gel, indinavir, or ritonavir (associated with two nucleoside analogues), or dual nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) with or without a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI), or not treated with antiretrovirals, randomly selected from nearly 1000 HIV-infected patients followed-up for >or= 12 months, while on the relevant therapy. Hypertriglyceridaemia was defined by triglyceride levels >or= 172 mg/dl, and hypercholesterolaemia by cholesterol levels >or= 200 mg/dl. All patients with triglyceridaemia > 300 mg/dl and cholesterolaemia > 220 mg/dl for at least 6 months, and unresponsive to a >or= 3-month diet, started bezafibrate (400 mg/day), and were prospectively followed-up at a <or= 3-month interval, evaluating both efficacy and tolerability of the hypolipidaemic treatment, provided that they did not change their protease inhibitor treatment for reasons other than metabolic abnormalities.
Hypertrygliceridaemia occurred in 75 patients out of 200 (37.5%), but was significantly more frequent and severe with ritonavir vs. indinavir (P<0.001), and in subjects given indinavir vs. all remaining patients (either treated or not) (P<0.001), while isolated saquinavir use was associated with higher tri glyceride levels than NRTI-NNRTI treatment alone, or no antiretroviral therapy (P<0.03). Hypercholesterolaemia was found in 27 subjects (13.5%), and a significantly higher frequency and severity was shown in patients treated with indinavir and ritonavir vs. saquinavir, NRTI-NNRTI, and no anti-HIV therapy (P<0.05 to P<0.001). No appreciable difference was found between patients undergoing NRTI-NNRTI and untreated controls, for all evaluated variables. Bezafibrate was administered once daily for 6-18 months to 49 patients with elevated and diet-resistant hyperlipidaemia due to ritonavir or indinavir (27 and 22 subjects, respectively), and reduced triglyceride and cholesterol levels by 35% and 25%, respectively over 6 months, without differences between the underlying protease inhibitor regimen. Thirty-three patients (67.3%) reached a normal triglyceridaemia after 6-9 months, and normal cholesterol levels were obtained in all subjects. Bezafibrate proved safe and well tolerated.
Careful monitoring of the serum lipid profile is needed during antiretroviral therapy, including protease inhibitors, to identify the need for a diet and/or an hypolipidaemic treatment, and to prevent clinical sequelae related to long-term dyslipidaemia. Specific guidelines for the management of disorders of lipid metabolism in HIV-infected patients are needed.
In the present study, the possible role of nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) receptors of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) on morphine-state-dependent learning was studied in adult male Wistar rats. As a model of memory, a step-through type passive avoidance task was used. All animals were bilaterally implanted with chronic cannulae in the VTA, trained using a 1mA foot shock, and tested 24h after training to measure step-through latency. Post-training subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of morphine (0.5-5mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced the step-through latency, showing morphine-induced amnesia. Amnesia induced by post-training morphine was significantly reversed by pre-test administration of morphine (2.5-5mg/kg, s.c.) and induced morphine-state-dependent learning. Pre-test injection of nicotine (0.25-1microg/rat) into the VTA plus an ineffective dose of morphine (0.5mg/kg) significantly restored the memory retrieval. It should be noted that pre-test intra-VTA injection of the same doses of nicotine (0.25-1microg/rat) alone cannot affect memory retention. Furthermore, pre-test intra-VTA injection of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, mecamylamine (1-3microg/rat) 5min before the administration of morphine (5mg/kg, s.c.) dose-dependently inhibited morphine-state-dependent learning. Pre-test injection of the higher dose of mecamylamine (3microg/rat) into the VTA by itself decreased the step-through latency and induced amnesia. On the other hand, mecamylamine (0.5 and 1microg/rat, intra-VTA) reversed the effect of nicotine on morphine response. The results indicate that nACh receptors in the VTA participate in the modulation of morphine-induced recovery of memory, on the test day.
We hypothesized that the aldosterone: renin ratio (ARR) predicts the antihypertensive response to mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist, spironolactone (SPIRO), when compared with bendroflumethiazide (BFZ).
We conducted a randomized, crossover, trial on hypertensive patients with either high ARR (HARR defined as >750 and plasma aldosterone >250 pmol/l) or low ARR (LARR defined as <300 and plasma renin activity <10 ng/ml per h). Each group took SPIRO 50 mg once daily for 12 weeks and BFZ 2.5 mg once daily for 12 weeks in random order separated by 2-week washout. Patients with mean 24-h systolic ambulatory blood pressure (SABP) at least 140 mmHg were included. Primary endpoint was difference in SABP between SPIRO and BFZ in patients with HARR compared with those with LARR.
One hundred and eleven patients (60 HARR and 51 LARR) completed the study. SABP at 12 weeks in the HARR group was 129.4 mmHg on SPIRO and 134.4 mmHg on BFZ [difference -5.01; 95% confidence interval (CI) -7.51, -2.52; P < 0.0002]. In the LARR group, SABP was 129.7 mmHg on SPIRO and 133.1 mmHg on BFZ [difference -3.43 (95% CI -6.18, -0.68) P < 0.01]. Difference between groups (HARR vs. LARR) was -1.58 mmHg (95% CI 5.25, -2.08; not significant, P = 0.394). In a secondary analysis of the overall study population of 111 patients, SABP reduction with SPIRO 50 mg was superior to BFZ 2.5 mg [SPIRO -14.8 mmHg, BFZ -10.5 mmHg, difference -4.29 mmHg (95% CI -6.12, -2.46)]. Results were similar for secondary endpoints. Plasma renin activity or aldosterone did not predict blood pressure response to SPIRO. Results were independent of concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker use.
The ARR did not predict the blood pressure response to SPIRO. SPIRO 50 mg was significantly more effective than BFZ 2.5 mg in lowering SABP irrespective of baseline ARR, plasma renin activity or aldosterone.
Wicket spikes (WS) are a normal variant EEG pattern that sometimes can be mistaken for epileptiform activity. We present a patient with WS and idiopathic generalized epilepsy who had been wrongly diagnosed with focal epilepsy, which leads to the prescription of carbamazepine with severe aggravation of generalized tonic-clonic seizures. She was referred for presurgical assessment of refractory focal epilepsy but long-term video-EEG showed sharp theta waves over the temporal regions during awakening, with a typical aspect of WS during drowsiness, nREM sleep stages I-II, and rapid eye movements (REM) sleep. There were a few generalized spike-waves during sleep but interictal changes were increased in frequency at awakening with bursts of fast-generalized spike-waves. Carbamazepine was progressively withdrawn and the patient was progressively switched to zonisamide. The patient no longer complained of generalized tonic-clonic seizures. At one year follow-up, this patient receives zonisamide with valproate. She has remained seizure-free.
Urinary bladder malformations associated with bladder outlet obstruction are a frequent cause of progressive renal failure in children. We here describe a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M3 (CHRM3) (1q41-q44) homozygous frameshift mutation in familial congenital bladder malformation associated with a prune-belly-like syndrome, defining an isolated gene defect underlying this sometimes devastating disease. CHRM3 encodes the M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor, which we show is present in developing renal epithelia and bladder muscle. These observations may imply that M3 has a role beyond its known contribution to detrusor contractions. This Mendelian disease caused by a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor mutation strikingly phenocopies Chrm3 null mutant mice.
To determine the anti-inflammatory actions of pranlukast, a cysteinyl leuklotriene receptor antagonist, we measured exhaled nitric oxide (NO) concentrations and eosinophil ratio in induced sputum of three groups of mild asthmatics (n = 30): treated with bronchodilators alone, with bronchodilators and inhaled steroid (beclomethasone dipropionate; 400 microg/day), and bronchodilators and pranlukast (450 mg/day). Pranlukast (450 mg/day) reduced the eosinophil ratio in the induced sputum significantly (p < 0.01) without a major effect on the concentration of exhaled NO. Pranlukast also increased values of peak expiratory flow significantly (p < 0.05). Pranlukast may be useful for mild asthmatics, in part through its ability to suppress eosinophilic airway infiltration.
To evaluate the impact of risperidone on adaptive behavior in children with autistic disorder who have serious behavior problems and to examine different methods of scoring the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales to measure change.
Forty-eight children (5 years to 16 years, 5 months) who showed behavioral improvement during acute treatment with risperidone were followed for 6 months and assessed with the Vineland Scales.
Raw scores, age-equivalents, and special norm percentile scores all showed significant increases in adaptive behavior in the areas of communication, daily living skills, and socialization (p <.01). During a period of 6 to 8 months, children gained an average of 7.8 age-equivalent months in the area of socialization, a > 6% improvement beyond what would be expected based on baseline growth rates.
Although limited by the absence of a control group, these results suggest that risperidone may improve adaptive skills in children with autistic disorder accompanied by serious behavioral problems. Vineland age-equivalent scores appear to be most useful in assessing change with treatment over time.
