Bladder cancer is one of the most common malignancies and causes hundreds of thousands of deaths worldwide each year. Bladder cancer is strongly associated with exposure to environmental carcinogens. It is believed that DNA damage generated by environmental carcinogens and their metabolites causes development of bladder cancer. Nucleotide excision repair (NER) is the major DNA repair pathway for repairing bulk DNA damage generated by most environmental carcinogens, and XPC is a DNA damage recognition protein required for initiation of the NER process. Recent studies demonstrate reduced levels of XPC protein in tumors for a majority of bladder cancer patients. In this work we investigated the role of histone deacetylases (HDACs) in XPC gene silencing and bladder cancer development. The results of our HDAC inhibition study revealed that the treatment of HTB4 and HTB9 bladder cancer cells with the HDAC inhibitor valproic acid (VPA) caused an increase in transcription of the XPC gene in these cells. The results of our chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) studies indicated that the VPA treatment caused increased binding of both CREB1 and Sp1 transcription factors at the promoter region of the XPC gene for both HTB4 and HTB9 cells. The results of our immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining studies further revealed a strong correlation between the over-expression of HDAC4 and increased bladder cancer occurrence (p < 0.001) as well as a marginal significance of increasing incidence of HDAC4 positivity seen with an increase in severity of bladder cancer (p = 0.08). In addition, the results of our caspase 3 activation studies demonstrated that prior treatment with VPA increased the anticancer drug cisplatin-induced activation of caspase 3 in both HTB4 and HTB9 cells. All of these results suggest that the HDACs negatively regulate transcription of the XPC gene in bladder cancer cells and contribute to the severity of bladder tumors.
Chloroquine is used in the treatment of malaria, a disease caused by infection with the parasite Plasmodium. Although chloroquine appears to possess diverse pharmacological activity, its plasmodicidal activity results from augmentation of parasite oxidative stress. Chloroquine also appears to augment oxidative stress in metabolically active mammalian cells, including human astroglial cells. The authors propose that chloroquine may augment oxidative stress induced by radiotherapy in the treatment of glioblastoma multiforme, enhancing therapeutic efficacy. Such an effect would be consistent with the known pharmacological effects of chloroquine observed in Plasmodium. Other selective redox agents, such as tempol and artemisinin, should be investigated clinically for therapeutic benefit when coadministered with combined radio- and chemotherapy for cancer.
Chronic exposure of rats to 2,5-hexanedione (CH3COCH2CH2COCH3), a major metabolite of the neurotoxic industrial solvent methyl n-buryl ketone (CH3COCH2CH2CH2CH3), has been shown to cause a clinical peripheral neuropathy with dying-back peripheral and central nervous system degeneration characterized by giant axonal swellings filled with neurofilaments. This pattern of disease is similar to that produced by methyl n-butyl ketone.
Many studies have shown that metallothionein (MT) can be increased significantly by different oxidative insults in multiple organ systems. However, the increase in MT production often fails to protect against oxidative tissue injury. On the other hand, recent studies using a cardiac-specific, MT-overexpressing, transgenic mouse model have shown that MT protects against oxidative heart injury. Thus, the present study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that prior increase in MT levels is required to prevent oxidative injury. Oxidative heart injury was induced by doxorubicin (DOX), an important anticancer drug that causes severe cardiotoxicity through oxidative stress. Cardiac-specific, MT-overexpressing, transgenic mice and wild-type (WT) FVB mice were treated with DOX at 20 mg/kg. Four days after the treatment, MT concentrations were markedly elevated in the WT mouse heart. The elevated MT concentrations were comparable with those found in the transgenic mouse heart, which did not show further MT elevation in response to DOX challenge. Severe oxidative injury occurred in the heart of WT mice, including myocardial lipid peroxidation, morphological changes as examined by electron microscopy, high levels of serum creatine kinase activity, and decreased total glutathione concentrations in the heart. However, all of these pathological changes were significantly inhibited in the MT-transgenic mice. Therefore, this study demonstrates that there is a correlation between MT induction and oxidative stress in the DOX-treated mouse heart. However, MT can protect the heart from oxidative injury only if it is present prior to induction of oxidative stress.
Calcium antagonists have a potential for beneficial effects on kidney function unrelated to their antihypertensive action. In this study we have investigated the efficacy of calcium antagonists compounds (verapamil, nifedipine and diltiazem) on reversible acute renal insufficiency, proteinuria and interstitial nephritis induced by the puromycin ammonucleoside (PAN). An increase in blood pressure (BP) was detected on day 14, with no statistical differences in the response to calcium antagonists. Serum creatinine concentration increased to 1.2 mg/dL on day 7 after PAN and decreased to 0.7 mg/dL at 14 days, calcium antagonists shortened the time required to reach baseline or control levels. Calcium antagonists also reduced proteinuria in the PAN-treated animals, in both day 7 and day 14. Differential effects of the antagonists were observed. Verapamil caused a greater reduction (p < 0.01) in proteinuria than nifedipine or diltiazem in day 7. Moreover, verapamil (p < 0.01) and nifedipine (p < 0.01) reduced the total number of interstitial infiltrating leukocytes from 690 to 120 and 425 positive cells/20 high power fields (x63) respectively, by contrast, diltiazem had no effect. We conclude that in this model of PAN nephropathy verapamil is more effective in reducing both proteinuria and the severity of acute interstitial nephritis than either nifedipine or diltiazem. The possible clinical implications of these results remain to be elucidated.
Glioblastoma multiforme is the most severe form of brain cancer. First line therapy includes the methylating agent temozolomide and/or the chloroethylating nitrosoureas [1-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea; CNU] nimustine [1-(4-amino-2-methyl-5-pyrimidinyl)methyl-3-(2-chloroethyl)-3-nitrosourea; ACNU], carmustine [1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea; BCNU], or lomustine [1-(2-chloroethyl)-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitrosourea; CCNU]. The mechanism of cell death after CNU treatment is largely unknown. Here we show that ACNU and BCNU induce apoptosis in U87MG [p53 wild-type (p53wt)] and U138MG [p53 mutant (p53mt)] glioma cells. However, contrary to what we observed previously for temozolomide, chloroethylating drugs are more toxic for p53-mutated glioma cells and induce both apoptosis and necrosis. Inactivation of p53 by pifithrin-alpha or siRNA down-regulation sensitized p53wt but not p53mt glioma cells to ACNU and BCNU. ACNU and BCNU provoke the formation of DNA double-strand breaks (DSB) in glioma cells that precede the onset of apoptosis and necrosis. Although these DSBs are repaired in p53wt cells, they accumulate in p53mt cells. Therefore, functional p53 seems to stimulate the repair of CNU-induced cross-links and/or DSBs generated from CNU-induced lesions. Expression analysis revealed an up-regulation of xpc and ddb2 mRNA in response to ACNU in U87MG but not U138MG cells, indicating p53 regulates a pathway that involves these DNA repair proteins. ACNU-induced apoptosis in p53wt glioma cells is executed via both the extrinsic and intrinsic apoptotic pathway, whereas in p53mt glioma cells, the mitochondrial pathway becomes activated. The data suggest that p53 has opposing effects in gliomas treated with methylating or chloroethylating agents and, therefore, the p53 status should be taken into account when deciding which therapeutic drug to use.
Adult T-cell /lymphomaleukemia (ATLL) is caused by human T-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1). Approximately 80% of ATLL patients develop humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy (HHM), a life-threatening complication leading to a poor prognosis. Parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) and macrophage inflammatory protein-1 alpha (MIP-1 alpha) are important factors in the pathogenesis of HHM in ATLL and the expression of PTHrP can be activated by nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB). NF-kappaB is constitutively activated in ATLL cells and is essential for leukemogenesis including transformation of lymphocytes infected by HTLV-1. Our goal was to evaluate the effects of NF-kappaB disruption by a proteasomal inhibitor (PS-341) and osteoclastic inhibition by zoledronic acid (Zol) on the development of ATLL and HHM using a novel bioluminescent mouse model. We found that PS-341 decreased cell viability, increased apoptosis, and down-regulated PTHrP expression in ATLL cells in vitro. To investigate the in vivo efficacy, nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficient (NOD/SCID) mice were xenografted with ATLL cells and treated with vehicle control, PS-341, Zol, or a combination of PS-341 and Zol. Bioluminescent imaging and tumor cell count showed a significant reduction in tumor burden in mice from all treatment groups. All treatments also significantly reduced the plasma calcium concentrations. Zol treatment increased trabecular bone volume and decreased osteoclast parameters. PS-341 reduced PTHrP and MIP-1 alpha expression in tumor cells in vivo. Our results indicate that both PS-341 and Zol are effective treatments for ATLL and HHM, which are refractory to conventional therapy.
The relationship between the susceptibility to convulsions, the content of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate and the activity of pyridoxal kinase (EC 2.7.1.35) and glutamate decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.15) in brain, was studied in the developing mouse. Seizures were induced by pyridoxal phosphate-gamma-glutamyl hydrazone (PLPGH), a drug previously reported to reduce the levels of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate and as a consequence to inhibit the activity of glutamate decarboxylase in brain of adult mice. It was found that the seizure pattern, as well as the time of appearance of convulsions, differed between 2- and 5-day old mice and 10-day old or older mice, indicating a progressive increase in seizure susceptibility during development. In brain, pyridoxal kinase activity and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate levels were decreased by the administration of PLPGH at all ages studied, whereas glutamate decarboxylase activity was inhibited less than 25% in 2- and 5-day old mice, and about 50% thereafter. Parallelly, the activation of glutamate decarboxylase by pyridoxal 5'-phosphate added in vitro to control homogenates was less in 2- and 5-day old mice than in older animals. It is concluded that the increase in the susceptibility to seizures induced by PLPGH during development is probably related to the increase observed in the sensitivity of glutamate decarboxylase in vivo to a decrease of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate levels. The correlation between pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, glutamate decarboxylase, and seizure susceptibility seems to be established at about 10 days of age.
Resveratrol (RSV) has been shown to ameliorate hyperglycaemia and hyperlipidaemia in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. In the present study, we examined the beneficial effects of RSV on diabetes mellitus (DM)-induced vasculopathy and explored its possible mechanism.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with streptozotocin at 65 mg/kg body weight The induction of DM was confirmed by a fasting plasma glucose level > or = 300 mg/dL and symptoms of polyphagia and polydipsia. The DM rats were treated with or without RSV at 0.75 mg/kg body weight three times a day for 4-8 weeks. Animals were sacrificed and vessel wall histology was examined by microscopy. The vascular smooth muscle cell activation was assessed by the medial thickness, collagen deposition, and the expressions receptor for advanced glycation end product, NF-kappaB, proliferation cell nuclear antigen, and the levels of Erk1/2 phosphorylation.
In RSV-treated DM rats, the vascular wall thickening, collagen deposition/cross-linking, and vascular permeability were all alleviated compared with that of the untreated DM rats. The vascular smooth muscle cell of the RSV-treated rats was characterized with less proliferation, lower NF-kappaB, and Erk1/2 activation, decreased proliferation cell nuclear antigen and receptor for advanced glycation end product expression. Moreover, the plasma fructosamine was significantly reduced in RSV-treated DM rats.
RSV alleviated DM-induced vasculopathy through attenuation of advanced glycation end product-receptor for advanced glycation end product-NF-kappaB signalling pathway.
Paraquat (PQ) can cause acute lung injury in humans and experimental animals. However, the role of growth factors in the progression of injury has not been clearly established. We developed an animal model of PQ-induced lung injury using Wistar rats. One milliliter of PQ solution (30, 60, and 120 mg/kg) was applied through the lavage, while the same amount of vehicle was applied to control rats. Based on histopathology, the lungs of some animals exposed to PQ showed acute fulmination, resulting in death, while others showed a more protracted injury, resulting in typical pulmonary fibrosis at 21 days. Using this PQ-poisoned rat model, we examined the intrapulmonary gene expression and circulatory level of cytokines and growth factors at 8 hours, 24 hours, 3 days, 7 days, 14 days, and 21 days after PQ administration. Semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis demonstrated that the gene expression levels of interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-6 were significantly increased at 21 days after PQ challenge compared with the controls. The mRNA expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha was also significantly increased except on days 14 and 21 after PQ treatment. Moreover, PQ-treated rats showed enhanced gene expression of growth factors such as platelet-derived growth factor-A and insulin-like growth factor-1 at 21 days and transforming growth factor-beta 1 at 14 days. ELISA results showed the circulatory level of cytokines and growth factors coincided with intrapulmonary gene expression. The synergistic effects of these molecules are presumed to cause pulmonary damage due to PQ challenge and may become targets of treatment.
Renal tubular dysfunction was investigated in two patients with meticillin-induced interstitial nephritis. Some degree of renal failure persisted after the acute episode in both cases. The first patient was investigated 10 weeks after the onset of the nephropathy. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and distal tubular acidosis were demonstrated. The second patient was investigated 7 months after the onset of the nephropathy. A major impairment in urinary concentration ability was demonstrated. Neither patient had proximal tubular dysfunction. These data show that meticillin-induced interstitial nephritis may be responsible for distal tubular abnormalities, namely nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and distal tubular acidosis, which may persist long after the onset of the nephropathy.
The innate immune system plays a crucial role in protecting the host against infectious microorganisms. An inappropriate control of this system may have profound consequences, because of the maintained production of specific proinflammatory molecules. Glucocorticoids are the most efficient endogenous molecules that provide negative feedback on proinflammatory signaling and gene expression. Here we show that activation of this system is not detrimental for the brain but a profound neurodegeneration takes place in animals treated with the glucocorticoid receptor inhibitor Mifepristone (RU486). This drug increased the inflammatory reaction induced by a single intracerebral bolus of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Inhibition of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) totally abolished the neurotoxic effect of the endotoxin, and chronic infusion of the cytokine mimicked the treatment combining RU486 and LPS. The neuronal damage caused by TNF-alpha is dependent on both nitric oxide and caspase pathways. In controlling the cerebral innate immunity and microglial TNF-alpha production, glucocorticoids play a major role in protecting the brain against bacterial cell wall components.
To determine the role played by keratinocyte transglutaminase (TG1, TG(K)) in the abnormal keratinization of the cornea.
Vitamin A-deficient rats were produced as a model of severe dry eyes, and the expression of the mRNA and the enzyme activity of TG1 were examined in the corneas. The envelope proteins and keratins of cornified cells were also examined immunohistochemically.
The expression and enzyme activity of TG1 mRNA on the ocular surface were significantly upregulated as the vitamin A deficiency developed. As the TG1 expression was upregulated, involucrin, loricrin, and keratin 10 began to be expressed on the epithelial cells of the cornea.
Upregulation of TG1 expression followed by the appearance of the envelope proteins and keratin10 in cornified cells indicated that TG1 is involved in the abnormal keratinization of the cornea.
The use of ± 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, 'ecstasy') is associated with cardiovascular complications and hyperthermia.
We assessed the effects of the α(1) - and β-adrenoceptor antagonist carvedilol on the cardiostimulant, thermogenic and subjective responses to MDMA in 16 healthy subjects. Carvedilol (50 mg) or placebo was administered 1 h before MDMA (125 mg) or placebo using a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, four-period crossover design. KEY RESULTS Carvedilol reduced MDMA-induced elevations in blood pressure, heart rate and body temperature. Carvedilol did not affect the subjective effects of MDMA including MDMA-induced good drug effects, drug high, drug liking, stimulation or adverse effects. Carvedilol did not alter the plasma exposure to MDMA.
α(1) - and β-Adrenoceptors contribute to the cardiostimulant and thermogenic effects of MDMA in humans but not to its psychotropic effects. Carvedilol could be useful in the treatment of cardiovascular and hyperthermic complications associated with ecstasy use.
In order to compare and clarify the effects of various antiarrhythmic drugs when given as monotherapy, we reevaluated our previous data on antiarrhythmic drugs and recalculated antiarrhythmic plasma concentrations of drugs for several canine arrhythmia models. We used three spontaneously occurring arrhythmias: a) digitalis-, b) two-stage coronary ligation-, and c) adrenaline-induced arrhythmias. All antiarrhythmic drugs of class I suppressed digitalis arrhythmia, and, except for lidocaine, also suppressed coronary ligation arrhythmia. Class II antiarrhythmic drugs, beta blockers, and class IV antiarrhythmic drugs, Ca antagonists, had common features of effectiveness and suppressed adrenaline arrhythmia in relatively low concentrations. Class III drugs were not effective on these three arrhythmias. Differences among the antiarrhythmic effects of class I drugs could not be explained by their subclassification based either on action potential duration or kinetic properties of dissociation or association with Na channels. New triggered arrhythmia models in vivo and in vitro canine hearts were developed, and drug effects were not the same as those on the three spontaneously occurring arrhythmia models.
Dose-dense regimens have been shown to improve outcome when given as adjuvant therapy to patients with breast cancer compared with their three weekly counterparts. We investigated the feasibility of a dose-dense regimen with carboplatin/paclitaxel followed by pegfilgrastim in patients with advanced ovarian cancer. We also investigated the toxicities including the percentage of patients with grade 2 or greater peripheral neurotoxicity and the clinical response of this regimen.
Women with untreated Stage III or IV epithelial ovarian, (fallopian) tubal, or primary peritoneal cancer were treated with carboplatin area under the curve (AUC) 5 and paclitaxel 175 mg/m(2) day one, and pegfilgrastim 6 mg day two every 2 weeks for six cycles.
Between 9/06 and 9/08, 43 patients enrolled. Thirty-one patients completed six or more cycles of therapy. The dose limiting toxicities resulting in treatment discontinuation included: grade 3 and 4 neuropathy, grade 4 thrombocytopenia, grade 4 thrombocytopenia/grade 3 febrile neutropenia, and grade 4 supraventricular tachycardia. Twelve patients (30%) had >or=grade 2 neuropathy from this regimen. The overall response rate in patients with measurable disease was 58% (11 out of 19).
Dose-dense carboplatin/paclitaxel appears to be effective. However, based on dose limiting toxicities occurring when administering 6 cycles of treatment, it is not feasible. Given the neuropathy and thrombocytopenia, we do not recommend 6 cycles of this regimen without modification.
To investigate the activity and feasibility of combination therapy of gemcitabine and vinorelbine for patients with advanced NSCLC after the failure of initial treatment with paclitaxel plus platinum.
From March 2000 to August 2002, 38 evaluable patients (median age 55 years) with NSCLC, who had failed to recover after treatment with paclitaxel plus platinum, received vinorelbine (30 mg/m(2) i.v.) followed by gemcitabine (1000 mg/m(2) i.v.), both being administered on days 1 and 8 and recycled every 3 weeks.
Objective responses were as follows: partial response, 8/38 [21%; 95% confidence interval (CI) 8-23%]; and stable disease, 21/38 (55%). Median time to progression was 3.9 months and the median overall survival was 8.1 months. Grades III and IV neutropenia were seen in 17 and 11% of patients, respectively.
This combination chemotherapy with gemcitabine and vinorelbine is active and highly tolerable as a second-line therapy for NSCLC.
SOD2 (superoxide dismutase 2) plays a crucial role in protecting the cells against damage caused by free radicals, by catalyzing their detoxification. On the other hand, cell damage caused by free radical generation following methamphetamine administration has been postulated as one of the possible pathophysiological mechanisms for methamphetamine psychosis. Hence, we investigated the association of SOD2 polymorphisms with the development of methamphetamine psychosis, in two independent populations of Japan and Taiwan. We recruited 116 patients with methamphetamine psychosis and 189 controls in Japan, and 135 patients with methamphetamine psychosis and 204 controls in Taiwan. The methamphetamine group was divided into two clinical subtypes: a transient type of psychosis (i.e., good prognosis) and a prolonged type of psychosis (i.e., poor prognosis), according to the course of the manifestation of psychosis. With reference to the genotypic and allelic frequencies of Ala/Val functional polymorphism in exon 2, we found significant differences between individuals with prolonged methamphetamine psychosis and control samples from Japan and Taiwan in the genotypic (P value 0.014 and 0.016, respectively) and in the allelic (P value 0.004 and 0.047, respectively) frequencies. Our results suggest that Ala/Val polymorphism of the SOD2 gene could be associated with the risk of developing methamphetamine psychosis.
A study was carried out on the effects of N-isopropyl-alpha-(2-methylhydrazino)-p-toluamide (procarbazine, Natulan) in the dominant lethal test in the mouse. Male mice were dosed once and mated with fresh virgin females each week. The utilization of sperm, treated as spermatids or testicular sperm with 100-800 mg/kg, resulted in significant post- and pre-implantation death of embryos. Fertility was markedly reduced after the injection of 200 mg/kg of procarbazine and over. This is probably due to a cell killing effect, the most sensitive stages being differentiating spermatogonia, type A sermatogonia and resting primary spermatocytes. Total sterility was induced for several weeks with doses of 600 and 800 mg/kg. Up to 12 weeks after treatment the number of females with implants was still significantly lower than controls indicating a severe depletion of spermatogonial cells. The spectrum of effects correlates well with the drug's effect on nucleic acid and protein synthesis.
To reveal the molecular mechanism of deficit in learning and memory induced by chronic fluorosis, the expression of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) and oxidative stress were investigated. Sixty Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were divided randomly into two groups (30 cases in each), i.e., the control group (<0.5 ppm fluoride in drinking water) and the fluoride group (50 ppm fluoride) for 10 months of treatment. The pups born from SD mothers with or without chronic fluorosis were selected at postnatal days 1, 7, 14, 21 and 28 for experiments (10 for each age). Spatial learning and memory were evaluated by Morris water maze test. The expressions of M1 and M3 mAChRs at the protein and mRNA levels were determined by Western blotting and real-time PCR, respectively. In addition, the contents of (·)OH, H2O2, O2 (·-) and malondialdehyde (MDA), and activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) in brains were quantitated by biochemical methods. Our results showed that as compared to controls, the abilities of learning and memory were declined in the adult rats and the offspring rats of postnatal day 28 in the fluoride groups; the expressions of both M1 and M3 mAChRs were significantly reduced at protein and mRNA levels; and the levels of (·)OH, H2O2, O2 (·-) and MDA were significantly increased, while the activities of SOD and GSH-Px decreased. Interestingly, the decreased protein levels of M1 and M3 mAChRs were significantly correlated with the deficits of learning and memory and high level of oxidative stress induced by chronic fluorosis. Our results suggest that the mechanism for the deficits in learning and memory of rats with chronic fluorosis may be associated with the decreased expressions of M1 and M3 in mAChRs, in which the changes in the receptors might be the result of the high level of oxidative stress occurring in the disease.
The X-linked PIG-A gene is involved in the biosynthesis of the cell surface anchor GPI, and its inactivation may serve as a new marker for mutagenicity. The in vivo PIG-A gene mutation assay is currently being validated by several groups. In this study, we established a corresponding in vitro variant of the PIG-A assay applying B-lymphoblastoid TK6 cells. PE-conjugated antibodies against the GPI-anchored proteins CD55 and CD59 were used to determine the GPI status via multicolor flow cytometry. Mutant spiked TK6 cell samples were analyzed, and mutants were quantified with even small numbers being quantitatively recovered. To validate our approach, mutant spiked cell samples were analyzed by flow cytometry and proaerolysin selection in parallel, yielding a high correlation. Further, we developed a procedure to reduce the background level of preexisting mutant cells to lower than 20 in 10(6) cells to increase the sensitivity of the assay. Spontaneous rate of GPI deficiency was investigated being 0.76 × 10(-6)/cell/generation for TK6 cells. The optimal phenotype expression time after ethyl methanesulfonate treatment was found to be 10 days. We applied the in vitro PIG-A assay to demonstrate the mutagenicity of ethyl methanesulfonate, 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide and UV-C irradiation in a dose-dependent and statistically significant manner. Pyridine and cycloheximide were included as negative controls providing negative test results up to 10 mM. These data suggest that the in vitro PIG-A assay could complement the in vivo PIG-A assay with some distinct advantages compared to other in vitro mammalian mutagenicity tests.
We report a 27 years old male, treated with Indinavir as a prophylactic anti-HIV agent, who consulted for left ureteral pain. Intravenous and retrograde pyelograms disclosed a radioluscent stone, that was removed surgically. The physical-chemical study of the stone, demonstrated indinavir sulphate crystals.
Reduced red blood cell (RBC) survival due to oxidative damage is one of the causes of anemia in patients under long-term hemodialysis. Recently, it has been shown that vitamin E-bonded dialyzer membrane is able to reduce the oxidative stress during hemodialysis. In humans, creatine content in RBC is used to measure RBC life span and erythropoietic capacity, since it rapidly declines as the RBCs become old. Therefore this study aimed to elucidate the effect of vitamin E-bonded dialyzer membrane on RBC life span by measuring creatine content in RBC.
Thalidomide has been used to treat a variety of diseases ranging from alleviation of autoimmune disorders to prevention of metastasis of cancers. It has been shown previously that increased levels of urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) correlate well with higher invasive phenotype. We examined whether thalidomide is able to suppress the expression of uPAR mRNA and protein in human ovarian cancer cell line HRA and human chondrosarcoma cell line HCS-2/8. Here, we show that: (a) thalidomide suppresses the expression of constitutive and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1)-induced uPAR mRNA and protein; (b) a nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) activation system (phosphorylation of IkappaB-alpha and degradation of IkappaB-alpha) is necessary for the TGF-beta1-induced increase in uPAR expression, because L-1-tosylamido-2-phenylethyl chloromethyl ketone, a NF-kappaB inhibitor, reduced the uPAR production as well as mRNA expression; (c) thalidomide failed to further strengthen L-1-tosylamido-2-phenylethyl chloromethyl ketone's action; (d) the once-daily i.p. administration of thalidomide (400 microg/g body weight/d) decreased progressive growth of HRA tumors and ascites formation in an in vivo animal model; and (e) the once-daily i.p. administration of thalidomide in combination with paclitaxel (i.p., 100 microg/20 g at days 2 and 5) significantly decreased progressive growth of HRA cells in a synergistic fashion. We conclude that thalidomide down-regulates constitutive and TGF-beta1-stimulated uPAR mRNA and protein expression possibly through suppression of NF-kappaB activation. Furthermore, combination therapy with thalidomide plus paclitaxel may be an effective way to markedly reduce i.p. tumor growth and ascites in ovarian cancer dissemination.
Two unusual cases of Wenckebach-like conduction block in the infranodal tissues which developed after an intravenous dose of a Class I antiarrhythmic drug are presented. The first case shows infra-Hisian Wenckebach during sustained atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia. The second case demonstrates rate-dependent Wenckebach-like exit block between the pacing catheter and the right ventricular tissues during pacing.
This paper presents the results of our research on the mechanisms involved in the modifications occurring in the activity of ionic pumps (Na+/K+-ATPase and Ca++-ATPase) at the level of the sarcolemma, the sarcoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial membrane of the myocardial cell in experimental myocardial hypertrophy induced by isoproterenol. We also studied the effects of concomitant administration of adenosine triphosphate. Thus, we found the activity of the sarcolemmal Ca++-ATPase intensely increased under the action of isoproterenol, while Ca++-ATPase activity in the sarcoplasmic reticulum decreased significantly. At the same time, the Na+/K+-ATPase activity decreased both in the sarcolemma and in the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Administration of adenosine triphosphate induces opposite effects, of lower intensity, upon the activity of the two ATPase, that tend to offset the the effects of isoproterenol. This was found in the group of rats given concomitantly both isoproterenol and adenosine triphosphate. A better understanding of the processes involved in those modifications of membrane ATPase activity allows us to consider their different behaviour to isoproterenol and adenosine triphosphate as the expression of intrinsic mechanisms by means of which the myocardial cell intervenes in maintaining a physiological concentration of calcium ions (Ca++) that is necessary both in order to avoid a failure of the contractile apparatus and in order to preserve the mitochondria role of ATP supplier. Our results demonstrate the antiadrenergic action of adenosine triphosphate that attenuates isoproterenol effects on cardiac myocytes.
Systemic side effects of nitrofurantoin are rare but can be life-threatening. Serious side effects are pulmonary involvement and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. We report a case of a patient developing circulatory and renal failure together with eosinophilia and a rash. This syndrome of drug rash, eosinophilia and systemic symptoms is called DRESS syndrome.
The highly conserved and mutationally intolerant retroviral zinc finger motif of the HIV-1 nucleocapsid protein (NC) is an attractive target for drug therapy due to its participation in multiple stages of the viral replication cycle. A literature search identified cystamine, thiamine disulfide, and disulfiram as compounds that have been shown to inhibit HIV-1 replication by poorly defined mechanisms and that have electrophilic functional groups that might react with the metal-coordinating sulfur atoms of the retroviral zinc fingers and cause zinc ejection. 1H NMR studies reveal that these compounds readily eject zinc from synthetic peptides with sequences corresponding to the HIV-1 NC zinc fingers, as well as from the intact HIV-1 NC protein. In contrast, the reduced forms of disulfiram and cystamine, diethyl dithiocarbamate and cysteamine, respectively, were found to be ineffective at zinc ejection, although cysteamine formed a transient complex with the zinc fingers. Studies with HIV-1-infected human T-cells and monocyte/macrophage cultures revealed that cystamine and cysteamine possess significant antiviral properties at nontoxic concentrations, which warrant their consideration as therapeutically useful anti-HIV agents.
