Mice were exposed to hexachlorocyclohexane (BHC) in order to study the changes in the serum protein pattern and in the LDH isoenzymes of the liver. After 2 months of exposure the protein pattern showed a new band which persisted even after the development of a tumour. The LDH isoenzymes pattern showed a gradual decrease of the faster moving LDH-1 and LDH-2 bands which later disappeared completely when hepatic tumours formed. The significance of these results is discussed.
FK506 Binding Protein 12 and its related isoform 12.6 (FKBP12/12.6) stabilize a closed state of intracellular Ca2+ release channels (ryanodine receptors [RyRs]), and in myocytes removal of FKBP12/12.6 from RyRs alters intracellular Ca2+ levels. The immunosuppressive drugs rapamycin and FK506 bind and displace FKBP12/12.6 from RyRs, and can also cause endothelial dysfunction and hypertension. We tested whether rapamycin and FK506 cause an intracellular Ca2+ leak in endothelial cells and whether this affects endothelial function and blood pressure regulation.
Rapamycin or FK506 concentration-dependently caused a Ca2+ leak in isolated endothelial cells, decreased aortic NO production and endothelium-dependent dilation, and increased systolic blood pressure in control mice. Rapamycin or FK506 at 10 micromol/L abolished aortic NO production and endothelium-dependent dilation. Similar results were obtained in isolated endothelial cells and aortas from FKBP12.6-/- mice after displacement of FKBP12 with 1 micromol/L rapamycin or FK506. In hypertensive FKBP12.6-/- mice, systolic blood pressures were further elevated after treatment with either rapamycin or FK506. Blockade of the Ca2+ leak with ryanodine normalized NO production and endothelium-dependent dilation.
Complete removal of FKBP12 and 12.6 from endothelial RyRs induces an intracellular Ca2+ leak which may contribute to the pathogenesis of endothelial dysfunction and hypertension caused by rapamycin or FK506.
Chemoprevention refers to the use of specific natural or synthetic chemical agents to reverse, suppress, or prevent the progression to invasive cancer. The ideal chemopreventive agent is safe and nontoxic over the long term. It should be easy to take and demonstrated to be effective in randomized trials in humans. Aspirin and NSAIDs meet many of the criteria for an ideal agent. The literature on aspirin and NSAIDs makes it clear that these agents can prevent colorectal cancer and precursor adenomas. That does not mean that we should make general recommendations for their use. First, we do not know the proper dose or duration. More important, these medications are accompanied by adverse effects that can be considerable. Indeed, the Medical Letter, an authoritative, unbiased publication on drugs and therapeutics, concluded that "for primary prevention in low-risk patients, more studies are required to establish whether the beneficial effect of aspirin is great enough to compensate for the possible increased risk of hemorrhagic stroke." These recommendations were directed at the use of these medications for prevention of myocardial infarction, but the same conclusions apply to colorectal cancer: although aspirin may prevent the disease, it may increase the risk of hemorrhagic strokes or cause other adverse effects. We must accurately balance the benefits and risks of these drugs, based on the results of ongoing randomized studies, before recommending aspirin for prevention of colorectal cancer. Is there anything that we can recommend to our patients for prevention of colorectal cancer? Based on observational epidemiologic studies, it is clear that individuals who consume a diet high in vegetables and natural fibers and low in fat have a reduced risk of colon cancer and polyps. Optimal nutrient intakes for the prevention of cancer might be more readily achieved via food fortification or supplementation, but this requires more research. Regular physical exercise and maintenance of normal body weight are also protective. Until the results of definitive studies of chemopreventive agents are available, we can recommend that our patients eat a sensible diet, exercise, and avoid obesity. Such an approach should protect them from cardiovascular disease, an even deadlier condition than colorectal cancer. In the future, we need randomized prevention trials that, for logistic reasons, may need to focus on the occurrence and progression of colorectal adenomas rather than carcinoma itself. Studies that test more than one compound at a time, using factorial designs, will be more efficient. We will need better information about duration and dose, adverse side effects, molecular mechanisms, and cellular sites of NSAID activity. Ultimately, we will need to know more about the biology and molecular biology of colorectal cancer and its precursors. That information will, perhaps, permit us to design agents to interrupt the pathway to cancer and to use intermediate markers more intelligently.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is an immune-mediated adverse effect that typically manifests several days after the start of heparin therapy, although both rapid- and delayed-onset HIT have been described. Its most serious complication is thrombosis. Although not all patients develop thrombosis, it can be life threatening. The risk of developing HIT is related to many factors, including the type of heparin product administered, route of administration, duration of therapy, patient population, and previous exposure to heparin. The diagnosis of HIT is typically based on clinical presentation, exposure to heparin, and presence of thrombocytopenia with or without thrombosis. Antigen and activation laboratory assays are available to support the diagnosis of HIT. However, because of the limited sensitivity and specificity of these assays, bedside probability scales for HIT were developed. When HIT is suspected, prompt cessation of all heparin therapy is necessary, along with initiation of alternative anticoagulant therapy. Two direct thrombin inhibitors--argatroban and lepirudin--are approved for the management of HIT in the United States, and bivalirudin is approved for use in patients with HIT who are undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Other agents, although not approved to manage HIT, have also been used; however, their role in therapy requires further evaluation. A comprehensive HIT management strategy involves the evaluation of numerous factors. Many patients, including those undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery, those with acute coronary syndromes, those with hepatic or renal insufficiency, and children, require special attention. Clinicians must become familiar with the available information on this serious adverse effect and its treatment so that optimum patient management strategies may be formulated.
It has been known that interleukin (IL)-10 promoter polymorphisms at -1082A/G, -819T/C and -592A/C, may influence IL-10 expression and associate with asthma. Interleukin-10 facilitates the regulatory function of transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta. The goal of this study was to investigate a gene-gene interaction between IL-10 and TGF-beta1 polymorphisms in Korean asthmatics with aspirin hypersensitivity.
Single-nucleotide polymorphism genotyping of IL-10 and TGF-beta1 genes was performed and the functional effect of the IL-10 polymorphisms was analysed applying a luciferase reporter assay and an electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
Among the patients with asthma, polymorphism at -1082A/G was significantly associated with the phenotype of aspirin-intolerant asthma, AIA (P = 0.007, P(c) = 0.021). Moreover, a synergistic effect between the TGF-beta1-509C/T and IL-10-1082A/G polymorphisms on the phenotype of AIA was noted; when stratified by the presence of rhinosinusitis, the frequency of rare alleles (the CT or TT genotype of TGF-beta1-509C/T and AG or GG genotype of IL-10-1082A/G) was significantly higher in the patients with AIA (15.2%) when compared with those with ATA (6.3%, P = 0.031; odds ratio 4.111; 95% confidence interval 1.504-11.235). In an in vitro functional assay, the -1082G reporter plasmid exhibited significantly greater promoter activity when compared with the -1082A construct in Jurkat T cells (P = 0.011). Moreover, we found that the transcription factor Myc-associated zinc-finger protein preferentially bound the -1082G allele.
Our results suggest that IL-10 promoter polymorphisms contribute to the development of AIA and that rhinosinusitis may interact genetically with TGF-beta1.
A 28-year-old man with schizophrenia intentionally ingested a lethal dose of acetaminophen and an unknown quantity of ibuprofen. He arrived at the hospital with acute renal and fulminant liver failure complicated by rhabdomyolysis. His creatine kinase level was 20,306 U/L on admission, which increased to 245,595 U/L by hospital day 2, and subsequently decreased to 339 U/L by day 16. The patient underwent liver transplantation on day 3; necrotic bowel was found during surgery. Rhabdomyolysis associated with acetaminophen overdose has been described only in a few case reports, but rarely in association with acetaminophen taken alone. The literature does not provide a clear association between acetaminophen and rhabdomyolysis because of other possible traumatic and nontraumatic causes. In this case, the Naranjo adverse drug reaction probability scale indicated a probable adverse reaction of rhabdomyolysis associated with acetaminophen overdose. In addition, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agents (NSAIDs) are well known to be ulcerogenic in the upper gastrointestinal tract, but potential effects on the lower tract are less well known. Only a few NSAID-induced cases of ischemic colitis have been reported. Several mechanisms of action have been proposed, such as direct mucosal damage and inhibition of intestinal prostaglandin production. In this patient, the Naranjo scale indicated a probable adverse reaction of ischemic colitis associated with ibuprofen overdose. Patients who have taken an acetaminophen overdose should be assessed for rhabdomyolysis as a possible complication. In addition, an evaluation of ibuprofen-induced bowel necrosis in these patients may be warranted.
Oculogyric crisis (OGC) is a dystonic and distressing side- effect which occurs immediately after the administration of high-potency antipsychotic drugs and is usually reported as a subtype of dystonia. We report a case of a young woman with schizophrenia who presented with tardive OGC related to amisulpride.
We describe a patient who suffered from ophthalmic trigeminal neuralgia as an isolated symptom of a noninvasive pituitary tumor. Bromocriptine appeared to provoke the attacks within hours. This provocation could be prevented by domperidone. After adenomectomy, both spontaneous and induced attacks disappeared. Acute transient cell swelling may be the mechanism by which bromocriptine induced the neuralgic attacks.
Bryostatin 1 is a natural product isolated from the marine bryozoan Bugula neritina in 1982 and is currently undergoing evaluation in a number of malignancies. Twenty-five patients with relapsed, low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or chronic lyphocytic leukemia (CLL) received bryostatin 1 by 72-h continuous infusion every 2 weeks at a dose of 120 microg/m2 per course. Patients who progressed while receiving bryostatin 1 alone could participate in a feasibility study by receiving vincristine administered by bolus i.v. injection immediately after the completion of the bryostatin 1 infusion. The dose of vincristine was escalated in groups of three patients as follows: level 1, 0.5 mg/m2; level 2, 1.0 mg/m2; and level 3, 1.4 mg/m2 with vincristine doses capped at 2.0 mg for all patients. Bryostatin 1 alone resulted in one complete remission and two partial remissions. Nine patients received sequential treatment with bryostatin 1 and vincristine. The addition of vincristine at a dose of 2 mg was feasible and caused the expected dose-related sensory neuropathy. Phenotypic analysis by flow cytometric analysis on pre- and post-bryostatin 1-treated peripheral blood lymphocytes revealed up-regulation in the coexpression of CD11c/ CD22 on CD20+ B cells in two of four CLL patients studied, which is consistent with in vitro findings of differentiation of CLL cells to a hairy cell phenotype.
This study was designed to assess the activity of oral topotecan (TPT) in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer previously untreated with chemotherapy. Eligible patients had inoperable stage III or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer and were chemotherapy-naive. Other inclusion criteria were Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 0, 1, or 2, adequate bone marrow, and renal and hepatic function. Of 30 patients, 29 were assessable for response. Oral TPT was administered for 5 days every 21 days for up to six cycles unless disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurred. Patients received a dose of 2.3 mg/m2/day for the first cycle. Dose modification for subsequent cycles was based on tolerability. Patients completed symptom questionnaires every 3 weeks. Pharmacokinetics were evaluated in all patients during cycle 1. Three patients had radiological responses with a reduction in tumor size of 30-40%. No patients achieved complete or partial responses to treatment. Thirteen patients had a stable disease (43.3%), and the median survival was 39.9 weeks with a 1-year survival of 33.3%. At the time of analysis, 27 patients had died. Median time to progression was 12.3 weeks. Treatment was well tolerated. A total of 125 cycles of treatment were completed. Twelve patients (40%) experienced grade III/IV neutropenia. Five patients (16.6%) had grade III/IV anemia. There were two episodes of grade III/IV thrombocytopenia. The main nonhematological toxicities consisted of grade III nausea (13%) and grade III vomiting (13%). The most frequently reported disease-related symptoms at baseline were dyspnea, cough, and fatigue. There was a subsequent improvement in patient scores of dyspnea in 17% of patients, 31% showed improvement in cough, and 32% showed improvement in fatigue. The mean area under the curve of TPT following 2.3 mg/m2 p.o. was 51.6 ng.h/ml (%SD, 25%). The area under the curve of TPT on day 1 of the first cycle was correlated with the percentage fall in leukocytes. Although oral TPT at the applied dose and schedule showed modest activity as a single agent, almost one-half of the patients had a stable disease, and median time to progression was 12.3 weeks. The overall median survival was a promising 39.9 weeks, and useful palliation of symptoms was seen.
1,1-Dichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (HCFC-123) was evaluated as a substitute for trichlorofluoromethane (CFC-11), and it appeared that a permissible exposure limit of 50 ppm was justified. When HCFC-123 was introduced as a precision cleaning agent in a controlled operation, marked elevations in serum alanine transaminase and serum aspartase transaminase were noted in exposed workers. Sampling taken during start-up documented personal samples from 24-480 ppm (375 and 21 min, respectively) and area samples of 18-180 ppm (375 and 21 min, respectively). Personal and area samples collected after the liver abnormalities were identified ranged from 5-12 ppm. Exposure data were not available for the period when the abnormalities are suspected to have developed. Two models were developed to estimate exposure during the unmonitored period: (1) the entire plant as a homogenous box and (2) evaporation into smaller work zones. Modeling using the entire building estimated 8-hour time-weighted average (TWA) exposures of 10-35 ppm. Modeled estimates of work area and air exchange rates indicated that degreaser exposed workers could have experienced peak levels of 280-2,100 ppm (8-hour TWAs 252-1,630 ppm). Modeling of the work environment, estimated to be one-third of the volume of the entire open building, indicated peak exposures of 28-210 ppm (8-hour TWAs 25-163 ppm). These ranges estimate the minimum and maximum exposure levels. The best estimates, using 12 air changes per day, suggest peak levels around the degreaser of 635-2,100 ppm (8-hour TWA 499-1,630 ppm) and 63-207 ppm (8-hour TWAs 50-163 ppm) in the work area. These are the first estimates of exposure level associated with these hepatotoxic effects; all are significantly higher than personal and area samples collected for HCFC-123 after the liver abnormalities were identified.
Although retinoids show promise for prevention of second primary upper aerodigestive tract tumors, the optimum retinoid, dose, and schedule are unknown. All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) has greater affinity for retinoic acid receptors and may be more active than other retinoids but has a shorter plasma half life and may up-regulate its own metabolism. We defined the maximum long-term tolerable dose, dosing frequency, pharmacokinetics, and toxicity of ATRA in patients with treated squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN). Twenty-one patients were randomized to 45, 90, or 150 mg/m2 ATRA either once daily, or as divided doses every 8 h, for 1 year. Pharmacokinetics were assessed periodically. Fourteen men and seven women with previous SCCHN of initial stage I-IV were treated. Grade > or =3 toxicities (reversible) included headache and hypertriglyceridemia in 5 and 6 patients each, mucositis in 2 patients, and hyperbilirubinemia, elevated alkaline phosphatase, colitis, lipasemia, xerostomia, eczema, and arthritis in 1 patient each. The 150-mg/m2 dose was not tolerable. Doses were reduced for grade > or =3 toxicity in seven of eight patients at 90 mg/m2 daily. Three of nine patients at 45 mg/m2/day required dose reduction, two at the once-daily dose. Day 1 ATRA area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) increased with dose, and after 1-2 months of continued dosing, the AUC declined in 7 of 13 patients (54%) studied. ATRA AUC did not correlate with toxicity severity or frequency. Fifteen mg/m2/day every 8 h is a tolerable dose for 1 year in patients with treated SCCHN. ATRA pharmacokinetics did not correlate with toxicity.
This is a report of a patient who developed symptomatic hyponatraemia during chlorpropamide therapy for diabetes mellitus. The patient's clinical and biochemical abnormalities were corrected by withdrawal of chlorpropamide. This represents a drug induced, reversible form of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH).
Cumulative prenatal lead exposure, as measured by maternal bone lead burden, has been associated with smaller weight of offspring at birth and 1 month of age, but no study has examined whether this effect persists into early childhood.
We investigated the association of perinatal maternal bone lead, a biomarker of cumulative prenatal lead exposure, with children's attained weight over time from birth to 5 years of age.
Children were weighed at birth and at several intervals up until 60 months. Maternal tibia and patella lead were measured at 1 month postpartum using in vivo K-shell X-ray fluorescence. We used varying coefficient models with random effects to assess the association of maternal bone lead with weight trajectories of 522 boys and 477 girls born between 1994 and 2005 in Mexico City.
After controlling for breast-feeding duration, maternal anthropometry, and sociodemographic characteristics, a 1-SD increase in maternal patella lead (micrograms per gram) was associated with a 130.9-g decrease in weight [95% confidence interval (CI), -227.4 to -34.4 g] among females and a 13.0-g nonsignificant increase in weight among males (95% CI, -73.7 to 99.9 g) at 5 years of age. These associations were similar after controlling for concurrent blood lead levels between birth and 5 years.
Maternal bone lead was associated with lower weight over time among female but not male children up to 5 years of age. Given that the association was evident for patellar but not tibial lead levels, and was limited to females, results need to be confirmed in other studies.
Although ortho-phthalaldehyde (OPA) has been suggested as an alternative to glutaraldehyde for the sterilization and disinfection of hospital equipment, the toxicity has not been thoroughly investigated. The purpose of these studies was to evaluate the irritancy and sensitization potential of OPA. The EpiDerm Skin Irritation Test was used to evaluate in vitro irritancy potential of OPA and glutaraldehyde. Treatment with 0.4125 and 0.55% OPA induced irritation, while glutaraldehyde exposure at these concentrations did not. Consistent with the in vitro results, OPA induced irritancy, evaluated by ear swelling, when mice were treated with 0.75%. Initial evaluation of the sensitization potential was conducted using the local lymph node assay at concentrations ranging from 0.005 to 0.75%. A concentration-dependent increase in lymphocyte proliferation was observed with a calculated EC3 value of 0.051% compared to that of 0.089%, previously determined for glutaraldehyde. Immunoglobulin (Ig) E-inducing potential was evaluated by phenotypic analysis of draining lymph node (DLN) cells and measurement of total and specific serum IgE levels. The 0.1 and 0.75% exposed groups yielded significant increases in the IgE+B220+ cell population in the lymph nodes while the 0.75% treated group demonstrated significant increases in total IgE, OPA-specific IgE, and OPA-specific IgG(1). In addition, significant increases in interleukin-4 messenger RNA and protein expression in the DLNs were observed in OPA-treated groups. The results demonstrate the dermal irritancy and allergic potential of OPA and raise concern about the proposed/intended use of OPA as a safe alternative to glutaraldehyde.
to explore the effect of simvastatin on alveolar epithelial cells and the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in cigarette smoking-induced emphysema in rats.
twenty-four, 12-week-old healthy male and female Wistar rats were randomly divided into 4 groups of 6 each: a control (W) group, a smoking (Sm) group, a simvastatin (St) group, and a smoking-simvastatin (SmSt) group. The rats were simultaneously fed, and kept in individual cages for 16 weeks. The VEGF level in lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) of each group was measured by ELISA. The expression of VEGF mRNA was determined by RT-PCR. The expressions of VEGF and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were determined by two-step immunohistochemistry assay. One-way ANOVA and LSD-t test were used for statistical analysis.
the percentage of PCNA-positively stained alveolar epithelial cells was significantly higher in the SmSt group [(10.3 ± 2.0)%] than in the Sm group [(4.8 ± 0.8)%]. The levels of VEGF in BALF and lung tissue homogenate of the SmSt group [(187 ± 15) ng/L and (6782 ± 50) ng/L] were similar to the W group [(200 ± 20) ng/L and (7558 ± 330) ng/L], but were significantly higher than that in the Sm group [(71 ± 16) ng/L and (4149 ± 110) ng/L]. VEGF expression in alveolar and bronchial epithelial cells of rats in the SmSt group [(67.7 ± 5.0)% and (49.0 ± 3.0)%], was similar to the W group [(68.3 ± 3.3)% and (51.3 ± 2.9)%]. But the level of VEGF expression was significantly increased as compared to that in the Sm group [(27.0 ± 5.9)% and (16.3 ± 2.7)%]. SmSt group vs Sm group t = 1.117 - 12.001, all P < 0.01.
simvastatin ameliorated the development of cigarette smoke-induced COPD in rats, partly by promoting alveolar epithelial cell proliferation and up-regulating the expression of VEGF.
Because procainamide hydrochloride (Pronestyl) may block neuromuscular transmission (NMT), this drug is contraindicated in cases of myasthenia gravis. Reduction of the safety factor of NMT is also seen in other conditions, including peripheral neuropathies. A patient with uremic peripheral neuropathy in whom myasthenia-like weakness developed during procainamide therapy is described. Procainamide should be given with caution in cases of peripheral neuropathies in which there may be a reduction of the safety factor of NMT.
Retinal ischemia-associated ocular disorders, such as retinal occlusive disorders, neovascular age-related macular degeneration, proliferative diabetic retinopathy, and glaucoma are vision-threatening. In this study, we examined whether and by what mechanisms resveratrol, a polyphenol found in red wine, is able to protect against retinal ischemia/reperfusion injury.
In vivo rat retinal ischemia was induced by high intraocular pressure (HIOP), namely, 120 mmHg for 60 min. The mechanism and management was evaluated by electroretinogram (ERG) b-wave amplitudes measurement, immunohistochemistry, and real-time polymerase chain reaction.
The HIOP-induced retinal ischemic changes were characterized by a decrease in ERG b-wave amplitudes, a loss of choline acetyltransferase immunolabeling of amacrine cell bodies/neuronal processes, and increased vimentin immunoreactivity, which is a marker of Müller cells, together with upregulation of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9), heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), and inducible nitric oxide (iNOS), and downregulation of Thy-1, both at the mRNA level. The detrimental effects due to the ischemia were concentration-dependent (weaker effect at 0.05 nmole) and/or significantly (at 0.5 nmole) altered when resveratrol was applied 15 min before or after retina ischemia.
This study supports the hypothesis that resveratrol may be able to protect the retina against ischemia by downregulation of MMP-9 and iNOS, and upregulation of HO-1.
Previous research demonstrates increased prostate cancer risk for pesticide applicators and pesticide manufacturing workers. Although underlying mechanisms are unknown, human biomonitoring studies indicate increased genetic damage (e.g. chromosomal aberrations) with pesticide exposure. Given that the nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathway repairs a broad range of DNA damage, we evaluated interactions between pesticide exposure and 324 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) tagging 27 NER genes among 776 prostate cancer cases and 1444 male controls in a nested case-control study of white Agricultural Health Study pesticide applicators. We determined interaction P values using likelihood ratio tests from logistic regression models and three-level pesticide variables (none/low/high) based on lifetime days of use weighted to an intensity score. We adjusted for multiple comparisons using the false discovery rate (FDR) method. Of the 17 interactions that met FDR <0.2, 3 displayed a monotonic increase in prostate cancer risk with increasing exposure in one genotype group and no significant association in the other group. Men carrying the variant A allele at ERCC1 rs2298881 exhibited increased prostate cancer risk with high versus no fonofos use [odds ratio (OR) 2.98; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.65-5.39; P(interact) = 3.6 × 10(-4); FDR-adjusted P = 0.11]. Men carrying the homozygous wild-type TT genotype at two correlated CDK7 SNPs, rs11744596 and rs2932778 (r(2) = 1.0), exhibited increased risk with high versus no carbofuran use (OR 2.01; 95% CI 1.31-3.10 for rs11744596; P(interact) = 7.2 × 10(-4); FDR-adjusted P = 0.09). In contrast, we did not observe associations among men with other genotypes at these loci. While requiring replication, our findings suggest a role for NER genetic variation in pesticide-associated prostate cancer risk.
There is a case of a couple who intentionally killed their children with methomyl insecticide. This was presented as our initial investigation of plasma cholinesterase (ChE) activity in Thai children. A hundred and five healthy Thai children 5-6 years of age, participated in the project. Their plasma was drawn to measure ChE activity. Mean +/- standard deviation of the children ChE was 7,417 +/- 1,620 U/L. The enzyme activity of the children was not significantly different between gender and parents' occupations. However, the mean of female ChE activity appeared to be lower than male ChE. Children whose parents were farmers appeared to have lower ChE activity than those whose parents were employees, merchants, government officers, unemployed parents, or private business owners. Two victims of child homicide were presented with ChE activity approximately 6 and 9 per cent of the average, considering healthy children. It was concluded that children's plasma ChE activity lower than 10 per cent of normal, could be a lethal indicator of anti-ChE insecticide poisoning.
A case of genuine stress incontinence due to prazosin, a common antihypertensive drug, is presented. Prazosin exerts its antihypertensive effects through vasodilatation caused by selective blockade of postsynaptic alpha-1 adrenergic receptors. As an alpha-blocker, it also exerts a significant relaxant effect on the bladder neck and urethra. The patient's clinical course is described and correlated with initial urodynamic studies while on prazosin and subsequent studies while taking verapamil. Her incontinence resolved with the change of medication. The restoration of continence was accompanied by a substantial rise in maximum urethral pressure, maximum urethral closure pressure, and functional urethral length. Patients who present with stress incontinence while taking prazosin should change their antihypertensive medication before considering surgery, because their incontinence may resolve spontaneously with a change in drug therapy.
Nimodipine is being used with increasing frequency in the prevention or treatment of vasospasm due to subarachnoid hemorrhage. Few side effects have been described. An acute pseudo-obstruction of the colon (Ogilvie's syndrome) in a patient treated with an intravenous infusion of nimodipine is reported. The possible relationship between this serious complication and the use of this drug is discussed.
The physico-chemical properties of some 5-nitro-2-furaldehyde semicarbazones (nitrofurazones) and thiophene analogues were compared with their in vitro and in vivo trypanocidal activity against Trypanosoma cruzi (Tulahuen strain). 3D-QSAR models were obtained by applying the SIMCA methodology to the electrostatic and steric fields (CoMFA fields) of the molecules. Nitrofurazones bearing N4 substituents. which cover a range of 14-17 A from the nitro group with a thickness of about 6 A when considering the extended conformer. produced complete survival in infected mice. The in vitro model allows larger N4 substituents than the SURVival model, but they must not bear positive centres in the region 15-16 A from the nitro group. Moreover, the in vitro model is in agreement with the active site of trypanothione reductase (TR). Both models can be of use in the design of novel drugs bearing an amide-like group at a distance of 7-9 A from an easily reducible group.
The muscle relaxant vecuronium is sometimes administered to facilitate mechanical ventilation. Neuromuscular paralysis lasting up to seven days may occur after the termination of long-term administration (i.e., more than two days) of vecuronium in critically ill patients. We investigated the role of clinical factors and plasma concentrations of vecuronium and its metabolite in causing this prolonged neuromuscular blockade.
We studied 16 critically ill adult patients (8 women and 8 men) who had received vecuronium to facilitate mechanical ventilation for at least two consecutive days. Clinical factors and plasma concentrations of vecuronium and 3-desacetylvecuronium, the active metabolite of vecuronium, were compared in patients with and without prolonged neuromuscular blockade. In addition, we performed detailed pharmacokinetic studies in the patients without prolonged neuromuscular blockade.
Seven of the 16 patients had prolonged neuromuscular blockade, lasting from six hours to more than seven days, after the termination of vecuronium therapy. These seven patients, six of whom were women, had higher plasma magnesium concentrations and lower arterial blood pH values than the nine patients without prolonged neuromuscular blockade. They also had higher plasma concentrations of 3-desacetylvecuronium and a higher frequency of renal failure (seven of seven patients vs. four of nine patients, P less than 0.03). In the patients without prolonged neuromuscular blockade, the mean (+/- SD) plasma clearance, elimination half-life, and volume of distribution of vecuronium were 2.5 +/- 1.0 ml per kilogram of body weight per minute, 299 +/- 154 minutes, and 1.1 +/- 0.6 liters per kilogram, respectively.
Prolonged neuromuscular blockade after the termination of long-term treatment with vecuronium is associated with metabolic acidosis, elevated plasma magnesium concentrations, female sex, and probably more important, the presence of renal failure and high plasma concentrations of 3-desacetylvecuronium.
