A description is given of four patients with active chronic hepatitis, all of whom were treated with prednisolone and cyclophosphamide. In all the patients diagnosis was established by the finding of a clinical picture of hepatic dysfunction associated with abnormal results of biochemical tests of liver function, evidence of disturbed immunity mechanisms and liver biopsy. After treatment all four patients made a clinical recovery. Three eventually had normal serum tests for liver function, normal bromsulphthalein excretion tests and normal histology in their needle liver biopsies. The fourth patient has shown considerable improvement in her serum tests of liver function, but she has been treated for a much shorter period than the others. Her test results are still improving. It is concluded that the combination of prednisolone and cyclophosphamide therapy is a satisfactory one for active chronic hepatitis, and probably superior to other therapeutic measures based upon the suppression of autoimmune mechanisms.
Diabetic neuropathic pain is associated with increased glutamatergic input in the spinal dorsal horn. Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are involved in the control of neuronal excitability, but their role in the regulation of synaptic transmission in diabetic neuropathy remains poorly understood. Here we studied the role of spinal mGluR5 and mGluR1 in controlling glutamatergic input in a rat model of painful diabetic neuropathy induced by streptozotocin. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of lamina II neurons were performed in spinal cord slices. The amplitude of excitatory post-synaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked from the dorsal root and the frequency of spontaneous EPSCs (sEPSCs) were significantly higher in diabetic than in control rats. The mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) inhibited evoked EPSCs and sEPSCs more in diabetic than in control rats. Also, the percentage of neurons in which sEPSCs and evoked EPSCs were affected by MPEP or the group I mGluR agonist was significantly higher in diabetic than in control rats. However, blocking mGluR1 had no significant effect on evoked EPSCs and sEPSCs in either groups. The mGluR5 protein level in the dorsal root ganglion, but not in the dorsal spinal cord, was significantly increased in diabetic rats compared with that in control rats. Furthermore, intrathecal administration of MPEP significantly increased the nociceptive pressure threshold only in diabetic rats. These findings suggest that increased mGluR5 expression on primary afferent neurons contributes to increased glutamatergic input to spinal dorsal horn neurons and nociceptive transmission in diabetic neuropathic pain.
41 women under 30 years of age took part in a prospective, double-blind study to determine whether indomethacin is effective in treating dysmenorrhea. Indomethacin capsules (35 mg x 3/day) or suppositories (100 mg) or placebos were administered for 2 consecutive days in 2 consecutive menstrual cycles, after which the other type of preparation (indomethacin or placebo) was used. 13 said that indomethacin and placebo use were equally effective in relieving dysmenorrhea. 28 preferred indomethicin (P .00025). Days of sick leave and days of bed rest (P .0005), use of thermotherapy (P .0025), and duration of uterine cramping and use of supplemental medicine (P .00025) were all significantly reduced among indomethicin users. Gastrointestinal symptoms were significantly more frequent among indomethicin users (P .05).
To prevent hemorrhagic cystitis induced by ifosfamide, continuous bladder irrigation with 3,000 ml. of saline per day was performed in 8 patients. Ifosfamide was given by an intravenous infusion one to two hours at a dose of either 1,600 to 1,950 mg./m2 daily for three days, or 1,430 to 1,480 mg./m2 daily for five days. Gross hematuria was induced in none and microscopic hematuria in one during 24 courses of treatment. There was no complication associated with catheter placement, other than urethral discomfort in 1 patient. Thus this appears to be a useful and effective method.
The pharmacokinetics, cerebrovascular permeability, and tissue distribution of the neurotoxic plasticizer N-butylbenzenesulfonamide (NBBS) were determined in rats. A stable isotope-labeled form ([(13)C(6)]NBBS) was used to circumvent ubiquitous contamination that was evident whenever the native form was measured. Plasticizer decline in plasma, following an iv dose of 1 mg/kg, was described by a triexponential decay function. NBBS was cleared from plasma at a rate of 25 ml/min/kg, and 24 h after administration, plasma concentrations represented 0.04% of the administered dose. These data suggest rapid elimination and uptake into tissue; however, NBBS was not accumulated by any of the tissues studied (i.e., liver, kidney, muscle, adipose tissue, and brain). Given the critical interest in NBBS neurotoxicity, the brain uptake of [(13)C(6)]NBBS was further explored in experiments using the in situ brain perfusion technique. During perfusion with protein-free saline for 15-30 s, the single-pass brain extraction for free [(13)C(6)]NBBS was very high (73-100%) with a unidirectional blood-brain barrier transfer constant (K(in)) of > 0.08 ml/s/g. No significant differences were found in [(13)C(6)]NBBS content among the measured brain regions. Plasma protein binding (70%) only slightly lowered the single-pass brain extraction to 48%. In summary, the results demonstrate that NBBS distributes rapidly to tissues, including brain. Though highly lipophilic with a Log octanol/water partition coefficient of 2.17 +/- 0.09, brain:blood ratios (2:1) for NBBS were consistent throughout the experimental duration, with little indication of accumulation.
We evaluated the factors related to indomethacin responsiveness of the patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and subsequent renal and electrolyte abnormalities in a large number of low birth weight infants.
The ductus was evaluated by Doppler echocardiogram or clinical signs after the last administration of indomethacin for 2538 low birth weight infants, through the use of postmarketing surveillance data.
Multivariate logistic regression analyses demonstrated that clinical closure of PDA was significantly associated with pregnancy-induced hypertension and respiratory distress syndrome. In contrast, a 1-point increase of cardiovascular dysfunction score or a 1-day increase in postnatal age at the first indomethacin treatment decreased the responsiveness of the ductus to indomethacin. Clinical ductal reopening was significantly less likely to occur for each week of increased gestational age. Ductal reopening was more likely for each day of postnatal life at the first administration of indomethacin. Infants with preexisting renal and electrolyte abnormalities and infants whose mothers had received indomethacin tocolysis or who had chorioamnionitis were at increased risk of development of renal impairment.
Both antenatal and postnatal factors predict good or poor response to indomethacin therapy for PDA.
Hemorrhagic cystitis is a major potential toxicity of ifosfamide that can be prevented by administering mesna along with the cytotoxic agent. Mesna is generally administered by the intravenous route, although experience with oral delivery of the drug has increased. The continuous subcutaneous administration of mesna has the advantage of not requiring intravenous access. In addition, subcutaneous delivery of the neutralizing agent will not be associated with the risk of inadequate urinary mesna concentrations, such as in a patient taking oral mesna who experiences severe ifosfamide-induced emesis and is unable to absorb the drug. Limited clinical experience with continuous subcutaneous mesna administration suggests it is a safe, practical, and economic method of drug delivery that permits ifosfamide to be administered successfully in the outpatient setting.
Several notifications of eye pain and blurred vision associated with treatment with nifedipine were received by New Zealand's Intensive Medicines Monitoring Programme. A questionnaire survey of patients taking nifedipine was undertaken to test the importance of these associations, with disturbance of taste associated with captopril taken as a methodological control. Altogether 961 patients taking nifedipine and 368 taking captopril were sent a questionnaire that asked whether any eye problems and changes in the sense of taste had occurred while they were taking the drug and whether these had resolved after treatment was stopped. Compliance was high: of 922 and 343 questionnaires that were assumed to have been delivered to patients taking nifedipine and captopril, respectively, 770 (84%) and 295 (86%) were returned satisfactorily completed. The distribution of sex was comparable in the two groups; patients taking captopril were slightly younger. Eye symptoms were reported in both groups, but eye pain was significantly more common in patients taking nifedipine (107 (14%) compared with 26 (9%) patients taking captopril). This is a new finding and may be related to ocular vasodilatation. Theoretically, glaucoma is a possible adverse reaction. Loss of taste was significantly associated with captopril, but no other disturbances of taste showed significant associations. Loss of taste persisted in 27 out of 35 patients who continued to take captopril and in three out of eight patients when the drug was withdrawn. This study showed a method of assessing early signs of adverse drug reactions, which has been used once before and identified previously unrecognised reactions.
To elucidate the natural course of the nephropathy associated with penicillamine and thereby facilitate its clinical management 33 patients with rheumatoid arthritis who developed proteinuria during treatment with oral penicillamine were studied in detail throughout their renal illness. Renal biopsies were performed, and creatinine clearance and proteinuria were measured serially for 74 months (range 16-148 months). Fourteen patients developed proteinuria within six months after the start of treatment and 27 within 12 months. When treatment was stopped the proteinuria reached a median peak of 4.2 g/24 h (range 0.3-15.0 g/24 h) at one month (range 0-7 months) before resolving spontaneously by six months (12 patients), 12 months (21), or 18 months (29). In all patients but one, who developed carcinoma of the renal pelvis, proteinuria resolved by 21 months and its median duration was eight months. The median first and last measurements of creatinine clearance showed no appreciable change (80 ml/min and 78 ml/min), and no patient died from or needed treatment for renal failure. The HLA-B8 or HLA-DR3 alloantigen, or both, were identified in 10 patients. Renal biopsy specimens showed membranous glomerulonephritis in 29 patients, minimal change nephropathy in two, and electron dense deposits in the mesangial regions in two. In all the patients whose nephropathy was due solely to treatment with penicillamine the proteinuria resolved completely when the drug was withdrawn; renal function did not deteriorate, and corticosteroids were unnecessary.
The effects of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) were assessed in 24 patients with coronary artery disease. Quantitative coronary angiography was performed in 15 patients. PGE1 was found to produce dilation of coronary stenoses (6 +/- 12% to intravenous PGE1, difference not significant, 19 +/- 22% to intracoronary PGE1, p less than 0.05), but usually no change in the diameter of angiographically normal segments. In these patients intracoronary nitroglycerin consistently dilated the normal segments not altered with PGE1 and often led to further dilation of the stenoses. In 9 other patients who were undergoing coronary angioplasty, hemodynamics and the time to ischemia induced by coronary occlusion were measured. In both patient groups PGE1 led to decreases in aortic, pulmonary artery and pulmonary arterial wedge pressures and an increase in heart rate (all p less than 0.05). Before coronary occlusion PGE1 produced coronary vasodilation manifested by preservation in coronary sinus flow (130 +/- 41 to 126 +/- 42 ml/min, difference not significant); as aortic pressure declined coronary resistance decreased (0.9 +/- 0.3 to 0.8 +/- 0.3 mm Hg/ml/min, p less than 0.05). During coronary occlusion residual flow to the affected region was usually similar to control occlusions (37 +/- 20 to 36 +/- 25 ml/min, difference not significant) and collateral resistance was decreased (3.2 +/- 2.9 to 2.9 +/- 2.6 mm Hg/ml/min, p less than 0.05). However, time to ischemia usually remained unchanged. PGE1 shows an interesting angiographic and hemodynamic profile in patients with coronary artery disease. Although no obvious clinical benefit was seen, PGE1 was safely administered both intravenously and directly into narrowed coronary arteries.
The fear-potentiated startle paradigm (i.e., the enhancement of the startle response in the presence of an aversive conditioned stimulus) is a valuable cross-species model for the study of the neuronal mechanisms underlying fear and anxiety as well as of the cognitive control of those aversive states. Walker et al. present data from a study in rats indicating that extinction of fear in the fear-potentiated startle paradigm is enhanced by the partial agonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor D-cycloserine (DCS). The authors therefore suggest tests of DCS in clinical trials as a potential pharmacotherapeutic adjuvant for exposition therapies in fear and anxiety disorders.
In humans, repeated use of methamphetamine produces hypersensitivity to the psychotogenic effects of methamphetamine that persists for months to years after the discontinuation of methamphetamine administration. Methamphetamine-induced psychosis has been thought to be a useful experimental model for schizophrenia. A possible involvement of the glutamate system in the hypersensitivity including behavioral sensitization or reverse tolerance is recognized in an animal model for methamphetamine psychosis. We investigated the effects of antagonists of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor on methamphetamine-induced decrease in dopamine (DA) uptake sites in the rat striatum and on the behavioral sensitization. Repeated administrations of escalating doses of methamphetamine (2.5, 5, 7.5, 10mg/kg s. c. x 2, every other day for a week) decreased DA uptake sites to about 75% of the control in the striatum assayed by binding with [3H]GBR 12935. Co-administration of MK-801, a non-competitive antagonist of NMDA receptor, and methamphetamine significantly prevented the methamphetamine-induced decrease in striatal [3H]GBR 12935 binding in a dose dependent manner. Administration of MK-801 alone did not affect the [3H]GBR 12935 binding. Furthermore, co-administration of SDZ EAA494, a competitive antagonist of NMDA receptor, and methamphetamine also prevented the methamphetamine-induced decrease in the striatal [3H]GBR 12935 binding in a dose dependent manner. In methamphetamine-pretreated rats, the methamphetamine challenge (2.5mg/kg) after a 7-day-drug-free period produced an initial elevation in locomotion lasting for 10-30 min which was followed by a precipitous drop in the locomotion activity to very low levels for approximately 50-70 min. During the period of reduced locomotor activity, methamphetamine-pretreated rats showed intense focused stereotyped behavior. In contrast, animals treated with both MK-801 and methamphetamine showed neither the progressive enhancement of the locomotor activity nor the stereotyped behavior induced by the drug. Pretreatment with MK-801 blocked the development of the methamphetamine-induced behavioral sensitization. These results suggest an involvement of excitatory amino acids in neurochemical effects of methamphetamine on the dopamine system in the striatum.
In anesthetized dogs, loprinone hydrochloride (LP, 10 approximately 100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) dose-relatedly increased cardiac contractility (LV dP/dt max), enhanced cardiac index and decreased systemic vascular resistance with relatively small reduction in mean aortic pressure (MAP) and a mild increase in heart rate (HR). LP also decreased left ventricular internal diameter (ID), increased fractional shortening (LVFS) and caused a leftward shift and an increase in the slope of the LV end-systolic pressure-ID relation. In the heart failure models induced by propranolol, LP rapidly reversed the cardiac depression and the enlargement in cardiac size. The extent of changes in MAP and HR by LP was smaller than those observed with several other cardiotonic agents. In guinea pig cardiac muscles, LP (10(-6)-10(-4) M) produced a concentration-related increase in contractile force and the maximum rate of rise of Ca(2+)-action potential. In the sinus nodes, LP induced a concentration-related decrease in action potential duration and increase in the slope of slow diastolic depolarization, resulting in an increase in beating rate. These influences of LP on sinus nodes were smaller than those of milrinone. These results indicate that LP increases LVFS, reduces cardiac size and improves the heart failure due to its cardiotonic and vasodilating properties. Moreover, electrophysiological studies suggest that at least a part of the lower chronotropic effects of LP may be due to the mildness of its direct stimulating effects on sinus nodes.
The combination of intravenous flucytosine (FC) in 0.9% saline (NaCl) and amphotericin B (AmB) provides synergistic antifungal activity and is associated with a lower incidence of nephrotoxicity than with AmB treatment alone. This study was conducted to examine whether flucytosine can influence renal function and whether it can modify the acute and chronic renal responses to AmB in the rat. In the in situ perfused rat kidney, FC at a concentration of 10 mg/kg/min for 15 min had a vasodilator effect, increasing renal blood flow by 2.5 +/- 0.7 ml/min, an effect not observed with vehicle. After the infusion of FC was stopped for 15 min, AmB induced a decrease in renal blood flow similar to that with both FC and vehicle. In a second series of studies, AmB (5 mg/kg/day intraperitoneally) was administered to four groups of rats for 7 days. In addition, the following groups received the intravenous daily interventions indicated: group 1, 5% dextrose in water (15 ml/kg/12 h); group 2, FC (150 mg/kg/12 h) in 0.9% saline (15 ml/kg/12 h); group 3, 0.9% saline (15 ml/kg/12 h); and group 4, FC (150 mg/kg/12 h) in 5% dextrose in water. Group 1 sustained a 77% decrease in creatinine clearance over the 7 days and a threefold increase in serum creatinine concentration (P of < 0.05). Groups 2, 3, and 4 sustained significantly less nephrotoxicity, with no change in serum creatinine concentration and only 38, 41, and 53% decreases in creatinine clearance, respectively (P of < 0.05), compared with that for group 1. AmB levels in renal tissue varied inversely to creatinine clearance (r of 0.57, P of < or = 0.005). However, no significant differences were found in levels in tissue between groups (P of 0.06). The results of this study suggest that FC has a small but significant effect in reducing chronic AmB-induced nephrotoxicity. This amelioration of renal injury is independent of saline administration. There was evidence that the extent of renal uptake of AmB related to the efficiency of renal function at the end of the experiment.
This study was designed to evaluate the utility of myocardial performance index (MPI) in anthracycline cardiotoxicity. The MPI measures the ratio of total time spent in isovolumic activity (isovolumetric contraction time and isovolumetric relaxation time) to the ejection time, thus giving a global index combining systolic and diastolic myocardial performance. In this study, MPI was measured in 35 doxorubicin-treated children (aged 108.5+/-55.31 months, 23 males and 12 females) in sinus rhythm and 32 age-matched controls, and it was compared with conventional Doppler echocardiographic parameters. The isovolumetric contraction time was prolonged (38.37+/-24.43 vs 26.37+/-15.53, p <0.02) and ejection time was shortened (231.91 +/- 28.87 vs 256.21+/-19.55, p<0.001) in doxorubicin-treated patients compared to that in normal children. The isovolumetric relaxation time did not show significant difference between patients and control group (60.11+/-10.92 vs 61.06+/-12.12, p>0.05). MPI was significantly increased in doxorubicin-treated patients compared with that in control groups (0.42+/-0.07 vs 0.34+/-0.06, p<0.001), and significant correlation was observed between MPI and fractional shortening, ejection fraction, and left ventricular end diastolic and end systolic diameters (respectively, r = -0.508, p <0.002; r = -0.532, p<0.001; r = 0.467 p<0.005; r=0.606, p<0.001). Also, a weak correlation was found between MPI and duration of the disease and patient ages (r = 0.393, p < 0.02; r = 0.379; p < 0.02). However, there was no correlation between MPI and cumulative doxorubicin dose (r = 0.311, p > 0.05) and diastolic Doppler parameters in doxorubicin-treated patients. We think that MPI may be a useful parameter in monitoring left ventricular dysfunction in anthracyline-treated patients.
Metoclopramide is a widely used product, which can accidentally cause acute dyskinesia, of which several forms may be observed, including dysarthria, tetany, spasmophilia, false cerebral vascular insult, trismus, hysteriform spell.... In all those cases, one should think of giving an antiemetic and of properly orienting history-taking, thus avoiding a longer stay in hospital that would not be justified. This is demonstrated by two patients recently admitted into the department of maxillofacial surgery and stomatology with maxillofacial signs related with the adverse effects of this kind of drug.
We examined the effect of inflammation on immunoreactivity of growth-associated protein (GAP-43) in the rat urinary bladder in which acute cystitis was induced with cyclophosphamide (CPA). Following CPA injection, the number of GAP-43 labeled nerves was significantly increased in the muscle layer. Immunoreactivity of PGP9.5, which was used as an axonal marker, was not augmented following CPA injection. Double fluorescence immunohistochemistry revealed that substance P immunoreactivity was present in most GAP-43 immunoreactive fibers (90.2%) in the inflamed bladder. Electron microscopic examination showed that GAP-43 immunoreactivity was localized on axons. Some GAP-43 positive axons showed degeneration. Possible significance of the increase of GAP-43 immunoreactive afferent nerve fibers in the muscle layer of acutely inflamed bladder was discussed.
Carbamazepine is used to manage generalized tonic-clonic, partial, and mixed partial and generalized seizure disorders in children. It is frequently associated with neurologic adverse events, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and hematologic side effects. Hepatic and renal adverse effects are less common but can cause death. A 6-year-old boy receiving carbamazepine for partial seizure disorder developed hepatorenal failure. With discontinuation of the drug, his liver and kidney function returned to normal within 2 weeks.
A randomized study of 59 patients with recurrent squamous carcinoma of the cervix originally treated with radiotherapy is reported. Patients were randomized on recurrence to either Hexamethylmelamine, Adriamycin, or Cytoxan as first agent. When analysis was restricted to 37 patients with easily evaluable disease, Cytoxan had a significantly greater response rate (23.1%, 3/13) than Hexamethylmelamine (0%, 0/14) (p = 0.098). The response rate of Adriamycin was 20% (2/10). There was no evidence of a significant effect of first agent on survival time taken from the start of chemotherapy. The number of months from diagnosis to the start of chemotherapy (p = 0.04) and the patients' response status (p = 0.002) did however have significant effects on survival time. There was no evidence of a significant effect of first agent on survival time after treatment change but response to first agent did have a significant effect on survival (p = 0.05). Hexamethylmelamine had a greater frequency of severe toxicity (50%, 10/20) than Adriamycin (10.5%, 2/19) (p = 0.014) and Cytoxan (10%, 2/10) (p = 0.014).
Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is among the most frequent side effects described with nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). We investigated the incidence, evolution and predictive factors of PN during stavudine (d4T)-didanosine (ddI) combination therapy in 65 HIV infected patients, previously treated with zidovudine and/or zalcitabine (ddC) for at least 3 months. A subset of 16 patients was referred for systematic electromyographic examination at weeks 0 and 24: six among the 16 exhibited nerve conduction abnormalities at day 0, probably related to previous ddC treatment in four of those and to HIV infection in the other two, with worsening of abnormalities in one patient at week 24. In total, seven of the 59 assessable patients (11.8%) exhibited grade 2-3 neuropathy, with a median time of occurrence of 17 weeks. Distal, symmetrical paraesthesias of the extremities were the first symptoms in all the patients; none had motor symptoms. In all the patients, PN resolved rapidly after stopping d4T. There were no statistically different parameters between the seven cases and the other 52 patients according to CD4 T cells, HIV RNA, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) stage C or d4T daily dose. In our study, the d4T-ddI combination did not seem to increase the incidence of PN; risk factors for PN could not be identified, probably in part because of the low number of patients with PN.
Several studies have indicated the involvement of oxidative stress in the development of diabetic neuropathy. In the present study, we have targeted oxidative stress mediated nerve damage in diabetic neuropathy using N-acetyl-l-cysteine (NAC), a potent antioxidant. After 8 weeks, streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats developed neuropathy which was evident from decreased tail-flick latency (thermal hyperalgesia). This was accompanied by decreased motor coordination as assessed by performance on rota-rod treadmill. Na(+) K(+) ATPase, a biochemical marker of development of diabetic neuropathy, was significantly inhibited in sciatic nerve of diabetic animals. NAC treatment at a daily dose between 1.4 and 1.5 g/kg body weight to diabetic animals for 7 weeks in drinking water ameliorated hyperalgesia, improved motor coordination and reversed reduction in Na(+) K(+) ATPase activity. There was an increase in lipid peroxidation in sciatic nerve of diabetic animals along with decrease in phospholipid levels, while NAC treatment attenuated lipid peroxidation and restored phospholipids to control levels. This was associated with decrease in glutathione and protein thiols. The activities of antioxidant enzymes; superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione reductase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione-S-transferase were reduced in sciatic nerve of diabetic animals. Cytochrome c release and active caspase 3 were markedly increased in nerve from diabetic animals suggesting activation of apoptotic pathway. NAC treatment significantly ameliorated decrease in antioxidant defense and prevented cytochrome c release and caspase 3 activation. Electron microscopy revealed demyelination, Wallerian degeneration and onion-bulb formation in sciatic nerve of diabetic rats. NAC on the other hand was able to reverse structural deficits observed in sciatic nerve of diabetic rats. Our results clearly demonstrate protective effect of NAC is mediated through attenuation of oxidative stress and apoptosis, and suggest therapeutic potential of NAC in attenuation of diabetic neuropathy.
Both lindane (gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane), an organochlorine ectoparasiticide and pentylenetetrazol, used as a model of experimental epilepsy, produce convulsive seizures resulting from the blockade of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptor. In the present study we established the protective effects of ethosuximide and valproate against seizures induced by lindane and compared them with the well-known protective effects of these drugs against pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures in mice. Both ethosuximide and valproate afforded complete and dose-dependent protection against seizures induced by lindane. However, the potencies of these drugs were lower than those obtained against pentylenetetrazol seizures. Nevertheless, the protective efficacy of ethosuximide and valproate against experimentally induced lindane seizures may suggest possible efficacy of these drugs against seizures in lindane-poisoned patients.
Changes in the gene expressions of hepatic enzymes responsible for cholesterol homeostasis were examined during the process of lead nitrate (LN)-induced development of hypercholesterolemia in male rats. Total cholesterol levels in the liver and serum were significantly increased at 3-72 h and 12-72 h, respectively, after LN-treatment (100 micromol/kg, i.v.). Despite the development of hypercholesterolemia, the genes for hepatic 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA reductase (HMGR) and other enzymes (FPPS, farnesyl diphosphate synthase; SQS, squalene synthase; CYP51, lanosterol 14alpha-demethylase) responsible for cholesterol biosynthesis were activated at 3-24 h and 12-18 h, respectively. On the other hand, the gene expression of cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase (CYP7A1), a catabolic enzyme of cholesterol, was remarkably suppressed at 3-72 h. The gene expression levels of cytokines interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and TNF-alpha, which activate the HMGR gene and suppress the CYP7A1 gene, were significantly increased at 1-3 h and 3-24 h, respectively. Furthermore, gene activation of SREBP-2, a gene activator of several cholesterogenic enzymes, occurred before the gene activations of FPPS, SQS and CYP51. This is the first report demonstrating sterol-independent gene regulation of hepatic enzymes responsible for cholesterol homeostasis in LN-treated male rats. The mechanisms for the altered-gene expressions of hepatic enzymes in LN-treated rats are discussed.
Four patients with a chronic fatigue syndrome experienced five episodes of acute renal insufficiency associated with high-dose (500 mg/m2) intravenous acyclovir administered intravenously as one-hour infusions. Nephrotoxicity developed despite precautions to avoid volume contraction. Examination of the urinary sediment of three patients by polarizing microscopy showed birefringent needle-shaped crystals within leukocytes. In the most severely affected patient, a serum creatinine concentration of 8.6 mg/dl developed and the patient underwent percutaneous renal biopsy that revealed foci of interstitial inflammation without tubular necrosis. Urine, blood, and renal tissue levels of acyclovir were high. One patient was rechallenged with low-dose intravenous acyclovir and the four patients later received oral acyclovir, all without adverse effect. The combined data from these patients support crystalluria and obstructive nephropathy as a mechanism of acyclovir-induced renal failure in humans. This experience emphasizes the importance of maintaining adequate hydration during high-dose acyclovir therapy.
There is no study that has compared, in a randomized manner, which vasopressor is most suitable in optimizing both systemic and regional hemodynamics in cardiogenic shock patients. Hence, the present study was designed to compare epinephrine and norepinephrine-dobutamine in dopamine-resistant cardiogenic shock.
Open, randomized interventional human study.
Medical intensive care unit in a university hospital.
Thirty patients with a cardiac index of <2.2 L/min/m and a mean arterial pressure of <60 mm Hg resistant to combined dopamine-dobutamine treatment and signs of shock. Patients were not included in cases of cardiogenic shock secondary to acute ischemic events such as myocardial infarction. Noninclusion criteria also included immediate indication of mechanical assistance.
Patients were randomized to receive an infusion of either norepinephrine-dobutamine or epinephrine titrated to obtain a mean arterial pressure of between 65 and 70 mm Hg with a stable or increased cardiac index.
Both regimens increased cardiac index and oxygen-derived parameters in a similar manner. Patients in the norepinephrine-dobutamine group demonstrated heart rates lower (p<.05) than those in the epinephrine group. Epinephrine infusion was associated with new arrhythmias in three patients. When compared to baseline values, after 6 hrs, epinephrine infusion was associated with an increase in lactate level (p<.01), whereas this level decreased in the norepinephrine-dobutamine group. Tonometered PCO2 gap, a surrogate for splanchnic perfusion adequacy, increased in the epinephrine-treated group (p<.01) while decreasing in the norepinephrine group (p<.01). Diuresis increased in both groups but significantly more so in the norepinephrine-dobutamine group, whereas plasma creatinine decreased in both groups.
When considering global hemodynamic effects, epinephrine is as effective as norepinephrine-dobutamine. Nevertheless, epinephrine is associated with a transient lactic acidosis, higher heart rate and arrhythmia, and inadequate gastric mucosa perfusion. Thus, the combination norepinephrine-dobutamine appears to be a more reliable and safer strategy.
