Distinctive expression of midkine (MK) was observed during the repair period of fetal brain neuroepithelium. MK is a heparin-binding growth factor that occurs as a product of a retinoic acid-inducible gene, and has a molecular mass of 13 kDa. MK expression was examined immunohistochemically and by immunoelectron microscopy during a period of repair in developing rat brain at the neurogenesis stage. Injury was induced in rat fetuses by transplacental administration of ethylnitrosourea (ENU) on embryonic Day (E) 16, and histological changes were examined up to 48 hr thereafter (i.e., up to E 18). In normal rat fetuses, MK immunostaining was observed in the cytoplasm and radial and horizontal processes of all cells in the neuroepithelium (NE), subventricular zone (SV), and intermediate zone (IMZ). In ENU-administered brains, cells in the NE, SV, and IMZ were damaged severely, especially 16-24 hr after ENU administration. The remaining neuroepithelial cells, with the exception of those in M-phase and the tips of processes at the ventricular surface, were negative for MK immunohistochemistry 16-24 hr after the administration of ENU. Forty-eight hours after the administration, the cytoplasm and processes of cells in the NE, SV, and IMZ were MK immunopositive. Our previous data reported that the cell cycle of most NE cells is synchronized to the S-phase 16 hr after ENU administration and to the M-phase at 24 hr, and many NE cells were recovered 48 hr after ENU administration. The previous results taken together with the present results indicate that: (1) MK expression does not increase during the repair period of the NE, being different from adults; (2) MK expression is likely to be suppressed at S-phase according to the condition of the NE; and (3) MK expression is not essential for every cell cycle phase of NE cells; but (4) is necessary to maintain the M-phase of NE cells.
Paraplegia remains a potential complication of spinal cord ischemic reperfusion injury (IRI) in which oxidative stress induced cyclooxygenase activities may contribute to ischemic neuronal damage. Prolonged administration of vitamin E (alpha-TOL), as a potent biological antioxidant, may have a protective role in this oxidative inflammatory ischemic cascade to reduce the incidence of paraplegia. The present study was designed to evaluate the preventive value of alpha-TOL in IRI of spinal cord.
For this study, 50 male Sprague-Dawley rats were used and divided into five experimental groups (n = 10): Control group (C); alpha-TOL control group (CE) which received intramuscular (i.m.) alpha-TOL injections (600 mg/kg); Sham operated group (S), IRI rats were subjected to laparotomy and clamping of the aorta just above the bifurcation for 45 min, then the clamp was released for 48 hrs for reperfusion; and IRIE rats group, received 600 mg/kg of alpha-TOL i.m. twice weekly for 6 weeks, followed by induction of IRI similar to the IRI group. At the end of the experimental protocol; motor, sensory and placing/stepping reflex evaluation was done. Plasma nitrite/nitrate (NOx) was measured. Then animals' spinal cord lumbar segments were harvested and homogenized for measurement of the levels of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), malondialdehyde (MDA) and advanced oxidation products (AOPP), while superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activity were evaluated.
Induction of IRI in rats resulted in significant increases in plasma levels of nitrite/nitrate (p < 0.001) and spinal cord homogenate levels of PGE2, MDA, advanced oxidation protein products AOPP and SOD with significant reduction (p < 0.001) in CAT homogenate levels. Significant impairment of motor, sensory functions and placing/stepping reflex was observed with IRI induction in the spinal cord (p < 0.001). alpha-TOL administration in IRIE group significantly improved all the previously measured parameters compared with IRI group.
alpha-TOL administration significantly prevents the damage caused by spinal cord IRI in rats with subsequent recovery of both motor and sensory functions. Alpha-tocopherol improves the oxidative stress level with subsequent reduction of the incidence of neurological deficits due to spinal cord IRI conditions.
Akathisia is a clinical important symptom, frequently induced by neuroleptic treatment. Despite its clinical importance, less is known about its pathophysiology.
Using [18]-FDG-PET, imaging patterns of cortical metabolic activity were obtained in a patient during olanzapine-induced akathisia and after recovery.
Akathisia was characterized by a reduced metabolic activity in thalamus and cerebellum. After discontinuing medication akathisia disappeared, reflected by a recovery of metabolic activity in these brain areas.
[18]-FDG-PET may be useful to identify cortical regions mediating clinical aspects of drug-induced akathisia, thereby offering a deeper insight into the pathophysiology of this serious side effect.
The role of dopamine in the modulation of speech fluency is complex. In this report we describe two patients with Parkinson's disease whose speech dysfluency was exacerbated by the administration of levodopa. In doing so, we extend the observation that dopaminergic mechanisms may be involved in the regulation of speech fluency. It is important for clinicians to recognize that, in some instances, dopaminergic replacement therapy may exacerbate an underlying dysfluency syndrome in PD.
To investigate the cause of chest pain during the use of bupropion as an aid to stop smoking.
The Netherlands Pharmacovigilance Centre received 22 reports of chest pain, associated with the use of bupropion as an aid to smoking cessation. Additional information about long-term follow up was collected to analyze whether these complaints herald manifest cardiac disease.
All but one patient recovered after withdrawal of bupropion. Seven patients were additionally investigated and in six of them, a cardiac cause could be excluded. During long-term follow-up, no coronary heart diseases were diagnosed.
These reports indicate that chest pain seems to be associated with the use of bupropion, but its origin remains unclear.
To describe a patient with enoxaparin-induced dermal necrosis and to review previously reported cases of skin manifestations associated with low-molecular-weight heparins.
A 43-year-old white woman with adult respiratory distress syndrome developed localized dermal necrosis and thrombocytopenia secondary to subcutaneous administration of unfractionated heparin. Upper extremity thrombi that had developed after administration of subcutaneous heparin at an outside hospital were treated with subcutaneous enoxaparin. Although platelet counts remained stable during enoxaparin therapy, dermal necrosis developed at the injection site. Parenteral anticoagulant therapy was discontinued and the necrotic lesions secondary to enoxaparin resolved with minimal local care.
Numerous cases of dermal necrosis secondary to heparin administration have been reported while this reaction secondary to enoxaparin use has been reported only briefly. It has been postulated that dermal necrosis secondary to heparin is associated with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and is a result of heparin-mediated thrombosis in the microvasculature. Antibodies to heparin have cross-reactivity with enoxaparin; therefore, dermal necrosis secondary to enoxaparin may occur by a similar mechanism.
Although enoxaparin-associated dermal necrosis appears to be a rare occurrence, we advise against the use of enoxaparin or other low-molecular-weight heparins in patients with a previous history of heparin-associated thrombocytopenia or heparin-induced dermal necrosis.
An overall study, accompanied by some statistics, is presented of delayed bone marrow injuries caused by drugs, such as chloramphenicol, phenylbutazone, oxyphenbutazone, gold salts, sulphamides and diphenylhydantoin. Unanimous agreement as to the aetiological interpretation of isolated cases, the seriousness of marrow damage, and the results obtained by treatment can be observed in various countries. The available epidemiological data are incomplete, though they point to a parallel between the appearance of panmyelopathy after chloramphenicol and the consumption of this drug. First noted in the U.S., this relationship later became apparent in several European countries and eventually in West Germany. Frequencies range from 1 per 6,000 to 1 per 36,000 subjects treated in California, Hamburg and Sweden.
1. 170 150 (imidazolinyl-2)-2-benzodioxane 1-4), as does piperoxan, competitively antagonizes the hypertension induced by clonidine in the pithed rat. Piperoxan appears slightly less potent than 170 150 in this preparation as shown by the comparison of the apparent pA10 values: 5.3 for piperoxan versus 5.4 for 170 150. 2. The two drugs antagonize the reduction of the electrically-induced tachycardia produced by clonidine. 170 150 appears to be 3-fold more potent than piperoxan in this preparation. 3. These results are compatible with a blockade of alpha 2-pre and postsynaptic adrenoceptors of the rat by piperoxan and 170 150 appears to be 3-fold more potent than piperoxan in this preparation. 3. These results are compatible with a blockade of alpha 2-pre and postsynaptic adrenoceptors of the rat by piperoxan and 170 150 and they are in agreement with our previous results which indicate that compound 170 150 shows a preferential affinity for alpha 2-adrenoceptors.
Alkylating agents, topoisomerase II inhibitors, ionizing radiation, and other hematotoxins induce DNA damage in hematopoietic stem cells that results in lesions such as balanced and unbalanced chromosome rearrangements, -5/del(5q) and/or -7/del(7q), as well as other submicroscopic genetic lesions. Together with epigenetic alterations, these result in dysplasia, clonal expansion, and ultimately myeloid leukemia. Combinations of lesions are required to induce overt leukemia. Altering a small subset of signaling pathways leads to disruption of normal self-renewal, proliferation, differentiation, and apoptotic mechanisms that control the development of hematopoietic stem cells and their differentiation into mature effector cells. Recent studies have shown that cytogenetically normal (CN-) AML is quite heterogeneous at the molecular level. Patients with CN-AML harboring mutations in NPM1, FLT3, CEBPA, WT1 or expressing high levels of BAALC, ERG, or MN1 have distinctly different clinical outcomes. NPM1 mutations are independently associated with higher remission rates and longer disease-free and overall survival in AML. Copy number alterations (CNAs) are deletions or amplifications of single genes. CNAs have been found at the breakpoints of known chromosomal translocations. Fewer CNAs have been detected in AML than in pediatric ALL. Micro-RNAs (miRs) are non-coding small RNA molecules containing about 22 nucleotides that are typically encoded within introns. They hybridize to complementary mRNA targets and modulate protein expression by inhibiting translation and/or inducing degradation of target messenger RNAs. This new class of genes has recently been shown to play a pivotal role in malignant transformation. miRs are down-regulated in many tumors and thus appear to function as tumor suppressor genes. Distinctive genome-wide miR expression profiles have been associated with different subsets of AML. A miR signature that is associated with clinical outcome in patients with high-risk molecular features of AML (those who have FLT3-ITD or wild-type NPM1) has been reported. This subgroup constitutes approximately 65% of patients with CN-AML and one-third of all patients with AML <60 years old. Down-regulation of the miR-181 family contributes to an aggressive leukemia phenotype through mechanisms associated with the activation of pathways of innate immunity mediated by toll-like receptors and interleukin-1beta.
In conscious dogs the heart rate after atropine is higher than after bilateral vagotomy; we have termed the additional heart rate with atropine "excess tachycardia" (ET). In six dogs the cervical vagosympathetic trunks were exteriorized in skin tubes, and arterial and venous catheters were chronically implanted. Atropine sulfate (0.1 mg/kg iv) injected during cold blockade of the vagi increased the heart rate by only 6 +/- 4 (SE) beats/min (NS) but rewarming the vagi in five of the six dogs after atropine resulted in an additional heart rate increase (ET) of 26 +/- 6 beats/min (P less than 0.005). The ET (41 +/- 11 beats/min) tended to be larger when the animals were pretreated with 1 mg/kg propranolol (P = 0.09). Similar results were obtained when atropine methylbromide, a charged derivative of atropine sulfate, or glycopyrrolate, a synthetic antimuscarinic agent, was substituted for atropine sulfate (ET: 51 +/- 6 and 51 +/- 16 beats/min, respectively). Raising the arterial blood pressure with phenylephrine increased the heart rate further; lowering the blood pressure with sodium nitroprusside attenuated or abolished the ET. Our results show that ET is produced by antimuscarinic agents in general and is not mediated by the beta-adrenergic system. Furthermore, ET is present only when the cervical vagi are intact, probably because ET is mediated by cholinergic vagal efferent fibers via a mechanism that has not yet been recognized in cardiac rate control.
Transplantable zebrafish tumors are a novel and very promising model in cancer research. However, further progress in this field has been contained by a lack of true inbred lines in zebrafish. To overcome this problem, we generated two lines of homozygous diploid clonal zebrafish lines (i.e., CB1 and CW1), which allowed us to carry out transplantation of any tissue, including tumors, from one fish to another within a line without rejection of the graft. The primary tumors in CB1 fish were induced by N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN). The histologic analysis of these tumors revealed different types of hepatocellular carcinomas, hepatoblastomas, hepatoma, cholangiocarcinoma, and pancreatic carcinoma. Four spontaneous acinar cell carcinomas of pancreas were also found in 10- to 18-month-old CB1 fish. Small pieces of tissue or cell suspensions of either DEN-induced or spontaneous tumors were serially transplanted into the peritoneal cavity of syngeneic fish at different stages of development from 5-day-old larvae to adult fish. The development of grossly visible tumors occurred from 2 weeks to 3 months after tumor grafting and grew either as solitary smooth nodules or as an amorphous jelly-like mass infiltrating abdominal organs. The majority of tumors were also successfully transplanted to isogeneic (F1 generation from crossing CB1 x CW1) fish. At the present time, 19 transplantable zebrafish tumor lines have been generated and maintained for as long as 3 to 25 passages. This model provides a novel tool for studying experimental tumor biology and therapy and will become a cost effective system for high throughput screening of anticancer drugs.
Poor sperm quality is the major cause of infertility in humans. Other than sex-linked factors, the genetic basis for male infertility is poorly defined, largely due to practical difficulties in studying the inheritance of this trait in humans. As an alternative, we have conducted forward genetic screens in mice to generate relevant models. We report on the identification and characterization of a chemically-induced mutation, Ste5Jcs1, which causes affected male mice to be sterile or subfertile. Mutant sperm exhibited depressed progressive motility associated with a rigid flagellar midpiece (but not principal piece) segment, which could not be rescued by treatment with agents that stimulate cAMP or calcium signaling pathways. Overall mutant sperm ultrastructure appeared normal, including the axoneme, although the midpiece mitochondrial sheath showed abnormal electron density patterns. Positional cloning of Ste5Jcs1 led to the identification of a mutation in a novel gene called Nsun7, which encodes a protein with a Sun domain that is homologous to tRNA and rRNA cytosine methyltransferases. Therefore, Ste5Jcs1 mutation uncovers a previously unrecognized biological process in sperm that underscores the functional compartmentalization of the midpiece and principal piece of the flagellum.
The effects of extract of Paederia scandens (LOUR.) MERRILL (Rubiaceae) (EPS), a Chinese traditional herbal medicine, on inflammatory and immune responses and their mechanisms in MSU crystals-induced (GA) rats were studied. GA rats were established. Ankle joint volume of rats was measured by volume meter; the level of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta was determined by radioimmunoassay. mRNA expressions of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in synovial tissue of GA rats were analyzed by RT-PCR, and the expression of NF-kappaB was detected by immunohistochemistry. The administration of EPS (2.25, 4.5 g/kg, ig 9 days) inhibited the inflammatory response in GA rats. The mRNA expressions of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta were also significantly suppressed in synovial tissue. In addition, EPS (2.25, 4.5 g/kg, ig 9 days) inhibited the expression of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta and the biological activity of NF-kappaB. These results suggested that EPS possesses antiinflammatory effects by modulating pro-inflammatory mediators' production in synovial tissue and inactivating NF-kappaB pathway transmembrane signal transduction which plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of this disease.
The cardiovascular effects of desipramine were assessed in 74 young women with bulimia nervosa participating in a 6-week double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Desipramine treatment was associated with significant increases in pulse, reclining systolic and diastolic blood pressures, and orthostatic hypotension. These effects were clearly evident in the first week of treatment and remained relatively unchanged during the subsequent 5 weeks. The mean increases in reclining systolic and diastolic pressures were approximately 10 mm Hg. Data from 16 patients treated for an additional 2 months indicated that most of the effects of desipramine on blood pressure diminished over time, whereas the effects on pulse persisted. These results differ from the commonly expected cardiovascular effects of tricyclic anti-depressants in adults. Evidence from the current study and from other reports suggests that the cardiovascular effects of tricyclic antidepressants are age-dependent.
To describe two elderly patients with dementia and severe nighttime wandering in whom zolpidem restored normal sleep patterns.
A 90-year-old African-American woman (case 1) and an 87-year-old African-American man (case 2) presented with nighttime wandering associated with the progression of Alzheimer-like dementia. Both patients had previously not responded to bedtime regimens of benzodiazepines, trazodone (an antidepressant used for its sedative properties), and neuroleptics. Both patients averaged 2-3 hours of sleep each night. Low-dose zolpidem (5 mg hs) was initiated with only partial response. The dosage was titrated in 5-mg increments until the optimum dosage was reached for case 1 (15 mg hs) and case 2 (10 mg hs). These dosages have proven to be effective over a period of 3 months, with both patients averaging 7-8 hours of sleep each night with no apparent adverse effects.
Dementia produces inversion of the circadian sleep/ wake cycle, leading to daytime sedation and nighttime wandering. Zolpidem, a nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic with proven safety and efficacy in older patients with insomnia, was well tolerated and improved sleep patterns in two patients with dementia and severe nighttime wandering.
Zolpidem appears to be useful for restoring normal sleep patterns in elderly patients with dementia and nighttime wandering.
Cell loss in the hippocampal formation is a common event in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. The belief that dentate granule neurons are relatively resistant to excitotoxic injury has recently been challenged both, in epileptic patients and in animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy. The nature of dentate granule cell damage in epilepsy has been reported as either apoptotic, necrotic or both. The lack of a consensus on this topic stems from use of different animal models and different experimental techniques for characterizing the apoptotic/necrotic process. Using electron microscopy for defining the, nature of cell loss and one of the main animal models of status epilepticus (SE) we have focussed on the nature of the degenerative process in dentate granule cells. Ultrastructural morphological changes of these cells were evaluated 2.5-48 h after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. A variety of morphologies ranging from apoptosis to necrosis, could be seen at 2.5 h after SE onset and continued at least over the following 48 h. Some cells displayed coalescence of chromatin against nuclear membranes. In such cases however, chromatin did not have well-defined edges (as it should, if it were apoptosis). Condensation of cytoplasm. present in both processes was also frequently found. Neither obvious apoptotic budding-off of cytoplasm nor typical membrane-bound apoptotic bodies were found. Our results indicate that in the dentate granule cell layer pilocarpine-induced SE promotes a degenerative process in which apoptotic and necrotic features overlap.
Experimental evidence suggests that glutamatergic receptor blockade may improve the motor response complications associated with long-term levodopa treatment in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Our objective was to evaluate the acute effect of amantadine, a noncompetitive antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, on levodopa-induced dyskinesias, and to gain further insights into the antidyskinetic mechanism of this drug. Nine PD patients with motor fluctuations and severely disabling peak of dose dyskinesias received their first morning levodopa dose, followed by a 2-hour intravenous amantadine (200 mg) or placebo infusion, on two different days. Parkinsonian symptoms and dyskinesias were assessed every 15 minutes during the infusion and for 3 hours thereafter, while patients were taking their usual oral antiparkinsonian therapy, by means of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS, motor examination), tapping test, and a modified Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS). Intravenous amantadine acutely improved levodopa-induced dyskinesias by 50%without any loss of the anti-parkinsonian benefit from levodopa. This study confirms the antidyskinetic effect of amantadine and strengthens the rationale for using antiglutamatergic drugs in the treatment of parkinsonian motor fluctuations.
Diabetes is associated with a high incidence of erectile dysfunction (ED) and poor response to standard treatments. Oxidative stress could be relevant in the pathophysiology of diabetic ED.
To evaluate the effects of the antioxidant, AC3056 (2,6-di-t-butyl-4-((dimethyl-4-methoxyphenylsilyl)methyloxy)phenol), on diabetic ED.
Erectile responses to cavernosal nerve electrical stimulation were determined in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Relaxation of human corpus cavernosal (HCC) tissue and penile resistance arteries (HPRA) from human cavernosal specimens was evaluated in organ chambers and myographs, respectively.
The influence of AC3056 on erectile responses, lipid peroxidation, and nitrite plus nitrate serum content, and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) expression in penile tissue, in diabetic rats, and on endothelium-dependent and neurogenic relaxation of HCC and HPRA from diabetic patients was determined.
Eight weeks of diabetes caused ED in rats that was prevented by oral AC3056 (0.3% w/w in rat chow) when given from the induction of diabetes. AC3056 also prevented the diabetes-induced elevation of serum thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), the reduction of serum nitric oxide (NO) derivatives, and the increase of NF-kappaB expression. Acute oral administration of AC3056 (450 mg/kg) partially reversed ED in 8-week diabetic rats. Complete reversion of ED was achieved after 3 days of treatment with 0.3% AC3056. This effect remained after 5 weeks of treatment, but it disappeared after withdrawing for 1 week. Erectile function in diabetic rats was inversely related to serum TBARS. AC3056- (30 microM) reversed endothelial dysfunction in diabetic HCC and enhanced endothelium-dependent relaxation in diabetic HPRA and significantly potentiated neurogenic relaxation of both tissues. The reduced cGMP content in HCC from diabetic patients after exposure to acetylcholine (10 microM) was corrected by AC3056 (30 microM).
These results suggest that oxidative stress has a relevant role in pathophysiology of diabetic ED and provide a rationale for the use of antioxidant therapy in the treatment of ED in diabetes.
We have previously demonstrated that inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) alters the toxicity of local anesthetics including bupivacaine. Because significant changes in blood distribution are associated with the use of nonselective NOS inhibitors, the purpose of this study was to determine whether modification of bupivacaine toxicity by nonselective NOS inhibition is due to alteration in tissue disposition of bupivacaine. Rats were anesthetized with halothane and pretreated with either: 1) a nonselective NOS inhibitor, N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 2 mg/kg/min, IV for 30 min); 2) a neuronal NOS inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (7-NI, 30 mg/kg, IP); or 3) vehicle (control). Thirty minutes later, bupivacaine 2 mg/kg/min IV was infused until onset of seizures, arrhythmias, or asystole. L-NAME caused a rapid increase in plasma bupivacaine concentrations (3-4 times faster than in the other groups), which was associated with markedly lower bupivacaine doses (mg/kg) required to produce arrhythmias in L-NAME (4.2 +/- 0.5) vs. control (26 +/- 3, p < 0.01) and 7-NI groups (17 +/- 3, p < 0.01). Myocardial bupivacaine concentrations at arrhythmia onset were slightly lower in the L-NAME group. Bupivacaine seizure doses in 7-NI and L-NAME pretreated animals were similar to control but significantly different from each other. Brain bupivacaine concentrations at seizure onset were similar among the groups. There were no significant differences between 7-NI and control groups in any parameter observed. We conclude that enhanced cardiotoxicity of bupivacaine by nonselective NOS inhibition is primarily due to rapid increases in plasma and myocardial distribution of bupivacaine.
In this study, we have examined the effects of chronic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) administration on the remaining dopaminergic neurons in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or buffered FeCl(3) partial lesions to the nigrostriatal tract. L-DOPA administration increased the turnover of dopamine in the striatum. L-DOPA administration for 1 week produced an increase in the level of striatal RTI-121 binding, a specific marker for dopamine uptake sites on the dopaminergic nerve terminals in the striatum. However, longer periods of L-DOPA treatment decreased the level of RTI-121 binding in the striatum. In the partial 6-OHDA lesion model, L-DOPA treatment had a time-dependent effect on the number of neurons demonstrating a dopaminergic phenotype i.e., neurons that are tyrosine hyrdoxylase (TH)-immunopositive, on the lesioned side of the brain. In the first few weeks of treatment, L-DOPA decreased the number of TH-positive neurons but with long-term treatment, i.e., 24 weeks, L-DOPA increased the number of neurons demonstrating a dopaminergic phenotype. Even in the buffered FeCl(3) infusion model, where the levels of iron were increased, L-DOPA treatment did not have any detrimental effects on the number of TH-positive neurons on the lesioned side of the brain. Consequently, chronic L-DOPA treatment does not have any detrimental effects to the remaining dopaminergic neurons in rats with partial lesions to the nigrostriatal tract; indeed in the 6-OHDA lesion model, long-term L-DOPA may increase the number of neurons, demonstrating a dopaminergic phenotype.
To evaluate the reversibility of vigabatrin associated visual field constriction.
Visual field constriction (VFC) occurs in approximately 40 % of epilepsy patients under treatment with vigabatrin (VGB). There is still controversy about whether VGB-associated VFC is reversible. From a cross-sectional study there is evidence that VFC does not reverse three to six months after stopping VGB treatment. So far, there are no long term studies on this subject.
We performed a follow-up study on 15 epilepsy patients (eight women, seven men, median age 45 (21-58) years) with VGB-associated VFC but otherwise normal ophthalmological examination. Kinetic and static perimetry was performed one and two years after VFC was diagnosed (baseline examination). Visual field size at first and at second year-follow-up was compared with the baseline examination. Because discontinuation of VGB-treatment was dependant on clinical needs, patients either stopped VGB treatment before or after VFC was diagnosed. In a small group of patients VGB treatment was continued despite of VFC.
There was no statistically significant difference in visual field size comparing baseline values with first year and second year follow-up examinations either in patients who stopped VGB treatment (n = 11) or in patients who continued VGB treatment on a reduced dosage (n = 4).
Although our data are based on a relatively small group of patients there is evidence that VFC resulting from VGB treatment is not reversible in epilepsy patients after stopping the drug.
Felbamate (FBM) is a novel antiepileptic drug (AED) and neuroprotectant (NP) compound that interacts with strychnine-insensitive (SI) glycine receptors in brain (IC(50) = 374 microM). FBM concentrations required to interact with SI glycine receptors are consistent with brain levels following oral and intraperitoneal administration of AED and NP doses. Because of the solubility limits of FBM, an intravenous (iv) form has not been developed. Nevertheless, an iv form could be important for the treatment of disorders such as status epilepticus and neuronal damage due to hypoxic/ischemic events. Substituted diketopiperazines precipitate in acid to form microspherical particles of uniform size ( approximately 2 microm). The microsphere system entraps drugs on precipitation and dissolves near physiological pH to release the drug cargo. Therefore, microspheres were used to produce an iv formulation of FBM. Mice were administered the FBM/microsphere (20-60 mg/kg FBM) and tested for protection against tonic extension seizures using maximal electroshock. The FBM/microsphere was effective in a time- and dose-dependent manner following iv administration. The median effective dose (ED(50)) for protection against MES seizures at 30 min was 27.2 mg/kg [95% confidence interval (CI) = 20.8-33.4, slope = 6.5]. The ED(50) for minimal motor impairment at 30 min was 167 mg/kg (95% CI = 155-177, slope = 28.1). Thus, the feasibility of encapsulating FBM or similar aqueous insoluble compounds in a microsphere system with delivery by the iv route for treatment of epilepsy and various central nervous system disorders has been clearly demonstrated. Studies were performed in accordance with the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.
The role of cell calcium overload in the cardiotoxicity of low molecular weight iron complexes has been studied using 45Ca(2+)-uptake determinations in mice intraperitoneally injected with ferric lactate and ferric-ATP complex. Heart tissue shows a very high increase of 45Ca(2+)-uptake which appears to corroborate the hypothesis of cardiotoxicity by calcium overload. ATP seems to play a role in the degree of iron complex efficiency as cell calcium homeostasis modifier.
Handwriting defects are an early sign of motor impairment in patients with Wilson's disease. The basal ganglia being the primary site of copper accumulation in the brain suggests a correlation with lesions in the nigrostiatal dopaminergic system. We have analysed and correlated striatal dopaminergic innervation using [(123)I]beta-CIT-SPECT and automated handwriting movements in 37 patients with Wilson's disease. There was a significant correlation of putaminal dopaminergic innervation with fine motor ability (p < 0,05 for NIV [number of inversion in velocity], NIA [number of inversion in acceleration], frequency). These data suggest that loss of dorsolateral striatal dopaminergic innervation has a pathophysiological function for decreased automated motor control in Wilson's disease. Furthermore analysis of automated handwriting movements could be useful for therapy monitoring and evaluation of striatal dopaminergic innervation.
4-oxo-N-(4-hydroxyphenyl)retinamide (4-oxo-4-HPR) is a recently identified metabolite of fenretinide (4-HPR). We explored the effectiveness of 4-oxo-4-HPR in inducing cell growth inhibition in ovarian, breast, and neuroblastoma tumor cell lines; moreover, we investigated the molecular events mediating this effect in two ovarian carcinoma cell lines, one sensitive (A2780) and one resistant (A2780/HPR) to 4-HPR. 4-oxo-4-HPR was two to four times more effective than 4-HPR in most cell lines, was effective in both 4-HPR-sensitive and 4-HPR-resistant cells, and, in combination with 4-HPR, caused a synergistic effect. The tumor growth-inhibitory effects of 4-oxo-4-HPR seem to be independent of nuclear retinoid receptors (RAR), as indicated by the failure of RAR antagonists to inhibit its effects and by its poor ability to bind and transactivate RARs. Unlike 4-HPR, which only slightly affected the G(1) phase of the cell cycle, 4-oxo-4-HPR caused a marked accumulation of cells in G(2)-M. This effect was associated with a reduction in the expression of regulatory proteins of G(2)-M (cyclin-dependent kinase 1 and cdc25c) and S (cyclin A) phases, and with an increase in the expression of apoptosis-related proteins, such as p53 and p21. Apoptosis was induced by 4-oxo-4-HPR in both 4-HPR-sensitive and 4-HPR-resistant cells and involved activation of caspase-3 and caspase-9 but not caspase-8. We also showed that 4-oxo-4-HPR, similarly to 4-HPR, increased reactive oxygen species generation and ceramide levels by de novo synthesis. In conclusion, 4-oxo-4-HPR is an effective 4-HPR metabolite that might act as therapeutic agent per se and, when combined with 4-HPR, might improve 4-HPR activity or overcome 4-HPR resistance.
Long-term follow-up of 44 patients with AIDS or AIDS-related complex (ARC) in a phase 1 trial of didanosine is reported. These patients were monitored for as long as 72 weeks (mean, 34 weeks) for toxicity and activity of didanosine. Pancreatitis and neuropathy, the major clinical toxicities, developed infrequently at the doses of didanosine (250-750 mg/d) employed during the latter part of the study. Consistent hematologic toxicity was not encountered; moreover, mean values for hematologic parameters such as hemoglobin concentration, white blood cell count, neutrophil count, lymphocyte count, and platelet count improved for up to 20-60 weeks. CD4 counts increased significantly through 10 weeks of therapy and in some patients remained at or above counts at enrollment for as long as 60 weeks. Serum concentrations of p24 antigen decreased significantly and remained at the decreased level for up to 48 weeks. An initial diagnosis of ARC (as opposed to AIDS), an initial CD4 count of > 100/mm3, and an increase in CD4 counts during the first 10 weeks of therapy were associated with a higher rate of survival and with lower rates of development of opportunistic infections and of other clinical manifestations of disease progression.
Capsaicin is the major pungent ingredient in red peppers. Here, we report that it has a profound antiproliferative effect on prostate cancer cells, inducing the apoptosis of both androgen receptor (AR)-positive (LNCaP) and -negative (PC-3, DU-145) prostate cancer cell lines associated with an increase of p53, p21, and Bax. Capsaicin down-regulated the expression of not only prostate-specific antigen (PSA) but also AR. Promoter assays showed that capsaicin inhibited the ability of dihydrotestosterone to activate the PSA promoter/enhancer even in the presence of exogenous AR in LNCaP cells, suggesting that capsaicin inhibited the transcription of PSA not only via down-regulation of expression of AR, but also by a direct inhibitory effect on PSA transcription. Capsaicin inhibited NF-kappa activation by preventing its nuclear migration. In further studies, capsaicin inhibited tumor necrosis factor-alpha-stimulated degradation of IkappaBalpha in PC-3 cells, which was associated with the inhibition of proteasome activity. Taken together, capsaicin inhibits proteasome activity which suppressed the degradation of IkappaBalpha, preventing the activation of NF-kappaB. Capsaicin, when given orally, significantly slowed the growth of PC-3 prostate cancer xenografts as measured by size [75 +/- 35 versus 336 +/- 123 mm(3) (+/-SD); P = 0.017] and weight [203 +/- 41 versus 373 +/- 52 mg (+/-SD); P = 0.0006; capsaicin-treated versus vehicle-treated mice, respectively]. In summary, our data suggests that capsaicin, or a related analogue, may have a role in the management of prostate cancer.
The hemodynamic and metabolic effects of 11 days of sham (saline) and corticotropin injection were examined in five different strains of rats: Sprague-Dawley, spontaneously hypertensive (SHR), Wistar-Kyoto (WKY), Brattleboro, and Long Evans. Corticotropin significantly increased systolic blood pressure (SBP) compared with sham injection in all strains: final SBP in Sprague-Dawley was 108 +/- 5 mm Hg corticotropin, 94 +/- 4 mm Hg sham; SHR 146 +/- 6 mm Hg corticotropin, 141 +/- 3 mm Hg sham; WKY 117 +/- 3 mm Hg corticotropin, 103 +/- 3 mm Hg sham; Brattleboro 108 +/- 5 mm Hg corticotropin, 93 +/- 2 mm Hg sham; and Long Evans 103 +/- 5 mm Hg corticotropin, 90 +/- 4 mm Hg sham (P less than .001). Corticotropin also produced a decrease in body weight and increases in water intake and urine output. Increases in urine electrolyte excretion were seen in some, but not all strains. The rise in pressure in the Brattleboro rats indicated that vasopressin is not essential for the corticotropin-induced rise in pressure. Blood pressure rises in SHR were not exaggerated. Withdrawal of corticotropin in Sprague-Dawley rats led to rapid reversal of the corticotropin-induced hemodynamic and metabolic changes. Thus, strain does not appear to be an important factor in corticotropin hypertension in the rat, in contrast to deoxycorticosterone hypertension.
