The effects of clofibrate on the hemodynamic and renal manifestations of increased saline intake were analyzed. Four groups of male Wistar rats were treated for five weeks: control, clofibrate (240 mg/kg/day), salt (2% via drinking water), and salt + clofibrate. Body weight, systolic blood pressure (SBP), and heart rate (HR) were recorded weekly. Finally, SBP, HR, and morphologic, metabolic, plasma, and renal variables were measured. Salt increased SBP, HR, urinary isoprostanes, NOx, ET, vasopressin and proteinuria and reduced plasma free T(4) (FT(4)) and tissue FT(4) and FT(3) versus control rats. Clofibrate prevented the increase in SBP produced by salt administration, reduced the sodium balance, and further reduced plasma and tissue thyroid hormone levels. However, clofibrate did not modify the relative cardiac mass, NOx, urinary ET, and vasopressin of saline-loaded rats. In conclusion, chronic clofibrate administration prevented the blood pressure elevation of salt-loaded rats by decreasing sodium balance and reducing thyroid hormone levels.
Intraoperative mitomycin C has been shown to be highly effective in increasing the success rate of glaucoma filtration surgery. Between October 1991 and June 1992, 169 eyes of 156 patients underwent filtration procedures with intraoperative mitomycin C. In the postoperative period, five eyes (2.9%) developed hypotony maculopathy, characterized by disc edema, vascular tortuosity, and chorioretinal folds in the macular area. Cryotherapy was applied to three eyes, and was effective in reversing the hypotony in two of them. However, the visual prognosis was poor: after a mean follow up of 5.3 months (range, 3.5 to 8 months), visual acuity returned to preoperative levels in one case. Hypotony maculopathy may develop after glaucoma filtration surgery with intraoperative mitomycin C. We suggest restricting the indication of its adjunctive use to eyes with poor surgical prognosis or those in which a very low intraocular pressure is desired. The use of extra sutures (which can be sectioned by laser) or releasable sutures to prevent excessive filtration in the postoperative period also is advisable.
Increasing evidence supports a role for oxidative DNA damage and impaired DNA repair mechanisms in the pathogenesis of age related neurodegenerative diseases. Within this context there is a current interest in the understanding of the role played by polymorphisms of DNA repair genes in the inter-individual risk to develop neurodegenerative pathologies, as well as in the onset and the progression of disease symptoms. Particularly, somatic CAG repeat expansion of the gene encoding for huntingtin has been observed in tissues of patients affected by Huntington's disease (HD), including blood and brain. Recent evidence suggests that somatic CAG repeat expansion in HD cells might contribute to disease age at onset and is mediated by the DNA repair OGG1 enzyme, during the removal of 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) from the DNA. There is also evidence that the expression of hMTH1, which removes 8-oxoG from the nucleotide pool, protects mice from HD-like symptoms, and progenitor striatal cells from the toxic effects of the mutant huntingtin. The hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism results in reduced OGG1 activity and increased 8-oxoG formation. In the present study, performed on blood DNA from 91 HD subjects, we observed that bearers of the mutant Cys326 allele (Ser326Cys+Cys326Cys) tend to have an increased number of CAG repeats of the expanded HD allele (P=0.049); moreover bearers of at least one copy of the mutant Cys326 allele, mainly heterozygous subjects, showed a significant (P=0.041) earlier disease onset than Ser326Ser wild-type individuals, suggesting a possible role of the hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism in HD phenotype.
The treatment of functional dyspepsia is controversial.
The purpose of this paper is to clarify the initial effect of prokinetic, acid suppression and antianxiety treatment for functional dyspepsia patients.
Sixty-four functional dyspepsia patients without Helicobacter pylori infection were randomly assigned to 15 mg/day of mosapride, 40 mg/day of famotidine, or 30 mg/day of tandospirone during an 8-week treatment. Individual functional dyspepsia symptoms were evaluated with 4 cm visual analogue scale before and at 2, 4 and 8 weeks after treatment.
Among 64 enrolled patients, 62 completed the study. Within 2 weeks, visual analogue scale score in the mosapride-treated group decreased from 2.29 +/-0.14 to 1.57 +/- 0.20; in the famotidine from 2.04 +/- 0.16 to 1.09 +/- 0.12 (mean +/- S.E.). Therefore, there were significant improvements of functional dyspepsia symptoms in mosapride- and famotidine-treated patients (P <0.01). Furthermore, famotidine was significantly more effective than mosapride (P < 0.05). On the contrary, visual analogue scale score in the tandospirone therapy was 2.23 +/- 0.20 and 2.13 +/- 0.22 before and at 2 weeks, respectively, without any significant improvement.
A treatment regimen of famotidine at 40 mg/day had a significant favourable effect on the clinical outcome in functional dyspepsia patients.
In functional gastrointestinal (GI) disorders including functional dyspepsia (FD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), there might be no small extent of contributions of psychosomatic factors. As a therapy for IBS patients, the effectiveness of antidepressants has been reported.
In this study, we evaluated the efficacy of H2-receptor antagonist (famotidine) and 5-HT4 receptor agonist (mosapride citrate). In addition, the effect of antidepressants was assessed as the second-step therapy.
Patients complaining upper GI symptoms were diagnosed as FD excluding organic diseases. Randomized patients received 20 mg/day of famotidine or 15 mg/day of mosapride citrate for 4 weeks and the efficacy was compared between the two groups based on a 10-point visual analogue scale. When symptoms were not relieved (score improvement 0-2 points), patients received amitriptyline (30 mg/day) or no medication for 4 weeks randomly. Patients who had depression in psychological test (SDS) were omitted.
As the first-step therapy, both famotidine and mosapride showed beneficial effects regardless of FD subtypes, age and gender. The efficacy of these two drugs in relieving FD symptoms was not significantly different. In patients who failed in the first-step therapy, amitriptyline showed beneficial effects.
These findings might be clinically important in view of the efficient relief of symptoms in FD patients.
The purpose of this study was to test in double-blind trial the tolerance and antihypertensive effect of nicardipine versus placebo in 32 elderly patients (mean age: 84 years). Nicardipine was given three times a day (mean dose: 69.4 mg per day). After four weeks, nicardipine lowered blood pressure (BP) from 186 +/- 4 mmHg/99.5 +/- 3 mmHg to 150 +/- 6/84 +/- 3 mmHg (p less than 0.001). 10 out of 16 patients were normalized (BP less than 160-95 mmHg). The placebo group remained hypertensive: 181 +/- 7/96 +/- 4 mmHg versus 183 +/- 4/101 +/- 3 mmHg (NS). 3 placebo treated patients were nevertheless normalized. The changes in systolic BP and diastolic BP were significantly greater in the Nicardipine group: respectively -36 +/- 4 versus -2 +/- 6 mmHg (p less than 0.001), -16 +/- 3 versus -5 +/- 4 mmHg (p less than 0.05). Treatment was very well tolerated. Orthostatic hypotension, change in heart rate, variation in biological parameters were never observed. These data agree with Buhler's statement suggesting that calcium channel inhibitors can represent an interesting alternative to diuretics as first line monotherapy in the treatment of hypertension in the elderly.
It is generally accepted that hepatitis occurring during treatment with INH and rifampicine results from the hepatotoxicity of INH metabolites. A case is reported of cholestatic hepatitis occurring during such treatment, in which there was a previous history of an isolated hepatic affection. The administration of INH and rifampicin caused cholestasis alone, which reoccurred after rifampicin administration only. No immuno-allergic phenomenon has been shown to be involved in rifampicin toxicity. This observation suggests that rifampicin may be hepatotoxic itself, especially in patients with previous hepatic affections.
To determine whether Myocet (liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin; The Liposome Company, Elan Corporation, Princeton, NJ) in combination with cyclophosphamide significantly reduces doxorubicin cardiotoxicity while providing comparable antitumor efficacy in first-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
Two hundred ninety-seven patients with MBC and no prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease were randomized to receive either 60 mg/m(2) of Myocet (M) or conventional doxorubicin (A), in combination with 600 mg/m(2) of cyclophosphamide (C), every 3 weeks until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cardiotoxicity was defined by reductions in left-ventricular ejection fraction, assessed by serial multigated radionuclide angiography scans, or congestive heart failure (CHF). Antitumor efficacy was assessed by objective tumor response rates (World Health Organization criteria), time to progression, and survival.
Six percent of MC patients versus 21% (including five cases of CHF) of AC patients developed cardiotoxicity (P =.0002). Median cumulative doxorubicin dose at onset was more than 2,220 mg/m(2) for MC versus 480 mg/m(2) for AC (P =.0001, hazard ratio, 5.04). MC patients also experienced less grade 4 neutropenia. Antitumor efficacy of MC versus AC was comparable: objective response rates, 43% versus 43%; median time to progression, 5.1% versus 5.5 months; median time to treatment failure, 4.6 versus 4.4 months; and median survival, 19 versus 16 months.
Myocet improves the therapeutic index of doxorubicin by significantly reducing cardiotoxicity and grade 4 neutropenia and provides comparable antitumor efficacy, when used in combination with cyclophosphamide as first-line therapy for MBC.
Histamine 2-receptor antagonists were used as a first therapy against functional dyspepsia. However, few clinical studies with famotidine for functional dyspepsia have been reported.
To evaluate the effectiveness of famotidine for functional dyspepsia patients.
A multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover trail was conducted. Patients diagnosed with functional dyspepsia by the Roma II criteria were included. Subjects were randomized into two groups, and received either famotidine or placebo as the first 4 weeks medication. After a 1-week washout period, they were switched to the other regimen for another 4 weeks. Evaluation was made prior to the start of study, upon completion of the first drug cycle, and the second drug cycle, by Gastrointestinal Symptoms Rating Scale for the seriousness of abdominal symptoms, and by Short Form-36 for the level of quality of life.
Nineteen of 21 enrolled patients successfully completed this study. Significant improvement in Gastrointestinal Symptoms Rating Scale scores was observed in abdominal pain (P = 0.007), indigestion and reflux syndrome after famotidine treatment. Also quality of life scores showed significant improvement in body pain, vitality and general health perceptions after famotidine treatment. There was no improvement of symptoms and quality of life scores after administration of placebo.
Famotidine was effective for improving symptoms and quality of life in functional dyspepsia patients.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of paclitaxel and carboplatin in the treatment of previously untreated patients with metastatic small-cell lung cancer (SCLC).
Eligible patients were aged 18 to 75 years with an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) score < or = 2 and life expectancy > or = 12 weeks. Paclitaxel (200 mg/m(2)) was infused over 3 hours, before carboplatin (area under the curve [AUC] 6; Calvert formula) infused over 1 hour, once every 3 weeks for six cycles maximum. Prednisolone, dexchlorpheniramine, and ranitidine were standard premedication. Response to treatment was assessed every two cycles, and nonresponding patients were withdrawn from the trial to receive standard chemotherapy.
Of the 50 patients entering the study, 48 and 46 patients were assessable for toxicity and response, respectively. The overall response rate was 65%, with complete responses in three patients. Five patients had stable disease (11%) and 11 patients experienced progressive disease (24%). Median survival was 38 weeks, and median duration of response was 20 weeks. One-year survival was 22.5%. For a total of 232 cycles, grade 3 and 4 toxicity was 33% for neutropenia, 3.5% for thrombocytopenia, and 4% for anemia. Four patients had neutropenic fever (one toxic death). Nonhematologic toxicity was mainly grade 1 and 2 paresthesia (21% of patients); grade 3 myalgia/arthralgia was observed in 6.5% of patients.
First-line chemotherapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin in metastatic SCLC achieved a response rate and survival similar to standard regimens. With 1-day administration and a tolerable toxicity profile, this combination merits further investigation.
C-X-C ligand (CXCL) chemokines exert major roles in the biologic aggressiveness of esophageal cancer. In the current study, the authors investigated temozolomide (TMZ)-induced effects on activity of the CXCL chemokine network in human esophageal cancer cells. To the authors' knowledge, TMZ has not been investigated previously in experimental or clinical esophageal cancers.
A complete mapping of CXCL chemokines and their receptor messenger RNA was performed in 2 established human esophageal cancer cell lines (OE21 and OE33) and in 4 surgical samples from patients with esophageal carcinoma. The analyses pointed out the potential importance of CXCL2, and monitoring CXCL2 with quantitative videomicroscopy indicated that its biologic activity was silenced in OE21 esophageal cancer cells. TMZ-mediated antitumor activity was determined in vivo in an OE21 metastatic nude mice xenograft model.
The messenger RNA levels of CXC chemokines and their receptors were similar in both cell lines and in the 4 surgical specimens. CXCL2 depletion by small interfering RNA (siRNA) displayed marked effects on the proliferation of transfected OE21 cells. Chronic in vitro TMZ treatment of OE21 and OE33 cells markedly decreased CXCL2 and CXCL3 secretion. In vivo, TMZ induced significant delays in OE21 xenograft tumor development and improved the survival of OE21 xenograft-bearing mice, whereas cisplatin did not. Analyses performed on tissue samples from in vivo experiments revealed that TMZ also impaired tumor angiogenesis.
The current study emphasized the role of proangiogenic chemokines in esophageal cancer biology and indicated the possibility of using TMZ as a clinically compatible drug to impair the actions of the CXCL chemokine network in esophageal cancers.
Copper and iron metabolism intersect in mammals. Copper deficiency simultaneously leads to decreased iron levels in some tissues and iron deficiency anemia, whereas it results in iron overload in other tissues such as the intestine and liver. The copper requirement of the multicopper ferroxidases hephaestin and ceruloplasmin likely explains this link between copper and iron homeostasis in mammals. We investigated the effect of in vivo and in vitro copper deficiency on hephaestin (Heph) expression and activity. C57BL/6J mice were separated into 2 groups on the day of parturition. One group was fed a copper-deficient diet and another was fed a control diet for 6 wk. Copper-deficient mice had significantly lower hephaestin and ceruloplasmin (approximately 50% of controls) ferroxidase activity. Liver hepcidin expression was significantly downregulated by copper deficiency (approximately 60% of controls), and enterocyte mRNA and protein levels of ferroportin1 were increased to 2.5 and 10 times, respectively, relative to controls, by copper deficiency, indicating a systemic iron deficiency in the copper-deficient mice. Interestingly, hephaestin protein levels were significantly decreased to approximately 40% of control, suggesting that decreased enterocyte copper content leads to decreased hephaestin synthesis and/or stability. We also examined the effect of copper deficiency on hephaestin in vitro in the HT29 cell line and found dramatically decreased hephaestin synthesis and activity. Both in vivo and in vitro studies indicate that copper is required for the proper processing and/or stability of hephaestin.
Gemcitabine is a nucleoside analog with clinical relevance in the treatment of several solid tumors, including breast carcinoma. In spite of its cytotoxic effect, clinical efficacy is impaired by the development of resistance. We performed gene expression analysis to shed light into the molecular mechanism of action of this drug in two breast cancer cell lines. Activation of genes related with cell cycle, cell growth and apoptosis (BNIP3L, CCNG2, DDIT4, TGFB2, TP53BP1, TP53INP1, and VEGF) was the main finding in the p53-wild type cell line MCF7, while the p53-non-functional cell line MDA-MB-231 was characterized by the regulation of NF-kappaB target genes (BIRC3, CXCL1/GRO1, IRAK2, TNF, TNFAIP and TRAF1). Genes consistently induced (ATF3, CCNG2, CDKN1A, EGR1, INSIG1, and MAF) or repressed (CCND1 and VGF) in both cell lines, were also found after gemcitabine treatment. In addition, MDA-MB-231 cells showed a higher basal and induced NF-kappaB transcriptional activity after treatment with gemcitabine. In comparison with gemcitabine, gene expression after 5-fluorouracil treatment showed essentially different profiles in both cell lines. This, in spite of using equitoxic concentrations producing similar effects on cell cycle. NF-kappaB transcriptional activity in MDA-MB-231 cells was dependent on IkappaB-alpha phosphorylation, as shown by functional experiments using the specific inhibitor BAY11-7082. Moreover, immunohistochemical analysis of clinical samples of breast carcinoma further validated the induction of NF-kappaB expression and IkappaB down-regulation upon neoadjuvant gemcitabine treatment. Thus, gene expression patterns, in vitro functional studies and analysis of tissue samples are in agreement with a role for NF-kappaB pathway in gemcitabine response. Together with the reported role for NF-kappaB in the induction of resistance to chemotherapy, our data gives support to clinical strategies combining gemcitabine with NF-kappaB inhibitors in breast cancer.
Salivary gland hypofunction occurs most often as a consequence of numerous drug therapies, anti-neoplastic treatments, or systemic disease. There are no universally accepted means of treating gland dysfunction and the resultant subjective xerostomia. A few studies have suggested that treatment of underlying inflammatory connective tissue disease will improve salivary performance in Sjögren's syndrome. Most of these reports, however, have either been limited to a small number of patients or have failed to include objective measures of salivary gland output. A larger body of literature deals with attempts using many different sialogogues to stimulate salivary function in a variety of conditions. Again, many studies have failed to document salivary improvement objectively. Recently, interest has focused on three drugs: bromhexine, anethole-trithione, and pilocarpine hydrochloride. Studies with these agents are reviewed, and current clinical investigations with pilocarpine are presented in detail.
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), a microvascular hemolytic disorder is a rare, but well described complication in organ transplant patients receiving immunosuppressant drugs. We report a 56-year-old female with a history of left lung transplant that presented to the hospital with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and thrombocytopenia while receiving tacrolimus (FK 506) for 36 months. The patient was diagnosed with tacrolimus-induced TTP/HUS and started on daily plasmapheresis, and replacement of FK506 with cyclosporine. After thirteen plasmapheresis procedures, her platelet count, lactate dehydrogenase, and hematocrit were normalized. The ADAMTS-13 activity was subnormal and no inhibitory antibody was detected. The combination of daily plasmapheresis with fresh frozen plasma as a source of ADAMTS-13 and cyclosporine may be used as a rescue therapy in patients with FK506-induced TTP/HUS.
The effect of transient hypertension on blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, particularly on extravasation of immunoglobulin G (IgG), has not been fully understood. In the present experiment, we investigated the time course of endogenous albumin and IgG extravasation through BBB and the localization of extravasated IgG in brain parenchyma during adrenaline(AD)-induced transient hypertension in the rat by using Evans blue fluorescence, immunohistochemistry, and Western blot. The results showed that a bolus injection of AD (10 microg/kg) induced a transient elevation of arterial pressure lasting about 1 min. The endogenous albumin and IgG entered the brain parenchyma via BBB only when hypertension occurred. Electron microscopically, the IgG-like immunoreactivities were predominantly seen in the cytoplasm of endothelia of capillaries, pericytes, extracellular space of parenchyma, and the cytoplasm of glial cells. The results suggest that circulating IgG or antibodies might contact the structures of brain parenchyma through passage of BBB when its permeability is temporally changed by transient hypertension. This phenomenon implies a possible mechanism of pathogenesis for immune-mediated diseases in the brain.
Six flavonoid derivatives were tested for their influence on Naja naja and human recombinant synovial phospholipase A2. They showed a selectivity for the last enzyme with IC50 = 14.3, 17.6, 12.2 and 28.2 microM for quercetagetin, kaempferol-3-O-galactoside, scutellarein and scutellarein-7-O-glucuronide, respectively, while reduced effects were observed for hispidulin and hibifolin. After topical application all the flavonoids inhibited 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced ear oedema in mice with a potency comparable to that of indomethacin and they were also able to inhibit carrageenan-induced mouse paw oedema at a dose of 150 mg/kg p.o. The blockade of the free hydroxyl at C-7 or C-6 reduced the anti-inflammatory activity and also the inhibitory effect on human recombinant synovial phospholipase A2. These results are in accordance with the notion that group II phospholipases A2 may play a role in experimental inflammation, although several mechanisms seems to be involved in the anti-inflammatory effect of this group of flavonoids.
The effects of cotreatment with a hyperlipidemic chemical, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), and a hypolipidemic agent, di(2-ethylhexyl)-phthalate (DEHP), on lipid metabolism and toxicologic responses were studied in F344 rats. Treatment with TCDD alone (160 micrograms/kg) caused an increase in serum triglycerides and cholesterol while treatment with DEHP alone (2 g/kg/day) caused a decrease in triglycerides and cholesterol versus untreated controls. When administered before or after TCDD, DEHP caused a decrease in TCDD-induced hyperlipidemia. This change was attributed to enhanced hepatic peroxisomal beta-oxidation and decreased hepatic lipid synthesis resulting from treatment with DEHP. TCDD treatment produced a fatty liver, as determined by gravimetric analysis of extracted lipid and microscopic examination of liver sections which revealed extensive cytoplasmic vacuolization that stained positive with Oil Red 0, but did not induce peroxisomal beta-oxidation. Thus, an increase in hepatic or serum lipid levels is not sufficient for induction of peroxisome proliferation. Neither TCDD nor DEHP treatment affected mitochondrial beta-oxidation. Pretreatment of rats with DEHP, followed by daily exposure to this hypolipidemic agent after treatment with TCDD, had a partial protective effect against TCDD-induced fatty liver, body weight loss and mortality. Microscopic examination of liver sections confirmed the suppression of TCDD-induced fatty liver by pretreatment with DEHP. When DEHP treatment was initiated after the TCDD dose, there was less protection against the above parameters of TCDD toxicity. This study demonstrates that TCDD-induced fatty liver, hyperlipidemia and mortality can be antagonized by treatment with a hypolipidemic agent such as DEHP.
Nasal obstruction and consequent mouth breathing have been shown to change the acid-base balance, producing respiratory acidosis. Additionally, there exists a large body of evidence maintaining that acidosis affects the activity of ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels, which play a crucial role in the function of the central nervous system (CNS), for example, in modulating seizure threshold. Thus, in the study described here, we examined whether mouth breathing, induced by surgical ligation of nostrils, could affect the seizure threshold induced by pentylenetetrazole in male NMRI mice. Using the selective K(ATP) channel opener (diazoxide) and blocker (glibenclamide), we also evaluated the possible role of K(ATP) channels in this process. Our data revealed that seizure threshold was increased 6 to 72 hours after nasal obstruction, reaching a peak 48 hours afterward, compared with either control or sham-operated mice (P<0.01). There was a significant decrease in pH of arterial blood samples and increase in CO(2) partial pressure (PCO(2)) during this time. Systemic injection of glibenclamide (1 and 2mg/kg, ip, daily) significantly prevented the increase in seizure threshold in 48-hour bilaterally nasally obstructed mice, whereas it had no effect on seizure threshold in sham-operated mice. Systemic injection of diazoxide (25mg/kg, ip, daily) had no effect on seizure threshold in all groups, whereas higher doses (50 and 100mg/kg, ip, daily) significantly increased seizure threshold in both 48-hour-obstructed and sham-operated mice. The decrease in seizure threshold induced by glibenclamide (2mg/kg, ip, daily) was prevented by diazoxide (25mg/kg, ip, daily). These results demonstrate for the first time that mouth breathing, which could result in respiratory acidosis, increases seizure threshold in mice and K(ATP) channels may play a role in this effect.
Dominant-lethal effects of 10 mg/kg methylmercuric hydroxide were studied in male mice from two hybrid stocks and in females from one of these stocks. Two other compounds, mercuric chloride (2 mg/kg) and cadmium chloride (2 mg/kh), were studied only in females for dominant-lethal (in one hybrid stock) and reproductive capacity effects (in two hybrid and one mixed stocks). All compounds were administered in a single intraperitoneal injection. When males of one of the two stocks studied were treated with methylmercuric hydroxide, the females to which they were mated exhibited a slight reduction in the total number of implantations and in the number of living embryos. These reductions were accompanied by a very small increase in the incidence of dead implantations. In females, cadmium chloride had no detectable dominant-lethal or other fertility effects, except superovulation. On the other hand, the two mercury compounds slightly reduced the numbers of implants and living embryos in females subjected to dominant-lethal studies. The two mercury compounds also induced a slight reduction in that long-term reproductive performance of one stock of females. These results and those reported earlier by others, indicate that the mercury compounds studied so far are not potent inducers of dominant-lethal mutations in male and female mice. It is not clear whether the small effects on male or female fertility induced in some cases, particularly the increase in dead implantations and reductions in the number of living embryos, were attributable to dominant-lethal mutations or to nongenetic causes.
Pathological and biochemical evidence reviewed favours the hypothesis that the dementia seen in Parkinson's disease, particularly after long-term levodopa therapy, is akin to Alzheimer's disease. We postulate, in late Parkinson's disease, the development of a relative cholinergic deficiency due to the accelerated process of aging and the presence of neurofibrillary tangles (with choline acetyl transferase deficiency.) This process would be enhanced by the imbalance in favour of dopaminergic predominance caused by chronic levodopa therapy, and would partially explain the increase in dementia. As a test of this hypothesis we have given 10 levodopa-treated parkinsonian patients with dementia, a regimen of lecithin (average 20 gms/day). A clear improvement in Kohs block design test of constructive ability was noted with a decrease in the toxic symptoms of confusion, hallucinations and nightmares. In another study lecithin produced a decrease in levodopa-induced abnormal movements, but at the expense of motor performance. These preliminary investigations indicate that the progressive dementia of Parkinson's disease may not be irreversible.
The role of limbic, cortical, and striatal circuitry in a footshock reinstatement model of relapse to cocaine seeking was evaluated. Transient inhibition of the central extended amygdala [CEA; including the central nucleus of the amygdala (CN), ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTv), and nucleus accumbens shell (NAshell)], ventral tegmental area (VTA), and motor circuitry [including the dorsal prefrontal cortex (PFCd), nucleus accumbens core (NAcore), and ventral pallidum (VP)] blocked the ability of footshock stress to reinstate lever pressing previously associated with cocaine delivery. However, inhibition of the basolateral amygdala, mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus, or the ventral prefrontal cortex had no effect on drug-seeking behavior. These data suggest that footshock stress activates limbic circuitry of the CEA that, via the VTA, activates motor output circuitry responsible for producing lever press responding. Consistent with this notion, the D1/D2 dopamine receptor antagonist fluphenazine blocked footshock-induced reinstatement when infused into the PFCd. Further, inhibition of the NAshell blocked a footshock-induced increase in dopamine within the PFC and concomitantly blocked reinstatement responding. Also supporting the idea of a CEA-VTA-motor circuit in stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking, inactivation of the PFCd was shown to block stress-induced glutamate release within the NAcore while concurrently inhibiting reinstatement responding. Taken together, these data suggest that footshock activates limbic circuitry in the CEA, which in turn activates a VTA dopamine projection to the PFCd. The rise in dopamine within the PFCd initiates reinstatement via a glutamatergic projection to the NAcore.
To investigate the long-term efficacy and safety of sildenafil for patients with erectile dysfunction (ED).
Between March 1999 and February 2001, a total of 3168 patients visited Taipei Veterans General Hospital for prescription of sildenafil. The follow-up period was 1-3 years. A questionnaire was designed for evaluation of efficacy and safety of sildenafil via telephone survey.
Of the 3168 patients, 1414 were interviewed by telephone. Data from telephone questionnaires were successfully obtained in 1074 cases. Achievement of the first penile erection after sildenafil was reported in 58.8% of our patients. The distribution of the first doses was 0.6%, 8.5%, 81.9% and 90% for 12.5 mg, 25 mg, 50 mg and 100 mg, respectively. After administration of sildenafil, 72.1% men had successful intercourses "sometimes" or "always achieving vaginal penetration", and 72.3% had "slight difficulty" or "no difficulty" in maintaining of sexual intercourses. The "sometimes/most times/always" satisfaction accounted 63.9% and 62.8%, respectively for patients and partners. The global assessment of penile erection was improved in 58.6% of the patients. The sexual confidence of the patients was moderate, high and very high in 72.4% of the patients. Of the 434 patients who failed first penile erections, 400 (92.2%) were related to improper administration of sildenafil. Discontinuation of sildenafil in the last 3 months before telephone survey was found in 852 patients (80.2%). The causes of discontinuation were loss of efficacy in 51.6% of patients, lack of sexual desire in 8.8%, and chronic diseases in 8.2%. Spontaneous erection without sildenafil was claimed in 21.5% of the patients (most times in 9.5% and always in 12.0%). The rate of adverse events after taking sildenafil were 16.6%, and the most common adverse event was facial flushing (9.2%).
The results of this study demonstrated that the efficacy of sildenafil was similar to the previous clinical trials. The adverse events after sildenafil were mild and tolerable. Recovery of complete or partial spontaneous erection was noted in some patients (21.5% in our study) after long-term usage of sildenafil.
To observe the accumulation of dendritic cells (DCs) in rat remnant kidney and its contribution to tubulointerstitial fibrosis, under influence of valsartan on DCs, a rat remnant kidney model was established by subtotal nephrectomy. Four experimental groups were included: normal, sham, model (SNx) and the group treated with Valsartan (SNxV). Rats were killed at week 1, 4 and 12, respectively. CD1a+CD80+ DCs were assayed by double immunostaining method and the images were analyzed with Axioplan 2 microscopy. The expressions of P-selectin, TGF-beta1, alpha-SMA, collagen III and fibronectin was analyzed by immunohistochemistry or semi-quantitative RT-PCR, and the level of tubulointerstitial firosis (TIF) was scored. CD1a+CD80+ DCs were gradually increased among renal tubules, interstitium and vessels, especially in interstitium, and the number of DCs in model group at week 12 was much more than that in model groups at week 1 or 4. The expressions of P-selectin, TGF-beta1, alpha-SMA, collagen III and fibronectin in tubulointerstitial areas and the degree of TIF was increased substantially in model group at week 12. The accumulation of DCs in interstitium was well associated with the loss of renal function and the progression of tubulointerstitial fibrosis. Valsartan treatment inhibited the local accumulation of DCs and attenuated renal tubulointerstitial damage. The local DCs accumulation was related to tubulointerstitial fibrosis and renal dysfunction following renal ablation. Blockade to angiotensin II might be a potent way to attenuate renal immuno-inflammatory injury.
At the Hospital de Ginecobstetricia del Centro Medico "La Raza", between october 1, 1990 to may 31, 1991, were attended 50 women with premature labor, with pregnancies of 30-36 week sold. They were given 100 mg of indomethacin, rectal, daily, in order to obtain arrest of the uterine activity. The mean doses given was 4 +/- 0.739. In 26 (52%) patients there were transient, fetal ductal constriction. In these patients there were high fetal heart rate variability during the ductal constriction time. No other fetal an neonatal effects were documented. It is recommended when indomethacin was given in premature labor treatment a fetal ecocardiogram and the fetal and neonatal study of the patients in research of cardiovascular side effects, included neonatal pulmonary hypertension syndrome.
Tobacco products and nicotine alter the cell cycle and lead to squamatization of oral keratinocytes (KCs) and squamous cell carcinoma. Activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) elicits Ca(2+) influx that varies in magnitude between different nAChR subtypes. Normal differentiation of KCs is associated with sequential expression of the nAChR subtypes with increasing Ca(2+) permeability, such as alpha5-containing alpha3 nAChR and alpha7 nAChR. Exposure to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) or an equivalent concentration of nicotine accelerated by severalfold the alpha5 and alpha7 expression in KCs, which could be abolished by mecamylamine and alpha-bungarotoxin with different efficacies, suggesting the following sequence of autoregulation of the expression of nAChR subtypes: alpha3(beta2/beta4) > alpha3(beta2/beta4)alpha5 > alpha7 > alpha7. This conjecture was corroborated by results of quantitative assays of subunit mRNA and protein levels, using nAChR-specific pharmacologic antagonists and small interfering RNAs. The genomic effects of ETS and nicotine involved the transcription factor GATA-2 that showed a multifold increase in quantity and activity in exposed KCs. Using protein kinase inhibitors and dominant negative and constitutively active constructs, we characterized the principal signaling cascades mediating a switch in the nAChR subtype. Cumulative results indicated that the alpha3(beta2/beta4) to alpha3(beta2/beta4)alpha5 nAChR transition predominantly involved protein kinase C, alpha3(beta2/beta4)alpha5 to alpha7 nAChR transition-Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II and p38 MAPK, and alpha7 self-up-regulation-the p38 MAPK/Akt pathway, and JAK-2. These results provide a mechanistic insight into the genomic effects of ETS and nicotine on KCs and characterize signaling pathways mediating autoregulation of stepwise overexpression of nAChR subtypes with increasing Ca(2+) permeability in exposed cells. These observations have salient clinical implications, because a switch in the nAChR subunit composition can bring about a corresponding switch in receptor function, leading to profound pathobiologic effects observed in KCs exposed to tobacco products.
